This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com


-n _J\ .,T- -
              REESE LIBRARY
        UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.
                   JUN 14 1893 MY, .
                       C/./s.s \'o.
^tf It If V


"<
                 NOTICES
                      OF THE
          PROCEEDINGS
                      AT THE
       MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS
                      or TUX
i&ogal Institution of <SJrrat Britain,
     ABSTRACTS OF THE DISCOURSES
                   DILIVEKED AT
         THE EVENING MEETINGS.
                   VOL. II.
                1854         1858.
      >\
                LONDON:
 PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS,
             14, CHARING CROSS.
                      1858.

                                                                £-7
                                  patron,
                        HER MOST GRACIOUS MAJESTY
                  QUEEN VICTORIA.
              "fc7ttt=33atron an* Jfrmoratg JHemfcer,
                             HIS EOYAL HIGHNESS
THE PRINCE CONSORT, K.G. K.C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. &c.
 President.—THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S.
  Treasurer.—WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President.
 Secretary.—REV. JOHN BARLOW, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President.
      MANAGERS.        1858-59.                VISITORS. 1858-59.
Lord Ashburton,D.C.L. F.R.S.- V.P.       Allen Alexander Bathuret, Esq. M.P.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.      John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
George Dodd, Esq. F.S.A.                 John Robert F. Burnett, Esq.
Sir Charles Fellows, F.G.S.              C. Wentworth Dilke, jun. Esq.
William Robert Grove, Esq. M.A.          William Gaussen, Esq.
   Q.C. F.R.S.— V.I'.                    John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D.
Sir Charles Hamilton, Bart. C.B.            F.R.S.
Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. F.R.S.     Thomas Lee, Esq.
Henry Bence Jones, M.D. F.R.S.           Charles Lyall, Esq.
Sir Roderick I. Murchison, G.C.S.        Thomas N. R. Morson, Esq.
   D.C.L. F.K.S.-KP.                     Sir Edwin Pearson, M.A. F.R.S.
James Rennie, Esq. F.R.S.                Henry Pemberton, Esq.
Robert P. Roupell, Esq. M.A. Q.C.        James Rennell Rodd, Esq.
Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S.              William Roxburgh, M.D.
John Webster, M.D. F.R.S.                Joseph Skey, M.D.
CharlesWheatstone, Esq. F.R.S.- V.P.     John Godfrey Tccd, Esq. M.A. Q.C.
Col. Philip James Yorke, F.R.S.
Honorary Professor of Chemistry—WILLIAM THOMAS BRANDE, Esq. D.C.L.
        F.R.S: L. & E. &c.
Fullerian Professor of Chemistry—MICHAF.L FARADAY, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. &c-
Fullerian Professor of Physiology.— RICHARD OWEN, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. &c.
Professor of Natural Philosophy—JOHN TVNDALL, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. &c.
         Assistant Secretary and Keeper of the Library—Mr. B. Vincent.
         Clerk of Accounts and Collector—NT. W. Hughes.
         Assistant in the Laboratory—Hi. Charles Anderson.

                       CONTENTS.
                                1854.
                                                                Page
Nov. 6.— General Monthly Meeting           ....                    1
Dec. 4.—General Monthly Meeting            ....                    5
                                1855.
Jan. 19.—PROFESSOR FARADAY—On some points of Mag
             netic philosophy         .     .     .       .    .6
   „ 26.—PROFESSOR TYNDAIX—On the Nature of the Force
             by which bodies are repelled from the poles •
             of a Magnet        .....                          .13
Feb. 2.—G. B. AIUY, Esq.—On the Pendulum Experiments
             lately made in the Harton Colliery, for ascertain
             ing the mean Density of the Earth .        .     .17
  „ 5.—General Monthly Meeting             .     .       .     .23
   „ 9.—PROFESSOR OWEN—On the Anthropoid Apes and
             their relations to Man .      .     .       .        26
   „ 16.—EDWARD JEKYLI/, Esq.—On Siege Operations              . 42
   „ 23.—JOHN DICKINSON, Esq.—On providing an addi
             tional Supply of Pure Water for London            . 47
March 2. —DR. JOHN STENHODSE—On the Economical Appli
             cations of Charcoal to Sanitary purposes .        . 53
   „ 5.—General Monthly Meeting            .     .        .    .55
   „ 9.—THOMAS SOPWITH, Esq.—On the Mining Districts
             of the North of England       .     .       .     .57
   „ 16. — DR. WM. ODLING—On the Constitution of the
             Hydro-Carbons ...... 63
  „ 23.—REV. JOHN EYRE ASHBT— On (so called) Cata
             lytic action and combustion ; and theories of
             Catalysis .......                                    66
  „ 30.—REV. JOHN BARLOW—On the application of Che
             mistry to the Preservation of Food       .      . * 72
April 2.—General Monthly Meeting          ....                    80

 IV                          CONTENTS.
                                                              Page
 April 20.— T. H. HUXLEY, Esq.—On certain Zoological
              Arguments commonly adduced in favour of the
              hypothesis of the Progressive Development of
              Animal Life in Time .                             82
    „ 27.—SIR CHARLES LYELL—On certain trains of Erratic
              Blocks onWestern borders of Massachusetts, U.S. 86
 May 1.—Annual Meeting                                          98
    „ 4.—DR. J. H. GLADSTONE—On Gunpowder and its
              substitutes                                       99
    „ 7.—General Monthly Meeting          .... 104
    „ 11.—HENRY BRADBURY, Esq.—On Nature-Printing . 106
    „ 18.—JAMES PHILIF LACAITA, Esq. —On Dante and
              the Divina Commedia         .      .     .    .118
    „ 25.—PROFESSOR FARADAY—On Electric Conduction . 123
June 1.—PHOFESSOR TYNDALL—On the Currents of the
             Leyden Battery                                   132
    „ 4.—General Monthly Meeting         .... 136
    „ 8.—PROFESSOR FARADAY—On RuhmkorfFs Induction
             Apparatus        ...... 139
    „ 15.—COL. H. C. RAWLINSON—On the Results of the
              Excavations in Assyria and Babylonia .          1 43
July 2.—General Monthly Meeting          .      .     .     .145
Nov. 5.—General Monthly Meeting           .... 147
Dec. 3.— General Monthly Meeting         .      .     .     .150
                               1856.
Jan. 25.—W. R. GKOVE, Esq.—Inferences from the Nega
             tion of Perpetual Motion .          .    .     .152
Feb. 1.—PROFESSOR TYNDALL—On the Disposition of
             Force in Paramagnetic and Diamagnetic Bodies 159
    „ 4.— General Monthly Meeting        .      .     .     .164
    „ 8.—PROFESSOR HENRY D. ROGESS—On the Geology
             and Physical Geography of North America . 167
    „ 15.—PROFESSOR T. H. HUXLEY—On Natural History
             as Knowledge, Discipline, and Power .         .187
    „ 22.—PROFESSOR FARADAY—On certain Magnetic
            Actions and Affections       .... 196

                            CONTENTS.                            T
                                                              Page
Feb. 29.—PROFESSOR WM. THOMSON—On the Origin and
            Transformations of Motive Power             .   . 199
March 3.— General Monthly Meeting          .... 205
   „ 7.—SIR CHARLES LVKLL—On the Successive Changes
            of the Temple of Serapis       .... 207
  „ 14.—REV. JOHN BARLOW—On Aluminium                  .    . 215
April 4.—HENRY E. ROSCOE, Esq.—On the Measurement
            of the Chemical Action of Light .           .   . 223
  „ 7.—General Monthly Meeting            .... 225
  „ 11.—C. W. SIEMENS, Esq.— On a Regenerative Steam-
            Engine.                                            227
   „ 18.—DR. H. BENCE JONES—On Ventilation, and the
            means of determining its amount .           .   . 236
  „ 21.—DR. HUMPHRY SANDWITH —On the Siege of Kars 246
  „ 25.—W. B. DONNE, Esq.—On the works of Chaucer,
            considered as Historical Illustrations of England
            in the 14th century                                248
May 1.—Annual Meeting ...... 254
   „ 2.—PROFESSOR OWEN—On the Ruminant Quadrupeds
            and the Aboriginal Cattle of Britain       .    . 256
   „ 5.—General Monthly Meeting            .... 261
   „ 9.—HENRY BRADBURY, Esq.—On the Security and
            Manufacture of Bank Notes            .     .    . 263
   „ 16.—DR. A. "W". HOFMANN —On the Chemical Type
            Ammonia          ...... 274
   „ 23.—F. A. ABEL, Esq.—On some of the Applications
            of Chemistry to Military purposes           .   . 283
  „ 30.—DR. LYON PLAYFAIR—On the Chemical Prin
            ciples involved in Agricultural Experiments . 289
June 2.—General Monthly Meeting            .... 293
   „ 6.—PROFESSOR TYNDAIX—Comparative view of the
            Cleavage of Crystals and Slate Rocks .          . 295
June 13.—PROFESSOR FARADAY—On M. Petitjean's process
            for Silvering Glass : and some Observations on
            Divided Gold                                       308
July 7.—General Monthly Meeting           .     .      .    .313
Nov. 3.— General Monthly Meeting          .... 315
Dec. 1.—General Monthly Meeting            .... 318

VI                         CONTENTS.
                             1857.
                                                           Page
Jan. 23.—PKOFESSOS TYNDALL—Observations on Glaciers 320
   „ 30.—REV. FREDERIC D. MAURICE—Milton considered
            as a Schoolmaster     ..... 328
Feb. 2.—General Monthly Meeting         .... 333
   „ 6.—DR. J. H. GLADSTONE—On Chromatic Phaeno
            mena exhibited by Transmitted Light .        . 336
   „ 13.—T. A. MALONE, Esq.—On the application of
            Light and Electricity to the production of En
            gravings—Photogalvanography .          .     . 343
   ,, 20.—CHRISTOPHER DRESSER, Esq.—On the Relation
            of Science and Ornamental Art .         .    . 350
   „ 27.—PROF. FARADAY—On the Conservation of Force 352
March 2. —General Monthly Meeting       .... 366
   „ 6.—EDMUND BECKETT DENISON, Esq.—On the Great
            Bell of Westminster                             368
   „ 13.—PROFESSOR JOHN PHILLIPS— On the Malvern
            Hills                                          385
   „ 20.—JOHN WATKINS BRETT, Esq.—On the Submarine
            Telegraph                                       394
   „ 27.—ROBERT WARINGTON, Esq.—On the Aquarium 403
April 3.— REV. JOHN BARLOW—On some Modifications of
            Woody Fibre, and their Applications .        . 409
   „ 6.—General Monthly Meeting         .... 413
   „ 24.—PROFESSOR A. C. RAMSAY—On certain Peculi
            arities of Climate during part of the Permian
            Epoch                                           417
May 1.—Annual Meeting .            .    .     .     .    .421
   „ 1.—CAPTAIN JOHN GRANT—On the Application of
            Heat to Domestic Purposes, and to Military
            Cookery ....... 422
   „ 4.—General Monthly Meeting         .... 426
   „ 8.—PROFESSOR F. CRACE CAIVERT—On M. Chev-
            reul's Laws of Colours      .... 428
   „ 15.—PROFESSOR T. H. HUXLEY—On the present state
            of Knowledge as to the Structure and Functions
            of Nerve ....... 432

                             CONTENTS.                         Vli
                                                             Page
May 22.—EDWARD VIVIAN, Esq.—On Meteorology, with
            Observations and Sketches taken during a Bal
           loon Ascent         ......                         437
  „ 29.—PROFESSOR A. J. SCOTT —Physics and Metaphy
           sics. (No Abstract)                                439
June 1.—General Monthly Meeting            ....               439
  „ 5.—PROFESSOR TYNDALL—On M. Lissajous' Acous
           tic Experiments          .....                    441
  , 12.—PROFESSOR FARADAY—On the relations of Gold
           to Light                                           444
July 6. —General Monthly Meeting           ....              446
Nov. 2.—General Monthly Meeting            ....              449
Dec. 7.—General Monthly Meeting           ....               452
                               1858.
Jan. 22.—PROFESSOR TYNDALL—On some Physical Proper
           ties of Ice        ......                         454
  „ 29.—"W. R. GROVE Esq.—On Molecular Impressions
           by Light and Electricity ....                     458
Feb. 1 .—General Monthly Meeting           .    .     .    . 464
  „ 5.—DR. EDWIN LANKESTER—On the Drinking Waters
           of the Metropolis        .....                    466
  „ 12.—PROFESSOR FARADAY—On Static Induction 470,           490
  „ 19.—EDMUND BECKETT DENISON, Esq.—On some of
           the Improvements in Locks since the Great Ex
           hibition of 1851                                  475
  „ 26.—PROFESSOR BADEN POWELL—On Rotatory Sta
           bility and its Applications to Astronomical Ob
           servations on board Ships ....                    480
March 1.—General Monthly Meeting          ....               488
  „ 5.—PROFESSOR C. PIAZZI SMYTH—Account of the
           Astronomical Experiment of 1856 on the Peak
           ofTeneriffe                                       493
  „ 12.—DR. WILLIAM B. CARPENTER—On the Lowest
           (Rhizopod) Type of Animal Life, considered in
           its relations to Physiology, Zoology, and Geology 497

Vlll                       CONTENTS,
                                                         Page
Mar. 19.—HENRY THOMAS BUCKLE, Esq.— On the Influence
           of Women on the Progress of Knowledge       .  504
   „ 26.—REV. JOHN BARLOW—On Mineral Candles and
           other Products manufactured at Belmont and
           Sherwood                                       506
April 5.—General Monthly Meeting       ....               509
   „ 16.—ROBERT GODWIN-AUSTEN, Esq.—On the Condi
           tions which determine the probability of Coal
           beneath the South-Eastern parts of England .   511
   „ 23.—COL. HENRY JAMES—On the Geodetic Opera
           tions of the Ordnance Survey      .    .    .  516
   „ 30.—PROFESSOR A. C. RAMSAY—On the Geological
           Causes that have influenced the Scenery of
           Canada and the North-Eastern Provinces of the
           United States                                  522
May 1.—Annual Meeting ......                              524
   „ 3.—General Monthly Meeting        ....               526
   „ 7.—JAMES PHILIF LACAITA, Esq.—On the late Earth
           quakes in Southern Italy ....                 528
   „ 14.—HENRY BRADBURY, Esq.—Printing: its Dawn,
           Day, and Destiny. (JVb Abstract)       ,    .  534
   „ 21.—PBOFESSOR T. H. HUXLEY— On the Phenomena
           of Gemmation ......                            534
   „ 28.—PROFESSOR EDWARD FRANKLAND—On the pro
           duction of Organic Bodies without the agency
           of Vitality                                   538
June 4.—PROFESSOR TYNDALL—On the Mer-de-Glace .           544
   „ 7.—General Monthly Meeting        ....              554
   „ 11.—PROFESSOR FARADAY—On Wheatstone's Electric
           Telegraph, in Relation to Science .    .    .  555
July 5.—General Monthly Meeting        ....               560
INDEX    .     ,      .......                             562

                                 I
                                   ,
        Hcmal Institution of CKrrat Britain.
                                      1854.
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, November 6.
         PROFESSOR C. WHEATS-TONE, F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
    The following Report was read : —
                              " Royal Institution, November 6, 1854.
    " The MANAGERS Report,—That the Fullerian Professorship of
Physiology is now vacant ; and that, pursuant to the Deed of
Endowment, the election of a Professor will take place on Monday,
the 2nd of July, 1855, at 4 o'clock, P.M.
   " They further Report,—That the next Actonian Prize of £105
will be awarded in the year 1858, to an Essay illustrative of the
Wisdom and Beneficence of the Almighty as manifested by the
Influence of Solar Radiation.—Competitors for this prize are re
quested to send their Essays to the Royal Institution, on or before
 10 o'clock, P.M., December 31st, 1857, addressed to the Secretary.
The adjudication will be made on Monday, April 12th, 1858."
   The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   FROM
Her Majetty't Government (by Sir H. De la Beche)—Memoirs of the Geologi
    cal Survey of the United Kingdom : British Organic Remains, Decades 4,
    6, and 7. 4to. 1852-3.
  Records of the School of Mines, Vol. I. Parts 2, 3, 4. 8vo. 1853.
Actuaries, Instituteof—The Assurance Magazine, Nos. 16, 17. 8vo. 1854.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Vol. XV. Part 1. 8vo. 1854.
Airy, G. B. Esq. Astronomer- Koyal—Description of the Transit Circle at the
    Royal Observatory, Greenwich. 4to. 1854.
American Academy of Artt and Sciencet—Proceedings, Vol. II. Nos. 21-29.
    Vol. III. Nos. 1-13. 8vo. 1849-54.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Nos. 49, 50. 8vo. 1853-4.
Amsterdam, Koninklijke Akademie van Wetentchappen — Verhandelingen,
    Eerste Dcel. 4 to. 1854.
  Verslagen en Mededeelungen, Eerste Deel ; en Tweede Deel, Eerste en
    Tweede Stuk. 8vo. 1853-4.
Arnold, That. J. Esq. (the Author)—Treatise on the Law relating to Municipal
    Corporations. 12mo. 1851.
   Vol. II.— (No. 20.)                                         B

2                         General Monthly Meeting.                    [Nov. 6,
Asiatic Society tif Bengal-Journal, Nos. 240, 241. 8vo. 1854.
Asiatic Society, lioi/al—Journal, Vol. XVI. Part 1. 8vo. 1854.
   Catalogue of Arabic and Persian MSS. in the Society's Library. By W. II.
    Morley. 8vo. 1854.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Memoirs, Vol. XXII. 4to. 1854.
   Monthly Notices, Vol. XIII. Vol. XIV. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo. 1853-4.
Author—A Catechism explanatory of many of the commonly supposed Difficul
    ties of Christianity. 12mo. 1854.
Basel, Naturforschende Gesellschaft—Berichte iiber die Verhandlungen,I-VIII.
     8vo. 1835-49.
   Verhandlungen, Heft I. 8vo. 1854.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal, August to November, 1854.
     8vo.
Diber, Rev. G. E. LL.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—Literature, Art, and Science,
    considered as a means of elevating the Popular Mind. (A Lecture.) 8vo.
     1854.
Bombay Geographical Society— Transactions, Vol. XI. 8vo. 1854.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for July to Oct. 1854. 4to.
Boston Society of Natural History—Journal, Vol. VI. No. 3. 8vo. 1853.
   Proceedings, Nos. 15-24. 8vo. 1852-4.
Botfield, B. Esq. F.ll.S. M.K.I, (the Author)— Remarks on the Prefaces to
    the First Editions of the Classics. 8vo. 1854.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in July, 1854. 4to.
British Association—Report of the Twenty-third Meeting, held at Hull in
     1853. 8vo. 1854.
Brown, Andrew, Esq. (the Author}—The Philosophy of Physics, or Process of
    Creative Developement. 8vo. New York, 1854.
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, Vol. VII. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1854.
 Commissioners in Lunacy—Eighth Report to the Lord Chancellor. 8vo. 1854.
Cornwall Polytechnic Society, lioyal—Twenty-first Annual Report. 8vo. 1853.
Decimal Association—Proceedings, with an Introduction by Professor De
    Morgan. 8vo. 1854.
East India Company, the Hon.—Gazetteer of the Territories under the Govern
    ment of the East India Company, and of the Native States on the Continent
    of India. By E. Thornton. 4 vols. 8vo. 1854.
Editors—The Medical Circular, for July to October, 1854. 8vo.
   The Athemeum, for July to October, 1854. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal, for July to October, 1854. 4to.
   The Mechanics' Magazine, for July to October, 1854. 8vo.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting, for July to October, 1854. 4to.
   Deutsches Atheriaum, July to October, 1854. 4to.
Ethnological Society ofLondon—Address by Sir B. C. Brodie, Bart, followed
    by a Sketch of the recent Progress of Ethnology, by R. Cull. 8vo. 1864.
Faraj/ay, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.— Mouatsbericht der Kbnigl. Preuss.
    Akademie, Mai zu August, 1854. 8vo. Berlin.
   Abhandlungen der Koniglichen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin,
    1853. 4to. 1854.
   Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien : —
      Philosophisch- Historische Classe:— Sitzungsberichte, Band XI. Hefte 4, 5;
        Band XII. Hefte 1-4; und Register zu Band I-X. 8vo. 1854.
      Denkschriften. Band V. 4to. 1854.
      Archiv fur Kunde OZsterreichischer Geschichts Quellen. Band XII. 8vo.
        1854.
      Notizenblatt. (Beilagezum Archiv.) 1853. Nos. 21-24; 1854. Nos. 1-17.
     Fontcs Rerum Austriacarum. Zweite Abtheilung. Band I. 1854.
     Mathematisch-ffaturwissenschaftliche Classe:—Denkschriften. Baud VII.
       4to. 1854.
     Sitzungsberichtc. Band XI. Heft 5 ; Band XII. Hefte 1-4. 8vo. 1853-4.
     Tafeln der Polygraphische Apparat. Von A. Auer. 8vo. 1853.

 1854.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                              3
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Bulletin de la Classe Physico-Math£-
     matique de 1' Academic Impe'riale des Sciences de St. Pe'tersbourg. Tome
     XII. 4to. 1854.
   L'Acade'mie Royale de la Belgique :—Annuaire. 1854. 8vo.
       Bulletins des Seances de la Classe des Sciences, Anne's 1853. 8vo.
   Me'moires presentc"s par divers Savans a I'Acade'mie des Sciences de 1'Institut
     Imperial de France : Sciences Mathematiques et Physiques. Tome XII.
     4to. Paris, 1854.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania —Journal, Vol. XXVII. No. 6. Vol.
     XXVIII. No. 1-3. 8vo. 1854.
 Gfaeve, SociAf de Physique de—Memoires. Tome XIII. 2me Partie. 4to.
     1854.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Address by the Earl of Ellesmere, May 1854.
     8vo.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 39. 8vo. 1854.
 Graham, George, Esq. Begistrar- General—Census of Great Britain, 1851 :
     Population Tables: Ages, Condition, &c., Report and Summary Tables.
     fol. 1854.
   Weekly Reports of the Registrar-General for July to October, 1854.
     8vo.
 Graham, Lt.-Colanel J. D. U.S. (the Author)—Report on the Boundary Line
    between the United States and Mexico. (Maps.) 8vo. 1853.
 Greenwich Royal Observatory—Astronomical and Magnetical and Meteorologi
    cal Observations in 1852. 4to. 1854.
 Guggenbuhl, Dr.—Die Cretinen: Heilanstalt auf dem Abendberg in der
    Schweiz. Von Dr. Guggenbuhl. 4to. Bern, 1853.
   Una Visita all' Abendberg, 10 Settembre, 1850, del Medico Sella Alessan-
    dro. 8vo.
   Cretins and Idiots—A Short Account of the Progress of the Institutions for
    their relief and cure. 8vo. 1853.
Horticultural Society of London— Journal, Vol. IX. No. 3. 8vo. 1854.
Hurley, Thomas H. F.R.S. (the Author)—On the Educational Value of the
    Natural History Sciences. 8vo. 1854.
Literary Fund, Royal—Report for 1854. 8vo.
Londesborough, Lord, K.C.H. M.R.I.—Miscellanea Graphica : a collection of
     Ancient, Mediaeval, and Renaissance Remains in the possession of Lord
     Londesborough. Part 2. 4to. 1854.
Lovell, E. B. Esq. M.R.I, (the Editor)—The Monthly Digest, for July to
    October, 1854. 8vo.
   The Common Law and Equity Reports. Parts 15-21. 8vo. 1854.
Lubbock, John, Esq. M.R.I.—On some Arctic Species of Calanidae. 8vo.
    1854.
Lyell, Sir Charles, F.R.S. (the Author)—Special Report on the Geological,
    Topographical, and Hydrographical Departments of the New York In
    dustrial Exhibition for 1854. fol. 1854.
Melloni, Macfdoine, F.R.S. Hon. M.R. I. (the Author)—La ThennochrSse, ou
    la Coloration Calorifique. Premiere Partie. 8vo. Naples, 1850.
Mure, Col. William, M.P. F.S.A. (the Editor)—Selections from the Family
    Papers preserved at Caldwell : 1496-1853. 3 vols. 4to. 1854.
Murchison, Sir R. I. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author}—Siluria. The
    History of the Oldest known Rocks containing Organic Remains. 8ns.
    1854.
North of England Institute of Mining Engineers—Transactions, Vol. I. 8vo.
    1852-3.
Norton, Mr. C. B. (the Publisher)—Norton's Literary Register, 1854. IGmo.
    New York.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for July to October, 1854.
    4to.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 20-23. 8vo. 1854.
                                                                  u 2

4                       General Monthly Meeting.                    [Nov. 6>
Qaetelet, M. Hon.M.R.I. (the Author)—Snr le Climat de la Belgique: De
    1'Hygrome'trie. 4to. Bruxelles, 1854.
   Sur 1'Electricite des Nuages orageux. 8vo.
   Phe'nomenes Periodiques. 16mo. 1852.
Beid, P. Sandeman, Esq.—Letter on the Ventilation of Collieries. By John
    Buddie. 8vo. 1814.
Royal Society, London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXLIV. Part 1.
    4to. 1854.
   Proceedings, Vol. VII. No. 4-6. 8vo. 1854.
Sabine, Col. E. lt.A. V.P.R.S. (the Author)—On some of the Results obtained
    at the British Colonial Magnetic Observatories. 8vo. 1854.
Smith, Mr. J. Russell (the Publisher)—The Retrospective Review. Nos. 7, 8.
     1854.
Smithsonian Institution, Washington—Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
    Vol. VI. 4to. 1854.
   Seventh Annual Report. 8vo. 1853.
   Annular Eclipse of May 26, 1854. 8vo. 1854.
Societa delle Scienze Bioloyiche in Torino—Memorie, Vol. I. Fascicolo 1 . 8vo.
    1854.
Society ofArts—Jouraa.1 for July to October, 1854. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XVII. Part 3. 8vo. 1854.
Stephens, Henry, Esq. (the Author)—Cholera : an Analysis of its Character.
    12mo. 1854.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S. M.R.I.— Magazine for the Blind, August to Novem
    ber, 1854. 4to.
   Von der Schlaflosigkeit, deren Ursachen and Heilart. Von Dr. A. F. Fischer.
    16mo. Niirnberg, 1831.
 Van Diemen's Land, Royal Society of—Papers and Proceedings. Vol. II.
    Part 2. 8vo. 1854.
Vereins zur BefSrdenmg des Gewerbfleistes in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Mai
    zu Aagust, 1854. 4to. Berlin.
Warburton, Henry, Esq. M.A. F.K.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Oa Self-repeating
    Series. 4to. 1854.
Washington National Observatory—Astronomical Observations made during
     1847. 4to. 1853.
Webster, John, M.D. F.R.S. M. R.I.—General Reports of the Royal Hospitals
    of Bridewell and Bethlem, and of the House of Occupations. 8vo. 1853.
Williams, C. W. Esq. (the Author)—The Combustion of Coal and the Preven
    tion of Smoke chemically and practically considered. 8vo. 1854.
 Yates, James, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I.—On the French System of Measures,
    Weights, and Coins ; by James Yates, Esq. F.R.S. With an Abstract of
    the Discussion on the Paper, at the Society of Arts. 8vo. 1854.
   Comparative Statement of Different Plans of Decimal Accounts and Coinage.
    By Th. W. Rathbone. 8vo. 1854.
   Decimal Coinage—A Practical Analysis with Tables. By James Laurie.
    8vo. 1854.
Yorkshire Geological and Polytechnic Society—Proceedings, 1853. 8vo. 1854.

 1854.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                         5
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, December 4.
  WILLIAM ROBERT GROVE, ESQ. Q.C. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                     The Earl of Rosse,
                      Benedict Laurence Chapman, Esq. and
                     Henry Pemberton, Esq.
 were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Secretary reported that the following Arrangements had
 been made for the Lectures before Easter, 1 855 :—
    Six Lectures on the CHEMISTRY of COMBUSTION (adapted to a
Juvenile Auditory), by MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.
Fullerian Professor of Chemistry, R.I.
   Eleven Lectures on MAGWETISM and FRICTIONAL ELECTRICITY,
by JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. F.R.S. Professor of Natural Philosophy
in the Royal Institution.
   Eleven Lectures on ENGLISH LITERATURE, by WILLIAM B.
DONNE, Esq.
    Eleven Lectures on the PRINCIPLES of CHEMISTRY, by JOHN
HALL GLADSTONE, Ph.D. F.R.S.
   The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   FROM
Bell, Jacob, Esq. Af..R./.— The Pharmaceutical Journal, for November and
    December. 8vo. 1854.
Board of Trade—Report on the Bavarian Educational Institutions for Practical
    Science and Art. By J. Ward, Esq. fol. 1854.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for November, 1854.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in November, 1854. 4to.
Civil Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings in November, 1854. 8vo.
East India Company, the Hon.—Catalogue of the Birds in the Museum of the
    Hon. East India Company. By Dr. Horsfield. Vol. I. 8vo. 1854.
Editors—The Medical Circular for November, 1854. 8vo.
  The Athenaeum for November, 1854. 4to.
  The Practical Mechanic's Journal for November, 1854. 4to.
  The Journal of Gas-Lighting, November, 1854. 4to.
  The Mechanics' Magazine for November, 1854. 8vo.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXVIII. No. 4. 1854.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 40. 8vo. 1854.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General}—Weekly Reports of the Registrar-
    General for November, 1854. 8vo.

*i                      Gencral Monthly Meeting.            [Dec. 4, 1854.
Jopling, B. F. Esq. (the Editor)—The Statist, No. 1. 8vo. 1854.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Medico-Chirargical Transactions,
    Vol. XXXVII. 8vp. 1854.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)--The Musical Times for November and Decem
    ber, 1854.
i'hntographic Society— Journal, No. 24. 8vo. 1854.
Pollock, Frederick, Esq. M.A. M.K.I.— Euleri Opuscula. 3 vols. 4to. Bero-
    lini, 1746-51.
 Pollock, Thomas, Fsq. (the. Author)—On the peculiar State of the Atmosphere
    during the late Epidemic Cholera and Diarrhoea. 8vo. 1854.
Price, Rev. Bartholomew, M.A. F.R.S. (the Author}—A Treatise on the Infini
    tesimal Calculus. Vol. II. 8vo. 1854.
Rathbone, Th. W. Esq. (the Author)—Preface to the Comparative Statement on
    Decimal Accounts and Coinage. 8vo. 1854.
Society of Arts—Journal for November, 1854. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XVII. Part 4. 8vo. 1854.
 Taylor, Alfred S'. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Medical Jurisprudence.
    5th Edition. 16mo. 1854.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.B.S. M.R.T.—Tbe Magazine for the Blind, December,
    1854.
   Wilhelm Von Humboldt— Lichtstrahlen aus seinen Briefen : mit eincr Bio-
    graphie Humboldts, von Elisa Maier. 16mo. Leipzig, 1852.
   Ueber das Sehen und die Farben, eiae Abhandlung von A. Schopenhauer.
    8vo. Leipzig, 1816.
 Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisscs in Preussen—Verhandlungen,
    September und October, 1854. 4to.
                                     1855.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, January 19.
    WILLIAM ROBEUT GROVE, Esq. Q.C. F.R.S. Vice-Presideut,
                                  in the Chair.
                   PROFESSOR FAKADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                On some points of Magnetic Philosophy.
THE magnetic and electric forms of power, being dual in their
character, and also able to act at a distance, will probably aid greatly
in the development of the nature of physical force generally : and if
(as I believe) the dualities are essential to the forces, are always
equal and equivalent to each other, and are so mutually dependent,
that one cannot appear, or even exist, without the other, the proof
of the truth of such conditions would lead to many consequences of
the highest importance to the philosophy of force generally. A few
brief experiments with the electric power quickly place the dual

   Jan. 19, 1855.] Prof. Faraday on Magnetic Philosophy.                 7
  cases before the contemplative mind. Thus, if a metallic vessel, as
  an ice-pail, be insulated and connected with a delicate gold leaf
  electrometer, or other like instrument, and then an insulated
  metallic globe, half the diameter of the ice-pail, be charged with
  positive electricity and placed in the middle of the pail, the latter
  being for the moment uninsulated by a touch outside, and then
  left insulated again, the whole system will show no signs of electri
  city externally, nor will the electrometer be affected : but a carrier
  applied to the ball within the vessel will bring away from it positive
  electricity, showing its particular state of charge ; or being applied
  to the lower inside surface of the vessel will bring away negative
  electricity, proving that it has the contrary state : or the duality
  may be proved by withdrawing the ball, when the vessel will show
  'tself negative by the electrometer, and the ball will be found
  positive. That these dualities are equal, is further shown by replac-
  ijg the ball within the vessel, observing the electrometer, bringing
  tie ball and vessel in contact, and again observing the electrometer,
  which will remain unchanged ; and finally withdrawing the ball,
  which comes away perfectly discharged, and leaves the vessel exter-
  nslly in its unchanged and previous state. So the electric dualities
  an equal, equivalent, and mutually sustained. To show that one
  camot exist alone, insulate the metallic vessel, charge it strongly by
  coitact with the machine or a Leyden jar, and then dip the insulated
  bal into it ; and after touching the bottom of the vessel with the
  bal, remove it, without touching the sides: it will be found
  absolutely free from charge, whatever its previous state may have
  beei ; for none but a single state can exist at the bottom of such a
  metillic vessel ; and a single state, i.e. an unrelated duality, cannot
  exist alone.
     Tie correspondent dualities, i.e. the northness and the southness,
  of the magnetic force are well known. For the purpose of insulat
  ing, f possible, one of these, and separating it in any degree from
  the (ther, numerous experiments have been made. Thus six equal
  electro-magnets, formed of square bars, were put together in the
 direcion of three lines perpendicular to each other, so that their
 inner ends, being all alike in polarity, might inclose a cubical space
 and produce an experimental chamber. When excited, these
 magnets were very powerful in the outer direction, as was found by
 nails, filings, spirals, and needles ; but within the chamber, walled
 in on every side by intense north poles, there was no power of any
 kind: filings were not arranged ; small needles not affected, except
 as tley by their own inducing powers caused arrangement of the
 force within ; revolving wire helices produced no currents : the
chamber was a place of no magnetic action. Ordinary magnetic
poles of like nature produced corresponding results. A single pole
presented its usual character, attracting iron, repelling bismuth ; a
like pole, at right angles to it, formed a re-entering angle, and there
a weak place of magnetic action was caused ; iron was attracted from

8                         Profetsor Faraday                    [Jan. 19,
it to the prominent corners ; bismuth moved up into it ; and a third like
pole on the opposite side made the place of weak force still weaker
and larger ; another pole or two made it very weak ; six poles
brought it to the condition above described. Even four poles, put
with their longer edges together, produced a lengthened chamber
with two entrances ; and a little needle being carried in at either
entrance passed rapidly through spaces of weaker and weaker force,
and found a part in the middle where magnetic action was not
sensible.
    Other very interesting results were obtained by making chambers
in the polar extremities of electro-magnets. A cylinder magnet,
whose core was 1 • 5 inches in diameter, had a concentric cylindrical
chamber formed in the end, 0'7 in diameter, and 1'3 inches
deep. When iron filings were brought near this excited pole, they
clung around the outside, but none entered the cavity, except a very
few near the outer edge. When they were purposely placed inside
on a card they were quite indifferent to the excited pole, except that
those near the mouth of the chamber moved out and were attracted
to the outer edges. A piece of soft iron at the end of a copper
wire was strongly attracted by the outer parts of the pole, bit
unaffected within. When the chamber was filled with iron filings
and inverted, the magnet being excited, all those from the botton
and interior of the chamber fell out ; many, however, being caugit
up by the outer parts of the pole. If pieces of iron, successively
 increasing from the size of a filing to a nail, a spike, and so on t» a
 long bar, were brought into contact with the same point at ;he
 bottom of the inverted chamber, though the filing could not be
 held by attraction, nor the smaller pieces of iron, yet as soor as
 those were employed which reached to the level of the charrber
 mouth, or beyond it, attraction manifested itself; and with the
 larger pieces it rose so high that a bar of some pounds weight cmld
 be held against the very spot that was not sufficient to retain aniron
 filing.
     These and many other results piove experimentally, that the
 magnetic dualities cannot appear alone ; and that when they are
 developed they are in equal proportions and essentially conneited.
 For if not essentially connected, how could a magnet exist al»ne ?
 Its power, evident when other magnets, or iion, or bismuth isnear
 it, must, upon their removal, then take up some other form, or jxist
 without action: the first has never been shown or even suspeced ;
 the second is an impossibility, being inconsistent with the conserva
 tion of force. But if the dualities of a single magnet are thnwn
 upon each other, and so become mutually related, is that in right
 lines through the magnet, or in curved lines through the space
 around ? That it is not in right lines through the magnet (it being
 a straight bar or sphere) is shown by this, that the proper means as
 a helix round the magnet, shows that the internal disposition of the
 force (coercitive or other) is not affected when the magnet is exert

1855.]                 on Magnetic Philosophy.                      9
ing its power on other magnets, or when left to itself {Experimental
Researches, 3119, 3121, 3215, &c.) ; and like means show that
the external disposition of the force is so affected : so that the
force in right lines through the magnet does not change under the
circumstances, whilst the force in external (and necessarily) curved
lines does.
    The polarity of bismuth or phosphorus in the magnetic field is
one point amongst many others essentially dependent upon, and
highly illustrative of the nature of, the magnetic force. The as
sumption that they have a polarity the reverse of that of para
magnetic bodies involves the consequence, that'northness does not
always repel northness or attract southness ; or else leads to the
assumption that there are two northnesses and two southnesses,
and that these sometimes associate in pairs one way, and at other
times in the contrary way. But leaving the assumptions and
reverting to experiment, it was hoped that a forcible imitation of
the imagined state of bismuth in the magnetic field, might illustrate
its real state, and, for this purpose, recourse was had to the indica
tions given by a moving conductor. Four spheres of copper, iron,
bismuth, and hard steel have been prepared, and rotated upon an
axis coincident with the magnetic axis of a powerful horse-shoe
magnet ; each sphere has a ring of copper fixed on it as an equator,
and the ends of a galvanometer wire were brought into contact
with the axis and the equator of the revolving globe. Under these
circumstances, the electric current produced in the moving globe
was conveyed to the galvanometer, and became the indicator of the
magnetic polarity of the spheres ; the direction of rotation, and the
 poles of the magnet, being in all cases the same. When the copper
 sphere, as a standard, was revolved, deflection at the galvanometer
 occurred in a certain direction. When the iron sphere replaced
 the copper and was revolved, the deflection at the galvanometer
 was the same. When the bismuth sphere was employed, the de
 flection was still the same : —and it still remained the same when
 the steel sphere was rotated in the magnetic field. Hence, by this
 effect, which I believe to be a truthful and unvarying indication of
 polarity, the state of all the spheres was the same, and therefore
 the polarity of the magnetic force in the iron, copper, and bismuth,
 in every case alike. (Exp. Res. 3164, &c.) The steel sphere
 was then magnetized in the direction of its axis, and was found to
 be so hard as to retain its own magnetic state when in a reverse
 direction between the poles of the dominant magnet, for upon its
 removal its magnetism remained unchanged. Experiments were
 then made in a selected position, where the dominant magnetic
 force was not too strong—(a magnet able to lift 430 lbs. was used)
 —and it was found that when the steel magnet was placed in ac
 cordance, i'e. with its north pole opposite the south pole of the
 dominant magnet, the deflection was in the same direction as with
 the bismuth sphere ; but when it was changed so as to be in

  10                        Professor Faraday                   [Jan. 19,
  the magnetic condition assigned by some to bismuth (i.e. with
  reversed polarities), it then differed from bismuth, producing the
 contrary deflection. [For a further account of these considerations
 and investigations, a paper may be referred to, which will appear in
  the February number of the Philosophical Magazine.]
    It is, probably, of great importance that our thoughts should be
 stirred up at this time to a reconsideration of the general nature of
 physical force, and especially to those forms of it which are con
 cerned in actions at a distance. These are, by the dual powers,
 connected very intimately with those which occur at insensible
 distances ; and it is to be expected that the progress which physi
 cal science has made in latter times will enable us to ap
 proach this deep and difficult subject with far more advantage than
 any possessed by philosophers at former periods. At present we
 are accustomed to admit action at sensible distances, as of one
 magnet upon another, or of the sun upon the earth, as if such
 admission were itself a perfect answer to any enquiry into the
 nature of the physical means which cause distant bodies to affect
 each other ; and the man who hesitates to admit the sufficiency of
 the answer, or of the assumption on which it rests, and asks for
 a more satisfactory account, runs some risk of appearing ridiculous
 or ignorant before the world of science. Yet Newton, who did
 more than any other man in demonstrating the law of action of
 distant bodies, including amongst such the sun and Saturn, which
 are 900 millions of miles apart, did not leave the subject without
 recording his well-considered judgment, that the mere attraction of
 distant portions of matter was not a sufficient or satisfactory thought
for a philosopher. That gravity should be innate, inherent, and
 essential to matter, so that one body may act upon another at a
distance through a vacuum, without the mediation of anything else,
by and through which their action and force may be conveyed from
one to another, is, he says, to him a great absurdity. Gravity must
be caused by an agent, acting constantly according to certain laws ;
but whether this agent be material or immaterial he leaves to
the consideration of his readers. This is the onward looking
thought of one, who by his knowledge and like quality of mind,
saw in the diamond an unctuous substance coagulated, when as yet
it was known but as a transparent stone, and foretold the presence
of a combustible substance in water a century before water was
decomposed or hydrogen discovered : and I cannot help believing
that the time is near at hand, when his thought regarding gravity
will produce fruit :—and, with that impression, I shall venture a'
few considerations upon what appears to me the insufficiency of the
usually accepted notions of gravity, and of those forces generally,
which are supposed to act at a distance, having respect to the
modern and philosophic view of the conservation and" indestructi
bility of force.
    The notion of the gravitating force is, with those who admit

1855.]                        on Gravity.                           11
Newton's law, but go with him no further, that matter attracts
matter with a strength which is inversely as the square of the
distance. Consider, then, a mass of matter (or a particle), for
which present purpose the sun will serve, and consider a globe like
one of the planets, as our earth, either created or taken from distant
space and placed near the sun as our earth is; — the attraction of
gravity is then exerted, and we say that the sun attracts the earth,
and, also, that the earth attracts the sun. But if the sun attracts
the earth, that force of attraction must either arise because of the
presence of the earth near the sun ; or it must have pre-existed
in the sun when the earth was not there. If we consider the first
case, I think it will be exceedingly difficult to conceive that the
sudden presence of an earth, 95 millions of miles from the sun, and
having no previous physical connexion with it, nor any physical
connexion caused by the mere circumstance of juxtaposition, should
be able to raise up in the sun a power having no previous existence.
As respects gravity, the earth must be considered as inert, pre
viously, as the sun ; and can have no more inducing or affecting
power over the sun than the sun over it : both are assumed to be
without power in the beginning of the case ;—how then can that
power arise by their mere approximation or co-existence ? That a
body without force should raise up force in a body at a distance
from it, is too hard to imagine ; but it is harder still, if that can
be possible, to accept the idea when we consider that it includes the
creation offeree. Force may be opposed by force, may be diverted,
directed partially or exclusively, may even be converted, as far as
we understand the matter, disappearing in one form to reappear in
another ; but it cannot be created or annihilated, or truly suspend
ed, i.e. rendered existent without action or without its equivalent
action. The conservation of power is now a thought deeply im
pressed upon the minds of philosophic men ; and 1 think that, as
a body, they admit that the creation or annihilation of force is
equally impossible with the creation or annihilation of matter. But
if we conceive the sun existing alone in space, exerting no force of
gravitation exterior to it ; and then conceive another sphere in
space having like conditions, and that the two are brought towards
each other ; if we assume, that by their mutual presence each
causes the other to act,—this is to assume not merely a creation
of power but a double creation, for both are supposed to rise from
a previously inert to a powerful state. On their dissociation they,
by the assumption, pass into the powerless state again, and this
would be equivalent to the annihilation of force. It will be easily
 understood, that the case of the sun or the earth, or of any one of
two or more acting bodies, is reciprocal ;— and also that the varia
tion of attraction, with any degree of approach or separation of the
bodies, involves the same result of creation or annihilation of
power as the creation or annihilation (which latter is only the total
removal) of either of the acting bodies would do.

 12                  Prof. Faraday on Gravity .                [Jan. 19,
    Such, I think, must be the character of the conclusion, if it be
 supposed that the attraction of the sun upon the earth arises because
 of the presence of the earth, and the attraction of the earth upon the
 sun, because of the presence of the sun : there remains the case of
 the power, or the efficient source of the power, having pre-existed
 in the sun (or the earth) before the earth (or the sun) was in
 presence. In the latter view it appears to me that, consistently
 with the conservation of force, one of three sub-cases must occur :
 either the gravitating force of the sun, when directed upon the
 earth, must be removed in an equivalent degree from some other
 bodies, and when taken off from the earth (by the disappearance
 of the latter) be disposed of on some other bodies ;—or else it
must take up some new form of power when it ceases to be gravi
 tation, and consume some other form of power when it is
 developed as gravitation ;—or else it must be always existing
around the sun through infinite space. The first sub-case is not
imagined by the usual hypothesis of gravitation, and will hardly
be supposed probable : for, if it were true, it is scarcely possible
that the effects should not have been observed by astronomers, when
considering the motions of the planets in different positions with
respect to each other and the sun. Moreover, gravitation is not
assumed to be a dual power, and in them only as yet have such
removals been observed by experiment or conceived by the mind.
The second sub-case, or that of a new or another form of power, is
also one which has never been imagined by others, in association with
the theory of gravity. I made some endeavours, experimentally, to
connect gravity with electricity, having this very object in view
(Phil. Trans. 1851, p. 1) ; but the results were entirely negative.
The view, if held for a moment, would imply that not merely the
sun, but all matter, whatever its state, would have extra powers set
up in it, if removed in any degree from gravitation ; that the
particles of a comet at its perihelion would have changed in
character, by the conversion of some portion of their molecular
force into the increased amount of gravitating force which they
would then exert ; and that at its aphelion, this extra gravitating
force would have been converted back into some other kind of
molecular force, having either the former or a new character : the
conversion either way being to a perfectly equivalent degree. One
could not even conceive of the diffusion of a cloud of dust, or its
concentration into a stone, without supposing something of the same
kind to occur ; and I suppose that nobody will accept the idea as
possible. The third sub-case remains, namely, that the power is
always existing around the sun and through infinite space, whether
secondary bodies be there to be acted upon by gravitation or not :
and not only around the sun, but around every particle of matter
which has existence. This case of a constant necessary condition
to action in space, when as respects the sun the earth is not in
place, and of a certain gravitating action as the result of that pre-

1855.]        Prof. Tyndall on Magnetic Repulsion.                 13
vious condition when the earth is in place, I can conceive, con
sistently, as I think, with the conservation of force : and I think
the case is that which Newton looked at in gravity ; is, in
philosophical respects, the same as that admitted by all in regard to
light, heat, and radiant phenomena ; and (in a sense even more
general and extensive) is that now driven upon our attention in an
especially forcible and instructive manner, by the phenomena of
electricity and magnetism, because of their dependence on dual
forms of power.
      Jan. 22, 1855.                                       [M. F.]
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, January 26.
       WILLIAM ROBERT GROVE, Esq. M.A. Q.C. F.R.S.
                    Vice-President, in the Chair.
                    PKOFESSOR TYNDALL, F.R.S.
  On the Nature of the Force by which Bodies are Repelled from
                       the Poles of a Magnet.
THE Lecturer commenced, by showing that bodies are repelled by
the poles of a magnet, in virtue of a state of excitement into which
they are thrown by the latter. The repulsion of bismuth, and the
attraction of soft iron, followed precisely the same laws when the
strength of the influencing magnet was augmented, the respective
forces being proportional, not simply to the strength, but within
wide limits, to the square of the strength of the magnet. The
result is explained in the case of iron by the fact of its being con
verted, while under magnetic influence, into a true temporary
magnet, whose power varies with that of the influencing one ; and
in the case of bismuth, the result can only be explained by the fact
that the dia-magnetic mass is converted into a true dia-magnet.
   It was next shown that the condition of excitement evoked by
a magnetic pole was not the same as that evoked by another pole
of an opposite quality. If the repulsion were independent of the
quality of the pole, then two poles of unlike names ought to repel
the bismuth, when brought to act upon it simultaneously. This
is not the case. Two poles of the same name produce repul
sion ; but when they are of equal powers and opposite names, the
condition excited by one of them is neutralized by the other, and
no repulsion follows.
   Bars of magnetic and dia-magnetic bodies were next submitted

 14                       Professor Tyndall                  [Jan. 26,
to all the forces capable of acting upon them magnetically ; first, to
the magnet alone ; secondly, to the electric current alone ; and,
thirdly, to the magnet and current combined. Attention to struc
ture was here found very necessary, and the neglect of it appears to
have introduced much error into this portion of science. Powdered
 bismuth, without the admixture of any foreign ingredient, was
placed in a strong metallic mould, and submitted to the action of a
 hydraulic press ; perfectly compact metallic masses were thus pro
 cured, which, suspended in the magnetic field with the line of com
 pression horizontal, behaved exactly like magnetic bodies, setting
their longest dimensions from pole to pole. This identity of
deportment with an ordinary magnetic substance was also exhibited
in the case of the electric current, and of the current and the
 magnet combined. In like manner, by the compression of a mag
 netic powder magnetic bars were produced, which, between the two
poles of a magnet, set exactly like ordinary dia-magnetic ones ; this
identity of deportment is preserved when the bars are submitted to
the action of the current, and of the current and magnet combined.
Calling those bars which show the ordinary magnetic and dia-
magnetic action normal bars, and calling the compressed bars
abnormal ones, the law follows, that an abnormal bar of one class
of bodies exhibits precisely the same deportment, in all cases, as the
normal bar of the other class ; but when we compare normal bars
of both classes together, or abnormal bars of both classes, then
the antithesis of action is perfect. The experiments prove that,
if that which Gauss calls the ideal distribution of magnetism in
magnetic bars be inverted, we have a distribution which will pro
duce all the phenomena of dia-magnetic ones.
   The important question of dia-magnetic polarity was submitted to
further and stricter examination. A flat helix, whose length was
an inch, internal diameter an inch, and external diameter seven
inches, was attached firmly to a table, with its coils vertical. A
suspension was arranged by means of which a bar of bismuth, five
inches long, and 0'4 of an inch in diameter, was permitted to
swing freely, while surrounded by the helix. With this arrange
ment, the following experiments were, or might be made: — 1. A
voltaic current from twenty of Grove's
cells was sent through the helix A, the
direction of the current in the upper half
of the helix being that denoted by the arrow
(Fig. 1). The north pole of a magnet being
placed at N, the end a of the suspended
bar of bismuth, a b, was attracted towards
the pole N. 2. The south pole of a second
magnet being placed at S, and the cur              N
rent being sent through the helix in the
same direction as before, the bar left its
central position and approached N with greater force than in the

1855.]                  on Magnetic Repulsion.                        15
former experiment. The reason was deemed manifest : the state of
excitement which causes a to be attracted by N causes it to 'be
repelled by S ; both poles, therefore, act in unison, and a deflection
of greater energy is produced. 3. The pole S being removed to the
position S', the deflection was also found to be about twice as forcible
as when the single pole N was employed. Here also the reason is
plain : the two ends, a and b, of the bismuth bar, are in different
states of excitement ; the end a is attracted by a north pole, the
end b is attracted by a south pole : both poles act therefore as a
mechanical couple upon the bar, and produce the deflection
observed. 4. The pole S' was replaced by a north pole of the
same strength, thus bringing two poles of the same name to bear
upon the two ends of the bar : there was no deflection by this
arrangement ; it is manifest that N's attraction for the end a was
nullified by the repulsion of the end b by a like pole ; the experi
ment thus furnishes an additional proof of the polar condition of a b.
5. We have supposed the pole S to be removed into the position
S' ; but permitting the pole S to remain, and introducing another
pole (a south one) at S', a greater action than that produced with
two magnets was obtained. 6. Finally, adding another north pole at
N', and allowing four magnets to operate upon the bismuth bar
simultaneously, a maximum action was obtained, and the bar was
attracted and repelled with the greatest promptness and decision.
In all these cases where an iron bar was substitutedfor the bismuth
bar a b, a deflection precisely the opposite to that exhibited by
a b was produced. A branch of the current by which the bar of
bismuth was surrounded could be suffered to circulate round a bar
of iron, suspended freely in an adjacent helix ; when the forces
acting upon the iron were the same as those acting upon the bismuth,
the bars were always deflected in opposite directions.
   The question of dia-magnetic polarity was next submitted to a
test which brought it under the dominion of the principles of me
chanics. A mass of iron was chosen for the moveable magnetic
pole, of such a shape that the diminution of the force emanating
from the pole, as the distance was augmented, was very slow ; or in
other words, the field of force was very uniform. Let the space in
front of the pole P, (Fig. 2.) be such                          „ .
a field. A normal bar of bismuth,
a b, was attached to the end of a lever
transverse to the length of the latter,
and counterpoised by a weight at the
other extremity : the system was then
suspended from its centre of gravity
g, so that the beam and bar swung
horizontally. Supposing the bar to oc
cupy the position shown in the figure,
then if the force acting upon it be purely repulsive—that is to say,
if the dia-magnetic force be unpolar—it is evident that the tendency

16             Prof. Tyndall on Magnetic Repulsion.                  [Jan. 26,
of the force acting upon every particle of the mass of bismuth
tends to turn the lever round its axis of suspension, in the direction
of the curved arrow. On exciting the magnetism of P, however,
a precisely contrary motion is observed—the lever approaches the
pole. This result, which, as far as the lecturer could see, was
 perfectly inexplicable on the assumption that the dia-magnetic
force was purely repulsive, is explained in a simple and beautiful
manner on the hypothesis of dia-magnetic polarity. According
to this, the end b of the bar of bismuth is repelled by P, and
the end a is attracted : but the force acting upon a is applied
at a greater distance from the axis of suspension than that
acting upon b ; and as it has been arranged that the absolute in
tensities of the forces acting upon the two ends differ very
slightly from each other, the mechanical
advantage possessed by a gives to it the                         N
greatest moment of rotation, and the bar is
attracted instead of repelled. Let a mag
netic needle n s (Fig. 3,) be attached like
the bar a b (Fig. 2) to a lever, and submit
ted to the earth's magnetism. Let the
north pole of the earth be towards N ; the
action of the pole upon n is attractive,
upon * repulsive, the absolute intensities of
these forces are the same, inasmuch as the
length of the needle is a vanishing quantity
in comparison with its distance from the
pole N : hence the mechanical advantage
possessed by the force acting upon s, on ac
count of its greater distance from the axis                Fig. 3.
of rotation, causes the lever to recede from
N, and we obtain a result perfectly analogous to that obtained with
the bar of bismuth (Fig. 2).*
                                                                    [J. T.]
   * A paper submitted to the Koyal Society last November, and a portion of
which formed the subject of'the Bakerian Lecture for the present year, con
tains a more comprehensive discussion of this subject. In it are explanations,
which it is hoped will be deemed satisfactory, of the difficulties adduced by
M. Matteucci, in his instructive Cams Special, recently published.

1855-3        Pendulum-experiments at Harton Colliery.              17
               WEEKLY EVHNTNGT-HEETING,
                          Friday, February 2.
             Sia HENRY HOLLAND, Bart. M.D. F.R.S.
                    Vice-President, in the Chair.
            G. B. AIRY, Esq. F.R.S. Astronomer-Royal,
On the Pendulum-experiments lately made in the Harton Colliery,
          for ascertaining the mean Density of the Earth.
THE speaker commenced with remarking that the bearing of the
experiments, of which he was about to give a notice, was not
limited to their ostensible object, but that it applied to all the
bodies of the Solar system. The professed object of the experiments
was to obtain a measure of the density of the earth, and therefore
of the mass of the earth (its dimensions being known); but the
ordinary data of astronomy, taken in conjunction with the laws
of gravitation, give the proportions of the mass of the earth to
the masses of the sun and the principal planets ; and thus the
determination of the absolute mass of the earth would at once
give determinations of the absolute masses of the sun and
planets. To show how this proportion is ascertained, it is
only necessary to remark, that a planet, if no force acted on it,
would move in a straight line ; that, therefore, if we compute
geometrically how far the planet moves in a short time, as an hour,
and then compute the distance between the point which the planet
has reached in its curved orbit, and the straight line which it has
left, we have found the displacement which is produced by the sun's
attraction, and which is therefore a measure of the sun's attraction.
In like manner, if we apply a similar calculation to the motion of a
satellite during one hour, we have a measure of the attraction of its
primary. The comparison of these two gives the proportion of the
attraction of the sun, as acting upon a body, at one known distance,
to the attraction of a planet, as acting upon a body at another known
distance. It is then necessary to apply one of the theorems of the
 laws of gravitation, namely, that the attraction of every attracting
body is inversely as the square of the distance of the attracted body ;
and thus we obtain the proportion of the attractions of the sun and
a planet, when the bodies upon which they are respectively acting
are at the same distance from both : and finally, it is necessary to
apply another theorem of the law of gravitation, namely, that the
attractions thus found, corresponding to equal distances of the
      VOL. II.                                              c

 18                    The Astronomer-Royal on the               [Feb. 2,
 attracted bodies, are in the same proportion as the masses of the
 attracting bodies (a theorem which applies to gravitation, but does
 not apply to magnetic and other forces). Into the evidence of these
 portions of the law of gravitation, the speaker did not attempt to
 enter: he remarked only that they rest upon very complicated
 chains of reasoning, but of the most certain kind. His only object
 was to show that ti IB proportion of the masses of all bodies, which
have planets or satellites revolving round them, can easily be found—
 (the proportion for those which have no satellites is found by a very
 indirect process, and with far less accuracy) ; and that if the absolute
 mass of the earth be known, the absolute mass of each of the others
 can be found. As their dimensions are known, their densities can
 then be found. Thus it rests upon such inquiries as those on which
 this discourse is to treat, to determine (for instance) whether the
planet Jupiter is composed of materials as light as water, or as light
 as cork.
    The obvious importance of these determinations had induced
philosophers long since to attempt determinations of the earth's
density : and two classes of experiments had been devised for it.
    The first class (of which there was only one instance) is the
attraction of a mountain, in the noble Schehallien experiment. It
rests, in the first place, upon the use of the zenith sector ; and, in
the next place, upon our very approximate knowledge of the
dimensions of the earth. [The construction of the zenith sector was
illustrated by a model : and it was shown, that if the same star were
observed at two places, the telescope would necessarily be pointed
in the same direction at the two places, and the difference of direc
tion of the plumb line, as shown by the different points of the
graduated arc which it crossed at the two places, would show how
much the direction of gravity at one place is inclined to the direction
of gravity at the other place.] Now, from our knowledge of the
form and dimensions of the earth, we know that the direction of
gravity changes very nearly one second of angle for every 100 feet
of horizontal distance. Suppose then, that two stations were taken
on Schehallien, one on the north side and the other on the south
side, and suppose that their distance was 4OOO feet ; then, if the
direction of gravity had not been influenced by the mountain, the
inclination of the directions of gravity at these two places would
have been about 40 seconds. But suppose, on applying the zenith
sector in the way just described, the inclination was found to be
really 52 seconds. The difference, or 12 seconds, could only be
explained by the attraction of the mountain, which, combined with
what may be called the natural direction of gravity, produced
directions inclined to these natural directions. In order to infer
from this the density of the earth, a calculation was made (founded
upon a very accurate measure of the mountain) of what would have
been the disturbing effect of the mountain if the mountain had been
as dense as the interior of the earth. It was found that the dis

1855.]       Pendulum-experiments at Harton Colliery.                19
turbance would have been about 27 seconds. But the disturbance
was really found to be only 12 seconds. Consequently the proportion
of the density of the mountain to the earth's density was that of
12 to 27, or 4 to 9 nearly. And from this, and the ascertained
density of the mountain, it followed that the mean specific gravity
of the earth would be about five times that of water. The only
objection to this admirable experiment is, that the form of the
country near the mountain is very irregular, and it is difficult to say
how much of the 12 seconds is or is not really due to Schehallien.
   The second class is what may be called a cabinet experiment,
possessing- the advantage of being extremely manageable, and the
disadvantage of being exceedingly delicate, and liable to derange
ment by forces so trifling that they could with difficulty be avoided.
Two small balls upon a light horizontal rod were suspended by a
wire, or two wires, forming a torsion balance, and two large leaden
balls were brought near to attract the small balls from the quiescent
position. We could make a calculation of how far the great balls
would attract the little ones, if they were as dense as the general
mass of the earth ; and comparing this with the distance to which
the leaden balls really do attract them, we find the proportion of
the density of the earth to the density of lead. The peculiar
difficulty and doubt of the results in this experiment depend on i he
liability to disturbances from other causes than the attraction of the
leaden balls, especially the currents of air produced by the
approach of bodies of a different temperature ; and after all the
cautions of Cavendish, Reich, and Baily, in their successive
attempts, it seems not impossible that the phaenomcna observed may
have been produced in part by the temperature of the great balls as
well as their attraction.
   These considerations induced Mr. Airy, in 1826, to contem
plate a third class of experiments, namely, the determination of the
difference of gravity at the top and the bottom of a deep mine, by
pendulum experiments. Supposing the difference of gravity found,
its application to the determination of density (in the simplest case)
was thus explained. Conceive a spheroid concentric with the ex
ternal spheroid of the earth to pass through the lower station in the
mine. It is easily shown that the attraction of the shell included
between these produces no effect whatever at the lower station, but
produces the same effect at the upper station as if all its matter
were collected at the earth's centre. Therefore, at the lower station
we have the attraction of the interior mass only : at the upper
station we have the attraction of the interior mass (though at a
greater distance from the attracted pendulum) and also the attrac
tion of the shell. It is plain that by making the proportion of these
theoretical attractions equal to the proportion actually observed by
means of the pendulum, we have the requisite elements for finding
the proportion of the shell's attraction to the internal mass's attrac
tion, and therefore the proportion of the matter in the shell to ttie
                                                          c 2

20                  The Astronomer-Royal on the                 [Feb. 2,
matter in the internal mass ; from which the proportion of density
is at once found. Moreover, it appeared probable, upon estimating
the errors to which observations are liable, that the resulting error
in the density, in this form of experiment, would be less than in the
others.
    Accordingly, in 1826, the speaker, with the assistance of his
friend Mr. Whewell (now Dr. AYrhewell), undertook a series of expe
riments at the depth of nearly 1200 feet, in theDolcoath mine, near
Camborne, in Cornwall. The comparison of the upper and lower
clocks (to which further allusion will be made) was soon found to
be the most serious difficulty. The personal labour was also very
great. They had, however, made a certain progress when, on rais
ing a part of the instruments, the straw packing took fire—(the
origin of the fire is still unknown),—and partly by burning, and
partly by falling, the instruments were nearly destroyed.
    In 1828 the same party, with the assistance of Mr. Sheepshanks
 and other friends, repeated the experiment in the same place.
 After mastering several difficulties, they were stopped by a slip
 of the solid rock of the mine, which deranged the pumps and
 finally flooded the lower station.
    The matter rested for nearly twenty-six years, the principal
 progress in the subjects related to it being the correction to the
 computation of " buoyancy " of the pendulum, determined by
 Colonel Sabine's experiments. But in the spring of 1854, the
 manipulation of galvanic signals had become familiar to the As
 tronomer Royal, and the Assistants of the Greenwich Observatory,
 and it soon occurred to him that one of the most annoying diffi
 culties in the former experiment might be considered as being
 practically overcome, inasmuch as the upper and lower clocks could
 be compared by simultaneous galvanic signals. Inquiries, made in
 the summer, induced him to fix on the Harton colliery near South
 Shields, where a reputed depth of 1260 feet could be obtained ;
 and as soon as this selection was known, every possible facility and
 assistance were given by the owners of the mine. Arrangements
 were made for preparing an expedition on a scale sufficient to over
 come all anticipated difficulties. A considerable part of the ex
 pense was met by a grant from the Board of Admiralty. The
 Electric Telegraph Company, with great liberality, contributed
 (unsolicited) the skill and labour required in the galvanic mount
 ings. The principal instruments were lent by the Royal Society.
 Two observers were furnished by the Royal Observatory, one by
 the Durham Observatory, one by the Oxford Observatory, one by
 the Cambridge Observatory, and one by the private observatory of
  Red Hill (Mr. Carrington's). Mr. Dunkin, of the Royal Observa
 tory, had the immediate superintendence of the observations.
     The two stations selected were exactly in the same vertical, ex
 cellently walled, floored, and ceiled ; the lower station, in particular,
 was a most comfortable room or rather suite of rooms. Every

 1855.]      Pendulum-ej:pcriinmts at Harton Colliery.             21
care was taken for solidity of foundation and steadiness of tem
perature. In each (the upper and the lower) was mounted an
invariable brass pendulum, vibrating by means of a steel knife edge
upon plates of agate, carried by a very firm iron stand. Close
behind it, upon an independent stand, was a clock, carrying upon
the bob of its pendulum an illuminated disk, of diameter nearly
equal to the breadth of the tail of the invariable pendulum ; and
between the two pendulums was a chink or opening of two plates
of metal, which admitted of adjustment, and was opened very
nearly to the same breadth as the disk. To view these, a telescope
was fixed in a wall, and the observer was seated in another room.
When the invariable pendulum and the clock pendulum pass the
central points of vibration at the same instant, the invariable pen
dulum hides the illuminated disk as it passes the chink, and it
is not seen at all. At other times it is seen in passing the chink.
The observation, then, of this disappearance determines a coinci
dence with great precision. Suppose the next coincidence occurs
after 400 seconds. Then the invariable pendulum (swinging more
slowly), has lost exactly two swings upon the clock pendulum, or
the proportion of its swings to those of the clock pendulum is
398 : 400. If an error of a second has been committed, the pro
portion is only altered to 397 : 399, which differs by an almost
insignificant quantity. Thus the observation, in itself extremely
rude, gives results of very great accuracy. As the proportion
of invariable-pendulum-swings to clock-pendulum-swings is thus
found, and as the clock-pendulum-swings in any required time
are counted by the clock dial, the corresponding number of in-
variable-pendulum-swings is at once found. Corrections are then
required for the expansion of the metal (depending on the ther
mometer-reading), for the arc of vibration, and for the buoyancy in
air (depending on the barometer-reading).
   But when the corrected proportion of upper-invariable-pendulum-
swings to upper-clock-pendulum-swings is found, and the proportion
of lower-invariable-pendulum-swings to lower clock-pendulum-
swings is found, there is yet another thing required :—namely,
the proportion of upper-clock-pendulum-swings to lower-clock-
pendulum-swings in the same time ; or, in other words, the pro
portion of the clock rates. It was for this that the galvanic signals
were required. A galvanometer was attached to each clock, and
an apparatus was provided in a small auxiliary clock, which com
pleted a circuit at every 15 seconds nearly. The wire of this
circuit, passing from a small battery through the auxiliary clock,
then went through the upper galvanometer, then passed down the
shaft of the mine to the lower galvanometer, and then returned to
the battery. At each galvanometer there was a small apparatus
for breaking circuit. At times previously arranged, the circuit
was completed by this apparatus at both stations, and then it was
the duty of the observers at both stations to note the clock times of

22           Pendulum-eypzriments at ffarton Colliery.       [Feb. 2,
the same signals; and these evidently give comparisons of the
clocks, and therefore give the means of comparing their rates.
Thus (by steps previously explained), the number of swings made
by the upper pendulum is compared with the number of swings
made in the same time by the lower pendulum.
   Still the result is not complete, because it may be influenced by
the peculiarities of each pendulum. In order to overcome these,
after pendulum A had been used above and pendulum B below,
they were reversed ; pendulum B being observed above and A
below ; and this, theoretically, completes the operation. But in
order to insure that the pendulum received no injury in the inter
change, it is desirable again to repeat the experiments with A above
and B below, and again with B above and A below.
   In this manner the pendulums were observed with 104 hours of
incessant observations, simultaneous at both stations, A above and
B below ; then with 104 hours, B above and A below ; then with
60 hours, A above and B below ; then with 60 hours, B above
and A below. And 2454 effective signals were observed at each
station.
   The result is, that the pendulums suffered no injury in their
changes ; and that the acceleration of the pendulum on being
carried down 1260 feet is 2i seconds per day, or that gravity
is increased by —^ part.
   It does not appear likely that this determination can be sensibly
in error. The circumstances of experiment were, in all respects,
extremely favourable ; the only element of constant error seems to
be that (in consequence of the advanced season of the year), the
upper station was cooler by 7° than the lower station, and the
temperature-reductions are therefore liable to any uncertainty
which may remain on the correction for 7°. The reductions em
ployed were those deduced by Sabine from direct experiment, and
their uncertainty must be very small.
   If a calculation of the earth's mean density were based upon
the determination just given, using the simple theory to which
allusion is made above, it would be found to be between six times
and seven times the density of water. But it is necessary yet to
take into account the deficiency of matter in the valley of the
Tyne, in the hollow of Jarrow Slake, and on the sea-coast. It is
also necessary to obtain more precise determinations of the specific
gravities of the rocks about Harton colliery than have yet been
procured. Measures are in progress for supplying all these de
ficiencies. It seems probable that the resulting number for the
earth's density will probably be diminished by these more accurate
estimations.
                                                        [G. B. A.]

 1855.]                   General Monthly Meeting*                           23
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, February 5.
 WUJJAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                      Edmund Macrory, Esq.
                       Henry Maudslay, Esq.
                      Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq., and
                      John William Wrey, Esq. M.A.
 were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                      Richard Hoper, Esq., and
                      Henry Pemberton, Esq.
 were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same : —
   FROM
Her Majesty"t Government— Catalogues of the Stars near the Ecliptic observed
     at Markree, in 1852-4. 8vo. 1854.
Actuaries, Institute of—The Assurance Magazine, No. 18. 8vo. 1854.
Andrewt, J. R. Esq. (the Author)—Four Months' Tour in the East. 12mo. 1853.
Art- Union of London—Report for 1854. 8vo. Almanacs for 1855. 32mo.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Nos. 242, 243. 8vo. 1854.
Astronomical Society—Monthly Notices. Vol. XV. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1854-5.
Bache, Dr. A. D. (the Author)—Annual Report of the Superintendent of the
    Coast Survey (of the United States), 1851 and 1852. With Charts. 1 vol.
    8vo. and 2 vols. 4to. Washington, 1852-3
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal, Dec. 1854, and Jan. 1855.
    8vo.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for December, 1854,
    and January, 1855. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in December, 1854, and
    January, 1855. -ltd.
Brodhurst, Bernard E. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Lateral Curvature of
    the Spine, its Pathology and Treatment. 16mo. 1855.
Brodie, Sir Benjamin C. Bt. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Psycholo
    gical Enquiries : in a Series of Essays intended to illustrate the Mutual
    Relations of the Physical Organisation and the Mental Faculties. 2nd
    Edition. 16mo. 1855.
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal. No. 28. 8vo. 1854.
Cii-il Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings for Dec. 1854, and Jan. 1855. 8vo.
Cox, Alfred, Esq. (the Author)—The Landlord's and Tenant's Guide. STo. 1853.

24                         General Monthly Meeting.                      [Feb. 5,
      i India Company, Hon.—Meteorological Observations at Madras in 1846-50.
     4to. 1854.
Editort—The Medical Circular for December, 1854, and January, 1855. 8vo.
   The Athenaeum for December, 1854, and January, 1855. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for December, 1854, and Jan. 1855. 4to.
   The Mechanic's Magazine for December, 1854, and January, 1855. STo.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting for December, 1854, and January, 1855. 4to.
   Deutsches Athenaum, for December, 1854, and January, 1855. 4to.
   The Church of England Quarterly Review, January, 1855. 8vo.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss.
       Akademie, September zu November, 1854 8vo. Berlin.
   Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien :—
       Philosophisch-Historische Classe:—Sitzungsberichte. Band XII. Heft 5.
         8vo. 1854.
       Archiv fur Kunde (Esterreichischer Geschichte-Quellen. Band XIII. 8vo.
         1854.
       Notizenblatt. (Beilage zum Archiv.) 1854. Nos. 18-24. 8vo.
       Monumenta Habsburgica. Erste Abtheilung. Band I. 8vo. 1854.
       Afathemalisch-Naturwissenschqftliche Classe :—Sitznngsberichte. Band XII.
         Heft 5 ; Band XIII. ; und Register zu Bande I-X. 8vo. 1854.
       Geognostiscbe Karte der Umgebungen von Krems und vom Manhardsberge.
         VonJ. Czjek. 1854.
   Memoria sobre las causas Metcorologico-Fisi'cas que prodncen las constantes
     sequi'as de Murcia y Almeria : su Autor Don Manuel Rico y Sinobas. 8vo.
     Madrid, 1851.
   Etudes Chimiques snr les Eaux Pluviales et sur 1'Atmosphere de Lyon, &c.
     Par A. Bineau. 8vo. Lyon, IS 54.
    Mrini.hr'- relatifs a I'Assaiuissement des Ateliers, des Edifices publics et des
     Habitations particulieres. Par J. P. J. D'Arcet. 4to. Paris, 1853.
   Rapport sur les Tapisseries et les Tapis des Manufactures Nationales, &c.
     Par M. Chevreul. 8vo. Paris, 1854.
   An Essay explanatory of the Tempest Prognosticator. By G. Merryweather,
     M.D. (the Inventor). 8vo. 1851.
   Maritime Conference held at Brussels for devising a uniform System of Me
     teorological Observations at Sea. 4to. 1853.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXVIII. Nos.5,6. 8vo. 1854.
 Graham, George, Esq. Registrar-General—Report of the Registrar-General for
     December, 1854, and January, 1855. 8vo.
 Granville, A. B. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)— Sudden Death. 12mo.
      1855.
Hargraves, E. H. Esq. (the Author)—Australia and its Gold Fields. 16mo.
       1855.
Highley, Mr. (the Publisher}—Botanical Letters to a Friend, by Dr. F. Unger,
     translated by D. B. Paul. Ifimo. 1853.
    The Microscope, in its adaptation to Vegetable Anatomy and Physiology :
      by Dr. H. Schacht ; translated by F. Currey. 16mo. 1853.
 Lcake, Lieut.-Colonel W. M. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—A Letter to Col.
     Chesney, and a Postscript. 8vo. 1854-5.
Linnean Society of London—Transactions, Vol, XXI. Part 3. 4to. 1854.
    Proceedings, Nos. 52-58. 8vo. 1853-4.
    Annual Address of the President, 1854. 8vo.
 Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 8. 8vo. 1854.
 /"«!/•« University—London University Calendar, 1855. 12mo.
 Looell, E. B. Esij. AT. R.I. (the Editor)—The Common Law and Equity
      Reports. Part XXII. 8vo. 1854.
 Marcel, W. M D. (the Author)—Account of the Organic Chemical Constituents,
      or Immediate Principles of the Excrements of Man and Animals in the
      Healthy State. (From Phil. Trans. Hoy. Soc. 1854.) 4to. 1854.

1855.]                   General MorUhly Meeting.                          25
Morlry, R. Reginald, Esq. M.R.I.—Descriptive Catalogue of Historical MSS.
    in the Arabic and Persian Languages in the Library of the Royal Asiatic
    Society. By W. H. Morley. 8vo; 1854.
   Digest of Indian Cases. New Series Vol.1. By W. H. Morley. 8vo. 1852.
Morris, H. Sutherland, Esq., M.It. I.— Vcsalii Opera Omnia Anatomica et Chi-
    rurgica cura H. Boerhaave et B. S. Albini. 2 vols. fol. Lug. Bat. 1725.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for December, 1854, and
    January, 1855. 4to.
Orr, Messrs, and Co. (the Publishers)—The Theory and Practice of Landscape
    Painting in Water Colours. By G. Barnard. 8vp. 1855.
Petermaan, A. Esq. (the Author)—Karte des Europaischen Russlands und der
    Angrenzenden Lander. 1855.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 24-26. 8vo. 1854-5.
Quaritch, Mr. B. (the Publisher)—Early Christianity in Arabia: an Historical
    Essay. By T. Wright, Esq. F.S.A. 8vo. 1855.
Reeces, Evans, M.D. (the Author)—Diseases of the Stomach. 12mo. 1854.
Reid, P. Sandeman, Esq. (the Author)—On Practice with Gas at Blowers. 8vo.
    1854.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Parti. 4to. 1854.
   Proceedings, No. 44. 8vo. 1853-4.
Scoffern, John, M.B. (the Editor)—The Subject-Matter of a Course of Ten
    Lectures on Organic Chemistry applied to the Arts, delivered at the Royal
    Institution in 1852, by W. T. Brande, Esq. 16mo. 1854.
Society of Arts—Journal for December, 1854, and January, 1855. 8vo.
Soret, M. L. (the Author)—Sur la Decomposition des Sels du Cuivre par la
    Pile. 8vo. 1854.
Sylvester, J. J. M.A. F.R.S. (the Author)—A Probationary Lecture on
    Geometry, delivered before the Gresham Committee, Dec. 4th. 8vo. 1854.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Magazine for the Blind, December, 1854,
    and January, 1855. 4to.
   Thoughts and Fancies in Solitary Hours. By C. R. Lambert. 8vo. 1840.
   Zopf und Schwert. Historisches Lustspiel von K.Gutzkow. 16mo. Leipzig,
     1850.
 Vincent, Mr. B. (Assistant Secretary, R.f.)—Doderlein's Handbook of Latin
    Synonyms Translated by the Rev. H. H. Arnold. 8vo. 1841.
   Essay on Education, by J. Whitchurch. 16mo. 1772.
   Voyage Pittoresque des Environs de Paris. Par M. D***. 12mo. Paris,
     1762.
   Traitc" Elemental re de I'lmprimerie. Par A. F. Momoro. 8vo. Paris, 1786.
 Wrey, John W. Esq. M.A. M.R.I.—The Morality of Public Men. A Letter
    to the Earl of Derby. 8vo. 1852.
   " Sans Changer," the real Basis of " The Morality of Public Men." A Snow
    ball for " an Englishman." Thrown by I. W. W. 8vo. 1853.

26                       Professor Owen OH the                  [Feb. 9,
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, February 9.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.U.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               iu the Chair.
                       PROFESSOR OWEN, F.R.S.
          On the Anthropoid Apes, and their relations to Man.
IN this discourse, the structure, more especially of the bones and teeth,
of the most highly organised Apes—the Orang-utans and Chim
panzees—was compared with that of the Human Subject, in
reference to the hypothesis that specific characters can be so far
modified by external influences, operating on successive generations,
as to produce a new and higher species of animal, and that thus
there had been a gradual progression from the monad up to man.
     The conditions under which an active monad might be developed
from dead mucus, or other organic matter in an infusion, or those
that might influence and attend the transmutation of one recognised
species into another—say of a polype into a medusa—were legiti
mate and important subjects of physiological research. But,
hitherto, the results of such researches had not favoured the hypo
thesis of the coming in of species by spontaneous generation and
transmutation.
    The last link in the chain of changes—from Quadrumana to
 I !i,mi nn —according to the latter old notion, the speaker had found
alluded to by Henry More in his philosophical " Conjecture Cab-
balistica ;" and in reference to that, and other works of the same
period, in which creative forces and the nature and origin of animal
species were treated of, the equal spirit, vigorous intellect, profound
learning, and laborious research of such men as Cudworth, More,
and Grew, contrasted most favourably with the opposite character
istics of some works of the same kind of the present day.
    True it was that the old authors referred to exemplified the pre
valent belief of their age in witches and apparitions. But has not
our age its clairvoyants and spirit-rappers ? Two centuries ago it
was believed that a long round piece of wood, if bestridden by a
person properly " possessed," would, under such influence, move
against gravity, rise from the ground, and transport itself and its
rider through the air. In our time it has been and may be still
believed, that a flat circular piece of wood, on legs, can be made,

1855.]        AnthrofwidApes, and their relations to Man.            27
by the imposition of hands of believers, to move against gravity,
tilt up, and dance about. We know that this belief had become so
scandalously prevalent, as to make our excellent friend, the Fullerian
Professor, deem it worth his while to deal it a crushing blow of his
intellectual sledge-hammer.
    The present age may be more knowing, but can it truly flatter
itself as being wiser, more logical, and less credulous than that of
Cudworth and More ? As numerous and respectable eye-witnesses,
in the seventeenth century, vouched for the transit of witches on
broomsticks through the air ; as, in the nineteenth, have testified to
table-tilting and table-turning ! And whether the occult influence
over-ruling the law of gravitation charges a discoid or cylindrical
substance—oozes from the palm of the hand, or emanates from
another part of the body— matters not.
    We ignore Satanic influences now-a-days, as a general rule. An
impulse, said to be uncontrollable because uncontrolled, and a
" black-cloud " over the mind, form grounds for acquitting the
adulterous prolicide : of old, it would have been referred, in good
 earnest, to " the instigation of the devil," and an exemplary judgment
 would have followed the belief. It may be doubted whether the fear
fully increasing number of acquittals, and of " merciful recommend
 ations " of murderers, be a sign of the superior wisdom_and humanity
 of our times.
    But, returning to the sphere of that " lower wisdom, which rests
in the contemplation of natural causes and dimensions," seeing that
 notions, refuted and repudiated centuries ago, are, in our day,
 revived and popularised, with a semblance of support from the
 later acquisitions of science, it is meet that they should be brought
 to the test of the exact results of modern inquiry : and this was the
 aim the Professor had in view in treating of the organical characters
 of the highest of the brute creation and their relations to those of
 the human species.
    For about two centuries, naturalists have been cognizant of a
 small ape, tailless, without cheek-pouches, and without the ischial
 callosities, clothed with black hair, with a facial angle of about 60°,
 and of a physiognomy milder and more human-like than in the
 ordinary race of monkeys, less capricious, less impulsive in its
 habits, more staid and docile. This species, brought from the West
 Coast of Africa, is that which our anatomist, Tyson, dissected : he
 described the main features of its organisation in his work published
 in 1699. He called it the Homo Sylvestris, or pigmy. It is noted
 by Linnaeus, in some editions of his Systema Naturee, as the Homo
  Troglodytes. Blumenbach, giving a truer value to the condition of
 the innermost digit of the hind foot, which was like a thumb, called
 it the Simia Troglodytes ; it afterwards became more commonly
 known as the " Chimpanzee."
    At a later period, naturalists became acquainted with a similar
 kind of ape, of quiet docile disposition, with the same sad, human

28                      Professor Owen on the                 [Feb. 9,
like expression of features. It was brought from Borneo or Sumatra ;
where it is known by the name of Orang, which, in the language
of the natives of Borneo, signifies "man," with the distinctive
addition of Outan, meaning " Wood-man," or " Wild Man of the
Woods." This creature differed from the pigmy, or Simla Tro
glodytes of Africa, by being covered with hair of a reddish-brown
colour, and by having the anterior, or upper limbs, much longer in
proportion, and the thumb upon the hind feet somewhat less. It
was entered in the zoological catalogue as the Simla Satyrus. A
governor of Batavia, Baron Wurmb, had transmitted to Holland,
in 1780, the skeleton of a large kind of ape, tailless, hke this small
species from Borneo, but with a much-developed face, and large
canine teeth, and bearing thick callosities upon the cheeks, giving
it, upon the whole, a very baboon-like physiognomy ; and he called
it the Pongo.
    At the time when Cuvier revised his summary of our knowledge
of the animal kingdom, in his second edition of the Regne Animal,
 1829, the knowledge of the anthropoid apes was limited to these
 three forms. It had been suspected that the pongo might be the
 adult form of the orang ; but Cuvier, pointing to its distinctive
 character, suggested that it could hardly be the same species. The
 facial angle of the small red orang of Borneo, and of the small
 black chimpanzee of Africa, brought them, from the predominant
 cranium, and small size of the jaws and small teeth, nearer than
 any other known mammalian animal to the human species, par
 ticularly to the lower, or negro forms. It was evident, from the
 examination of these small chimpanzees and.orangs, that they were
 the immature of some large species of ape. The small size and
 number of their teeth, (there being in some of the smaller specimens,
 only twenty, like the number of deciduous teeth in the human
 species,) and the intervals between those teeth, all showed them to
 be of the first or deciduous series. Professor Owen had availed
 himself of the rich materials in regard to these animals collected
 about that time by the Zoological Society, to investigate the state of
 dentition, and the state of the teeth —the permanent teeth—that might
 be hidden in the substance of the jaws, of both the immature orang
 outang and the chimpanzee, and had found, that the germs of those
  teeth in the orang-outang agreed in size with the permanent teeth
 that were developed in the jaws of a species of pongo of Wurmb,
 which Sir Stamford Raffles had presented to the museum of the Col
  lege of Surgeons some years before. Specimens of orangs since ac
  quired, of an intermediate age, have shown the progressive change
  of the dentition. The skull of one of these was exhibited, showing
  the huge anterior incisors co-existing with the small milk canines.
    In the substance of the jaw are found the germs of the great
 canines, germs of large bicuspid teeth, showing the changes that
  must take place when the jaw is sufficiently enlarged to receive per
  manent teeth of this kind ; and when the rest of the cranium is

18oo>]      Anthropoid Apes, and their relations to Man.            29
modified, as it must be, concomitantly for the attachment of mus
cles to work the jaw so armed, that all these changes must result in
the acquisition of characters such as are presented by the skulls
of the large pongo, or Boruean baboon-like ape. The specific
identity of the pongo, with certain of the young orang-outangs,
was thus satisfactorily made out, and is now admitted by all
naturalists. With regard to the chimpanzee, the germs of similarly
proportioned large teeth were also discovered in the jaws, likewise
indicating that it must be the young of a much larger species of ape.
    The principal osteological characters of the chimpanzee and
orang, commencing from the vertebral column, were as follows :—
The vertebral column describes only one curve, inclining forwards,
where it supports the head with its large jaws and teeth. The
vertebrae in the neck, seven in number as usual in the mammalia,
are chiefly remarkable for the great length of the simple spinous
processes developed more than in most of the inferior apes, in
relation to the necessities of the muscular masses that are to sus
tain and balance the head that preponderates so much forward on
the neck. The vertebrae maintain a much closer correspondence
 in size, from the cervical to the dorsal and lumbar region, than in
 the human skeleton. With regard to the dorsal vertebrae, or those
to which moveable ribs are articulated, there are twelve pairs in the
 orang ; seven of them send cartilages to join the sternum, which is
 more like the sternum in man than in any of the inferior quadru-
 mana : it is shorter and broader. In the smaller long-armed apes
 (Hylobates), which make the first step in the transition from the
 ordinary quadrumana to the man-like apes, the sternum is remark
 ably broad and short. The lumbar vertebrae are five in number in
 this adult orang. The sacrum is broader than in the lower quad
 rumana, but it is still narrow in comparison with its proportions in
 man. The pelvis is longer. The iliac bones are more expanded
 than in the lower quadrumana, but are more expanded on the same
 plane, and are flattened and long. The tuberosities of the ischia
 are remarkably developed, and project outwards. All these con
 ditions of the vertebral column indicate an animal capable only of a
 semi-erect position, and present a modification of the trunk much
 better adapted for a creature destined for a life in trees, than one
 that is to walk habitually erect upon the surface of the ground.
 But that adaptation of the skeleton is still more strikingly shown in
  the unusual development of the upper prehensile extremities. The
  scapula is broad, with a well-developed spine and acromion ; there
 is a complete clavicle ; the bone of the arm (humerus) is of remark
  able length, in proportion to the trunk ; the radius and the ulna
  are also very long, and unusually diverging, to give increased sur
  face of attachment to muscles ; the hand is remarkable for the
  length of the metacarpus, and of the phalanges, which are slightly
  bent towards the palm ; the thumb is less developed than the cor
  responding digit in the foot ; the whole hand is admirably adapted

 30                      Professor Owen on the                  [Feb. 9,
 for retaining a firm grasp of the boughs of trees. In the structure
 of the carpus, there is a well-marked difference from the human
 subject, and a retention of the character met with in the lower
 quadrumana ; the scaphoid bone being divided in the orang-outang.
 In the chimpanzee the bones of the carpus are eight, as in the
 human subject, but differ somewhat in form. If the upper ex
 tremities are so extraordinary for their disproportionate length, the
 lower ones are equally remarkable for their disproportionate small-
 ness in comparison with the trunk, in the orang. The femur is
 short and straight, and the neck of the thigh-bone comparatively
 short. The head of the thigh-bone in this animal, which requires the
 use ofthese lower prehensible organs to grasp the branches of trees,
 and to move freely in many directions, is free from that ligament
 which strengthens the hip-joint in man ; the head of the femur in
 the orang is quite smooth, without any indication of that attach
 ment. Here, again, the chimpanzee manifests a nearer approach
 to man, for the ligamenlum fares is present in it, in accordance
 with the stronger and better development of the whole hind-limb.
 This approximation, also, is more especially marked in the larger
 development of the innermost of the five digits of the foot in the
 chimpanzee, which is associated with a tendency to move more fre
 quently upon the ground, to maintain a more erect position than the
 orang-outang, and to walk further without the assistance of a stick.
 The foot, in both these species of anthropoid orangs, is characterised
 by the backward position of the ankle-joint, presented by the astra
 galus to the tibia, which serves for the transference of the super
 incumbent weight upon the foot ; by the comparatively feeble
 development of the backward projecting process of the calcaneum ;
 by the obliquity of the articular surface of the astragalus, which
 tends to incline the foot a little inwards, taking away from the
 plantigrade character of the creatures and from their capacity to
 support themselves in an erect position, and giving them an equi
 valent power of applying their prehensible feet to -the branches of
 the trees in which they live.
    With reference to the chimpanzee, it was further observed, that,
although the number of the true vertebrae is the same as in the
orang, yet there is an additional pair of ribs developed ; but, as
there are thirteen dorsal vertebrae, we find only four lumbar ones.
The modifications of the pelvis are a close repetition of those of
the orang-outang. The chief differences in the skeleton of the
chimpanzee are, a shortening and strengthening of the upper extre
mities, an approach towards the characteristic proportions of those
parts in man ; the presence of the ligamentum teres of the hip-
joint ; and the greater development of the innermost toe in the
foot. In both the orang and chimpanzee the skull is articulated by
condyles, which are placed far back on its under surface. The
cranium is small, characterised by well-developed occipital and sagit
tal ridges ; the occipital ridges in reference to the muscles sustaining

1855.]       Anthropoid Apes, and their relations to Man.           31
the head ; and the sagittal ones in reference to an increased extent of
the temporal muscles. The zygomatic arches are strong, and well
arched outwards. The lower jaw is of great depth, and has powerful
ascending mini, but the chin is wanting. The facial angle is about
50° to 55° in the full-grown simia satyrus, and 55° to 6(P in the
troglodytes niger. The difference in the facial angle between the
young and adult apes, (which, in the young chimpanzee, approaches
60° to 65°,) depends upon those changes consequent upon the shed
ding of the deciduous teeth and the concomitant development of the
jaws and intermuscular processes of the cranium.
   But the knowledge of the species of these anthropoid apes has been
further increased since the acquisition of a distinct and precise cog
nisance of the characters of the adults of the orang and chimpanzee.
First, in reference to the orangs of Borneo, specimens have reached
this country which show that there is a smaller species in that island,
the Simia Morio, in which the canines are less developed, in which
the bony crislce are never raised above the level of the ordinary con
vexity of the cranium, and in which the callosities upon the cheeks
are absent, associated with other characteristics plainly indicating a
specific distinction. The Rajah Brooke has confirmed the fact of
the existence in the island of Borneo of two distinct species of red
orangs ; one of a smaller size and somewhat more anthropoid ; and
 the larger species presenting the baboon-like cranium.
   In reference to the black chimpanzee of Africa also, another very
important addition has been made to our knowledge of those forms
of highly developed quadrumana. In 1847 Professor Owen received
a letter from Dr. Savage, a church-missionary at Gaboon, enclosing
sketches of the crania of an ape, which he described as much larger
than the chimpanzee, ferocious in its habits, and dreaded by the
negro natives more than they dread the lion or any other wild
beast of the forest. These sketches showed plainly one cranial
characteristic by which the chimpanzee differs in a marked degree
from the orangs ; viz. that produced by the prominence of the
supra-orbital ridge, which is wanting in the adult and immature of
the orangs. That ridge was strongly marked in the sketches trans
mitted. At a later period in the same year, Mr. Stuchbury trans
mitted to the Professor from Bristol two skulls of the same large
species of chimpanzee, received from the same locality in Africa,
bringing clearly to light evidence of the existence in Africa of a
second larger and more powerful ape,—the troglodytes gorilla.
This species presents the characters of the cranium which are seen
in the immense development of the occipital and parietal cristae in
relation to the muscles of the neck and jaws,—repeating, and even
exaggerating, the prominence of the supra-orbital ridges of the
chimpanzee, and showing the same characteristic inequality in the
development of the teeth, particularly in the exaggerated size of the
canine teeth, as in the great pongo of Wurmb. But the gorilla
differs from the orang, and resembles man, first in the minor develop

 32                       Professor Owen on the                 [Feb. 9,
ment of the intermaxillary bone—that part being more produced in
the orang-outang, giving it a less open facial angle ; it differs also in
the form of the orbits, which in the orang-outang are a full oval, but
in the gorilla square-shaped, more nearly approaching those in the
human species ; it differs likewise in significant modifications of the
base of the skull, as, for example, in the greater depth of the glenoid
cavity, which joint, instead of being defended by merely the post-
glenoid process in the inferior quadrumana, is now defended by a
ridge developed from the tympanic bone, which ridge corresponds
with the vaginal process in the human subject. In the conformation
of the grinding surface of the teeth there is also a marked difference,
which brings this great ape of Africa more nearly to the human
subject, in reference to that character, than any other known species
 of the quadrumanous order. The characteristic of the grinding
 surface of the molar teeth in man, as may be seen in almost all
 varieties of the human species, is, that the four tubercles on the
grinding surface are united by a ridge describing a strong sigmoid
curvature. This is repeated in the gorilla, which also presents
another important approach to the human subject in the commence
ment of a projection of the nasal bone. Like the chimpanzee, the
superior extremities are longer than the lower ones ; and the inner
 most digit of the foot is converted into a powerful thumb.
    Having premised this account of the mature characters of the
different species of orangs and chimpanzees, the lecturer next pro
ceeded to contrast their structure with that of man. With regard
to the dentition of these anthropoid apes, the number and kinds of
the teeth, like those of all the quadrumana of the old world,
correspond with those in the human subject ; but all these apes
differ in the larger proportionate size of the eanine teeth, which
necessitates a certain break in the series, in order that the prolonged
points of the canine teeth may pass into their place when the mouth
is completely closed. In addition to the larger proportionate size of
the incisors and canines, the bicuspids in both jaws are implanted
by three distinct fangs—two external and one internal : in the
human species, the bicuspids are implanted by one external and one
internal fang : in the highest races of man these two fangs are often
connate ; very rarely is the external fang divided, as it constantly
is in all the species of the orang and the chimpanzee.
    With regard to the catarrhine, or old-world quadrumana, the
number of milk teeth is twenty, as in the human subject. But both
chimpanzees and orangs differ from man in the order of develop
ment of the permanent series of teeth : the second true molar
comes into place before either of the bicuspids have cut the gum,
and the last molar is acquired before the permanent canine. We
may well suppose that the larger grinders are earlier required by
the frugivorous apes than by the omnivorous human race ; and
 one condition of the earlier development of the canines and
bicuspids in man, may be their smaller relative size as compared

1855-3       Anthropoid Apes, and their relations to Man.          33
with the apes. The great difference is the predominant develop
ment of the permanent canine teeth, at least in the males of the
orangs and chimpanzees ; for this is a sexual distinction, the
canines in the females never presenting the same large proportion.
In man, the dental system, although the formula is the same as in
the apes, is peculiar for the equal length of the teeth, arranged in
an uninterrupted series, and shows no sexual distinctions. The
characteristics of man are exhibited in a still more important degree
in the parts of the skeleton. His whole framework proclaims
his destiny to carry himself erect ; the anterior extremities are
liberated from any service in the mere act of locomotion, and are
perfected to be the fitting instruments of the rational mind and
free will with which he is endowed. The speaker proceeded to
trace these modifications from the foundation upwards.
   With regard to the foot, it had been shown in a former discourse
" On the Nature of Limbs," that in tracing the manifold and pro
gressive changes of the feet in the mammalian series, in those fonns
where it is normally composed of five digits, the middle is usually
the largest ; and this is the most constant one. The modifications
in the hind foot, in reference to the number of digits, are, first,
the reduction and then the removal, of the innermost one ; then
the corresponding reduction and removal of the outer one ; next,
of the second and fourth digits, until it is reduced to the middle
digit, as in the horse.
   The innermost toe, the first to dwindle and disappear in the
brute series, is, in man, developed to a maximum of size, becoming
emphatically the " great toe," one of the most essential cha
racteristics of the modifications of the human frame. It is
made the powerful fulcrum for that lever of the second kind,
which has its resistance in the tibio-astragalar joint, and the power
applied to the projecting heel-bone : the superincumbent weight
is carried further forwards upon the foot, by the more advanced
position of the astragalus, than in the ape tribe ; and the heel-bone
is much stronger, and projects more backwards.
   The arrangement of the powerfully-developed tarsal and meta-
tarsal bones is such as to form a bony arch, of which the two piers
rest upon the proximal joint of the great toe and the end of the
heel. Well-developed cuneiform bones combine with the cuboid
to form a second arch, transverse to the first. There are no such
modifications in the orangs, in which the arch, or rather the bend
of the long and narrow sole, extends to the extreme end of the long
and curved digits, indicating a capacity for grasping. Upon these
two arches the superincumbent weight of man is solidly and
sufficiently maintained, as upon a low dome, with this further
advantage, that the different joints, cartilages, coverings, and
synovial membranes, give a certain elasticity to the dome, so that
in leaping, running, or dropping from a height, the jar is diffused
and broken before it can be transmitted to affect the enormous
   VOL. II.                                                  D

34                       Professor Owen on the                 [Feb. 9,
brain-expanded cranium. The hind limbs in man are longer in
proportion to the trunk than in any other known mammalian
animal. The kangaroo might seem to be an exception, but if the
hind limbs of the kangaroo are measured in relation to the trunk,
they are shorter than in the human subject. In no animal is the
femur so long in proportion to the leg as in man. In none does
the tibia expand so much at its upper end. Here it presents
two broad, shallow cavities, for the reception of the condyles of the
femur. Of these condyles, in man only is the innermost longer
than the outermost ; so that the shaft of the bone inclines a little
outwards to its upper end, and joins a " neck " longer than in other
animals, and set on at a very open angle. The weight of the body,
received by the round heads of the thigh bones, is thus transferred
to a broader base, and its support in the upright posture facilitated.
There is also the collateral advantage of giving more space to those
powerful adductor muscles that assist in fixing the pelvis and trunk
upon the hind limbs. With regard to the form of the pelvis, you
could not fully appreciate its peculiar modifications unless you saw
it, as here displayed, in contradistinction to the form of the pelvis in
the highest organised quadrumana. The short and broad ilium
bends forwards, the better to receive and sustain the abdominal vis
cera, and is expanded behind to give adequate attachment to the
powerful glutei muscles, which are developed to a maximum in the
human species, in order to give a firm hold of the trunk upon the
limbs, and a corresponding power of moving the limbs upon the
trunk. The tuberosities of the ischium are rounded, not angular,
and not inclined outwards, as in the ape tribe. The symphysis
pubis is shorter than in the apes. The tail is reduced to three or
four stunted vertebrae, anchylosed to form the bone called " os
coccygis." The true vertebrae, as they are called in human anatomy,
correspond in number with those of the chimpanzee and the orang,
and in their divisions with the latter species, there being twelve
thoracic, five lumbar, and seven cervical. This movable part of the
column is distinguished by a beautiful series of sigmoid curves, con
 vex forwards in the loins, concave in the back, and again slightly con
 vex forwards in the neck. The cervical vertebrae, instead of having
 long spinous processes, have short processes, usually more or less
 bifurcated. The bodies of the true vertebrae increase in size from
 the upper dorsal to the last lumbar, which rests upon the base of the
 broad wedge-shaped sacrum, fixed obliquely between the sacro-iliac
 articulations. All these curves of the vertebral column, and the in
 terposed elastic cushions, have relation to the libration of the head
 and upper limbs, and the diffusion and the prevention of the ill
 effects from shocks in many modes of locomotion which man,
 thus organised for an erect position, is capable of performing.
 The arms of man are brought into more symmetrical proportions
 with the lower limbs ; and their bony framework shows all the per
 fections that have been superinduced upon it in the mammalian

 18o5.]      Anthropoid Apes, and their relations to Man.            35
series, viz., a complete clavicle, the antibrachial bones so adjusted
as to permit the rotatory movements of pronation and supination,
as well as of flexion and extension ; manifesting those characters
which adapt them for the manifold application of that most perfect
and beautiful of prehensile instruments, the hand. The scapula
is broad, with the glenoid articulation turned outwards ; the clavi
cles are bent in a slight sigmoid flexure ; the humerus exceeds in
length the bones of the fore-arm. The carpal bones are eight in
number. The thumb is developed far beyond any degree exhibited
by the highest quadrumana, and is the most perfect opposing digit
in the animal creation. The skull is distinguished by the enormous
expansion of the brain case ; by the restricted growth of the bones
of the face, especially of the jaws, in relation to the small, equally-
developed teeth ; and by the early obliteration of the maxillo-
intermaxillary suture. To balance the head upon the neck-bone,
we find the condyles of the occiput brought forward almost to the
centre of the base of the skull, resting upon the two cups of the
atlas, so that there is but a slight tendency to incline forwards when
the balancing action of the muscle ceases, as when the head nods
during sleep, in an upright posture. Instead of the strongly de
veloped occipital crest, we find a great development of true mastoid
processes advanced nearer to the middle of the sides of the basis
cranii, and of which there is only the rudiment in the gorilla. The
upper convexity of the cranium is not interrupted by any sagittal
or parietal cristae. The departure from the archetype, in the hu
man skull, is most conspicuous, in the vast expanse of the neural
spines of the three chief cranial vertebrae, viz., occipital, parietal,
and frontal.
    The Professor next entered upon the question, " To what extent
does man depart from the typical character of his species ? " With
regard to the kind and amount of variety in mankind, we find,
propagable and characteristic of race, a difference of stature, a
difference in regard to colour, difference in both colour and texture
of the hair, and certain differences in the osseous framework. With
regard to stature, the Bushmen of South Africa and the natives of
Lapland exhibit the extreme of diminution, ranging from four to
five feet. Some of the Germanic races and the Patagonian Indians
exhibit the opposite extreme, ranging from six to seven feet. The
medium size prevails generally throughout the races of mankind.
With reference to the characteristics of colour, which are extreme,
we have now opportunities of knowing how much that character is
the result of the influence of climate. We know it more particu
larly by that most valuable mode of testing such influences which
we have from the peculiarity of the Jewish race. For 1800 years
that race has been dispersed into different latitudes and climates,
and they have preserved themselves most distinct from any inter
mixture with the other races of mankind. There are some Jews
still lingering in the valleys of the Jordan, having been oppressed
                                                            D2

36                     Professor Owen on the                  [Feb. 9,
by the successive conquerors of Syria for ages,—a low race of
people, and described by trustworthy travellers as being as black as
any of the Ethiopian races. Others of the Jewish people, parti
cipating in European civilization, and dwelling in the northern
nations, show instances of the light complexion, blue eyes, and
 light hair of the Scandinavian families. The condition of the
 Hebrews, since their dispersion, has not been such as to admit of
much admixture by the proselytism of household slaves. We see,
then, how to account for the differences in colour, without having
to refer them to original or specific distinctions. As to the differ
 ence in size in mankind, it is slight in comparison with what we
 observe in the races of the domestic dog, where the extremes of
 size are much greater than can be found in any races of the human
species. With reference to the modifications of the bony structure,
as characteristic of the races of mankind, they are almost confined
to the pelvis and the cranium. In the pelvis the difference is a
slight, yet apparently a constant one. The pelvis of the adult
negro may sometimes be distinguished from that of the European
by the greater proportional length and less proportional breadth of
the iliac bones ; but how trifling is this difference compared with
that marked distinction in the pelvis which the orang-outang pre
sents !
    With regard to the cranial differences, the Professor selected
for comparison three extreme specimens of skulls characteristic of
race : one of an aboriginal of Van Diemen's Land (the lowest of
the Melanian or dark-coloured family), a well-marked Mongolian,
and a well-formed European skull. The differences were described
to be chiefly these. In the low, uneducated, uncivilised races, the
brain is smaller than in the higher, more civilised, and more educated
races ; consequently the cranium rises and expands in a less degree.
Concomitant with this contraction of the brain-case is a greater
projection of the fore-part of the face ; whether it may be from a
longer exercise of the practice of suckling, or a more habitual ap
plication of the teeth in the inter-maxillary part of the jaw, and in
the corresponding part of the lower jaw, in biting and gnawing
tough, raw, uncooked substances,—the anterior alveolar part of the
jaws does project more in those lower races ; but still to an insigni
ficant degree compared with the prominence of that part of the
skull in the large apes. And while alluding to them, the speaker
again adverted to the distinction between them and the lowest of
the human races, which is afforded by the inter-maxillary bone,
already referred to. In the young orang-outang, even when the
change of dentition has begun, the suture between that bone and
the maxillary is present ; and it is not until the large canine teeth
are developed, that the stimulus of the vascular system, in the
concomitant expansion and growth of the alveoli, tends to obliterate
the suture. In the young chimpanzee, the maxillary suture disap
pears earlier, at least on the facial surface of the upper jaw. In

1855.]     Anthropoid Apes, and their relations to Man.            37
the human subject those traces disappear still earlier, and in regard
to the exterior alveolar plates, the inter-maxillary and maxillary
bones are connate. But there may be always traced in the human
foetus the indications of the palatal and nasal portions of the
maxillo-intermaxillary suture, of which the poet GoSthe was the
first to appreciate the full significance.
   In the Mongolian skull there is a peculiar development of the
cheek-bones, giving great breadth and flatness to the face, a broad
cranium, with a low forehead, and often with the sides sloping away
from the median sagittal tract, something like a roof ; whereas, in
the European, there is combined, with greater capacity of the
cranium, a more regular and beautiful oval form, a loftier and
 more expanded brow, a minor prominence of the malars, and a less
projection of the upper and lower jaws. All these characteristics
necessarily occasion slight differences in the facial angle. On a
comparison of the basis cranii, the strictly bimanous characteristics
in the position of the foramen magnum and occipital condyles, and
 of the zygomatic arches, are as well displayed in the lowest as in
the highest varieties of the human species.
    With regard to the value to be assigned to the above defined
distinctions of race :—in consequence of not any of these differ
ences being equivalent to those characteristics of the skeleton, or
other parts of the frame, upon which specific differences are founded
by naturalists in reference to the rest of the animal creation, the
 Professor came to the conclusion that man forms one species, and
that these differences are but indicative of varieties. As to the
number of these varieties :—from the very well marked and natural
character of the species, just as in the case of the similarly natural
 and circumscribed class of birds, scarcely any two ethnologists agree
as to number of the divisions, or as to the characters upon which
those varieties are to be defined and circumscribed. In the sub
 division of the class of birds, the ornithological systems vary from
 two orders to thirty orders ; so with man there are classifications
 of races varying from thirty to the three predominant ones which
 Blumenbach first clearly pointed out,—the Ethiopian, the Mon
 golian, and the Caucasian or Indo-European. These varieties
 merge into one another by easy gradations. The Malay and the
 Polynesian link the Mongolian and the Indian varieties ; and the
 Indian is linked by the Esquimaux again to the Mongolian. The
 inhabitants of the Andaman Islands, N"ew Caledonia, New Guinea,
 and Australia, in a minor degree seem to fill up the hiatus between
 the Malay and the Ethiopian varieties ; and in no case can a well
 marked definite line be drawn between the physical characteristics
 of allied varieties, these merging more or less gradationally the one
 into the other.
    In considering the import and value of the osteological differ
 ences between the gorilla—the most anthropoid of all known brutes
 —and man, in reference to the hypothesis of the origination of

38                     Professor Owen on the                  [Feb. 9,
species of animals by gradual transmutation of specific characters,
and that in the ascending direction, Professor Owen admitted that the
skeleton may be modified to a certain extent by the action of the
muscles to which it is subservient, and that in domesticated races
the size of the animal may be brought to deviate in both directions
from the specific standard. By the development of the processes,
ridges, and crests, and also by the general proportions of the bones
themselves, especially those of the limbs, the human anatomist
judges of the muscular power of the individual to whom a skeleton
under comparison has appertained.
    The influence of muscular actions in the growth of bone is more
strikingly displayed in the change of form which the cranium of
the young carnivore or the sternum of the young bird undergoes in
the progress to maturity ; not more so, however, than is manifested
in the progress of the development of the cranium of the gorilla
itself, which results in a change of character so great, as almost to
be called a metamorphosis.
    In some of the races of the domestic dog, the tendency to the
development of parietal and occipital crist«e is lost, and the cranial
dome continues smooth and round from one generation of the smaller
spaniel, or dwarf pug, e. g. to another ; while, in the large deer-
hound, those bony cristae are as strongly developed as in the wolf.
Such modifications, however, are unaccompanied by any change iu
the connexions, that is, in the disposition of the sutures of the
cranial bones ; they are due chiefly to arrests of development, to
retention of more or less of the characters of immaturity : even
the large proportional size of the brain in the smaller varieties of
house-dog is in a great degree due to the rapid acquisition by the
cerebral organ of its specific size, agreeably with the general law
of its development, but which is attended in the varieties cited by
an arrest of the general growth of the body, as well as of the
particular developments of the skull in relation to the muscles of
the jaws.
    No species of animal has been subject to such decisive experi
 ments, continued through so many generations, as to the influence
 of different degrees of exercise of the muscular system, difference
 in regard to food, association with man, and the concomitant stimulus
to the development of intelligence, as the dog ; and no domestic
 animal manifests so great a range of variety in regard to general
 size, to the colour and character of the hair, and to the form of the
 head, as it is affected by different proportions of the cranium and
 face, and by the intermuscular crests superadded to the cranial
parietes. Yet, under the extremest mask of variety so superinduced,
the naturalist detects in the dental formula and in the construction
of the cranium the unmistakeable generic and specific characters of
the canis familiaris. This and every other analogy applicable to
the present question justifies the conclusion that the range of variety
allotted to the chimpanzee under the operation of external circum

1855.]       Anthropoid Apes, and their relations to Man.           39
stances favourable to its higher development would be restricted to
differences of size, of colour, and other characters of the hair, and
of the shape of the head, in so far as this is influenced by the arrest
of general growth after the acquisition by the brain of its mature
proportions, and by the development, or otherwise, of processes,
crests, and ridges for the attachment of muscles. The most striking
deviations from the form of the human cranium which that part
presents in the great orangs and chimpanzees result from the latter
acknowledged modifiable characters, and might be similarly produ
ced ; but not every deviation from the cranial structure of man,
nor any of the important ones upon which the naturalist relies for
the determination of the genera troglodytes and pitkecus, have such
an origin or dependent relation. The great chimpanzee, indeed,
differs specifically from both the orang and man in one cranial
character, which no difference of diet, habit, or muscular exertion
can be conceived to affect.
   The prominent superorbital ridge, for example, is not the con
sequence or concomitant of muscular development ; there are no
muscles attached to it that could have excited its growth. It is a
characteristic of the cranium of the genus troglodytes from the time
of birth to extreme old age ; by the prominent superorbital ridge,
for example, the skull .of the young chimpanzee with deciduous
teeth may be distinguished at a glance from the skull of an orang
at the same immature age; the genus pithecvs, Geoffr., being as
well recognised by the absence, as the genus troglodytes is by the
presence, of this character. We have no grounds, from observation
or experiment, to believe the absence or the presence of a prominent
superorbital ridge to be a modifiable character, or one to be gained
or lost through the operations of external causes, inducing particular
habits through successive generations of a species. It may be con
cluded, therefore, that such feeble indication of the superorbital
ridge, aided by the expansion of the frontal sinuses, as exists in
man, is as much a specific peculiarity of the human skull, in the
present comparison, as the exaggeration of this ridge is characteristic
of the chimpanzees and its suppression of the orangs.
   The equable length of the human teeth, and the concomitant
absence of any diastema or break in the series, and of any sexual
difference in the development of particular teeth, are to be viewed
by the light of actual knowledge, as being primitive and unalterable
specific peculiarities of man.
   Teeth, at least such as consist of the ordinary dentine of mam
mals, are not organised so as to be influenced in their growth by
the action of neighbouring muscles ; pressure upon their bony
sockets may affect the direction of their growth after they are pro
truded, but not the specific proportions and forms of the crowns of
teeth of limited and determinate growth. The crown of the great
canine tooth of the male troglodytes gorilla began to be calcified
when its diet was precisely the same as in the female, when both

40                       Professor Owen on the                    [Feb. 9,
sexes derived their sustenance from the mother's milk. Its growth
proceeded and was almost completed before the sexual development
had advanced so as to establish those differences of habits, of force,
 of muscular exercises, which afterwards characterise the two sexes.
 The whole crown of the great canine is, in fact, calcified before it
 cuts the gum or displaces its small deciduous predecessor ; the
 weapon is prepared prior to the development of the forces by which
it is to be wielded ; it is therefore a structure fore-ordained, a
 predetermined character of the chimpanzee, by which it is made
physically superior to man ; and one can as little conceive its
development to be a result of external stimulus, or as being influ
enced by the muscular actions, as the development of the stomach,
the testes, or the ovaria.
   The two external divergent fangs of the premolar teeth, and
the slighter modifications of the crowns' of the molars and pre-
molars, appear likewise from the actual results of observation to be
equally predetermined and non-modifiable characters.
   No known cause of change productive of varieties of mammalian
species could operate in altering the size, the shape, or the con
nexions of the premaxillary bones, which so remarkably distinguish
the great troglodytes gorilla, not from man only, but from all other
anthropoid apes. We know as little the conditions which protract
the period of the obliteration of the sutures of the premaxillary
bones in the tr. gorilla beyond the period at which they disappear in
the tr. niffer, as we do those that cause them to disappear in man
earlier than they do even in the smaller species of chimpanzee.
   There is not, in fact, any other character than those founded
upon the developments of bone for the attachment of muscles, which
is known to be subject to change through the operation of external
causes ; nine-tenths, therefore, of the differences, especially those very
striking ones manifested by the pelvis and pelvic extremities, which
the Professor had cited in memoirs on the subject, published in the
" Zoological Transactions," as distinguishing the great chimpanzee
from the human species, must stand in contravention of the hypo
thesis of transmutation and progressive development, until the
supporters of that hypothesis are enabled to adduce the facts and
cases which demonstrate the conditions of the modifications of such
characters.
   If the consideration of the cranial and dental characters of the
troglodytes gorilla has led legitimately to the conclusion that it is
specifically distinct from the troglodytes niger, the hiatus is still
greater that divides it from the human species, between the extremest
varieties of which there is no osteological and dental distinction
which can be compared to that manifested by the shorter pre-
maxillaries and larger incisors of the troglodytes niger as compared
with the tr. gorilla.
   The analogy which the establishment of the second and more
formidable species of chimpanzee in Africa has brought to light

  1 855.]      Anthropoid Apes, and their relations to Man.              41
 between the representation of the genus troglodytes in that continent,
 and that of the genus pitkeciis in the great islands of the Indian
 Archipelago, is very close and interesting. As the troglodytes
 gorilla parallels the pithecus Wurmbii, so the troglodytes niyer
 parallels the pithecus morio, and an unexpected illustration has
 thus been gained of the soundness of the interpretation of the
 specific distinction of that smaller and more anthropoid orang.
     It is not without interest to observe, that as the generic forms of
 the quadrumana approach the bimanous order, they are represented
 by fewer species. The gibbons (hylobates) scarcely number more
 than half-a-dozen species ; the orangs (pithecus) have but two
 species, or at most three ; the chimpanzees (troglodytes) are repre
 sented by two species.
     The unity of the human species is demonstrated by the constancy
 of those osteological and dental characters to which the attention is
 more particularly directed in the investigation of the corresponding
characters in the higher quadrumana,
     Man is the sole species of his genus, the sole representative of his
 order ; he has no nearer physical relations with the brute-kind than
 those which flow from the characters that link together the primary
 (unguiculate) division of the placental sub-class of mammalia.
     Professor Owen trusted that he had furnished the confutation of
the notion of a transformation of the ape into man, which had been
anticipated by the old author to whom he had referred at the outset,
and strongly recommending his writings to those of his hearers who
 might not be acquainted with them, he concluded by quoting the
 passage referred to.
    " And of a truth, vile epicurism and sensuality will make the
soul of man so degenerate and blind, that he will not only be con
tent to slide into brutish immorality, but please himself in this very
opinion that he is a real brute already, an ape, satyre or baboon ;
and that the best of men are no better, saving that civilizing of
them and industrious education has made them appear in a more
refined shape, and long inculcate precepts have been mistaken for
connate principles of honesty and natural knowledge ; otherwise
there be no indispensable grounds of religion and vertue, but what
has hapned to be taken up by over-ruling custom. Which things,
I dare say, are as easily confutable, as any conclusion in mathe
matics is demonstrable. But as many as are thus sottish, let them
enjoy their own wildness and ignorance ; it is sufficient for a good
man that he is conscious unto himself that he is more nobly de
scended, better bred and born, and more skilfully taught by the
purged faculties of his own minde."*
                                                                 [R. O.]
          Henry Morc's " Conjectura Cabbalistica," fol. (1002)—p. 175.

42                           Mr. E. Jehyll                   [Feb. 16,
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 16.
           FREDERICK POLLOCK, Esq. M.A. in the Chair.
                    EDWARD JEKVLL, Esq. M.lt.I.
                         On Siege Operations.
THE speaker, after a few preliminary observations, commenced
by stating, that it is absolutely necessary for a besieging army
thoroughly to invest the place about to be attacked ; that is,
simultaneously to occupy positions so as to cut off all communica
tion with the threatened fortress, and to have a numerical force
seven or eight times the number of the pent-up garrison. A
reconnoissance is then made by the engineers, who, during the
first part of the investment, are employed in taking notes of the
description of the different fronts of the fortification, in making a
correct plan of the work, and the ground in its vicinity ; in which
the course of rivers, streams, ravines, and roads, the extent of
possible inundations, woods, marshes, or eminences, are accurately
laid down. They mark out, with great precision, by means of
pickets, placed in the ground, the prolongation of all the faces of
the most prominent works, and the salient angles as well : not only
because the latter are the shortest road to the fortress, but because
they are also the paths the least exposed to the enemy's fire.
   During this reconnoissance, the besieging army, having en
camped out of range of the guns of the place, send forth large
working parties to cut down all the timber and brushwood in the
neighbourhood, wherewith to construct the necessary materials for
the siege. These consist of gun platforms, timber for the lining
and support of mine shafts, galleries, and magazines ; but more
particularly for the making of gabions, sap-rollers, and fascines.
   The gabion is a cylindrical basket of wicker work, open at both
ends, and of various dimensions, but usually from three to four
feet in height, and three feet in diameter. Its use and object
being to construct hastily a shot-proof breastwork or parapet, when
filled with earth, or to line the approaches and batteries when the
soil is of a loose and crumbling nature.
   The sap-roller consists of two concentric gabions, placed one
within the other, each six feet long, the interval between them
being stuffed with logs of hard wood ; the whole mass far exceeding

1855.]                   on Siege Operations.                         43
the dimensions of the ordinary gabion. It is employed to protect
the sapper engaged at the head of an approach or trench, when
advancing such work towards the enemy.
   The fascine is a faggot of brushwood, eighteen feet in length,
and nine inches in diameter ; its use being to line the parapets,
and various earthworks constructed during the progress of the siege.
   Bags filled with earth are also prepared, and largely employed
during the operations ; the whole are then stored in that part of the
camp called the Engineers' Park. The number of these materials
is enormous, and the following estimate often has to be exceeded,
or even doubled, namely, 80,000 gabions, 100,000 fascines, 120,000
sand bags, together with 4000 spades and shovels, and 3000 pick
axes, with other tools in like proportion.
   The enemy having been kept in ignorance of the front of the
fortress about to be attacked, and all the necessary arrangements
having been made, let us examine the object of the assailant, and
the manner in which he may best" proceed to effect it. His
endeavour is to possess himself of a fortress ; and having seven or
eight times as many troops as are shut up in the work, it follows
that the larger number will overpower the weaker, if brought to a
close combat ; but the battle-field of the foe is so organized as to
prevent such collision, surrounded as it is by obstructions which the
assailants must overcome : the besieger is, therefore, compelled to
use both industrious and scientific means, in making his attack,
requiring more or less time in their completion, in proportion to
the defences of the place, its strength, and the courage of its
protectors.
   The means employed since the invention of artillery, consist in
choosing the front to be attacked, checking its fire, and in making
a safe road by which the besieger can advance unseen to the foot of
the ramparts ; and lastly, in placing in well protected batteries his
artillery to subdue the place and effect a breach in the walls of the
fortress.
   The first operation of the besieger is, to approach secretly by night
with a working party of 1800 men, each carrying a fascine, pick-axe,
and shovel, accompanied by an armed and protecting force equal to
cope with the garrison ; the former dig a trench 2000 yards in
length, parallel to the fortifications attacked, (the direction having
been previously marked out by the engineers,) and with the earth
excavated from such trench, raise a bank or breastwork on the side
nearest to the enemy ; while the armed party, formed in a recumbent
posture, remain in readiness to protect the workmen, should the
garrison sally forth to attack them. During the night and follow
ing day the besiegers remain in the trench, till sufficient cover is
gained to protect from the fire of the fortress all engaged, whether
workmen or their appointed guard ; but as each fifty men have a
certain task allotted to them, they are relieved by a like number at
 the expiration of their labour.

44                           Mr. E Jekyll                     [Feb. 16,
   This work, called the first parallel, is an envelope equi-distant
from all the salient angles of the fortress, and it is along this road
that all guns, men, and munitions can securely move, sheltered from
the view and projectiles of the enemy. Batteries are then formed
on the side next the place attacked, and a secure communication,
made in like manner, is constructed towards the camp and entrepot
of the besiegers.
   The garrison having now discovered the front of their work
about to be attacked, do all in their power to add to their defences ;
a double line of palisades is placed in the covered way ; traverses are
erected to lessen the effect of the enfilade and ricochet fire of the
besiegers ; the country on the side attacked is inundated, if such
means exist ; fresh embrasures are opened on the ramparts, and
splinter proofs to prevent the ravages of shells are placed over the
guns ; safe communications are formed, leading to the outworks ;
mine galleries driven under the glacis (if none had been previously
prepared,) and every means taken for repelling the advances of the
besiegers. The fire from the guns, howitzers, and mortars of the
assailants, is of a four-fold character : direct, to batter down such
parts of the fortress as are not covered by the outworks ; enfilade,
to rake ; ricochet, to bound down the faces of the ramparts, and
dismount or otherwise injure the artillery ; and vertical, or that
from mortars, to destroy the storehouses, magazines, barracks, or
dep6ts, within the walls of the place.
   After some days' fire, the same species of covered road is carried
forward from the first parallel, by certain rules of art, to approach
the fortress ; this trench proceeds in a zigzag direction, crossing
and re-crossing the direct line leading to the salient angle of the
fortress, care being taken that its direction is such, that no fire from
the enemy can rake or enfilade it. And at a distance of 300
yards from the works of the besieged, a new place of arms, or
second parallel, is constructed similar to the first, wherefrom the
assailants can support the head of their attack. New batteries are
here formed, to further enfilade the threatened works, and also to
counter-batter such collateral works of the defenders as contribute
to the defence of the place, and the fire of which it is necessary to
subdue. The assailant again advances by similar zigzags, till
within 150 yards of the covered way of the enemy, where fresh
lodgments, called the demi-parallels, are effected.
   And here an entirely new feature in the attack presents itself: it
being needful to keep down the heavy fire of riflemen, and wall
pieces (heavy muskets fired from rests upon the parapets), and
also to prevent workmen from repairing the injured defences,
pierriers, or stone mortars, are placed in the wings of the aforesaid
demi-parallels, which keep up an incessant discharge of large
stones, 4-pound iron balls, and grenades, upon the front attacked.
Volleys of such missiles are directed upon the shattered parapets,
driving the defenders from the walls, and forcing them to fly to

1855.]                   on Siege Operations.                          4.5
places of cover and security, protecting themselves from these
projectiles by such temporary buildings as they can erect. The
enemy in reply keep up a continuous fire from small mortars,
called royals and coehsrns, upon the head of the advancing
trench ; light balls (a brilliantly burning firework), thrown by the
garrison, disclose the operations of the enemy,,who try to extinguish
them with sand or wetted hides, and if such means fail, place
smoke balls to obscure the light.
   The approaches are now carried forward by sapping,—a most
hazardous duty. The foremost workman, protected by the sap-
roller, pushed in front by a long fork, places a gabion on the side
nearest the fortress ; he rapidly fills it with earth from the trench"
he is excavating (a labour he performs on his knees), digging the
earth eighteen inches deep, and a like width, but never exposing
himself beyond the first placed gabion. He is followed by three
comrades, who increase the dimensions of the trench, and frequently
relieve him in his perilous undertaking ; sand-bags are placed in
the hollows between each gabion, and thus safe cover is effected ;
ten feet of sap may be made in one hour. At the late siege of
Antwerp, the French sappers were protected by helmets and cui
rasses, their weight however impeded the movements of the men ;
and the celerity of the operation.
   At this period of the siege, the fire from the place being much
weakened, many guns dismounted, and the ramparts ploughed up
by the severity of the besiegers' fire, a third parallel is at length
formed at the foot of the glacis, and an attempt made to gain the
covered way, the palisades in which have been broken and de
stroyed by the ricochet batteries. If this is to be effected by
assault, the interior of the breastwork of the third parallel is made
in steps, so that the assailants may simultaneously sally forth to
attain their object : but the slower and more certain method is by
the sap and mine. At the siege of Cambray, Dumetz stormed a
work during the attack contrary to the advice of Vauban, and sus
tained a defeat, together with a loss of 40 officers, and 400 men ;
Vauban gained the same object two days later by sap, and lost but
three lives.
   The covered way being now in possession of the besiegers, breach
ing batteries to destroy the revetments of the fortress are con
structed. The fire of six 24-pounders, so directed as to make
perpendicular cuts in the masonry, play upon the wall : one long
horizontal fissure three feet in depth is also effected, and by the firing
in salvos or volleys, the loosened mass and superincumbent para
pet falls bodily into the ditch, presenting a slope or means of ascent
more or less practicable. The troops are led to the assault by
means of a subterraneous gallery leading from the trenches to the
ditch.
   The garrison now usually capitulates. But if the latter part of
the operations are carried on by the system of mining, the entire

46            Mr. E. Jekyll on Siege Operations.               [Feb. 16,
character of the attack is changed ; and as the besieger proceeds
with the trenches ou the surface of the ground he has to secure
himself from below. Twelve days are added to the duration of the
siege, if the fortress is ably protected by a well-arranged plan of
defensive mines, in the more advanced galleries of which he can
listen for the stroke of the miner's pick, and by means of a pea, placed
upon a tightly-braced drum, subterraneous workmen can be dis
covered at the distance of from 60 to 90 feet in ordinary soil,
hence such listening galleries, as they are termed, are built distant
from each other 120 feet. When the advancing miner is discovered
by the defenders of the fortress, a mine is hastily prepared, and the
assailant blown to destruction. Occasionally a long iron probe is
used, to ascertain the nature of the ground in front, or the position
of the works of the besieged ; and if such instrument reaches into
the defensive excavations it is followed on withdrawal by a charged
rifle or musquetoon, and a shot is fired upon the assailant, or com
bustibles generating noxious gases are thrust into the aperture.
   The subject of mining is far too extensive a one to be embraced
in so limited a description, but the globes of compression of the
besiegers, or surcharged mines, finally overthrow the network of
galleries with which the fortress is surrounded ; and the craters
or hollows formed by their explosion, afford cover and the more
ready means of pushing forward the saps and trenches, and the
fortress is compelled to surrender. In describing the various en
gines of war, and the recent improvements made in them, Mr.
Jekyll alluded to the making of cannon shot of a conoidal form,
and the recently discovered danger of exposing live shells to the
enemies' fire, both in batteries and on ship-board ;—shells struck by
shot instantly explode, the blow raising the temperature of the
stricken part far beyond the heat at which gunpowder inflames.
Some of our first-rate men of war have their lower batteries of
shell guns only ; and as each gun has two shells in boxes placed
over each piece of ordnance, 64 mines are thus prepared for the
destruction of the vessel, liable, during action, to add their ravages
to those occasioned by the fire of the foe.
   In conclusion, comparison was drawn between the attack upon
an ordinary pentagon, and the siege now in progress in the Crimea.
In the former the prize was sure of being gained, inasmuch as the
place was always previously invested, contained a garrison of but
5000 men, and was defended by 150 pieces of artillery, a portion only
of which could be used in the defence of the single side attacked, a
length seldom exceeding 320 yards ; the besiegers, with an over
whelming force of men and ordnance, having established themselves
behind safe approaches, batteries, and a parallel or envelope embra
cing the fortress of a length of 2000 yards, finally ruined the
defences of the fortress. At Sevastopol investment had been im
practicable ; the parallel of the allies, broken by the nature of the
ground, was of no greater extent than 2300 yards, and the Rus

1855.] Mr. Dickinson on the Supply of Water for London.             47
sian defences opposed a length little short of four miles, mounting
800 guns to the 500 of the combined armies, and aided by a gar
rison whose numbers were unknown and oapable of continual
augmentation. Screened from enfilade and ricochet fire by the
nature and length of their works, and by the difficulty of placing
the guns of the allies in favourable positions, the enemy could only
be assailed by direct or vertical fire ; and the troops rushing to
the assault would have to advance to the attack over ground more
or less open and unprotected, after leaving the shelter of their
trenches.
                                                            [E. J.]
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 23.
   The REV. JOHN BARIX>W, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President and
                        Secretary, in the Chair.
          JOHN DICKINSON, Esq. F.R.S. F.G.S. M.R.I.
 On providing an Additional Supply of Pure Water for London.
MR. DICKINSON commenced by describing the two different modes
of supply of water to towns, namely, the one by forcing it, by means
of pumping engines, directly into the pipes of supply called mains ;
the other by the delivery of it from a lake or reservoir on a high
level, also through pipes ; in which latter case the water, by the
mere force of gravity, will flow over large districts, and by the
comparative difference of level will rise to the tops of houses below
it, to which it is conveyed by the service pipes.
   He observed, that the supply by the New River Company com
prehended both those modes. The river flowed into a reservoir at
Islington, called the New River Head, and, of course, mains, de
riving their supply from that, conveyed water to a large district of
London situated below it ; but, furthermore, there were pumping
engines at that spot, which forced up water to reservoirs at High-
gate Hill and other places, from which it was supplied to districts
situated above the level of the New River Head.
   He observed, that in speaking of a natural supply of water col
lected into a reservoir, at a high level, and delivered therefrom
 without the aid of pumping engines, the technical expression of
engineers now is, " a supply by gravitation ; " and this is the mode
adopted wherever opportunity offers ; which is more rare in

48                          Mr. Dickinson                    [Feb. 23,
England than in Scotland, because in the latter country, lakes,
mountains producing rivers with sharp declivities, and tracts of
moor land, adapted for gathering grounds, are to be found in the
neighbourhood of their principal towns and cities, and the inhabit
ants have availed themselves of these local advantages for obtain
ing the supply needed ; and though, in some instances, they have
had to convey water from considerable distances, and to form
engineering works of great magnitude for receiving the water, yet
they have to boast not only of the amplitude and excellence of their
supply, but of its moderate cost.
   Mr. Thorn, who gave evidence before the Commission, states,
" At Campbeltown, a family of five individuals will be supplied for
" about I*. 4rf. per annum ; the cost at Ayr, for the same quantity,
" is 2s. 2d. ; at Paisley, it is 2s. 9d. ; in Greenock, I think, it is
" about 2s. 6d. I allow in this case 5 per cent, on the capital
" employed ; the expense for wear and tear, charge for superintend-
" ence, and the like, being always included in my estimate." He
further states, " All those are high-pressure services, and reaching
" the tops of houses, have all the advantages of being enabled to
" put out fire, and supply the cisterns at the tops of houses."
   Mr. Dickinson remarked, that the supply by gravitation had the
advantage of being constant instead of being intermittent ; and at
the same time the works connected with it were more simple, and,
by reason of saving the expense of steam engines, force-pipes, and
coals, far less costly. He then proceeded to explain the mode by
which it might be introduced, to a far greater extent than at present,
for the supply of London, Westminster, and the western suburbs
of the metropolis. The description of this was illustrated by maps,
on a large scale, and a model, by means of which, and particularly
by the model, the superficies of the country, and its geological
features were exemplified, so as to render the description of the
plan perfectly comprehensible. He explained that the model
exhibited the valley of the river Lea, from whence the New
River is derived, and that of the Colne, from which he proposed
to derive another New River. He pointed out the uniformity of
character of the rivers Lea and Colne ; that each of them was
constituted by the confluence of several small perennial streams
issuing from the deeper valleys of the chalk, which had their source
towards the summit or escarpment of that stratum, and were fed
and augmented throughout every yard of their course by springs.
   He explained, that in consequence of the absorbency of the sur
face, a considerable portion of the rainfall gradually descending
through the crevices and fissures of the chalk, constitutes by its
accumulation in those hills a vast natural reservoir, which, owing to
the necessary difficulty of percolation towards the springs, main
tains a constant supply to the rivers throughout the year, though
varying exceedingly in quantity according to the amount and period
of the rainfall ; the summer rains being proved, according to a

1855.]              on providing Pure Water forLondon.                           49
system of experiment devised by Dr. Dalton,* to contribute almost
nothing to the supply of this subterranean reservoir, in consequence
of the great evaporation and the prodigious demands of vegetation
during that period.f The speaker pointed out that either of these
rivers, the Lea or the Colne, might be regarded as the outflow or
yield of a large space of gathering ground, not less than 200 square
miles ; and the Colne had this advantage over the Lea, that the
valley through which it flowed to the Thames was in perpendicular
elevation much superior to that of the Lea.
     Mr. Dickinson then pointed out that it was only by very long
and very definite experience in the actual measurement of the river,
that any one could be convinced of the enormous fluctuation in the
quantity of its flow, not only according to the season of the year,
but between one year and another ; so that the late Mr. Telford,
owing to the want of that experience, and to the neglect of seeking
information from the best sources, had been led in his survey
in 1834 to assume, that he could calculate upon a supply of 32
cubic feet per second from one, and that not the most considerable
of the branches of the river Colne above referred to, which, at
the present time, owing to the drought of last summer and autumn,
does not yield much above one-third of that quantity. Mr.
 Dickinson gave it as his opinion, founded on more than forty
years' experience, that by taking advantage of the whole supply of
the valley, comprehending the four streams which are united at Rick-
 mansworth, viz. :—the Colne, the \&r (which was the choice
of Mr. Telford), the Gade, and the Chess, which latter stream
 flows past Latimer and Chenies, a supply of 42 cubic feet per
second could always be relied upon for London, besides leaving
a surplus for the lower part of the valley, which would be aug
 mented by the stream from Missenden, which joins the Colne below
 Harefield ;J and accordingly, he proposed to abstract 42 cubic feet
 per second at that point, for conveyance to London by a new
 aqueduct, constructed on more judicious principles than the New
 River of the Lea valley.
     A plan of this work, on a very large scale, was exhibited, and
 i lie speaker explained various novel contrivances by which he pro
 posed to give space for the deposit of every thing of greater specific
 gravity than water, and to intercept every thing that would float,
 and to clear away scum, and guard the channel from leaves and
 vegetable refuse, also to aerate the water ; and, finally, to deliver
 twenty-three millions of gallons per diem—in other words, twenty-
 three gallons a piece daily, for a million of individuals—into a
 reservoir at Kilburn, so filtered, and at the same time so fresh, as to
     * See article " Evaporation," by Dr. Dalton, in " Rees's Cyclopedia."
     t See a very ingenious course of experiments, published by Mr. Lawes,
 which shows that every plant of wheat, barley, and beans, takes up in the
 period of its growth 15lbs. of water from the soil, if the season will afford it.
     J The flow of water at that part, in a full season, independent of floods, is
 not less than four times that amount.
      VOL. II.                                                            E

  50                           Mr. Dickinson                        [Feb. 23,
  compare with the most perfect spring water, which reservoir, or head
  of distribution, would be 120 feet perpendicular above the datum
  line of the Ordnance Survey, made at the suggestion of the Board of
  Health.* The Ordnance map of London, the fruit of that survey,
  on the scale of 12 inches to the mile, with the elevation of every
  part of the metropolis stated upon it, was exhibited, which embraced
  also the reservoir ; and, by means of a line of uniform level traced
  upon the map, it was made apparent how very large a portion of
  London could be supplied by gravitation, at high-service level, over
  and above the whole of Westminster, Belgravia, Knightsbridge,
  Brompton, Chelsea, Fulham, and Kensington. Mr. Dickinson,
  having had a great deal of experience in works of this nature, was
  satisfied that the cost of delivering this quantity of water at Kilburn,
  purified and filtered, (presuming money to be obtainable at 4 per cent,
 per annum,) would not (according to Mr. Thorn's mode of estimate)
  exceed three farthings per thousand gallons, including the very heavy
  item of compensation to mill-owners ; and that the whole cost of
 distribution would not exceed threepence per thousand gallons,
  which, as proved in the evidence of Mr. Hawksley, was the rate
  of charge for the water supply at Nottingham.
     Some of the water taken out of the river Colne, at Harefield,
 was produced at the meeting and much approved. With reference
 to the liability of the Colne being rendered turbid at the time
 of floods, (for at other times it is perfectly clear,) he quoted the
 following evidence of Mr. Hawksley on the subject of running
 water purifying itself,—" I can give a very extraordinary instance of
 " that, as occurring at Nottingham. At Nottingham the supply is
 " taken from the river Trent. Upon the tributaries of the river
 " Trent are situated the towns of Leicester, Loughborough, Derby,
 " Belton, and the whole of the Potteries. The water leaves those
 " towns frequently in an exceedingly black noisome state, but the
 " water of the river Trent is, nevertheless, exceedingly beautiful
 " and pellucid ; in fact, at Trent Bridge, near Nottingham, it is as
 " clear as crystal ; organic matter is not discoverable in it, except
 " in the degree in which it is discoverable in all river water."
    The speaker concluded by stating that he had taken particular
 notice of the amount of water expended in his own house and
 stables, (in Upper Brook Street,) and it led him to the conviction
 that the whole of the large and populous district, before referred to,
 southward of, and including Piccadilly, might be supplied by this
 application of the gravitation system at one-fourth the scale of
 the present rate of charge ; but with the proviso, that water for
the streets and for public purposes, should be paid for out of the
parish rates as at present.                                       [J. D.]
   * This quantity is almost exactly double that of the New River, the total
supply of which is stated by Mr. Mylne, the engineer of that Company, in
his evidence before the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, respecting the
water-supply of London, Qu. 3073, to be 11,872,000 gallons per diem.

1855.] on providing Pure Water for

 March 2, 1855.]       Dr. Stenhouse on Charcoal.                   53
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 2.
    WILLIAM ROBERT GROVE, Esq. Q.C. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                      DR. JOHN STENHOUSE, F.R.S.
  On the economical applications of Charcoal to Sanitary purposes.
 AFTER describing the various ways in which both animal and
 vegetable charcoal are manufactured, Dr. Stenhouse stated, that the
 different kinds of charcoal most . commonly in use may be con
 veniently divided into three species, viz. wood, peat, and animal
 charcoal. The results of Saussure's experiments on the absorption
of gases by boxwood charcoal were then exhibited in a tabular
form. The speaker then described a series of experiments made
 by him to ascertain the comparative absorbent power of wood, peat,
and animal charcoal for gaseous bodies. From these it appeared,
that wood charcoal possesses a slightly higher absorbent power for
ammoniacal, sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphurous acid, and carbonic
acid gases than peat charcoal ; the absorbent powers of which,
however, are immensely greater than those of animal charcoal.
As a decolorizer, however, animal charcoal is greatly superior to
either wood or peat charcoal.
    An account was next given of Mr. Turnbull's and Dr. Stenhouse's
experiments, which consisted in burying the bodies of dogs and cats
in charcoal powder, and in covering them over with about a couple
of inches of the same material. No effluvia were ever perceptible,
while the decomposition of the bodies was greatly accelerated.
This arises from the circumstance that charcoal absorbs and oxidises
the effluvia, which would under ordinary circumstances be evolved
directly into the air ; but within the pores of the charcoal they are
brought into contact with condensed oxygen, and are thus subjected
to a species of low combustion, their carbon being converted into
carbonic acid, and their hydrogen into water. Charcoal, therefore,
so far from being an antiseptic, as, was till recently universally
believed, is, in fact, precisely the reverse.
    Dr. Stenhouse then stated that, from reflecting on the wonderful
power of charcoal in absorbing effluvia and miasmata, as exhibited
in the cases just described, where, as we have seen, all the putrid
exhalations from the bodies of pretty large animals were absorbed
and destroyed by a layer of charcoal powder little more than an
inch in thickness, it struck him that a very thin layer of powdered

 54                Dr. J. Stenhouse on the a^tplicationt       [March 2,
 charcoal would be equally effectual in absorbing the very minute
 quantity of infectious matter floating in the atmosphere of what are
 called unhealthy situations. This led him to the construction of the
 so-called Charcoal Air-filter, first exhibited and described by him
 before the Society of;Arts, on the 22nd of February, 1854. It con
 sists of a thin layer of charcoal powder, enclosed between two sheets
 of wire gauze. One of these air-filters, or charcoal ventilators, was
 erected more than three months ago in the justice-room, at the
 Mansion-house. This apartment, from the 'position of several
 nuisances in the very narrow street from which it is ventilated,
 was usually so offensive as to have become the subject of general
 complaint. Since the erection of the charcoal ventilator, through
 which all the air entering the apartment is made to pass, all the
 impurities are absorbed, and the atmosphere of the room has
 become unexceptionable. From the success attending on the char
 coal ventilator at the Mansion-house, the City authorities have fitted
 up the justice-room at Guildhall with a similar apparatus, which is
giving equal satisfaction. The charcoal ventilator at the Mansion-
 house has never required any alteration, such as renewal of the char
 coal, or otherwise. Charcoal ventilators cannot fail to prove
 eminently useful in all situations where foul air is apt to accumulate,
 such as in water-closets, in the close wards of hospitals, in ships,
 and in the back courts and mews-lanes of large cities, all the im
purities being absorbed and retained by the charcoal, while a current
 of pure air alone is admitted into the neighbouring apartments.
 In this way pure air is obtained from exceedingly impure sources.
    A short sketch was then given of the history and construction of
Respirators, from their first proposal by Ur. Beddoes of Bristol, in
 1802, till their description, some seventeen or eighteen years ago,
by Dr. Arnott, in a lecture at the Royal Institution, and their being
subsequently patented by Mr. Jeffreys, who first brought them into
general use. Mr. Jeffreys' and the ordinary respirators are intended
merely to warm the air ; but the charcoal respirators, especially
those which embrace both the nostrils and mouth, purify the air by
filtration, and thereby deprive it of the noxious miasmata which, in
unhealthy situations, it not unfrequently contains. Experience has
shown, however, that charcoal respirators not only purify the air,
but warm it sufficiently, while they possess several advantages over
the ordinary respirators. Thus, for instance, they are lighter and
more easy of construction ; and where the breath is at all fetid, as is
usually the case in diseases of the chest, throat, &c. the disagree
able effluvia are absorbed by the charcoal, so that pure air alone is
inspired. The charcoal respirators are also exceedingly easy to
breathe through, as, owing to the non-conducting nature of their
material, they do not condense the moisture of the breath to an
inconvenient extent. There are three forms of the charcoal re
spirator, one for the mouth alone, the others embracing both the
mouth and nostrils ; these two latter forms being specially intended

1855.]           of Charcoal to Sanitary purposes.                 55
to guard the wearer against fevers, and other infectious diseases.
Powdered charcoal has, during the last twelve months, been most
successfully employed both at St. Mary's and St. Bartholomew's
Hospitals, and in other similar establishments, to arrest the pro
gress of gangrene and other putrid sores. In the case of hospital
 gangrene we have to deal not only with effluvia but with real
miasmata; for gangrenous sores not only affect the individual
with whom the mischief has originated, but readily infect the
healthy wounds of any persons in its vicinity. In this way gan
grene has been known to spread not only through one ward, but
through all the wards of even a large hospital. This, and other
instances which might easily be adduced, prove that charcoal is not
only a deodorizer but a very efficient disinfectant. A great variety
of other instances were mentioned, in which charcoal respirators
would certainly prove exceedingly useful ; such, for instance, as to
house-painters, the gunners in casemated batteries, persons requiring
to traverse unhealthy districts within the tropics, such as the Delta
of the Niger, the foot of the Himalaya, &c.
   Dr. Stenhouse concluded by stating it as his confident belief, that
if our soldiers and sailors, when placed in unhealthy situations,
were furnished with charcoal respirators, and if the floors of their
tents, and the lower decks of ships were covered by a thin layer of
freshly-burned wood charcoal, we would have little in future to
apprehend from the ravages of cholera, yellow fever, and similar
diseases.                                                   [J. S.]
                                               - '"
             GENERAL MONTHLY
                         Monday, March 5.
           FREDERICK POLLOCK, Esq. M.A. in the Chair.
  J. Richard Andrews, Esq.           John Viret Gooch, Esq. F.S.A.
  John Baily, Esq. Q.C.              Rev. Geo. Delgarno Hill, M.A.
  Charles Beevor, Esq. F.R.C.S.      Edward James, Esq. M.A.Q.C.
  Henry Bradbury, Esq.               Robert Lee, M.D. F.R.S.
  Henry Newnham Davis, Esq.          Walter M'Grigor, Esq.
  J. Dickinson, Esq. F.R.S., G.S.    Leopold Redpath, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the     Royal Institution.
                     George J. Lyons, Esq.
                     Edmund Macrory, Esq. and
                     John William Wrey, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.

  56                       General Monthly Meeting.                  [March 5,
     The Secretary reported that the following Arrangements had
  been made for the Lectures after Easter : —
     Eight Lectures on VOLTAIC ELECTRICITY, by PROFESSOR TYN-
  DALL, F.R.S.
     Eight Lectures (with Illustrations) on CHRISTIAN ART, FROM
  THE EARLIEST PERIOD TO RAPHAEL AND MICHAEL ANGELO, by
  GEORGE SCHARF, Jun. Esq. F.S.A. F.R.S.L.
     Eight Lectures on ELECTRO-PHYSIOLOGY, by DR. Du Bois-
  REYMOND.
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
 Members returned for the same : —
    FROM
 Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal. Vol. XV. Part 2. 8vo. 1855.
 Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 244. 8vo. 1854.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XV. No. 3. 8vo. 1855.
 Hell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for February, 1855. 8vo.
 Booseu, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for February, 1855. 4to.
 Bradbury, Henry, Esq. (the Author)—A Few Leaves illustrative of Nature-
     Printmg, fol. 1854.
 Botfield, Beriah, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)— Notes on Libraries. 8vo. 1855.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in February, 1855. 4to.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings in February, 1855. 8vo.
 Editors—The Medical Circular for February, 1855. 8vo.
    The Athenamm for February, 1855. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for March, 1855. 4to.
    The Mechanics' Magazine for February, 1 855. 8vo.
    The Journal of Gas-Lighting for February, 1855. 4to.
    Deutsches Athentlum for February, 1855. 4to.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S. (the Author)—On some Points of Magnetic
       Philosophy. (From Phil. Mag. Feb. 1855.) 8vo.
   Monatsbericht der Kiinigl . Preuss. Akademie, December 1854. 8vo. ,
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania— Journal, Vol. XXIX. No. 1. 8vo. 1854.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 41. 8vo. 1855.
 Graham, George, Esq. Registrar-General—Report of the Kegistrar-General for
       February, 1855. 8vo.
Lindsay, W. L. M.D. (the Author}—Experiments on the Dyeing Properties of
     Lichens. 8vo. 1854.
Lovell, E. B. Esq. M.R.I, (the Editor)—The Monthly Digest for December
       1854, and January and February, 1855, and Annual Volume for 1854. 8vo.
Macrory, E. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Reports of Cases relating to] Letters
     Patent for Inventions. Part1. 8vo. 1855.
North of England Institute of Mining Engineers—Transactions, Vol. II. 8vo.
     1853-4.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for February, 1855. 4to.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 27. 8vo. 1855.
Royal Society of London— Philosophical Transactions, 1854. Vol. CXLIV.
   'Part 2. 1854.
   Proceedings, Vol. VII. No. 8. 8vo. 1855.
   List of Members, 1854. 4to.
Society of Arts—Journal for February, 1855. 8vo.
Statistical Societi/ of London—Journal, Vol. XVIII. Part1. 8vo. 1855.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Magazine for the Blind, February, 1 855. 4to.
Vereins zur BefSrderung desGeicerbfleisses in Preusseit.—Vcrhandlungen, Novem
      ber xuid December, 1854. 4to.

   1855.]          Mr. Sopwith on the Mining Districts.                  67
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,-
                                                          1"   ~.?" . '.
                             Friday, March 9.                N^C
      REV. JOHN BARLOW, F.R.S. Vice- President and Secretary,
                                in the Chair.
               THOMAS SOPWITH, F.R.S. F.G.S. M.R.I.
                 MEMBER OF THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF FRANCE.
           On the Mining Districts of the North of England.
   MR. SOPWITH described the North of England as the central
  portion of the island of Great Britain, lying midway between the
  extreme north of Scotland and the south coast of England ; well
  defined in three directions, by the Scottish border on the north, and
  by the ocean on the east and west : midway also, as regards its
  surface elevations, between the level of the sea and the highest
  mountains of Britain ; and the chief strata of this district as also
  nearly midway in the well-defined series of stratified rocks. South
  ward, its limits are less definite; but the most important mines of
  coal, iron, and lead, being in the counties of Northumberland,
  Durham, and Cumberland, the illustrations were at present confined
. to these counties. The importance of these minerals imparts interest
  to the several circumstances connected with them ; and the models,
  maps, and drawings exhibited were selected in order to present, as
  clearly as could be done in the brief limits of an hour's discourse,
  the conditions of physical geography, the detailed as well as the
  general position, depth, and sub-divisions of strata, the mode of
  working coal, iron, and lead, and the character of the more re
  markable antiquities.
     A large map, on a scale of one inch to a mile, showed, by appro
  priate colouring, the extent of country drained by the rivers Coquet,
  Wansbeck, Blyth, Tyne, Wear, and Tees, on the eastern side of the
  district, and by the river Eden on the western side towards Carlisle.
  Of these rivers, the Tyne is at once seen to be the most extensive
  and important. The hills between these rivers, and the lands ad
 joining them, seldom exceed 2000 feet in height, and it is only
  recently that any correct measurement of the elevations has been
  commenced by the Ordnance Survey. Some of these were described
  as indicating the height of the moors, where traversed by the turnpike
  road from Middleton in Teesdale, to Alston—the 10th milestone,
  southward from Alston, being 1880-39 ft. above the mean level of the
  sea, and the 8th milestone on same road, 1963-37 feet. The church

58                        Mr. Sopwith OH the                  [March 9,
at Alston, at 3-62 feet above the surface, is 956 '80 feet above sea
level. The highest summit of this range of mountains is, at Cross-
fell, about 2900 feet. The detailed section of strata and mines at
Allenheads represents a tract of country varying from 1400 feet to
2200 feet. The meteorological conditions of different parts of the
district consequently vary considerably ; and a diagram, prepared
by Mr. Bewick, illustrated the exact range of observations of
barometer, thermometers, and rain guage, during the months of
December 1854 and January 1855. The position of the strata, as
regards facilities for mining, is mainly dependent on the elevation
of the country. This was illustrated by a model, made in separate
moveable parts, showing the coal measures, millstone grit, and
mountain limestone formations, and representing, first, the condition
of the several rocks previous to being dislocated by a fault;
secondly, the effects of such a fault, or break of the strata, by which
on one side the strata are depressed ; and thirdly, the subsequent
results of denudation, or wearing away of the surface by water.
The direction of the great Tynedale fault was shown on the large
map, and the amount of depression varies from 500 to 1000 feet.
   The situation of the principal coal-fields of the North of England
was also described, as also the several harbours, of the number and
extensive improvements of which various details were given, and some
of the chief circumstances connected with the working of coal
mines, of which several diagrams were exhibited. From the river
Coquet to the Tees, the coal-fields of Northumberland and Durham
extend along the coast a distance of about 50 miles : the extreme
breadth is nearly 25 miles, and the average breadth about 16 miles ;
the total area from 700 to 800 miles. The entire series of coal
seams or beds, by no means extend over so large a space, and
different qualities of coal abound in separate portions of the district.
   The application of cages, introduced by Mr. T. Y. Hall, effected
great economy in the methods of bringing coal to the surface. The
several coal seams, and the accompanying beds of silicious and other
strata, as found at Townley colliery, were shown by a large section and
drawing which had been expressly prepared for the purpose of illus
trating, on a large scale, the general outline of colliery workings, by
Mr. J. B. Simpson, son of the viewer of that colliery, and it fur
nished, at the same time, an excellent specimen of delineation of
such objects.
   Open spaces in the midst of the plan showed what is locally
termed the broken or waste, being the excavated coal wholly re
moved ; but the greater part of the diagram was occupied with a
representation of the preliminary operations which, in the first
instance, constitute the ordinary workings of a coal mine or
colliery.
   Access to the coal is obtained by means of vertical shafts. One
of these is the downcast shaft, the other the upcast shaft, which
names are derived from the important use of these shafts in ven

 1855.]       Mining Districts of the North of England.                  59
 tilating the mine. The air descends, or goes dotvn the downcast
 shaft, and then, after having traversed the workings of the colliery,
 rises up the upcast shaft. The depth of the downcast shaft repre
 sented was about 68 fathoms, f. e. 408 feet, somewhat more than the
 height of St. Paul's dome, and almost exactly double the height of
 the Monument, which is 202 feet. Pillars of coal, varying from 40
 to 50, 80, or 100 yards, are left to support the strata round the shaft
 —in this instance they are 50 yards square ; the diameter of the
 shaft is 13 feet. The winning head-ways, boards, pillars, &c., were
 described by reference to the plan.
    After adverting to the localities which formerly produced or do
 now produce household, coking, or steam coal, allusion was made to
 the Roman wall, ihe east termination of which, midway between
 Newcastle and the sea, gave rise to the well-known name of WaUsend
 coal—a large colliery at that place, (which was also the residence of
 the eminent viewer, Mr. Buddie,) having produced an excellent
 description of household coal ; and the high estimation of WoJlsend
coal led to the appellation being extended to others. At present
 vast quantities of the best household coal are produced from col
lieries in the districts near Haswell, Hetton, Seaham, &c., south of
 the river Wear. Coking coal abounds in the western part of the
 coal-fields ; and steam coal is extensively worked in several parts
of the county of Northumberland, chiefly in an area of fifty square
miles, between the rivers Coquet and Tyne—the locality of the
principal collieries being indicated by railways, or waggon ways.
These various qualities of coal, owing to the vast development of steam
navigation, railway locomotion, the iron trade, and various chemical
and manufacturing processes, in the last thirty years,, have attained
an importance far exceeding that which once appertained to the
  Wallsend coal of the north banks of the Tyne.—The Roman
wall itself received a passing notice, as one of the most remarkable
antiquities of the North of England ;* and drawings were ex
hibited of some of its more conspicuous features. The connexion
between the conditions of physical geography and the works of
human art was exemplified in the fact of the Romans having diverged
from a direct line, to avail themselves of steep and romantic pre
cipices formed of basalt, the overflowing of which, in the midst of
regularly stratified rocks, is especially deserving of note, both as a
geological and mining condition, and as an index to several of the
most remarkable objects, both of nature and art, in the mining
districts of the North of England. The greatest known mass of
this basalt is found near the rise of the river Tees ; and Mr. Bur-
lison, of Durham, has recently made a careful painting, which
   * The excellent work of Dr. Bruce, of Newcastle, on the Roman Wall, has
already passed through two editions, and a third is in preparation. The dia
grams of the wall exhibited were from the numerous and graphic illustrations
of Dr. Bruce's work.

60                       Mr. Sopioith on the                 [March 9.
was placed on the table, showmg the basaltic rocks at the waterfall
of Cauldron Snout. Passing northward, and somewhat west of the
limits of the Northumberland coal-fields, the basalt is found near
Alnwick, in the pleasure-grounds of the Duke of Northumberland,
at Dunstanbrough Castle, Hamburgh Castle, Holy Island Castle,
aud at Farn Islands.
   The production of the coal mines of the Northumberland and
Durham district now reaches an amount little, if any, short of
fourteen millions tons annually. In round numbers, and as con
veying a general approximation, it may be considered that of this
quantity six millions are destined for London and the coast trade,
and about two and a half millions exported abroad ; the consump
tion of coal for coke (Inland, coast, and foreign) is about two and a
half millions ; colliery engines and workmen consume upwards of
a million tons ; and the ordinary local consumption of the district
may be taken at about two millions. Of this enormous quantity, a
conception can only be formed by reducing it to some other
standards of comparison, as for example :—This quantity of coal, if
formed into blocks of one cubic yard each, would cover about four
square miles ; and if the same quantity of coal be considered as
forming the coating of a road, one inch thick and six yards wide, it
would extend considerably more than four thousand miles. Blocks
of one cubic foot can be readily comprehended ; and if one person
were employed to count these blocks at the rate of three thousand
six hundred in every hour, and thirty-six thousand every day, it
would occupy him more than ten years to complete his task.
   The variable thickness of different coal-seams was adverted to,
and the number and thickness of the seams or beds of coal in the
North of England described. Several illustrations were shown
from an able work recently completed by Mr. Greenwell on Mine
Engineering. The thickness of the Newcastle seams varies from
an inch to five and a half feet ; the aggregate thickness of nearly
sixty seams amounts to about seventy-Kve feet, or nearly four per
cent, of the entire mass of strata. Nine only of these beds exceed
two and a half feet, and the aggregate quantity of workable coal
is, therefore, only about one-half of the above quantity. The depth
at which the mines are worked was shown by several examples,
varying from nearly three hundred fathoms (eighteen hundred feet)
at Monk-Wearmouth, to shallow pits, worked at a small depth from
the surface, near the outcrop of the coal. The detailed maps, by
Mr. J. W. Bell, of Newcastle, one of which was shown, exhibit
the boundaries of property in the coal field, and form a valuable
local record of the position and extent of the various collieries.
   The general situation and extent of the Lead mining district
was described by reference to the map, and a number of plans
and sections explained the manner in which mineral veins occur,
and the details of works by which access is had to them. Ac
curate returns of the produce of lead and other minerals are now

1855.]         Mining Districts of the North of England.                  61
obtained for Government, by the instrumentality of the Min
ing Record Office, established in connection with the Museum of
Economic Geology.* The total produce of lead has been esti
mated at about one hundred thousand tons ; and, as a rough approxi
mation of the last few years, it may be considered that six-tenths
of this, or sixty thousand tons, are raised in Great Britain—Eng
land alone producing about forty thousand tons. The North of
England lead mining districts furnish about twenty thousand tons,
and one moiety of this is raised in the W.B. mines of Mr. Beau
mont—the initials W.B. (William Blackett) being the well known
trade mark of the lead produced from these, the most extensive
lead mines in the world. The annual produce, when formed into
one and half-stone pigs or ingots of lead would, if laid in a direct
line, extend about seventy miles. In these mines water-pressure
engines were first introduced about eighty years ago ; and within
the last five years a still more important application of water
power has been made by the use of the hydraulic engines patented
by W. G. Armstrong and Co., of Newcastle.
    The existence of vast deposits of Iron ore near the mouth of
 the Tees and in various other localities, as also the rapidly increas
 ing development and importance of the iron trade in the North of
 England, were briefly adverted to. Little more than one hundred
 years ago the quantity of iron made in this kingdom was about
 twenty-five thousand tons, and at the beginning of this century one
 hundred and seventy thousand tons. Fifteen years ago this quantity
 had increased to one and a half millions of tons, and at present
 the production reaches, and probably exceeds, two and a half mil
 lions of tons.
     A description of several architectural antiquities was given with
 reference to drawings, prepared under the direction of Dr. Bruce,
 of Newcastle; amongst which were portions of Norham Castle,
 on the Tweed, and Richmond Castle, in Yorkshire, exhibiting the
 massive character of these strongholds ; the entrance gateway of
 Alnwick Castle, and Norman doorways at the Castle in Newcastle,
 and in Durham Cathedral and Castle. Some of these examples
 are remarkable for richness of architectural detail, others for a
 simplicity of style, which affords a useful model—combining
 economy with the appropriate expression of the Norman character
 of building.
      The principal towns in this part of the North of England were
 shown on the large map by circles of red colour, varying according
 to the amount of population. Of this only a rapid notice could be
 given in round numbers : Newcastle, the chief town, contains about
     * So called at its first establishment, a name which admirably denotes its
  objects and utility; subsequently named " Museum of Practical Geology,"
  and still more recently amalgamated with more extended objects, under the
  Art and Science Department of the Board of Trade.

 62         Mr. Sopwith on the Mining Districts.       [March 9. 1855.
 ten thousand houses, and eighty-eight thousand inhabitants.
 Gateshead, on the opposite bank of the Tyne, has three thousand
 five hundred houses, and twenty-five thousand inhabitants—together,
 a population of one hundred and thirteen thousand. North and
 South Shields, lying on opposite sides of the Tyne at its mouth,
 have nearly eight thousand houses, and sixty thousand inhabitants ;
 and this amount is somewhat exceeded by Sunderland. These
 towns, with the city of Durham, altogether contain upwards of
 thirty thousand houses, and more than a quarter of a million in
 habitants, being about one-tenth of the population and houses
 of the Metropolis ; the proportional number of inhabitants to
 a house is nearly the same. The number of persons to a square
 mile in Northumberland is one hundred and fifty-four ; in
 Cumberland, one hundred and twenty-five ; but iu Durham, owing
 to the great number and extent of colliery and manufacturing
 operations, the population is four hundred to the square mile ; and
 from the same influence of mining conditions, the increase of
 population in fifty years, from 1801 to 1851, which in Northum
 berland has been 79 per cent., and in Cumberland 66 per cent., has
 been in Durham 160 per cent.
• Several illustrations of the geology and mining of the North of
 England, were separately noticed, as conveying a clearer idea than
could be conveyed by mere verbal description ; amongst these were
sections of strata in various parts of the lead mine districts,
 showing the remarkable conformity which prevails over about 400
 square miles of the country near the junction of the several counties
of Northumberland, Durham, Cumberland, Westmoreland, and
Yorkshire, also sections of lead mines, showing the mode of access
by horizontal adits or levels, and vertical shafts, with the several
galleries and other excavations, for obtaining lead ore from veins :
the position of these relatively to the strata was delineated on several
drawings.
    [After the lecture, several excellent microscopic sections of coal,
from the North of England, were shown by Mr. Sopwith, in the
Library.]
                                                              [T. S.]



                    institution of Sreat Britain.
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                                      , ' C.
                        Friday, March 16, 1855.
       SIR HENRY HOLLAND, Bart. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                      DR. WM. ODLING, F.C.S.
             On the Constitution of the Hydro-carbons.
 EVERY chemical compound may be regarded in a great number of
 different aspects. Each of the different theories that have been
 propounded concerning the chemical constitution of bodies, is true
 in reference to one particular aspect,—untrue in reference to all
 others. Theories are of the highest service when they enable us
 to look upon a larger number of bodies from a single point of
 view,—of the highest detriment, when they prevent us from making
 use of all other points of view. To regard a body, or a class of
 bodies, exclusively in one aspect, or, in other words, to view all
compounds by the light of a single theory, is necessarily to neglect
a whole host of phenomena and relations. He has the most com
 plete knowledge of a compound, who is capable of changing his
 position, and looking at the body from every possible point of view.
    The theory of compound radicals is of the utmost service in
enabling us to look upon a large class of bodies in one single aspect,
 in affording us one of the best means of arrangement, comparison,
 and explanation : but it has no pretensions whatever to represent the
entire and absolute truth with regard to the constitution of bodies ;
it simply exhibits them from one of many excellent points of view;
it has reference less to the actual constitution of the bodies, than to
our particular mode of regarding them.
    In proportion to the complexity of the constitution of a body, so
is the number of aspects in which it may be regarded, so is the
number of rational theories that may be entertained concerning it.
All of these theories belong to the same order of truth : they differ
from one another only in their greater or less degree of generality.
The theory of the greatest generality most nearly approximates to
the representation of bodies, especially typical bodies, by empirical
formulae, as unitary molecules.
   Adopting the proportional numbers of Gerhardt, we represent
the two-volume molecules of muriatic acid, water, ammonia, and
coal-gas, by C1H, OH8, NH3, CH4 respectively. In accordance
     VOL. II.— (No. 21.)                                    P

64                        Dr. Oilliny on the               [March 16,
with certain theoretical notions, these bodies have been formulated
as follows : —
         II -01
         II Oil         IF-0
          (Laurent.)
         II- NIP        H'-NH          II'-N
           (Kane)       (Wartt.)
          H-CH"         I18-CIP        IP-CH          II4 -C
   Coal-gas may be represented as terhydride of formyl, analogous
to its derivative chloroform, or terchloride of formyl. The two
bodies can be prepared in virtue of analogous equations from acetic
and chlor-acetic acids respectively, and the one can be obtained
from the other by direct substitution.
   Each of the above theories has certain circumstances in its
favour ; each is true to a certain extent ; each represents the body
in question from a different point of view ; sometimes one point of
view is most advantageous, sometimes another. As a veritable
representation of the constitution of coal-gas, Dumas' view is pre
ferable to either of the other two theoretical views.
   The adoption of Laurent's sarcastic suggestion of peroxide of
hydrogen as a compound radical, leads to inadmissible or uncertain
results ; thus, is potash oxide of zinc K Z O a combination of a
hypothetical peroxide of potassium with zinc, or of a hypothetical
peroxide of zinc with potassium ? Is Williamson's double ether,
Me Et O, a combination of peroxide of methyl with ethyl, or of
peroxide of ethyl with methyl ? &c.
   Nevertheless, there are greater grounds for recognising peroxide
of hydrogen as a compound radical, than there are for recognising
ethyl and methyl as such. A large number of bodies may be
represented very feasibly as containing ethyl ; but an infinitely
h-.rger and more varied set of bodies may be represented as con
taining peroxide of hydrogen : such, for instance, are water, potash,
sulphuric acid, formic acid, benzole acid, hypochlorous acid, &c. &c.
and, as has been shown by Mr. Brodie, very many other more com
plicated bodies. Many equations may be represented very simply
by means of ethyl analogous to hydrogen ; but a much greater
number may be represented by means of peroxide of hydrogen
analogous to chlorine. Ethyl has been obtained in the free state,
so has peroxide of hydrogen ; but whereas nearly all the bodies of
the peroxide of hydrogen series can be obtained directly from it, not
one single et hylic combination has ever yet been obtained from
ethyl. Hydrogen and ethyl present certain analogies, but the
analogies of chlorine and peroxide of hydrogen are much more
complete. Both bodies bleach, oxidise, combine directly with
potassium, set free bromine and iodme, and take the place of the
bromine and iodine set free. In Da- OH and in 15a 01 the Ba

 1855.]             Constitution of the Hydrocarbons.                      65
 can be readily detected ; but with regard to II Cl and Et Cl, the
 C'l can be detected in the former only.
    All the facts connected with the mutual relations of
                       C8 II* —ethylene, or olefiant gas
                       CSH4O -aldehyd
                        C8H408 —acetic acid
                        C8 H« —hydro-ethylene
                        C8 H5 Cl —muriatic ether
                        C8 H« O —alcohol,
 especially since the recent researches of Berthelot, show the superi
 ority of Dumas' ethylene to Liebig's ethyl theory, both as regards
 its more complete accordance with experiment, and its greater
 generality. The probabilities iti favour of the pre-existence of C8 H4
 and its derivatives, as constituent groups, are much greater than are
 those in favour of the pre-existence of C1 IIs. Thus, with regard to
 ethylene, hydro-ethylene, muriatic ether, and their chlorine deriva
 tives, we ought to have the following series, convertible into one
 another through certain members : —
                                                             C8H4        -H8
                                       C'H4     -HC1         C'H'Cl-H"
C" w               c« H4 . C1«         C8 IP Cl • H Cl       C! 1 18 Cl8 • H"
'CSH3C1           C8H8Cl-Ci8           C8H8C18-HC1           C8HC13-II"
 C'H'CT -          C'H'Cl8 Cl8         C8H Cla-IICl          C8 C14-I14
 C!H Cl3           C'lICl'-Cl8         C8 C14'HC1
 C8 Cl4            C8 C14-C1'
 Of these four series, three are undoubtedly, and the fourth most
 probably, known to us. They illustrate rationally the nature of the
 isomerism. In the three latter series, we have every reason to
 believe, that, with regard to the carbon, two of the hydrogen or
 chlorine atoms stand in a different relation to the other four ; but
 in the first series, we have not a single fact tending to show, that one
 of the hydrogen atoms stands in a different relation to the other
.three ; not one fact to countenance the representation of olefiant-gas
 by C8 H8 -H, hydruret of acetyl.
    In the next best known hydro-carbon, namely, benzine, there is
 no more reason for believing in the existence of the monobasic
 radical phenyl C" H5, than there is for believing in the bibasic
 and tribasic radicals C« H4 and C" H3, respectively, as seen in the
 following table :— (X = NO8 Ad = Nil8)
       C° H5 • H           C« II4 • H8             C" II3 ' II3
       C« H5 • Cl          C" H4 • Ad'             C« II3 ' Cl3
       C« Hs • Br          C' H* • X.8             C" H3 • Br3
       C« HJ • Ad          C« H4 • X Ad            C8 IP • Ad8 X
       C« H5 -X            C« H4 • Cl Ad           C8 H3 • X8 Ad
                           C° H4 • Br Ad, &c. C« IP • Xs Cl, &c.
                                                             F 2

 66                       Rev. J. E. Ashby                 [March 23,
    Lastly, Williamson's othyl theory, although it possesses a great
 degree of generality, and is supported by most complete analogies
 both in mineral and in organic chemistry, is only one of many ways
 of indicating the mutual relations of bodies. It must not be taken
 as the sole veritable representation of the constitution of the com-
 p"bunds to which it applies. There are no greater proofs of the
 pre-existence of othyl in acetic acid, than there are of the pre-
 existence of peroxide of hydrogen in water.
    For example, the correlations of benzamide, benzonitryl, hydro-
 benzamide, avid dibenzoylimide, are entirely neglected in the othyl
theory. These bodies belong to one single class ; they all contain
 certain benzoic elements, and certain ammoniacal elements ; by the
absorption of water they yield ammonia, and benzoic acid or alde-
 hyd. But the othyl theory bears no reference to this point of view ;
 it separates benzamide widely from its congeners. Thus we are
told that the first body contains the compound radicals benzoyl
 (analogous to othyl) and amidogen ; the second, the compound
radicals pheuyl and cyanogen ; the third, nitrogen and the com
pound radical benzyl (analogous to-acetyl), whilst, with regard to
the fourth, as to many other bodies, the compound radical theory
fails altogether.
    In the three best known hydro-carbons, coal-gas, olefiant-gas, and
benzine, as in many other bodies ordinarily represented as contain
ing compound radicals, the conception of self-existent constituent
compound radicals, is not only unnecessary but irrational. The
particular groupings of atoms, which we denominate compound
radicals, do not have an existence apart from the other constituents
of the bodies, into which they are said to enter.
                                                          [W. O.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 23.
                 HENRY BENCE JONES, M.D. F.R.S.
                             in the Chair.
                      REV. JOHN EYRE ASHBY,
       On (so-called) Catalytic action and Combustion; and
                         theories of Catalysis.
THE study of Catalysis is a study of forces. It comprehends the
conditions under which force is exerted in a peculiar manner in
chemical decompositions and combinations, and of the nature of the
force only as compared with forces at work in chemical changes,

1855.]         on Catalytic Action and Combustion.                 67
which are commonly thought to be better understood. The precise
meaning of the word should not be derived from its etymological
constitution, nor even solely from its original application, but
rather from the general consent of eminent chemists as exhibited in
their published writings.      The term, has been employed very
loosely, and some of the definitions given do not allow of reduction
to a common statement. Adopting the principle laid down,
catalysis may be defined as the action by contact of one substance
upon another substance, or group of substances, whereby chemical
changes are effected, while the first substance remains finally un
changed. 1 his will exclude from catalysis the following cases :—
   1 . The operating body does change, although it does not com
bine.
   Examples.—Fermentation, as explained by Liebig. Solution of
an alloy of platinum and silver in nitric acid ; also of the alloy of
copper, zinc, and nickel, in dilute sulphuric acid.
   2. The operating body absorbs A from a combination (A + B),
and B cannot exist free.
   Example.—Crystallized oxalic acid is a combination of anhydrous
oxalic acid and water ; if cast into strong sulphuric acid, the water
is absorbed, and (so far as we know at present) taken into chemical
 union with the sulphuric acid ; but the anhydrous oxalic acid
cannot exist free, and is resolved into equal volumes of carbonic
acid and carbonic oxide, which escape accordingly.
   3. The operating body takes from a substance some of its
elements, and combines with them after they have combined with
 each other.
    Example.—Sulphuric acid in contact with sugar, takes the
 elements of water from the carbon, and combines with them by
 hydration.
   4. The operating body causes mutual changes in substances
 A and B, whereby they become other substances, say C and D, and
 the operating body combines with D.
    Example.— Hydrocyanic acid and water -f hydrochloric acid
 (the operating body) gives formic acid and ammonia, of which the
 ammonia combines with the hydrochloric acid.
            C.NH + 3HO becomes NH.+C.HO,
                         and we have N H4 Cl + C, II O8.
    Cases of chemical change by friction and percussion are excluded,
 because contact is mechanically statical, whereas these are dynamical
 in respect of the masses. A lucifer match is an example. Sir
 James Kane, however, supposes the decomposition of iodide of
 nitrogen by slight percussion to be catalytic ; his definition is
 made wide enough to take it in.              ••

  68                         Sec. J. E. Ashby                 [March 23,
      The definition given by the speaker as being, upon the whole,
  in harmony with the prevailing ideas of catalysis, will be found to
  include the following cases : —
      1. Galvanic action in relation to a finally unchanged platinode.
  In every battery-cell containing an apparently unchangeable plati
  node, all the conditions of catalysis are perfectly fulfilled when the
N platinode touches the zincode without the intervention of any other
  metallic conductor ; and the truthfulness of the fulfilment is not
  altered by the additional fact that similar action will ensue when a
  metallic (or other) conductor is interposed. It is very doubtful
  whether the platinode really undergoes no changes, but it remains
  unchanged at last.
      2. A finally unchanged body produces in certain others no
  decomposition, but only combination.
      Example.—Platinum combines hydrogen and oxygen into water.
     3. A finally unchanged body produces decomposition, but no
  re- combination.
     Example.—Decomposition of chlorate of potash by metallic
 oxides and heat.
     4. A finally unchanged body produces decomposition, and partial
 or total recomposition, of the elements of a body.
     Example.—Alcohol passed into sulphuric acid at 300° passes
 out as ether and water, the elements of water having been ab
 stracted by the acid, which cannot retain them at that temperature.
 If we suppose that 'the acid removes water, as such, from the
 alcohol, this case is resolved into the foregoing.
     5. A finally unchanged body produces the decomposition of
 another substanee, and causes some of its elements to enter into
 combination with a third body, also present.
     Examples.—Heated platinum decomposes alcohol vapour, with
 access of air. In illustration of this class of phenomena, the
 speaker exhibited the continuous combustion of the vapour of strong
 liquid ammonia by a flat spiral of platinum wire (yL;inch thick)
 evqjving nitrous gas and water.
     Mr. Ashby then briefly adverted to the principal theories of
 Catalysis.
     1. Berzelius, who introduced the term into chemistry, considers
 that it represents a new force.
     2. Liebig dwells at great length upon cases in which the opera
 ting body does not remain finally unchanged. He supposes that if
 A and B are in contact, and changes happen among the particles of
 A, these may induce changes among the particles of B, by destroy
 ing the statical condition, and forcing the particles into motion,
 whereupon they arrange themselves into new groups. This does not
 explain at all the cases included under the definition given in this dis

1855.]          on Catalytic Action and Combustion.              *   69
course. It is just possible that it may ultimately prove to be a truth
iu relation to those cases, but it does uot, atpresent, explain them.
   3. Playfair observes, " There are many instances where catalytic
decompositions ensue, where there is no intestine motion in the
atoms of the exciting body. Hence we cannot do more than
consider motion as favourable to the development of dormant
affinities." He should, perhaps, have said, " Where there is no
apparent intestine motion ;" and there may be an undesirable am
biguity in the phrase, " favourable to the development of dormant
affinities." In his essay on the subject, (a monument of learning
and industry,) he concludes, that " the catalytic body is a substance
which acts by adding its own affinity to that of another body, or .
by exerting an attraction sufficient to effect decomposition under
certain circumstances, without being powerful enough to overcome
new conditions, such as elasticity and cohesibn, which occasionally
intervene, and alter the expected result." (Thus, for iastance, A
and B have each separately an affinity for the element (e) of a
third body E, but neither, separately, can tear it from its combina
tion with E :—the joint attraction of A and B may be sufficient to
release it ; but the released clement will not therefore necessarily
combine with A and B.)
   4. Faraday, and others, consider that many cases of catalysis are
due to the powerful condensation of liquids, vapours, and gases,
upon the surface of the catalyzing body. This view is of great
importance, but not (as yet) equal to the explanation of nearly ajl
the phenomena. Some of the arguments in favour of it may be
found in a consideration of'the probable mechanical condition of
platinum, owing to the method of manufacture, the ascertained
absorptive power of certain catalyzing agents, and the probable
condensation of water in sulphuric acid.
   5. De la Rive explains the particular case of the combination of
hydrogen and oxygen on the surface of platinum, by supposing
that the platinum is oxidated on its surface, and the oxide con
tinuously reduced by the hydrogen, water resulting. (See Gmelin's
Chemistry, published by the Cavendish Society, Vol.11, p. 56.)
   Mr. Ashby then described his own researches on catalytic com
bustion. If the sesquioxides of chromium, nickel, cobalt, manga
nese, and iron, be laid upon wire-gauze (about 60 meshes to the
inch-linear,) then warmed in the flame of a spirit-lamp, and laid
over capsules nearly full of alcohol, pyroxylic spirit, ether, or other
similar substances, they will burst into glow and catalyze the vapours
which rise into them, as long as the supply conlinues. Warm
Cr4 Oa will inflame a jet of hydrogen in contact with air. The sesqui-
oxide of iron is peculiarly available for operations on any scale,
however large, and those specimens are to be preferred which have
the least density, A catalytic lamp was exhibited, by which spirit
or benzole may be consumed by the catalytic glow for laboratory
                                              •'*}

  70                           Sec. J. E. Ashby                       [March 23,
  purposes. Coal-gas mixed with air may also be employed under
   the gauze upon which the oxide is distributed. Euchrome (dug
  from the estate of Lord Audley) is a cheap and useful catalyzing
  agent, when freed from its carbon.* A mixture of ten parts by
   weight of chlorate of potash, with orje part of light and finely
  divided sesquioxide of iron, yields oxygen with entireness and
  facility, and has the additional advantage that (n) grains of the
  mixture represent very nearly (n) cubic inches of evolved oxygen.
  If we take the case of the sesquioxide of iron, we are able, to some
  extent, to show the modus operandi of the catalytic action ; we can
   arrest the process at the half-stage, and then at leisure complete the
• other half. By heating Fe8 Os to redness, and quenching it in
   boiling alcohol (air being excluded), or by passing the vapour of
  alcohol over heated sesquioxide. we obtain two results ; the alcohol
  is oxidated, and the Fes O3 becomes Fea O4 by deoxidation. The
  same follows by treating the sesquioxide with ammonia, gaseous or
  in strong solution. This black magnetic oxide (probably Fea O4
   -f- II O) remains unchanged by a red heat, if oxygen be not present ;
  but if warmed in contact with air, it absorbs oxygen at a temperature
  far below redness, and returns into the original Fes O3. - It is clear,
  then, that during the catalysis, an intestine motion of the particles
  is going forward, and every portion of the sesquioxide is constantly
  reduced by the alcohol and reoxidated from the air. This was il
  lustrated by a diagram and a cluster of coloured balls. Attention was
  then drawn to a singular fact, which may probably be referable
  to the catalytic action of the sesquioxide of iron. If the ferro-
  cyanide of barium be heated until it ceases to give off ammonia,
  and then placed over alcohol, ammonia is again evolved in small
  quantity ; but if the same experiment be tried with pure prussian
  blue, a large quantity of ammonia is formed by the contact with
  alcoholic vapour. Alumina (A18 Oa) presents a singular pheno
  menon, hitherto unobserved ; a pure specimen, of snowy whiteness,
  on being heated to redness, and exposed to the vapour of alcohol,
  becomes dark-grey, or black, and the vapour is oxidated ; and this
  effect may be produced (with less ease) by ammonia. It seems
 that the sesquioxide of alumina has become a lower oxide, as in
 the case of iron, but cannot recover oxygen from contact with
 that gas.
       Mr. Ashby then exhibited a- "galvanic indicator," by which he
  hopes to prove satisfactorily, whether or not a galvanic current is
  set in motion during catalytic combustion. In conclusion, he drew
  attention to several points of interest connected with catalysis.
      * Mr. Arthur Church has observed that several of the chromates (copper,
  manganese, cobalt, &c.) after ignition, -will freely catalyze alcoholic and other
  vapours.

1855.]            on Catalytic Action and Combustion,              71
   1. The value of catalytic processes in various manufactures.
Nitric oxide acts catalytically in the preparation of sulphuric acid
of commerce ; spongy platinum has been employed for the same
purpose ; and a patent has lately been granted for a similar use of
the sesquioxide of iron. Spongy platinum is sometimes employed
in Germany for the preparation of acetic acid from alcohol. The
manufacture of ether from alcohol by sulphuric acid has already
been noticed.
   2. Considering that catalytic combustion by the sesquioxide of
iron is first set up at a temperature far below redness,—that even a
rusted nail may be sufficiently active,— and that in many cases of
fermentation inflammable vapours may be disengaged, and much
heat evolved,—it is not unreasonable to suppose that in this way
we may account for some instances of what is commonly called
" spontaneous combustion."
   3. There is much reason to suppose that catalysis plays a great
part in the organic chemistry of nature, in relation to vegetable
and animal life. The experiments of Mr. Turnbull and Dr. Sten-
house point to catalysis as a vast sanitary agent. The dead bodies
of various animals were covered with a layer of charcoal, which
rather assisted decomposition than otherwise, serving as a carrier to
the oxygen of the atmosphere, and delivering the perfectly innoxious
and inodorous products of catalytic combustion into the air, while
the charcoal itself remained entire and unconsumed. If we bear in
mind (as established by Mulder 'and others) that humus has the
same property, and that many oxides in the mould are catalytic in
a greater or less degree, it becomes evident that interment under
ground may bring into play a catalytic process by which the
elements of an organic body are returned into the atmosphere in
forms which are not prejudicial to existing life.
   4. Since some oxides exhibit a tendency to promote catalytic
combustion, which are at present thought to be the only oxides of
those bases, and in the case of one oxide (iron) the process has been
shown to consist of jilternate reduction to a lower oxide, and re-
oxidation,—it is quite possible that further research may lead to the
discovery of some new oxides.
                                                        [J. E. A.]

 72              Bee. J. Uarlow on the application           [March 30,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, March 30.
   WILLIAM UOBKRT GROVE, ESQ. Q.C. F.K.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
    THE REV. JOHN BARLOW, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President and
                               Secretary R.I.
    On the application of Chemistry to tlte Preservation of Food.
 NEITHER force nor matter has been added to or taken from the
 natural world since the commencement of its present condition —
 consequently the development and growth of successive races of
 plants and animals are dependent on the supply of materials which
,once formed part of the structure of their predecessors. Needful,
 however, as is the decomposition of the dead to the continuance of
 universal life over the globe, it is equally necessary to the main
 tenance of civilized life, that this law should be modified. Man has
 been, accordingly, permitted to acquaint himself with the conditions
 of destruction so far as to become able to suspend its process.
 These conditions appear to be—1. A temperature above 323 Fah.
 2. The presence of air and moisture. 3. A peculiar (generally
 liquid) condition of that albuminous substance which surrounds the
 cells and fibres of all animal and vegetable structures.
    1. Decomposition will not occur at the temperature of freezing
 water. We believe that long before this planet was inhabited by
 any creature of intelligence capable of receiving the idea of time,
 bodies of animals, which became extinct before man existed, re
 mained undecomposed, because they were imbedded in ice, or in
 frozen earth.* Meat and fish are transmitted from Archangel for
 sale at St. Petersburg. Provisions are also sent packed in ice from
 remote parts of Britain to London. The use of ice-houses and
 ice-chests for the preservation of food, is among many obvious
 applications of this principle.
    2. Decomposition will not occur, if moisture be excluded.
   * Pallas's Travels, quoted by Sir C Lyell ; " Principles of Geology,"
 8th Ed., p. 81.

 1855.]         of Chemistry to the Preservation of Food.                73
     The decomposing property of the oxygen of the air is most
 efficient where water is present in a state of minute subdivision.
 In this case the water (even if it does not promote corruption by
 itself becoming decomposed,) absorbs from the atmosphere oxygen,
which it presents to the decomposable body in a state the most
 effective for its destruction. " Rain-water, and especially dew, will
 bring on the putrefaction of animal matters much sooner than spring-
 water ; and the vulgar prejudice respecting the effect of the moon's
 rays in accelerating the corruption of meat, is, no doubt, dependent
 on the fact, that during clear moonlight nights, there is always a
 large deposition of dew ; and this, having fallen in a minutely
 divided state, possesses the largest amount of free oxygen which
 pure or distilled water is capable of absorbing from the atmosphere ;
 and therefore has a proportionate power of decomposing—just as it
 also has of bleaching." *
    An interesting illustration of the respective effects of a dry and a
moist atmosphere occurs in Sir F. B. Head's " Rough Notes."
Sir Francis, contrasting the atmosphere of Mendoza, St. Lucie, and
Buenos Ayres, (all being in the same latitude,) states that in the
two former provinces, " The air is extremely dry : there is no dew
at night, and the dead animals lie in the plain dried up in their
skins, so that occasionally I have at first been scarcely able to
determine whether they were alive or dead :" but in the province
of Buenos Ayres, on sleeping out at night—" I have found my
poncho, or rug, nearly wet through with dew ; the dead animals in .
the plain are in a rapid state of putrefaction."!
    3. Decomposition of a moist organic body may be prevented if
air be entirely excluded.
    " Gay-Lussac found that when bruised grapes were carefully
excluded from the air, no change ensued ; but that even a
momentary exposure of the pulp to air or oxygen was sufficient to
communicate to it the power of fermentation."!—A bottle was
exhibited, containing a piece of meat and a stick of phosphorus.
They had remained together since January 15, 1855. The meat
appeared fresh, but the phosphorus was visibly oxidized and acidified.
  APPLICATION OF THESE PRINCIPLES TO THE PKESERVATION
                                  OF FOOD.                   t
    A. Principle of desiccation at a temperature Mow that which
            would cause the albumen to coagulate.
    Animal and vegetable substances dried in the sun, or at a low
   * On Preserved Meats for the Naval Service.—Newton's London Journal,
Vol. xl. p. 200.
   t " Rough Notes," &c. 2nd Ed. p. 8. Vide also ou same subject, p. 142.
Also Murray's " Handbook for Travellers on the Continent." Oth Ed., p. 268,
on the preservation of the bodies of the monks at Kreuzberg.
   % " Urande's Manual," Vol. ii. p. 1640. Cth Kd.

74                   Rev. J. Barlow on the application               [March 30,
artificial heat, are less prone to decompose, even though they be not
isolated from atmospheric air and moisture. Hay and dried fruits
are obvious examples of the application of this principle.
     B. Principle of isolation from atmospheric influences, the albu
             minous constituent remaining uncoagvlated.
  _ An expedient for protecting meat on this principle has recently
been carried out on a large scale at Paris. It is described at
length in the Assemble'e Nationale of the 23rd of January (quoted
in the Siecle of the 22nd of February). The flesh is immersed in
a gelatinous solution, which, when dry, forms an air-tight integument.
It is named by the inventor " vernis cristallise," and is said to
make an excellent soup.—Joints of meat, both raw and fresh, and
eggs, which had been prepared five months before by this process,
were exhibited by Mr. M. Rennie ; all appeared in good condition.*
     If meat be coated with dry wheaten flour, the time that it will
continue sweet may be prolonged threefold in tropical climates.
The flour probably acts as an isolator against air and moisture.
     The preservation of organic substances in glycerine, oil, and
syrup, and the more familiar process of salting,f probably derive
their efficacy from the principle of isolation.J
     But, although brine effectually protects the meat which it sur
rounds against atmospheric oxygen, li flesh by salting loses in point
of nutritive value, in consequence of the removal and division of the
salts indispensable to sanguification."§ This was illustrated by
experiments on brine, which was obtained from a piece of beef salted
in the course of the day, and proved to contain albumen, phosphoric
acid, lime, and iron.
     The following preparations made with glycerine, were exhibited—
     (a) A small piece of flesh which had been partially immersed
since February 20, 1855, in a bottle containing a small quantity
of glycerine. By daily agitating this bottle, that part of the flesh
which rose above the surface of the fluid was kept moist.
     (6) In each of two jars of glycerine about 4 lbs. of meat were
   * The specimen of raw flesh thus prepared had shrunk, as if the " vernis
cristallise " had acted as the skin of a grape when it becomes a raisin ; t.e. it
had permitted the escape of constituent moisture, but had prevented the
admission of atmospheric moisture.
    t On April 23rd, 1841, Mr. Macilwain gave an evening discourse on
Payne's mode of salting, by subjecting the substance to atmospheric pressure —
Literary Gazelle, for 1841, p. 280. Reperlory of Patent Inventions, Vol. xvii.
p. 168.
   J It was shown, by placing vessels of glycerine and strong brine under the
exhausted receiver, that the latter is almost entirely, the former absolutely,
free from dissolved air.
   § Liebig's " Familiar Letters," p. 430. 3rd Ed.
   || It has been suggested, that the sensation of thirst, experienced after enting
salt meat, may, in some degree, be owing to the tendency of a saline solution
to dry up animal membranes.

 1 855.]        of Chemistry to the Preservation of Food.                     75
sunk by weights below the level of the fluid. This preparation was
 made on the 20th of February, 1845.*
     In all these vessels the meat was fresh and sweet. The gly
 cerine, however, like the brine, was reddened, indicating the
 separation of colouring mattery and therefore of iron, from the flesh
 immersed. The surface of the glycerine in the larger jars was
studded with patches of mould. It was therefore inferred that
 some of .the organic constituents of the meat, either singly or in
 combination, had been also separated ; but that, owing to the
 impermeability of glycerine by air, the decomposition did not take
 place beneath the surface of the liquid.
     In concluding this part of his subject, Mr. Barlow remarked, that
 one decomposition was sometimes had recourse to for the purpose
 of preventing another, as when wood, &c. is preserved by being
 painted over. The liquid paint is converted, by the action of the
 atmosphere, into a kind of solid, impermeable, insoluble soap. The
stereochrome of Fuchs is another instance of this protective de
composition. There, however, the protection is derived from the
 combination of a portion of the protecting body with a part of
lhat which it is intended to preserve.-)'
     C. ORGANIC SUBSTANCES PROTECTED BY A CHANGE EFFECTED
              IN THEIR ALBUMINOUS CONSTITUENTS.
     This, is accomplished
     (1.) By chemical reagents.
     (2.) By heat and desiccation.
     (1.) Coagulation of albumen, by chemical reagents.
     The preservation of timber, by corrosive sublimate, was fully
described by Dr. Faraday, in a Friday evening discourse, in
 J 833, on the prevention of dry-rot, when it was proved that this
salt formed a stable compound with the albuminous matter of the
wood. On March 7, 1845, Mr. Goadby discoursed "on the nature
and action of preserving fluids, as applied to animal structure."!
This process consisted in the use of a solution of salt, with a small
addition of corrosive sublimate.! In illustration of this mode of
preservation, Mr. Barlow exhibited specimens of flesh which had
    * The glycerine used in one of these two jars was prepared according to
Tilghman's process, by the action of water at a high temperature. Newton's
London Journal, Vol. xlv. p. 343. The glycerine contained in the other jar
was obtained by the decomposition of a fatty body by steam, as described by
George Wilson, Esq. Proceedings of Royal Society, Vol. vii. p. 182.
    t Vide Proceedings of the Royal Institution,.April 7, 1854. Vol. I., p. 424.
(Eev. J. Barlow on Silica).
    | Vide Atlieneeum for 1845, p. 272.
    § Vide Admiralty Manual of Scientific Enquiry, edited by Sir J. Herschel ;
article Zoology, by Professor Owen, p. 357 ; and " Directions for Preserving
Specimens of Natural History," published by the Smithsonian Institute, Wash
ington, U.S. 18!>4.

76                 Rer. J. Sartcw on the application             [March 30,
been immersed since December 1st, 1854, in alcohol, in pyroxy-
lic spirit, and in fusel-oil, as well as other similar specimens,
which had been suspended, for an equal period of time, in the
vapours of the same liquids. The antiseptic effects of creosote,
the active principle of wood-smok-?, (which is almost the only
substance whose chemical reaction on the albuminous constituent of
organic matter is employed for the preservation of food,) were then
noticed.
    (2.) Coagulation of the albuminous constituent by heat.
    The identity of the antiseptic effect of heat with that of a
strongly coagulating reagent, as corrosive sublimate, was shown by
exhibiting— (a) Two pieces of flesh, one ofwhich had been thoroughly
cooked and dried, and the other washed over with a solution of
sublimate. Doth had been kept dry : the surface of both was
hard and dark. (4) Two similar pieces of flesh, similarly pre
pared, but exposed to a damp atmosphere : both were in a mouldy,
but neither of them in a putrescent condition.
    Dr. Verdeil has applied the coagulating effect of heat to the pre
servation of vegetables and of meat, lie directs that green (i. e.
unripe) vegetables, such as cabbages, carrots, green peas, French
beans, should be submitted to the action of high-pressure steam of
the temperature of about 300D Fah., and then dried as quickly as
possible.
    Specimens of vegetables prepared by this process were exhibited.
Although kept in paper envelopes they appeared to have suffered
no change from the effect of air. The aromatic oils being retained
in the coagulated albumen, imparted its characteristic flavour to
the cooked vegetable, which, retaining the minutest details of its
structure, resumed its original form and size on being steeped in
water.*
   The same principle has been applied by Dr. Yerdeil to the pre
servation of meat.
    Edwards's potatoes, belonging to the same class of preparations,
claim notice from the rapidity and facility with which they can be
dressed.
    D. THE PRINCIPLE OF COAGULATION OF ALBUMEN BY HEAT,
            BUT WITHOUT DESICCATION, THE PROVISIONS BEING
            ISOLATED FROM AlR AND EXTERNAL MOISTURE.
    This seems to be the principle of the well-known processes both
of Appert and of Goldner. The former aims at the combination of
whatever oxygen may be present in the vessel containing the pre-
   * This was illustrated by the expansion of a cauliflower, an artichoke, and
of Brussels sprouts, and by the odour and flavour of carrots, turnips, onions,
&c. all prepared by Dr. Verdeil, which were cooked during the evening in the
presence of the Members and visitors.

   1855.]         of Chemistry to the Prmervaticn of Food.                     77
  served provisions, with some of the organic matter ; and the latter,
  at exclusion of that oxygen by the action of steam. A canister
  of rice and meat, prepared by Appert, which had been in the
  possession of Messrs. Fortnum and Mason* for ten years, was
  opened under a saturated solution of salt ; the air it contained was
  collected in the usual way, and when tried by the nitric-oxide
  (NO8) test, was found free from oxygen.
     Bottles of choice fruit and green vegetables, in excellent condition,
  were exhibited ; these had been prepared five or six years since by
  Appert's process. M. Appert kindly sent from Paris for exhibition
  on this evening a case of beef and soup, 3000 kilogrammes of which
• he is now daily preparing for the French army in the Crimea. M.
  Appert also 'exhibited specimens of more luxurious delicacies, as
  crfeme au chocolat, pate de foies gras, pate de canard.
     The same process has been adopted and developed in this
  country, with eminent integrity and success, by Mr. Gamble, who
  has succeeded in preserving not only the substantial materials of
  food, but also fish and other luxuries of the table.f
     Two large tin canisters~of dressed meat, which had been prepared
  by Goldner's process (expulsion of air by steam) in the year 1840,
  in the presence of Dr. Faraday and Professor Graham, were ex
  hibited. As neither of these canisters had bulged out, it was
  inferred that no gas had been formed, and that therefore no de
  composition of their contents had taken place.
     E. PRESERVATION OF MILK.
     Four processes of preserving milk were noticed ; each depended
  on a different principle.
     1 . The process of M. Mabru.
     This process preserves milk without addition of any substance
  whatever.' It consists essentially in the exposure of metallic bot
  tles, each containing about a quart of milk, to steam raised to the
  temperature of 21 2J Fah. These bottles are fitted with leadeu
  tubes, by means of which they were vertically suspended in the
  steam from a chest filled with milk, so that there was constantly a
  layer of milk above the extremities of the leaden tubes. After
    * [I am anxious to acknowledge the liberality with which Messrs. Fortnum
 and Mason put a large and valuable collection of specimens at my disposal,
 for experiment as well as for exhibition.—J. B.]
    t Among the specimens of Mr. Gamble's process were calfs head with
 turtle-gravy, soup of ox-cheek, ox-tail, giblet, and mulligatawny, and mutton
 broth, stewed rump-steaks, mackerel, stewed eels, lobsters, tripe, cream, and
 butter. Some of these were opened and cooked during Mr. 1Sarlow's discourse.
 A scientific interest has attached itself to these articles of luxury, as well as
 to those of M. Appert, because their preservation depends on the delicate ad
justment of the heat employed in preparing them, between the temperature
 which would destroy their flavour, and that which would be insufficient to
 ensure their remaining uninjured in tropical climates.

 78                   Rev. J. Barlow on the application            [March 30,
  having received sufficient heat, the bottles and their contents were
  suffered to cool, and, when cold, the leaden tubes were carefully
  closed under the surface of the milk, to prevent the admission of
  air. A bottle of milk thus prepared, which had been kept fourteen
  months, was opened, and found unaltered except by the separation
  of a small quantity of cream.*
     2. Process of M. Francis Bernard Bekaert.
     This method differs from that of M. Mabru in the addition of a
  few drops of solution of carbonate of soda to the milk before it is
  subjected to the boiling temperature. In this process the milk may
 be kept in glass bottles, which, however, must be carefully corked.
  After the weak alkaline solution has been added the whole is heated
  in water, gradually raised to the temperature of 212°, and after
  wards is slowly cooled. A bottle of milk thus prepared was per
 fectly sweet and fresh after having been kept ten weeks.f
       3. Process of Mr. E. D. Moore.
     Mr. Moore removes from the milk its constituent water, retaining
 its component elements. The condition in which the butter, caseine,
 &c., are preserved is such, that when the paste comes to be again
 united with water, the milk reassumes its original appearance and
 flavour.
     4. Solidified Milk.
     By successive applications of carefully regulated heat, and by the
 addition of a substance which he has discovered, M. Fadeuilhe has
 succeeded in removing from the milk those of its constituents
 which, as be believes, cause it to decompose, and are also injurious
 to health. Sugar and a small quantity of gum tragacauth are
 then added to the residue, which is ultimately solidified by the
 prolonged action of a constantly varied temperature. Unlike the
 preparations of milk already described, the solidified milk of M.
 Fadeuilhe does not require to be kept out of contact of air. It is
 sent into the market in paper wrappers.
     F. MEAT-BISCUITS.
     These may be regarded as the full developement and scien
 tific perfection of the pemican principle. Pemican is dried meat,
 thoroughly mixed with fat, sugar, or spice. Meat-biscuit consists
 of flour, baked with a solution of the nutritious ingredients of flesh,
    * A full description of the details of M. Mabru's process will be found in
Cosmos, Vol. v. p. 325 It was to the good offices of the Abb£ Moigno, the
learned editor of that journal, that Mr. Barlow was indebted for this specimen
of milk, as well as for the preserved provisions of M. Appert.
    t The small quantity of air necessarily intervening between the cork and
the surface of the milk in the bottle did not appear to have produced any
oft'ect.

1855.]          of Chemistry to the Preservation of Food.                   79
separated from its fibre. It will keep, when dry, for an unlimited
period. The Council-Medal, at the Great Exhibition of 1851, was
awarded to the meat-biscuit of Gail Borden. " Ten pounds of this
substance, with a proper allowance of water, afford, both in bulk
and nutriment, food sufficient to support the physical and mental
powers of a healthy working man for a month."*
   A specimen of this meat-biscuit was exhibited, as was also a
meat-cake prepared by M. Pouteau, of Bucharest, from flour and
the soluble constituents of beef. Each cake affords three good
meals, weighs 7i ounces, divided into three rations of 2$ ounces
each.!
   The combinations of Chocolate with milk paste or solidified milk,
respectively prepared by Messrs. Moore and Fadeuilhe, may be
regarded as an important supplement to this class of preserved
provisions. To these Dr. Beuce Jones has made a valuable addi
tion by his Extract of Tea. This extract, a specimen of which,
prepared in the laboratory of the Institution, was exhibited, is made
by evaporating a strong infusion of tea to dryness in a water-bath.
If intended for ready use in travelling, it should be well mixed
with twenty times its weight of sugar : a tea-spoonful of this pre
paration is sufficient to make a cup of tea.}
                                                                    [J. B.]
  * Reports of the Juries, p. 65.
  t O'Brien's Danubian Provinces, 2nd Edition.
  j In his " Report to the Hudson's Bay Company," Dr. Rae refers to one of
the islands, discovered in the expedition which he relates, having been named
Bence Jones, " after the distinguished medical man and analytical chemist
of that name, to whose kindness I and my party were much indebted for
having proposed the use and prepared some extract of tea for the expedition."
—Household Words, February 1855, p. 18.
   Mr. FARADAY brought before the Members a specimen of rolled
and laminated Aluminium from Dr. Percy. It had been prepared
by Mr. A. Dick, and was obtained by the direct action of sodium
on cryolite,—which being a fluoride of aluminium and sodium is by
more sodium resolved into aluminium and fluoride of sodium.
      VOL. II.

80                        General Monthly Meeting.                     [April 2,
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                Monday, April 2.
                       AARON ASHER GOLDSMID, Esq.
                                   in the Chair.
                       Eustace Anderson, Esq.
                       Andrew Whyte Barclay, M.D. and
                       Thomas Parry Woodcock, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    John Baily, Esq. Q.C.                John Dickinson, Esq.
    Charles Beevor, Esq.                  Rev. George Delgarno Hill.
    Henry Bradbury, Esq.                 Henry M. Noad, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
    A Special Vote of Thanks was returned to His Grace the
DUKE of NORTHUMBERLAND, the President, for his Present of a
magnificently bound copy of Rosellini's " Monument! dell' Egitto e
della Nubia," in nine volumes 8vo, with an Atlas of Plates in three
volumes folio.
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
 Members returned for the same.
    FROM
 Her Majesty's Government (through Sir H. De la Beche}—-Catalogue of Speci
     mens (at the Museum of Practical Geology) illustrative of the Composi
     tion and Manufacture of British Pottery and Porcelain. By Sir H. De la
     Beche and T. Ki-eks. 8vo. 18.r>5.
Actnarirs, Institute if— The Assurance Magazine. No. XIX. 8vo. 1855.
Anderson, \V. J. Esq. M.R.I, (the Aullior)—Continued Fever in Children.
      12mo. 1854.
Astronomical S.ideti/, Royal—Monthly Notices. V«l. XIV. and Vol. XV.
       No. 4. 8vo. 1855.
    Memoirs. Vol. XXIH. 4to. 1854.
 Bai/erisclie Ahadi'mir der HY.<a •nsrliaftrn, die Konigliche—Abhandlungen, Band
    VII. 2te Alitheilung. 4to. Munich, 1854.
       Bulletin fur 185/). 4to.
       Magnutische Orisbestimmuugen in Bayern. Vou Dr. J. Lamont. Theil I.
        8vo. 1854.
       Annalen der Koniglichen Sternwarte bei Munchen. Band VI. Von Dr.
        J. Lamont. 8vo. 1854.

1855.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                            81
Bradbury, Henry, Esq. M.R.I.—The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland. By
    T. Moore, F.L.S. Edited by J. Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.S. Part I. fol. 1855.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.— Pharmaceutical Journal, for March, 1855. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for March, 1855. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in March, 1855. 4to.
Civil Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings in March, 1855. 8vo.
East India Company, the Hon.—Catalogue of the Arabie, Persian, and Hin-
    dustany MSS. of the Libraries of the King of Oude. Compiled by A.
    Sprenger, M.D. Vol. I. 8vo. Calcutta, 1854.
   Glossary of Judicial and Revenue Terms, and of Useful Words occurring in
    Official Documents relating to the administration of the Government of
    British India. By H. H. Wilson, M.A. F.R.S. 4to. 1855.
Editors—The Medical Circular for March, 1855. 8vo.
   The Athenamm for March, 1855. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for April, 1855. 4to.
   The Mechanics' Magazine for April, 1855. 8vo.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting for April, 1855. 4to.
   Deutsches Athenaum fur MUrz, 1855. 4to.
Everest, Rev. K. M.A. (the Author)—Journey through the United States and
    part of Canada. 8vo. 1855.
   On Social Degradation. 8vo. 1855.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.It.S.—Monatsbericht der Kbnigl. Preuss.
    Akademie, January und February, 1855. 8vo. Berlin.
Graham, George, Esq. Registrar-General—Report of the Registrar-General for
   March, 1855. 8vo.
Greenwich Roi/al Observatory—Astronomical, Magnetical, and Meteorological
    Observations in 1853. 4to. 1855.
Irish Academy, the Royal—Memoirs, Vol. XXV. Part 5. 4to. 1855.
   Proceedings, Vol. VI. Parti. 8vo. 1854.
Northumberland, Duke of, K.G. F.R.S. President R.I.—I Monument! dell'
    Egittoe della Nubia dal Ippolito Rosellini. 9 vols. 8vo., and 3 vols. fol.
    Pisa, 1832-44.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher}—The Musical Times for March, 1855. 4to.
Photographic Society— Journal, No 28. 8vo. 1855.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. VII. Nos. 9, 10. 8vo. 1855.
Radcliffe Trustees, Oxford—Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe
    Observatory, Oxford, in 1852. 8vo. 1854.
Snow, John, M.D. (the Author) — On the Mode of communication of Cholera.
    8vo. 1855.
Society of Arts—Journal for March, 1855. 8vo.
Sykes, Col. F.R.S. (the Author)—Statistics of Nice Maritime. 8vo. 1855.
   On the Miniature Chaityas found in the Rnins of the Temple of Sarnith,
    near Benares. 8vo.
   Address at his Installation as Lord Rector of the University, Aberdeen. 8vo.
    1854.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S. M. R. I.—Magazine for the Blind, March, 1855. 4to.
 Webster, John, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.—General Reports of the Royal Hospitals
    of Bridewell and Bethlem, &c. for 1854. 8vo. 1855.

82                Mr. Huxley OH the Progressive            [April 2O,
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 20.
       WILLIAM ROBERT GROVE, Esq. M.A. Q.C. F.R.S.
                     Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     T. H. HUXLEY, Esq. F.R.S.
 On certain Zoological Arguments commonly adduced in favour of
   the hypothesis of the Progressive Development of Animal Life
   in Time.
WHEN the fact that fossilized animal forms are no lusus nature,
but are truly the remains of ancient living worlds, was once
fully admitted, it became a highly interesting problem to determine
what relation these ancient forms of life bore to those now in ex
istence.
   The general result of inquiries made in this direction is, that
the further we go back in time, the more different are the forms of
life from those which now inhabit the globe, though this rule is by
no means without exceptions. Admitting the difference, however,
the next question is, what is its amount? Now it appears, that
while the Palaeozoic species are probably always distinct from the
modern, and the genera are very commonly so, the orders are but
rarely different, and the great classes and sub-kingdoms never. In
all past time we find no animal about whose proper sub-kingdom,
whether that of the Protozoa, Radiata, Annulosa, Mollusca, and
 Vertebrata, there can be the slightest doubt ; and these great divi
sions are those which we have represented at the present day.
   In the same way, ifwe consider the Classes, e. g. Mammalia, Aves,
Insecta, Cephalopoda, Actinozoa, &c., we find absolutely no remains
which lead us to establish a class type distinct from those now
existing, and it is only when we descend to groups having the rank
of Orders that we meet with types which no longer possess any
living representatives. It is curious to remark again, that, notwith
standing the enormous lapse of time of which we possess authentic
records, the extinct ordinal types are exceedingly few, and more
than half of them belong to the same class—Reptilia.
   The extinct ordinal Reptilian types are those of the Pachypoda,
Pterodactyla, Enaliosauria, and Labyrinthodonta ; nor are we
at present acquainted with any other extinct order of Vertebrata.
Among the Annulosa (including in this division the Echinoder-

1855.]          Development of Animal Life in Time.                  83
        we find two extinct ordinal types only, the Trilobita and the
Cystidece.
   Among the MoUusca there is absolutely no extinct ordinal type ;
nor among the Radiata (Actinozoa and Hydrozoa) ; nor is there
any among the Protozoa.
   The naturalist who takes a wide view of fossil forms, in connec
tion with existing life, can hardly recognise in these results anything
but strong evidence in favour of the belief that a general uniformity
has prevailed among the operations of Nature, through all time of
which we have any record.
   Nevertheless, whatever the amount of the difference, and however
one may be inclined to estimate its value, there is no doubt that the
living beings of the past differed from those of the present period ;
and again, that those of each great epoch, have differed from those
which preceded, and from those which followed them. That there
has been a succession of living forms in time, in fact, is admitted by
all ; but to the inquiry—What is the law of that succession ? differ
ent answers are given ; one school affirming that the law is known,
the other that it is for the present undiscovered.
   According to the affirmative doctrine, commonly called the
theory of Progressive Development, the history of life, as a whole,
in the past, is analogous to the history of each individual life in the
present ; and as the law of progress of every living creature now,
is from a less perfect to a more perfect, from a less complex to
a more complex state—so the law of progress of living nature in
the past, was of the same nature ; and the earlier forms of life
were less complex, more embryonic, than the later. In the general
mind this theory finds ready acceptance, from its falling in with the
popular notion, that one of the lower animals, e. g. a fish, is a
higher one, e.g. a mammal, arrested in development ; that it is, as it
were, less trouble to make a fish than a mammal. But the speaker
pointed out the extreme fallacy of this notion ; the real law of
development being, that the progress of a higher animal in develop
ment is not through the forms of the lower, but through forms
which are common to both lower and higher : a fish, fur instance,
deviating as widely from the common Vertebrate plan as a
mammal.
   The Progression theory, however, after all, resolves itself very
nearly into a question of the structure of fish-tails. If, in fact, we
enumerate the oldest known undoubted animal remains, we find
them to be Graptolites, Lingulce, Phyllopoda, TrMobiles, and
 Cartilaginousfishes.
   The Graptolites, whether we regard them as Hydrozoa, Aiithozoa,
or Polyzoa, (and the recent discoveries of Mr. Logan would strongly
favour the opinion that they belong to the last division,) are cer
tainly in no respect embryonic forms. Nor have any traces of
Spongiadce or Foraminifera (creatures unquestionably far below
them in organization,) been yet found in the same or contempo

 84                     Mr. Huxley on the Progressive                   [April 20,
  raneous beds. LingulcE, again, are very aberrant Brachiopoda,
  in nowise comparable to the embryonic forms of any mollusk ;
  Phyllopods are the highest Entomostraca ; and the Hymenocaris
  vermicauda discovered by Mr. Salter in the Lingula beds, is closely
  allied toffebalia, the highest Phyllopod and that which approaches
  most nearly to the Podopttialmia. And just as Hymenocaris stands
  between the other Entomostraca and the Podopthalmia, so the
   Trilobita stand between the Entomostraca and the Edriaptlialmia.
  Nor can anything be less founded than the comparison of the Trilo
  bita with embryonic forms of Crustacea ; the early development of
  the ventral surface and its appendages being characteristic of the
  latter ; while it is precisely these parts which have not yet been
  discovered in the Trilobita, the dorsal surface, last formed in order
  of development, being extremely well developed.
     The Invertebrata of the earliest period, then, afford no ground
 for the Progressionist doctrine. Do the Yertebrata ?
     These are cartilaginous fish. Now Mr. Huxley pointed out that
 it is admitted on all sides that the brain, organs of sense, and re
 productive apparatus, are much more highly developed in these
 fishes than any others ; and he quoted the authority of Prof. Owen,*
 to the effect that no great weight, is to be placed upon the cartilagi
 nous nature of the skeleton as an embryonic character. There
 remained, therefore, only the heterocercality of the tail, upon which
 so much stress has been laid by Prof. Agassiz. The argument
 made use of by this philosopher may be thus shortly stated :—
 Ilomocercal fishes have in their embryonic state heterocercal tails ;
 therefore, heterocercality is, so far, a mark of an embryonic state as
 compared with homocercality ; and the earlier, heterocercal fish are
 embryonic as compared with the later, homocercal.
     The whole of this argument was based upon M. Vogt's examina
 tion of the development of the Coregonus, one of the Salmonidce ;
 the tail of Coregonus being found to pass through a so-called hetero
 cercal state in its passage to its perfect form.t For the argument
 to have any validity, however, two conditions are necessary.
 1. That the tails of the Salmonidee should be homocercal, in the
 same sense as Ihose of other homocercal fish. 2. That they should
 be really heterocercal, and not homocercal, in their earliest con
 dition. On examination, however, it turns out that neither of these
 conditions holds good. In the first place, the tails of the Salmonidre,
 and very probably of all the Physostomi are not homocercal at all,
but to all intents and purposes intensely heterocercal : the chorda
 dorsalis in the Salmon, for instance, stretching far into the upper
lobe of the tail. The wide difference of this (structure from true
homocercality is at once obvious, if the tails of the Salmonidee be
    * Lectures on the Comparative Anatomy of the Vertebrate, pp. 146-7.
    t Von Bur had already pointed out this circumstance in Ci/prinus, and the
relation of the foetal tail to the permanent condition in cartilaginous fishes.— See
his " Entwickelungsgeschichte dcr Fische," p. 36.

1855.]          Development of Animal Life in Time.                 85
compared with those of Scomber sc&mbrus, Gadus eeglefinus, &c.
In the latter, the tail is truly homocercal, the rays of the caudal fin
being arranged symmetrically above and below the axis of the spinal
column.
   All M. Vogt's evidence, therefore, goes to show merely that a
heterocercal fish is heterocercal at a given period of embryonic life ;
and in no way affects the truly homocercal fishes.
   In the second place, it appears to have been forgotten that, as
M. Vogt's own excellent observations abundantly demonstrate,
this heterocercal state of the tail is a comparatively late one in
Coregonus, and that, at first, the tail is perfectly symmetrical, i.e.
homocercal.
   In fact, all the evidence on fish development which we possess, is
to the effect that Homocercality is the younger, Heterocercality the
more advanced condition : a result which is diametrically opposed
to that which has so long passed current, but which is in perfect
accordance with the ordinary laws of development ; the asymmetri
cal being, as a rule, subsequent in the order of development to the
symmetrical.
   The speaker then concluded by observing that a careful consider
ation of the facts of Palaeontology seemed to lead to these results :
   1. That there is no real parallel between the successive forms
assumed in the development of the life of the individual at present,
and those which have appeared at different epochs in the past ; and
   2. That the particular argument supposed to be deduced from
the heterocercal ity of the ancient fishes is based on an error, the
evidence from this source, if worth anything, tending in the oppo
site direction.
   At the same time, while freely criticising what he considered to
be a fallacious doctrine, Mr. Huxley expressly disclaimed the
slightest intention of desiring to depreciate the brilliant services
which its original propounder had rendered to science.
                                                         [T. H. H.]
   A series of specimens of Aluminium, prepared by M. St. Claire
Deville, in Paris, were laid upon the Library table by Dr. Hofmann.
These specimens consisted of a medal, with the head of the Em
peror Napoleon III., two bars, a watch wheel, and a piece of
copper plated with Aluminium. A large piece of Tellurium, pre
pared by Dr. Lowe, of Vienna, was likewise exhibited by Dr.
Hofmann.

86                         Sir Charles Lyell                 [April 27,
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 27.
   THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, E.G. F.R.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
                     SIR CHARLES LVEI.I., F.R.S.
  On certain Trains of Erratic Blocks on the Western borders of
                     Massachusetts, United States.
Ox the western borders of the State of Massachusetts, in Berkshire,
and on the eastern confines of the adjoining State of New York, a
great number of erratic blocks are seen, remarkable for their large
size and their distribution in long parallel trains, each of them
continuous in nearly straight lines over hill and dale, for the dis
tance of five, ten, or twenty miles or more. These trains are of
geological interest, not only from their length, and the size of the
blocks, but also from the precision with which they can be traced
to their starting points, and the low latitudes in which these starting
points are situated. The area alluded to occurs in lat. 42° 25' south,
corresponding to that of the north of Portugal ; and the western
borders of Berkshire, where they join the State of New York, are
about 130 miles from the Atlantic coast, in a direction due west of
the city of Boston, in Massachusetts.
   In the accompanying plan, Fig. 1, it will be observed that the
mountain ranges ABC run N.N.E. and S.S.W., whereas the
trains of erratic blocks (from No. 1 to No. 7 inclusive,) have a
direction nearly transverse to these ranges, and consequently to the
intervening valleys, their direction being about N.W. and S.E.
In one sense we may affirm that the course of the stones has no
relation whatever to the present configuration of the country, be
cause the present drainage or flow of the rivers is quite in a different
direction ; but in another point of view we shall find that a close
relation can be made out between the actual inequalities of hill
and dale, and the course and mode of dispersion of the erratics ; so
that there is good reason to infer that the superficial inequalities
were very nearly what they are now, before any of the trains
originated.

  1855.]      on Trains of Erratic Blocks in Massachusetts.                   87
 Distance in a straight line between the mountain ranges A and C,
    about eight miles.
 Map, showing the relative position and direction of seven trains of erratic
   blocks in Berkshire, Massachusetts, and in part of the State of New York.*
   A. Canaan range, in the State of New York. The crest consists of green
chloritic rock.
   6. Richmond range (part of the Taconic range of Hitchcock ?) the western
division of which consists in Merriman's Mount of the same green rock as A,
but in a more schistose form, while the eastern division is composed of slaty
limestone.
   C. The Lenox 'range, consisting in part of mica-schist, and in some dis
tricts of crystalline limestone.
   * As the description of the trains could not be understood without a ground
plan, the above copy of a diagram, exhibited during the discourse, is thought
necessary ; but it makes no pretensions to geographical accuracy, the speaker
and his companion Prof. Hall having been unable to procure a good map of the
district, OD which to lay down in detail the results of their observations.

 88                             Sir Charles Lyell                     [April 27,
    d. Knob in the range A, from -which most of the train No. 6, is supposed to
 have been derived.
    e. Supposed starting point of the train No. 5, in the range A.
   /. Hiatus of 175 yards, or space without blocks.
    </. Sherman's House.
    It. Perry's Peak.
    A. Flat Rock.
    /. Merriman's Mount.
    in. Dupcy's Mount.
    n Largest block of train, No. 6.
   p. Point of divergence of part of the train No. 6, where a branch is sent off
 to No. 5.
    No. 1. The most southerly train examined by Messrs. Hall and Lyell,
 between Stockbridge and Richmond, composed of blocks of black slate, blue
 limestone, and some of the green Canaan rock, with here and there a boulder
of white quartz.
   No. 2. Train composed chiefly of large limestone masses, some of them
divided into two or more fragments, by natural joints.
   No. 3. Train composed of blocks of limestone and the green Canaan rock ;
passes south of the Richmond Station on the Albany and Boston railway ; is less
denned than Nos. 1 and 2.
    No 4. Train chiefly of limestone blocks, some of them 30 feet in diameter,
running to the north-west of the Richmond Station, and passing south of the
Methodist Meeting-house, where it is intersected by a railway cutting.
   No. 5. South train of Dr. Reid, composed entirely of large blocks of the
green chloritic Canaan rock ; passes north of the Old Richmond Meeting-house,
and is three-quarters of a mile north of the preceding train ( No. 4).
   No. 6. The great or principal train (north train of Dr. Reid), composed of
very large blocks of the Canaan rock, diverges at p, and unites by a branch
with train No. 5.
   No. 7. A well-defined train of limestone blocks, with a few of the Canaan
rock, traced from the Richmond to the slope of the Lenox range.
    Dr. Keid, the agriculturist of Berkshire, first called attention in
1842 and 1845 to these phenomena. Professor Hitchcock con
tributed many valuable observations in 1844, and Professors Henry
D. and William B. Rogers treated of the same subject in 1846.*
The district was re-examined in October 1852, by Professor J.
Hall and Sir Charles Lyell, by whom some of the data referred to
in this discourse were ascertained. Within the area particularly
referred to, the trains Nos. 5 and 6 are the most conspicuous, by
their length and by the magnitude and frequency of the blocks
composing them. These fragments consist of a green chloritic
rock, remarkably tough, sometimes compact, but occasionally
schistose. It is met with in place at d, in the highest crest of
the Canaan ridge, and reappears in its more slaty form in the
western division of the Richmond ridge B. at /, or Merriman's
Mount. It passes on the one hand into a quartzose conglomerate,
             * " Boston Journal of Natural History," for June 1846.

1855.]     on Trains of Erratic Blocks in Massachusetts.         89
and on the other, when most metamorphic, into a crystalline rock,
in which sometimes chlorite, sometimes hornblende and felspar are
developed. A large proportion of the green fragments, in trains 5
and 6, have evidently come from the ridge A, and a large propor
tion of the whole from its highest summit d, upon which fragments
often 30 feet in length may now be seen, some of them having
probably constituted for years the exposed crest of the ridge, and
having in that position acquired a smoothed and rounded outline so
characteristic of the protuberances of hard rock in regions where
erratics and glacial stride abound. Such dome-shaped masses
are called " roches moutonnees," on the borders of Swiss glaciers.
Several of the fragments having this shape, and lying on the crest
of A, have been slightly removed from their original position, as if
just ready to set out on their travels. They are angular in their
lower parts, where they exhibit such an outline as the jointed rock
would possess if a great fragment fell from an undermined cliff.
   To the westward of the ridge A no similar green blocks are to
be found, not even a small number, such as we might have expected
to roll down to the base of a hill having so steep a western decli
vity. It is evident, therefore, that the propelling power, whatever
it was, acted exclusively in a south-easterly direction.
   Dr. Reid has traced the train No. 5 for more than ten, and
No. 6 for more than twenty miles to the south-east, crossing the
Kichmond and Lenox mountains B and C, and probably extending
beyond the points to which they have already been followed. Messrs.
Hall and Lyell found both trains extremely well-defined after they
emerge from the Richmond range, but by no means so distinct in
their passage over the first valley between A and B. A great
number of blocks have collected at the base of d, Fig. 1, or the
highest knob before alluded to of A, particularly around g, or
Sherman's House. From this point to the Richmond range, a
nearly continuous stream may be traced, and the blocks are seen to
pass through a gap or depression, in the eastern division of the
ridge B, between Flat Rock and Merriman's Mount, k and /. But
when we attempt to follow the other train, No. 5, from its supposed
point of origin e, (a spot about half a mile distant from */ before
alluded to,) we find at /an hiatus, not less than 175 yards long,
where there are no erratics. This break is not caused by the stones
having been used up for building, no such materials being obser
vable in the walls enclosing fields, or in the farm-houses in the
neighbourhood. A vast number of blocks seem to have crossed the
valley in a direct line between A and B, and to have accumulated
on the north-western slope of Merriman's Mount /, as well as to
the south of it, around Dupey's Mount /// ; and they seem to have
crossed the Richmond ridge by depressions both to the north and
south of Dupey's Mount, those to the north proceeding westward
to join the train No. 6. The number of large blocks lying on the
west slope of Dupey's Mount, and many of them to the south of

90                         Sir Charles Lyell                  [April 27,
the line which would connect the southern train, No. 5, with its
supposed starting point e, is very great. One of these, 24 feet long,
is poised upon another which is about 19 feet in length. The
largest of all, composed like the rest of the green Canaan rock, lies
on the west flank of Dupey's Mount, and is called " the Alderman."
Dr. Reid measured it, and ascertained that it is above 90 feet in
diameter, and not much under 300 feet in circumference. At some
 points about 40 or 50 blocks, the smallest of them larger than a
camel, may be seen at once. Among the larger masses the best
 known, in consequence of its proximity to the Richmond Meeting
house, belongs to train No. 6, and is that marked n on the plan,
Fig. 1. According to the measurement of Messrs. Hall and Lyell it
is 52 feet long, by 40 in width, its height above the drift in which it
is partially buried being 15 feet. At the distance of several yards
 occurs a smaller block, three or four feet in height, 20 feet long, and
 14 broad, composed of the same compact chloritic rock, and evidently
a detached fragment from the bigger mass, to the lower and angular
part of which it would fit on exactly. This erratic (») has a regu
larly rounded top, worn and smoothed like the roches moutonnees
before mentioned, but no part of the attrition can have occurred
since it left its parent rock, the angles of the lower portion being
 quite sharp and unblunted.
   After the two great trains, Nos. 5 and 6, have crossed the ridge
 B, and entered the Richmond valley, which is about four miles
 broad, and about 800 feet deep below the crests of A and B, each
train is exceedingly well defined. They are about half a mile
apart, the train No. 6 varying in width from 100 to 300 feet, the
space intervening between them usually very free from erratics, but
 here and there a solitary large straggler being visible. At one
point/?, Fig. 1, part of the train No. 6 diverges and forms a branch
uniting with No. 5.
   The average size of the blocks of all the seven trains laid down
on the plan lessens sensibly in proportion as we recede from their
point of departure, yet not with any regularity, a huge block recur
ring here and there in the midst of a train of smaller ones. Many
which have wandered farthest from their parent rock retain their
angles extremely fresh and sharp. Almost everywhere beneath
the trains is a deposit of sand, mud, gravel, and stones, for the
most part unstratified, and resembling the " northern drift " of
Great Britain and parts of the north of Europe. It varies in
thickness from 10 to 50 feet, being of greatest depth in the valleys.
The uppermost portion is occasionally, though rarely, stratified ; and
where stratification occurs, it seems as if the mass first thrown down
had been acted upon by currents, and partially rearranged. This
drift has been well exposed in some recent railway cuttings, where
it is occasionally seen to be 20 or 30 feet thick, immediately under
several of the trains before alluded to. The stones in general are
more rounded than the erraticsal ready described ; occasionally some

1855.]       on Trains of Erratic Blocks in Massachusetts.                 91
are seen with one or more flattened, smooth, striated, or farrowed
sides. They consist invariably, like the seven trains before men
tioned, of kinds of rock only met with in the region lying to the
north-west. In one cutting, the drift below the main train No. 6
is 30 feet thick, and contains one or two angular blocks of the
green Canaan rock, of considerable, but not of the largest size.
There are no appearances here or elsewhere warranting the conclu
sion that the trains owed their origin to the removal of an upper
portion of the covering of drift, the lighter materials having been
washed away, and the heavier made to stand out in relief. On the
contrary, the erratics of each train, whether large or small, look as
if they had dropped down over the linear spaces where they are
now strewed, on the surface of hill and valley, equally where the
drift is thickest, as where it is very .thin or wanting. As a rule,
 the drift contains no blocks of the first magnitude, although a
 few occur, and some of the biggest are partially buried in drift,
showing that the transport of the heavier, and of a certain portion
of the lighter materials, was contemporaneous.
    Almost in every place where the removal of the superficial
detritus has exposed the underlying rock, a polished, striated, and
 furrowed surface is seen, like that underneath the modern glaciers
 of the Alps. The direction of the rectilinear furrows or grooves
 has been proved by a multitude of observations, made by Professor
 Hitchcock in this and other adjoining parts of Massachusetts and
 New York, to be from N.W. to S.E, or similar to the course of the
 large erratics.* The same geologist has pointed out that such
 ridges as A B and C are smooth and furrowed, not only on their
 tops, but sometimes 100 or 200 feet below, on their north-western
 sides ; whereas, on their south-eastern declivities, if steep, there has
 been no such action, although these also are grooved and polished
 where their slope is gentle. The furrows, which are from an inch
 to a foot in depth, usually cross the strike of the highly inclined
 slates and slaty limestones at a considerable angle, and in such
 a manner as to demonstrate that the strata of the ridges A B and
 C, and of the intervening valleys, bent as they are into a series
 of anticlinal and synclinal folds, were already in their present
 position, and had even suffered aqueous denudation before the drift
 was thrown down upon them, and therefore long before the distri
 bution of the erratics above described had taken place.
    Although the trains, Nos. 5 and 6, are the most conspicuous,
 several of the others are well defined, and contain limestone blocks
 30 feet in diameter. Thus No. 7 was seen on the western flank of
 the Lenox range, and followed across the Richmond valley to the
 eastern side of the ridge B, where the limestone, which has supplied
 the travelled masses, is in situ. In like manner, Messrs. Hall
 and Lyell observed, half a mile south of Pittsfield, enormous
      * " Final Report on Geology of Massachusetts," p. 383, rt seq. 1841.

92                          Sir Charles Lyell                       [April 27,
blocks of mica-schist, from 30 to 50 feet in their longest diameter,
on the south-east side of the Lenox range C ; whereas no similar
fragments of mica-schist, whether large or small, are found in any
part of the Richmond valley, or on the ridge B, or indeed anywhere
between A and the Hudson river.
   Some boulders of white quartz rock, two or three feet in diameter,
make a part of almost every train, as well as of the subjacent drift,
and these may be traced to hills, between the Canaan ridge and the
Hudson river, where the Potsdam sandstone has been altered into
quartzite.
   Sir Charles then proceeded to explain his theory. He believes
that all the large erratics have been transported to the places they
now occupy by floating ice,—not by icebergs, nor by terrestrial
glaciers, but by coast-ice. The hypothesis of glaciers is out of the
question ; because, even if we could imagine that in lat. 42° 30' N.,
the ridges ABC, now only from 1000 to 2000 feet above the sea,
once rose, and that at a period, geologically speaking, very modern,
to such an elevation as to enable them to generate glaciers, still
such glaciers could not have descended from the higher regions in
one direction only. They would have radiated from a centre,
carrying as many blocks westward as eastward. Their course,
moreover, would have been principally S.S.W., or down the valleys
now separating the ridges, instead of being south-east, or almost at
right angles to the valleys. If, on the other hand, we assume that
the country was lower instead of higher, so as to have been sub
merged beneath the waters of a sea, in which icebergs floated
annually from arctic regions, these bergs might bring with them
gravel and stones of northern origin, but could not without the aid
of coast-ice become freighted with blocks derived from the very
region referred to in this discourse, (lat. 42° N.) The northern ice
might aid, by chilling the waters of the ocean, and increasing the
quantity of coast-ice in a low latitude, but it could do little more.
  N.W.
    Canaan.
        A
  Srn
            d, e Masses of floating ice carrying fragments of rock.
   Suppose the highest peaks of the ridges ABC, in the annexed dia
gram, to be alone above water, forming islands, and d e to be masses
of floating ice which drifted across the Canaan and Richmond
valleys, at a time when they were marine channels, separating islands,
or rather chains of islands, having a N.N.E. and S.S.W. direction.
A fragment of ice, such as d, freighted with a block from A, might
run aground, and add to the heap of erratics at the N.W. base of
the island B, or passing through a sound between B and the next

1855.]      on Trains of Erratic Blocks at Massachusetts.           93
island of the same group, might float on till it reached the channel
between B and C. Year after year two such exposed cliffs in the
Canaan range as rfand e (Fig. 1), undermined by the waves, might
serve as the points of departure of blocks, composing the trains
Kos. 5 and 6. It may be objected that oceanic currents could not
always have had the sarge direction ; this may be true, but during
a short season of the year when the ice was breaking up the pre
vailing current may have always run S.E.
   If it be asked why the blocks of each train are not more scattered,
especially when far from their source, it may be observed, that after
passing through sounds separating islands, they issued again from a
new and narrow starting point ; moreover, we must not exaggerate
the regularity of the trains, as their width is sometimes twice as
great in one place as in another ; and No. 6 sends off a branch at
p, which joins No. 5. There are also stragglers, or large blocks,
here and there in the spaces between the two trains. As to the dis
tance to which any given block would be carried, that must have
depended on a variety of circumstances ; such as the strength of the
current, the direction of the wind, the weight of the block, or the
quantity and draught of the ice attached to it. The smaller frag
ments would, on the whole, have the best chance of going farthest ;
because, in the first place, they were more numerous, and then being
lighter, they required less ice to float them, and would not ground
so readily on shoals, or if stranded, would be more easily started
again on their travels. Many of the blocks, which at first sight
seem to consist of single masses, are found, when examined, to be
made up of two, three, or more pieces, divided by natural joints.
 In case of a second removal by ice, one or more portions would
become detached and be drifted to different points further on.
 Whenever this happened the original size would be lessened, and
 the angularity of the block previously worn by the breakers would
 be restored, and this tendency to split may explain why some of the
 far-transported fragments remain so angular.
    In the ravine between Merriman's Mount and Flat Rock (A and I,
 Fig. 1), the erratics, instead of following a N.W. and S.E. course,
 run within 10 or 15 degrees west and east ; and Messrs. Hall and
 Lyell observed that the glacial furrows there on the exposed rocks
 below deviated in like manner from the normal direction, and were
 directed like the train of erratics nearly west and east. They were
 told that the like deflection, both of trains and furrows, was observ
 able where Nos. 5 and 6 cross the Lenox range ; and this deflection
 is so represented on the plan (Fig. 1); although the speaker had
 not an opportunity of verifying the fact. The direction of floating
 ice, when threading the sounds separating islands, would be governed
 by the shape of the land and the marine channels, and might be
 expected to differ from the direction of currents flowing in the
 open sea between chains of islands.
    Sir C. Lyell endeavoured in 1842, when explaining the origin of

 94                         Sir Charles Lyell                       [April 27,
 drift, boulders, and glacial furrows in the neighbourhood of the
 Falls of Niagara, both in Canada and in the State of New York,*
 to show that the whole region, with its elevated platforms and
 its valleys, had first gone down gradually, and had then been re-
 elevated during the glacial period. All geologists who are
 acquainted with Berkshire, Massachusetts, are agreed that the
 position of the erratics cannot be explained by the subsequent
 unequal elevation of the mountain ranges, as if B, for example, had
 been uplifted to a greater height than A, after the great boulders
 had been stranded on B. It is clear that the ridge B has inter
 cepted many erratics on its north-western side, as it would do now,
 if submerged, and the blocks have chiefly crossed through gaps
 or depressions in B. The glacial furrows also are such as would
 be made on the fixed rocks, after they had already assumed their
 actual position, and when the present hills and valleys existed.
    Although the principal mass of drift had accumulated before the
 trains, yet we see some of the biggest blocks partially buried in
 drift. This we might have expected, according to the hypothesis
above suggested, for coast-ice, such as forms annually in the Gulf
 of St. Lawrence and along the coast of Labrador, does not merely
 bear away great stones but also mud, sand, and gravel.
    The speaker exhibited a drawing of a large angular block of
 sandstone, about eight feet in diameter, which he and Mr. J . W.
 Dawson saw in 1852, stranded on the mud-flats near the mouth of
the Petitcodiac estuary, where it joins the Bay of Fundy, and where
 the water is salt. The ferrymen stated that this block was brought
down by ice three years before, from a cliff several miles up the
river. About the year 1850 much larger blocks of sandstone were
 removed by coast-ice from the base of a perpendicular cliff at the
South Joggins, in the Bay of Fundy, in salt water, and floated for
about half a mile, where they dropped or were grounded on one
side of the pier built for loading vessels with coal. The vessels being
thereby prevented from nearing the pier it was found necessary to
blast these ice-borne rocks, at low tide, with gunpowder. All this
occurred in latitude 46° N., corresponding to that of Bordeaux ; and
when we bear in mind that the Bay of Fundy opens towards the
south, and is therefore never invaded by icebergs, such as are
stranded occasionally near St. John's, Newfoundland, or such as are
annually drifted far to the south of the Bay of Fundy in the open
ocean, we may well imagine that, with a different configuration of
the land, coast-ice may once have exerted great power as far south
as the latitude of Berkshire. The buoyant power of sheets of
ice, even of moderate1 thickness, is so great that the magnitude of
erratics depends more on the dimensions of the fragments into
which rocks undermined by the sea happen to split, than on the
peculiar intensity of the frost in that region.
       * " Travels in North America," Vol. I., p. 99 ; and Vol. II., p. 48.

1855.]     on Trains of Erratic Blocks in Massachusetts.           95
   It has been objected to the theory of submergence that the great
train, No. 6, has climbed a part of the ridge B, higher than its
supposed starting point in A. But there are no exact barometrical
or trigonometrical data for this assertion. Messrs. Hall and Lyell
could only estimate roughly the relative heights of the knob d iu A,
and that of the pass between k and I in B, by means of a spirit-
level, as they stood on the Canaan knob. It appeared to them that
the gap in B, or the ravine between Merriman's Mount and Flat
Rock, is 50 or 100 feet below the highest crest of A, in which case
the objection falls to the ground. Some of the erratics of No. 6,
in the Richmond valley, have probably come from an elevated
point in Merriman's Mount, and therefore present no difficulty,
since that mount consists of the green chloritic rock, but others
have come from the Canaan ridge, and have crossed the ridge B, as
before stated. If it could be shown that some of these stones
repose on B, at points actually higher than the crest of A, the fact
would be important, but by no means inexplicable by the glacial
theory. Mr. C. Darwin has shown, that during the gradual subsi
dence and submergence of a coast situated in high latitudes, packed
ice with stones frozen into it is continually driven up on .the sea-
beach above high-water mark, and if the land be going down at the
rate of a few inches in a year, the boulders, by being simply kept
up to the sea level, will slowly climb up the hills higher and higher,
so that a ridge after sinking may, when it re-emerges, have stones
lodged upon it at levels above those of the lands from which the
same stones were derived.*
   The drift of Berkshire and of New England in general has a
great resemblance to the terminal moraines of glaciers, being un-
stratified and containing fragments of rock, some angular, others
rounded. But the proportion of rounded boulders is far more
 considerable in the drift than in an ordinary glacier moraine, in
 which last, as Mr. D. Sharp has lately shown in reference to
some Swiss glaciers, the rounded blocks are quite the exception
to the rule. Want of stratification is the natural result of the
melting of matter out of stationary ice, the light particles and the
heavy stones dropping down together, and no current of water
sorting the materials, and carrying those of less specific gravity to
greater distances. Stones frozen into coast-ice may have been
rounded, some by rivers, others by the waves of the sea. The
dearth of marine shells is sometimes urged as an argument against
the hypothesis of submergence beneath the sea, and it is certainly
strange that marine shells should be so rare in drift. They are,
however, extremely scarce in parts of New England, such as Ver
mont and Maine,where a few, nevertheless, do occasionally occur ; and
this holds good in Canada, as also in Ireland and other parts of the
North of Europe. As we cannot doubt that the formation accu-
         » C. Darwin, Gcol. Quart. Journ. Vol. VI., p. 315. 1848.
    VOL. II.                                                    H

  96                        Sir Charlet Lyell                   [April 27,
  mulated in certain cases under water, we are at liberty to assume
  the same in all others, where such an explanation will best accord
  with the facts.
     The Saxicava rugosa, Mya truncata, Natica clausa, and other recent
  species of mollusca, are common to the drift of North America and
  Europe, and constitute part of a fauna, characteristic of a climate
  somewhat colder than that of the latitudes where the fossils are
  now met with. The Caplan also, or Mallotus villosus, a fish swarm
  ing in the seas of Greenland, Labrador, and wherever ice abounds in
  the North Atlantic, is found fossil in clayey concretions or claystones,
  in the drift of Maine and Canada, as well as in Greenland. It
  appears that in the glacial period, as now, the isothermal lines, or
 rather the lines of equal winter temperature bent many degrees
  farther south on the west than on the east side of the Atlantic, so
 that the monuments of glacial action extend some eight or ten
 degrees farther south in North America than they do in Western
 Europe. Large erratics and glacial furrows are rare south of lati
 tude 48° or 50° in Europe, and are seldom seen south of 403 in
 North America ; but where mountain chains like the Alps or Hima
 laya have formed independent sources of cold, we find exceptions.
 In Madeira and the Canary Islands, between latitudes 283 and 33°
 N., Sir C. Lyell searched in vain for glacial striae, and other con
 comitant phenomena, although some of the 'mountains there are of
 great height. In the southern hemisphere all the manifestations
 of the agency of ice, which are wanting in the equatorial zone,
 reappear in full force, when we reach Chiloe, Patagonia, and Tierra
 del Fuego.
    If ice-islands, running aground on the bed of a sea or on a
 a coast, can smooth and furrow the subjacent floor of the ocean by
pushing before them or pressing down under them loose sand,
pebbles, and stones, the size of such islands is certamly sufficient to
afford as much friction and mechanical force as we require. Some
of them, measured in the southern hemisphere, exceed 10 miles
in diameter, and their height out of the water is from 100 to 200
feet, the mass of ice below being about eight times in volume that
rising above the sea-level ; if such masses when they run aground
are moving only at the rate of one or two miles an hour, their
momentum must be enormous.
    The area now subject to the action just alluded to in both hemi
spheres, is many times greater than that over which terrestrial
glaciers descend. In like manner, in the period of the " Northern
drift," the submarine were far more extensive than the supra-
marine glacial operations ; and since we have evidence of much sea
having been converted into land since the glacial period, we must
expect to find more space bearing the imprint of subaqueous ice
than of space exhibiting evidence of the movement of ice over dry
land.
   In conclusion, Sir C. Lyell observed, that as the great majority

  1 855.]    on Trains of Erratic Blocks in Massachusetts.             97
 of mankind live now as they have always lived, near the equator, or
 in countries not more than 25 degrees distant from it, they can
 never behold ice or snow. We may imagine, therefore, a nation to
 have made considerable progress in science without knowing any
 thing of the causes appealed to in this discourse. If such a people
 were told by travellers of the geological appearances above
 described, how great would be their perplexity ! They might at
 first ascribe the transport of erratics to floods of extraordinary
 violence, but they would scarcely be able to hazard a reasonable
 conjecture in regard to the coincidence between the direction of
 glacial furrows and that of the trains of erratics. A stone, not
held fast by ice, but merely pushed along in mud, could not scoop
 out a long rectilinear furrow, one inch, or sometimes a foot deep,
in a hard rock. Still more mysterious would be the discovery
of a connection between the former migration southwards of an
arctic fauna, and the conveyance of large erratics to the same
regions. If the glacial hypothesis afforded no more than a plausi
ble explanation of the association of so many distinct and indepen
dent classes of phenomena, it would deserve greater favour than
has been shown to it by some modern geologists. The inclination
evinced by many to introduce catastrophic action, as peculiarly
applicable to the case of drift, arises in a great degree from the
absence of stratification in drift. The usual geological proof of
successive accumulation, and of the lapse of time, is here want
ing ; hence the sudden uplifting and sinking of land, the dis
placement of the sea, and the raising of gigantic waves of
translation,"rolling over continents at the rate of fifty miles an hour,
accompanied by rapid gyrations of the marine fluid, have been
imagined. The rate of movement, suggested by the glacial hypo
thesis, is singularly opposed to these views. Blocks carried by
glaciers travel for centuries at an average rate of less than an inch
per hour, and those borne along by floating ice float a mile or a
mile and a half an hour. The observer of icebergs can seldom tell
whether their course be north or south, east or west. In like man
ner the submergence and re-emergence of land will best account for
the appearances above described7if the movement were slow, as now
in Greenland and Scandinavia ; in other words, if it be such as
would be insensible to any human inhabitant. Yet the power of
the machinery appealed to in both cases is equally vast ; for it must
be capable of uplifting and depressing continents, and removing
from place to place the great volume of superficial materials found
in the drift. The real difference of opinion consists in the amount
of time during which the force is supposed to have been developed.
                                                               [C. L.]
                                                           u 2
                                           :

98                          Annual Meeting.                        [May 1,
                       ANNUAL MEETING,
                             Tuesday, May 1.
    THE HIKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
    The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors was read, and
adopted.—It states that the Contributions from Members and An
 nual Subscribers in 1854 were very satisfactory, as well as the
 Receipts for attendance at the courses of Lectures. The General
 Income exceeded the Expenditure of the year by the sum of
 £795. 2s. 4d. ; and the Managers were enabled, in addition to the
 annual investment of the Accumulating Funds, amounting to
 £184. 10*. Id., to lay out £500 in the purchase of £3 per cent.
 Consols, and to buy an Exchequer Bill for £100.
    A List of Books Presented accompanies the Report, amounting
 in number to about 175 volumes, and making a total, with those
 purchased by the Managers and Patrons, of nearly 900 volumes
 (including Periodicals) added to the Library in the year.
    Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
 the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor Faraday,
 for their services to the Institution during the past year.
    The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
 for the ensuing year :—
        PRESIDENT—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
        TREASURER— William Pole, "Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
        SECRETARY—Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.
                                MANAGERS.
  William H. Blaauw, Esq. M.A. F.S.A.  Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. F.R.S.
  Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie, Bart.   Henry Bence Jones, M.D. F.R.S.
     D.C.L. F.R.S.                     George Macilwain, Esq.
  John Bate Cardale, Esq.              Right Hon. Baron Parke, M.A.
  Thomas Davidson, Esq.                John Percy, M.D. F.R.S.
  George Dodd, Esq. F.S.A.              Lieut.-Gen. Sir George Pollock,G.C.B.
  Sir Charles Fellows.                 Alfred S. Taylor, M.D. F.R.S.
  Aaron A sher Goldsmid, Esq.          Charles Wheatstone, Esq. F.R.S.

1855.]     Dr. Gladstone on Gunpowder, and its substitutes.             99
                                VISITORS.
Henry Browning, Esq.                  John Hicks, Esq.
John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.           John Holdship, Esq. M.A.
John Robert F. Burnett, Esq.          Octavius Morgan, Esq. M P. F.R.S.
Alexander Crichton, Esq.              Robert R. I. Morley, Esq.
Hugh W. Diamond, M.D. F.S.A.         John North, Esq.
Edward M. Fox 1ml 1, Esq.            Rev. Cyril W. Page.
Thomson Hankey, jun. Esq. M.P.       Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S.
Admiral Sir T. Herbert. K.C.B. M.P.
   The President nominated the following Vice-Presidents for the
ensuing year : —The Treasurer, the Secretary, Sir B. C. Brodie,
Bart., Sir Charles Fellows, Bart., Sir Henry Holland, Bart., Right
Hon. Baron Parke, and Sir George Pollock, G.C.B.
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 4.
      SIR CHAKLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
              DR. J. II. GLADSTONE, F.K.S. M.R.I.
                   On Gunpowder, and its substitutes.
THE object of the speaker was to return an answer to a question
which had of late been frequently proposed to him, and no doubt
to other chemists also :—" Cannot you now invent something much
better than gunpowder ? Are not some of your fulminating com
pounds much more powerful ? Why should we still be using a
substance which was discovered long before chemistry was a
science ? " Dr. Gladstone stated that some of his friends had
considered him peculiarly qualified to give a reply to the query,
since he had analyzed in turn the most terrible explosives with
which modern science has made us acquainted ; yet he confessed he
laboured under a disadvantage in having no practical acquaintance
with gunnery, nor even with those experiments by which the pro
pulsive force of different explosives is tested. He could give no
categorical answer to the proposed inquiry. He could point to no
substance, and say of it—" For use in fire-arms this is decidedly
superior to gunpowder ;" nor was he willing to say—" No ; it is
beyond the power of our science to invent anything better." He
was desirous of laying before the audience some of the principles
upon which a judgment might be formed ; of indicating the manner
of investigation, as much as the results already arrived at.

100                      Dr. J. H. Gladstone                   [May 4,
   In so doing he glanced first, in a cursory manner, at the various
kinds of explosives with which chemists are acquainted. Any great
and sudden increase of volume may give rise to the phenomena
designated explosion ; but such great and sudden increase never
takes place by the mere dilatation of a solid or liquid body : it is
always necessary that gases should be formed. The simplest form
of explosion is when a liquid is suddenly converted into a gas either
by the removal of pressure, or by the bursting of the vessel in which
it was contained, as illustrated by the common " candle-cracker."
The enormous expansion of a gas by the removal of pressure is
taken advantage of for the projection of missiles in the air-gun,
and in Perkins's steam-gun. In these cases there is no chemical
change ; but usually an explosion is the result of a rapid chemical
action between the different constituents of a mixture, or chemical
compound, by which substances are produced that occupy a very
much larger space than the original combination did. Such an
explosion is always attended with heat, and generally with light and
noise. The substance exploded may be a mixture of two or more
gases : for instance, if the fire-damp of the mines be set fire to in
the air, it burns quietly with a luminous flame ; if, however, it be
previously mixed with air, on being ignited the flame passes instantly
throughout the whole mass ; and if mixed with twice its volume of
oxygen, this takes place with great violence, and a loud report.
One atom of the carburetted hydrogen combines with four atoms
of oxygen, to form carbonic acid and water. In this case, however,
the gases produced by the explosion would actually have occupied
less space than the original mixed gases, and a positive contraction
would have ensued, had it not been for the high temperature at
which they were formed. In order to obtain very great expansion
we must not start with a gaseous mixture. Solid or liquid oxygen
is a desideratum, but it can be procured in that condition only when
in a state of combination. There are several salts which contain a
large quantity ofthis element, and which give it up with great facility
—the nitrates and chlorates of potash or soda, for instance ; and these
salts contain also another element, which when free assumes a gaseous
 condition, even at ordinary temperatures.
   Dr. Gladstone then proceeded to show the violent combustion
that ensued when wood was thrown into one of th6se salts in a fused
condition, and to demonstrate the still greater effects that resulted
when the salt and the combustible had been previously mixed. He
then rapidly described the manufacture of gunpowder from nitre,
charcoal, and sulphur, and the different proportions of the three
ingredients that are employed in different countries. In exploding,
gunpowder produces carbonic acid and nitrogen gases, and sulphuret
of potassium, which is also dissipated by the great heat evolved, and
if it reach the air is converted into sulphate of potash, giving rise
to the white smoke that follows the explosion. Beside these gases
some others are always produced in small and varying quantity.

 1855.]           on Gunpowder, and its substitutes.               101
 By burning a fuse under water these gases were exhibited. It is
 supposed that, at the moment of explosion, the heated gases occupy
 fully two thousand times the volume of the original powder. By
 mixing different combustibles with nitre various effects may be
 produced on explosion ; sometimes the light, sometimes the heajt,
 and sometimes the noise being the most remarkable. When nitre
 was an article of scarcity in France, the French chemists made
 many experiments with a mixture of chlorate of potash, charcoal,
 and sulphur; but this compound, though a good explosive, has
 several disadvantages, which have prevented its ever coming into
 extensive use. A white gunpowder has more recently been pre
pared by mixing chlorate of potash with yellow prussiate of potash
and sugar.
    The explosives hitherto described are all mixtures. There exist
 substances which contain all the elements of combustion within
 themselves, and which require only a slight elevation of temperature,
 or a smart blow, to alter their state of chemical combination, and
suddenly to produce gaseous bodies in large quantity. Pre-eminent
 among these is Gun-cotton : a substance formed by immersing
 cotton in a mixture of nitric and sulphuric acids. It is generally
allowed now that this compound consists of lignine, C^ HM Oa>, in
which a portion of the hydrogen has been replaced by NO4; differ
ence of opinion exists as to the amount so displaced, but Dr. Glad
stone had found it to be five atoms in the most explosive gun-
cotton, three in that of inferior quality, which he designated cotton-
xyloidine. The most explosive compound produces a sudden flash,
but no smoke or loud noise, and leaves no residue whatever. Hy
drocyanic acid is among the resulting gases.—Nitroglycerine, a
liquid produced in a similar manner from glycerine, is of so explo
sive a nature, that if a single drop be struck by a hammer on an
anvil it gives rise to a deafening report. Its composition is C« Hs 3
(NO4) O«. Similar to this is nitromannite, which also explodes on
percussion. Several other simple nitric acid substitution products are
also capable of explosion ; and so are certain salts of organic acids,
which are analogous in their constitution ; for instance, carbazotate
of potash. Fulminating mercury and silver are also salts of an
organic acid, the fulminic, which contains both oxygen and nitrogen.
They explode, as is well known, by percussion, and with extreme
violence. There are, however, certain detonating compounds,
which contain no oxygen, nor any other supporter of combustion,
but which are easily caused to undergo an internal change, and to
resolve themselves into gaseous products. The most remarkable of
these are certain substitution products of ammonia—the so-called
ammoniurets of gold and other noble metals, and the so-called
iodide and chloride of nitrogen. The iodide is a black powder,
which when dry will explode on the slightest touch of a hard sub
stance, and even sometimes by a sudden concussion of the air near
it. Its composition had been examined by the speaker, and found

 102                      Dr. J. It. Gladttone                 [May 4,
 to be always N H I,. The chloride is a still more dangerous sub
 stance, since it explodes with the greatest facility under water. It
 is an oily liquid, discovered simultaneously in 1811, by M. Dulong,
 in France, and by a young English chemist, Mr. Burton, of Ton-
 bridge. Dr. Gladstone's analyses gave as its composition N, H Cls.
    The qualities requisite to render an explosive practically useful
 were then considered. This depends, of course, upon the purpose
 to which the explosive is to be applied. If it be merely for the
 production of ail instantaneous flame in order to ignite some other
 body, those compounds which are exploded by percussion have a
 great advantage. —Percussion caps of various kinds were exhibited
—those intended for muskets being filled with a mixture of equal
parts of fulminating mercury and chlorate of potash, fixed by a
 varnish ; those made use of for cannon, being charged with two
parts of chlorate of potash, two of native sulphuret of antimony,
and one of powdered glass, which last appears to be practically a
beneficial ingredient, although it takes no part in the chemical
action. Caps made of fulminating mercury and collodion, bronzed
over, were also shown.—Explosives, however, are generally intended
for the projection of missiles, or for blasting. For either of these
purposes propulsive force is the grand requisite. Now most of the
compounds previously described explode too rapidly, and produce a
very powerful local effect. If employed in fire-arms they would
tear or strain the gun, and not propel the ball any great distance.
Gunpowder, if tightly compressed, <is in a fuse, or a port-fire, burns
comparatively slowly ; the necessary r:\pidity of explosion is given
to it by granulation ; and this can be modified according as the
different purposes for which it is manufactured require. Supposing
an explosive to have the necessary propulsive power, a very important
quality is safety—safety in the process of manufacture, and in its
subsequent keeping and handling. This practically excludes the
use of all those compounds which are exploded by a blow. Gun
powder requires a temperature of 600° Fah. to ignite it ; and this
gives it a great advantage over gun-cotton, which is fired by a heat
not much exceeding that of boiling water. — The comparative diffi
culty of exploding gunpowder was exhibited by setting fire to some
ether round about a portion of it, which remained unaffected in the
middle of the large flame ; and by igniting a piece of gun-cotton
without firing the little heap of powder on which it rested. Gun
powder may even be sprinkled on the top of gun-cotton, and the
latter may be exploded, and cause the scattering of the black grains
unaltered.—It is a desideratum that the explosive should not be
injured by wetting. In this respect gunpowder fails, while gun-
cotton, and several of the substances previously mentioned, suffer
no injury by being soaked in water and dried again. Good gun
powder, however, is not materially affected by the ordinary damp
of the atmosphere. Nitrate of soda, though it contains a much
larger amount by weight of gas-forming constituents, cannot be

1855.]           wi Gunpowder, and its substitutes.                103
substituted for nitrate of potash in the manufacture of gunpowder,
partly because the resulting mixture is hygroscopic.—The complete
combustion of an explosive is another desideratum. In firing
cannon, a considerable portion of the charge of gunpowder is
always lost, by being blown out unburnt ; but this is the case to
a much greater extent with gun-cotton, as was experimentally
demonstrated. It is important also in respect to fire-arms that the
products of combustion should not foul or corrode the piece.
Gunpowder leaves a considerable residuum, which has to be sponged
out afterwards, but it is an alkaline salt, and has little effect upon
metal. Gun-cotton, on the contrary, leaves no residuum ; but the
piece remains filled with the highly corrosive red nitrous fumes
which have an acid reaction. Cheapness is, of course, an im
portant element in comparing the practical value of different
explosives ; but the calculation must be made not according to
the weight, but according to the propulsive force of the various
substances.
   This review of the qualities requisite in an explosive shows that
gunpowder is admirably suited to such a purpose, on account of
its great propulsive power with little local strain, its great safely,
both in manufacture and in use, and its cheapness. It has two dis
advantages ; its being spoilt if wetted, and its leaving after ex
plosion a quantity of solid matter. It is evident, that most of the
fearfully explosive substances, with which chemistry has made us
acquainted, are perfectly inapplicable to the projection of balls.
Mixtures containing chlorate of potash, though good in some respects,
are dangerous. Gun-cotton is the only substance that 'puts forth just
now any great pretensions, as a substitute for gunpowder ; its pro
 pulsive force is somewhere about three times that of an equal
 weight of powder, and it has some other advantages, coupled however
 with serious disadvantages. The Austrian government has lately
 put it very fully to the test of experiment ; and that they have been
 to some extent satisfied of its value, is attested by the fact, that a
 considerable number of cannon, of great thickness of metal about the
 breach, have been formed expressly with the object of employing it.
   It is said to be a modification of gun-cotton which is used ;
and the speaker thought it most probably was either a lower
substitution product of cotton, or a mixture of ordinary gun-cotton
with some other substance. In England, experiments have some
times been made with this material, and it is said to have been
employed with advantage for filling shells at the siege of Moultan ;
but on account of the many accidents that have occurred with it, it
finds little favour at present with our military authorities.
    Dr. Gladstone concluded, by stating, that though he considered
war under any circumstances to be a fearful evil, yet he wished he
could point out a still more efficient explosive than gunpowder ;
 for he believed that to render war a more certain game tended to
indispose men to engage in it. He was glad to be able to state,

104                       General Monthly Meeting.                   [May 7,
that the Government had lately organized the means of examining
the merits of every suggested improvement, and that the appointed
parties were now actively engaged in the investigation. At present
there appear two improvements in the art of war, in which chemical
science may be of service : the one in making shells, which shall
burst upon striking—about which there is no chemical difficulty ;
the other in charging shells with substances that will give forth
quantities of poisonous gas ; a subject which has lately attracted
much attention. It is to be hoped, that not only mechanical, but
also chemical science, will soon furnish us with improvements on
the present means of carrying on the war in which we are now
engaged.
                                                                [J. H.G.]
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                Monday, May 7.
    THE DUKE OF NOKTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                   iu the Chair.
                             George Ade, Esq., and
                             "William Stuart, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                        Andrew Whyte Barclay, M.D.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
   The following Professors were unanimously re-elected :—
   WILLIAM THOMAS BRAKDE, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. L. & E , as
Honorary Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution.
   JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S., as Professor of Natural
Philosophy in the Royal Institution.
   The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same : —
  FROM
Allies, T1ictnas W. £sg. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author}— St. Peter, his Name, and
     his Office, as set forth in the Holy Scriptures. 8vo. 1852.
  Journal in France, in 1845 and 1848 ; with Letters from Italy, in 1847.
     12mo. IS49.
  The Royal Supremacy, viewed in reference to the two Spiritual Powers of
     Order and Jurisdiction. 8vo. 1850.

1855.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                              105
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 245. 8vo. 1854.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XV. No. 5. 8vo. 1855.
Sell, Jacob, Esq. M.K.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for April, 1855. 8vo.
Soosci/, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for April, 1855. 4to.
Bradbury, Henri/, Esq. M.K.I. -The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland. By
    T. Moore, F'.L.S. Edited by J. Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.S. Part 2. Fol. 1855.
Iiritish Architects, Royal Institute of— Proceedings in April, 1855. 4to.
Chemical Society— Quarterly Journal. No. 29. 8vo. 1855.
Civil Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings in April, 1855. 8vo.
East India Company, the Hon.—Rig-Veda-Sanhit£. Ancient Hindu Hymns.
      Translated by H. H. Wilson, M.A. F.R.S. 2 vols. 8vo. 1850-4.
   Magnetical and Meteorological Observations at Bombay, in 1851. 4to.
      1854.
Editors—The Medical Circular for April, 1855. 8vo.
   The Athenaeum for April, 1855. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for May, 1855. 4to.
   The Mechanics' Magazine for April, 1855. 8vo.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting for April, 1855. 4to.
   Deutsches AthenUum for April, 1855. 4to.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S. (the Author)—Experimental Researches in
     Electricity. Vol. III. 8vo. 1855.
   Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie, MHrz, 1855. 8vo. Berlin.
Frost, Charles, Esq. F S.A. (the Author) —Notices relative to the Early His
      tory of Hull. 4to. 1827.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania— Journal, Vol. XXIX. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1855.
Graham, George., Esq. Registrar-General—Report of the Registrar-General for
    April, 1855. 8vo.
Highley, Mr. (the Publisher)—Quarterly Journal of Public Health, and Trans
      actions of the Epidemiological Society of London. No. 1. 8vo. 1855.
Hood, Charles, Esq. F.R.S. (the Author}—A Practical Treatise on Warming
      Buildings by Hot Water ; on Ventilation, &c. 8vo. 1855.
King, Arthur J. Esq. (the Author)— How to learn Latin : or Artificial Memory
      applied to Latin Words. 12mo. 1855.
Madras Literary Society—Madras Journal. Nos. 10, 11. 8yo. 1836.
   Barometrical Section's of India. By E. Balfour. fol. 1853.1
Nowllo, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for April, 1855. 4to.
Percy, John, M.D. F.K.S. M.R.I, (the Author) —Experimental Inquiry con
      cerning the presence of Alcohol in the Ventricles of the Brain, after poison
      ing by that liquid. 8vo. 1839.
Perigat, H. jnn. Esq. (the Author)—Perigal's Contributions to Kinematics,
      Bicircloids, &c. m six sheets. 1854.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 29. 8vo. 1855.
Prince, C. Leeson, Esq. (the Author)—Results of a Meteorological Journal
      kept at Uckfield, Sussex, in 1854. Sheet.
Society if Arts—Journal for April, 1855. 8vo.
Taylor, Kev. W. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Magazine for the Blind, April, 1855. 4to.
   Wegweiser zur Bildungfur Deutsche Lehrer. Von Adolph Diestcrweg.
      2 vols. Essen, 1849-50.
 Vereins zur Beflirderung desGcwerbfleisses in Preussen.—Verhandlungen, Jan. und
      Feb., 1855. 4to. Berlin.
 \Veale, John, Esq. (the Publisher)—Rudimentary Treatises. 12mo. :—
      Manual of the Mollusca. By S. P. Woodward. Part II. 1804.
      Art of Photography. By Dr. G. C. Halleur. 1854.
      Form of Ships and Boats. By W. Bland. 1852.
      Arithmetie, and Key. By J. R. Young. 1853-4.
   Educational Series. 12mo.
      History of England. By W. D. Hamilton. Vols. III. and IV. 1854-5.
      History of Greece. By W. D. Hamilton and E. Lieven. 2 vols. 1854.
      History of Rome. By E. Lieven. Vol.1. 1854.

    106                          Mr. Henry Bradbury                 [May 11,
    Wade, Jo/m, Esq.(tlie Publisher}—Educational Series. 12mo. : —
         Chronology of History, Art, and Literature. Vol.1. 1854.
         Dictionary of the English Language. By Hyde Clarke. 1855.
         Grammar of the Greek Language. By H. C. Hamilton. 1854.
         Lexicon of the Greek Language. By H. R. Hamilton. Part II. 1853.
         English-Greek Lexicon. By H. R Hamilton. Part I. 1855.
         Grammar of the Latin Tongue. By T. Goodwin. 1854.
         Latin-English Dictionary. By T. Goodwin. 1855.
         French-English, and English-French Dictionary. By A. Elwes. 2 Parts.
             1854-5.
         Italian-English-French Dictionary. By A. Elwes. PartI. 1855.
         Spanish-English, and English-Spanish Dictionary. By A. Elwes. 1854.
         Hebrew and English Dictionary and Grammar. By M. H. Bresslau. 1 855.
       Classical Series. 12mo. (Edited by H. Young.)
         Greek Delectus. 1854.
         Xenophon's Anabasis. 2 vols. 1854-5.
         Select Dialogues of Lucian. 1855.
         Latin Delectus. 1854.
         < ';i's;ir's Commentaries. 1854.
         Cornelius Nepos. 1855.
         Virgil. Part I. 1855.
                        WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                    Friday, May 11.
*"-   '*
      "*' Sm CHAKLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
       X
                            HENRY BRADBURY, Esq. M.R.I.
                                  On Nature-Printing.
   THE Art of Nature-Printing is a method of producing impressions
   of plants and other natural objects, in a manner so truthful that
   only a close inspection reveals the fact of their being copies. So
    distinctly sensible to the touch are the impressions, that it is difficult
    to persuade those unacquainted with the manipulation, that they are
   the production of the printing-press. The process, in its applica
   tion to the reproduction of botanical subjects, represents the size,
    form, and colour of the plant, and all its most minute details, even
    to the smallest fibre of the roots.
        The distinguishing feature of the process, compared with other
    modes of producing engraved surfaces for printing purposes, con
   sists, firstly, in impressing natural objects—such as plants, mosses,
   seaweeds, feathers, and embroideries—into plates of metal, causing
   as it were the objects to engrave themselves by pressure ; and
   secondly, in being able to take such casts or copies of the impressed
   plates as can be printed from at the ordinary copperplate-press.

1855.]                      on Nature-Printing.                      107
    This secures, on the one hand, a perfect representation of the
characteristic outline of the plant, as well as that of some of the
other external marks by which a plant is known, and even in
some measure its structure, 'as for instance in the venation of
ferns, and the leaves of flowering plants ; and on the other, affords
the means of multiplying copies in a quick and easy manner, at a
trifling expense compared to the result obtained—and to an
unlimited extent.
    The great defect of all pictorial representations of botanical
figures has consisted in the inability of art to represent faithfully
those minute peculiarities by which natural objects are often best
distinguished. Nature-Printing has therefore come to the aid of
this branch of science in particular, whilst its future development
promises facilities for copying other objects of nature, the reproduc
tion of which is not within the province of the human hand to
execute ; and even were it possible, it would involve an amount of
labour scarcely adequate to the results obtained.
    Although considered for some years past in various parts of
Europe as a new art, the idea is by no means so recent as is supposed :
much less is there ground for the Austrians to assert their exclusive
right to the priority of the invention, merely on account of the first
application of the process in its fullest extent in the Imperial Print-
ing-Office at Vienna.
    Councillor Auer * has not only done this, but he has claimed for
Nature-Printing a position to which it has no right : he has com
pared it to the invention of writing and the art of printing ; more
over, he has placed it on an equality with the Galvanoplastics of
Jacobi and Spencer, and the Daguerreotype of Daguerre. Valuable
 as are the results of Nature-Printing, it still has its defects ; it has
 its limits, and its applications are limited, and care will be required
 to confine it within the bounds of its capabilities.
    That an establishment, so renowned for its productions as that at
 Vienna, unlimited in its command of the resources of science and
 mechanism, should have been the first to bring any invention con
 nected with printing to a practical state of perfection, is not matter
 to create surprise ; but that it should, in the most unqualified
 manner, in the name and on the authority of its chief director, claim
 all the honour of the discovery, is a point that is open to question,
 and in point of fact is questioned by several private individuals,
 who, for want of those unlimited resources and opportunities which
 only government establishments are able to command, were unable
 to crown their experiments with practical results.
     Nature-Printing is nothing more than an application of facts
 worked out by various persons, in different countries, under very
 different circumstances, and at very different periods ; and by tracing
    * Vide Denkschriften der Kais. Akademie, Wien ; Math.-Nat. Classe.
 Band V., p. 107 (illustrated by many plates).

 108                     Mr. Henry Bradbury                        [May 1 1 ,
out its history, and detailing the earlier experiments connected with
it, Mr. Bradbury hoped to show that he did not put forward per
sonally any claim either to its origin or to its first application ; but,
that he spoke as one wno, having perceived its value, was desirous
to render it an available auxiliary to the printing-press.
    Nature herself, in her mysterious operations, seems to have given
 the first hint upon the subject : witness the impressions of Ferns so
 beautifully and accurately to be seen in the coal-formations.
    Experiments to print direct from nature were made as far back
as about two hundred and fifty years —it is certain that the present
 success of the art is mainly attributable to the general advance of
 science, and the perfection to which it has been brought in par
 ticular instances.
    On account of the great expense attending the production of
 woodcuts of plants in early times, many naturalists suggested the
 possibility of making direct use of nature herself as a copyist. In
 the Book of Art, of Alexis Pedemontanus, (printed in the year
 1572,) and translated into German by Wecker, may be found the
first recorded hint as to taking impressions of plants.
    At a later period—in the Journal des Voyages, by M. de Mon-
 coys, in 1650, it is mentioned that one Welkenstein, a Dane, gave
 instruction in making impressions of plants.
    The process adopted to produce impressions of plants at this
 period, consisted in laying out flat and drying* the plants. By
 holding them over the smoke of a candle, or an oil lamp, they
 became blackened in an equal manner all over ; and by being
placed between two soft leaves of paper, and by being rubbed down
with a smoothing-bone, the soot was imparted to the paper, and
the impression of the veins and fibres was so transferred.
    Linnaeus, in his Philosophia Botanica, relates that in America, in
 1707, one Hessel made impressions of plants ; and between 1728 and
 1757, Professor Kniphof, at Erfurt, who refers to the experiments of
Hessel, in conjunction with the bookseller Fiinke, established a
printing-office for the purpose. He produced a work entitled Her
barium Vivum [a copy of which was laid before the Members].
The range and extent of his work, twelve folio volumes, and con
taining 1200 plates, corroborates the curious fact of a printing-office
being required. These impressions were obtained in a manner very
similar, but with the substitution of printer's ink for lamp-black,
and flat pressure for the smoothing-bone. A new feature at this
time was introduced—that of colouring the impressions by hand,
according to Nature— a proceeding which though certainly con-
   * Although the plants were dried in even- case, Mr. Bradbury stated, that
it was by no means absolutely necessary, as he proved by the simple experi
ment of applying lamp-black or printer's ink to a fresh leaf, and producing a
successful impression.

  1855.]                  on Nature-Printing.                         109
 tributing to the beauty and fidelity of the effect, yet had the dis
 advantage of frequently rendering indistinct, and even sometimes
 totally obliterating, the tender structure and finer veins and fibres.
 Many persons at the time objected to the indistinctness of such
 representations and the absence of the parts of fructification ; but
 it was the decided opinion of Linnaeus, that to obtain a fac-siinile of
 the difference of species was sufficient.
    Seligmann, an engraver at Nuremberg in 1748, published in
 folio plates figures of several leaves he had reduced to skeletons.
 As he thought it impossible to make drawings sufficiently correct,
 he took impressions from the leaves in red ink, but no mention is
 made of the means he adopted. Of the greater part he gave two
 figures, one of the upper and another of the lower side.
    Even at this early period the idea must have excited much atten
 tion ; for it is recorded that Seligmann had announced his intention
 to give figures of natural objects as magnified by a solar microscope,
 and that two were to have been published every month. But he
 died soon after, and a law-suit prevented the prosecution of his
 work. Two black and twenty-nine red plates of leaves had been
 already completed, and were published with eight pages of text, in
which his coadjutor, Crew, speaks of the physiology of plants, and
Seligmann of the preparation of leaf skeletons. The leaves repre
sented on the plates were those of the orange, lemon, shaddock, &c.
    In the year 1763 the process is again referred to in the Gazette
 Sahitaire, in a short article upon a Becette pour copier toutes sortes
cle plantes sur papier.
    About from twenty-five to thirty years later, Hoppe edited his
Ectypa Plantarum Ratisbonensium, and also his Ectypa Plan-
tarum Selectarum, the illustrations in which were produced in a
manner similar to that employed by Kniphof. These impressions
were found also to be durable, but still were defective. The pro
duction of impressions could only take place very slowly, as the
blacking of the plants with the printer's ball required much time.
Itude as the process was, and imperfect the result, it was never
theless found that the figures thus produced were far more character
istic than any which artists could produce. The fault of the method
consisted in its limited application and in its incompleteness ; since
the fragile nature of the prepared plant, if ever so carefully treated,
would admit of but very few copies being taken, and where any
great number would have been required, many plants must have
been prepared, a circumstance which was in itself a great obstacle.
   In the year 1809 mention is made in Pritzell's " Thesaurus" of
a New Method of taking Natural Impressions of Plants ; and
lastly, in reference to the earlier history of the subject, the attention
of scientific men was called to an article, in a work published by
Grazer, in 1814, on a New Impression of Plants.
   Twenty years afterwards, the subject had undergone remarkable
change, not only in the mode of operation to be pursued, but also

110                     Mr. Henry Bradbury                    [May 11,
in the result produced,—which consisted in fixing an impression of
the prepared plant in a plate of metal by pressure.
    It appears, on the authority of Professor Thiele, that Peter Kyhl,
a Danish goldsmith and engraver, established at Copenhagen,
applied himself for a length of time to the ornamentation of articles
in silver ware, and the means he adopted were, taking copies of flat
objects of nature and art in plates of metal by means of two steel
rollers.
    Various productions in silver of this process were exposed in the
Exhibition of Industry held at Charlottenburgh, in May 1833. In
a manuscript, written by this Danish goldsmith, entitled The De
scription (with forty-six plates) of the Method to Copy Flat Objects
of Nature and Art, dated 1st May, 1833, is suggested the idea of
applying this invention to the advancement of science in general.
The plates accompanying this description represented printed copies
of leaves, of linen and woven Mulls, of laces, of feathers of birds,
scales of fishes, and even of serpent-skins.
    The manuscript contains ample and clear instructions to carry
out the method, and a few extracts, in his own words, of the leading
features will be perhaps interesting. He thus writes : —
    " As a correct copy of the productions of Nature and Art must
be of great importance, 1 am delighted to have the honour of sub
 mitting to the friends of Art and Science a method I have disco
 vered, by which copies of most objects can be taken, impressed into
 metal plates, and which enables the naturalist and botanist to get
 representations of leaves, feathers, scales, &c., in a quick and easy
 way ; and these copies will give all the natural lineaments, with
 their most raised or sunken veins and fibres ; moreover, the artist
 can, by means of this invention, make use of Nature's real pecu
 liarities for ornamental compositions and productions ; and the
 merchant can get patterns of delicately woven or figured stuffs,
 laces, tickens, ribbon, linen, and so forth.
    " To fix an impression into a plate of copper, zinc, tin, or lead,
 properly prepared for the purpose, a rolling machine with two
 polished cylinders of steel is required ; if a leaf, quite dried and
 prepared, is placed between a polished steel plate half an inch
 thick and a thoroughly heated lead plate with a fine surface, and
 these two plates with the leaf between be run speedily between the
 cylinders, the leaf will by the pressure yield its form on the softer
 lead plate, precisely as it is shaped, with all its natural raised and
sunken parts.
     " I tried many ways to fix the leaf on the plate by some glutinous
 matter, but it filled the delicate pores and deep parts so much as to
 render the copies very indistinct.*
     " The printing itself of the leaf into the metal requires much
    * Mr. Bradbury stated that he had himself tried this method without
 success.

1855.]                       on Nature-Printing.                             Ill
precaution, especially with respect to placing the cylinders exactly
parallel, and at the same time at a proper distance, and to have the
plate to be stamped carefully burnished and polished ; besides, the
utmost care must be used, as particles of dust or dirt would be
printed together with the object itself. Moreover, care must be
taken, that the rolling of the plates is managed well, so as to run
parallel, without deviating from their first direction.
    " Leaves that are to be printed must first be spread upon a clean
sheet of paper and placed upon a warm oven ; a second sheet put
over them is to be strewn with sand, and the whole left to dry
under a weight. This done the leaves are taken out with due
precaution, and placed for a quarter of an hour into water. They
are dried again in the same way, and this manipulation is repeated
four or five times. By this means I always found that the leaves
gained in tenacity and firmness, that they lost all their moisture,
and became more fit to be stamped. Objects, such as laces, weavings,
figured ribbons, and such like, can be printed without any prepara
tion, provided they be spread flat between the plates.
    " The season being very unfavourable for gathering good strong
leaves, I had to overcome many difficulties, so that the copies are
not so good as they might have been—for I have observed that
leaves obtained from green-houses do not yield such distinct prints
as those that grow in the open air, when properly developed."*
    It would appear from the practical hints here given that Peter
Kyhl was no novice at the process. He distinctly points out what
he conceives to be its value, by the subjects that he tried to copy ;
and he enters into detail on the precautions to be observed in the
operation of impressing metal plates so as to ensure successful
impressions. His manuscript explains that he had experimented
with copper, zinc, tin, and lead plates. Still there existed obstacles
which prevented him from making a practical application of his
 invention. In the case of zinc, tin, and copper, the plant, from the
 extreme hardness of the metals, was too much distorted and
crushed ; while in lead, though the impression was as perfect as
could be, there was no means of printing many copies, as it was not
possible after the application of printer's ink to retain the polished
surface that had been imparted to the lead plate, or to cleanse it so
 thoroughly as to allow the printer to take impressions free from dirty
stains. This was a serious obstacle, which was not compensated for
 even by the peculiar rich surface of the parts that were impressed,
attributable to the lead being more granular than copper, and which is
    * This allusion to the want of tenacity and firmness in young, and especially
in green-house plants, is quite consistent with the experiment made at the
present time. Mr. Bradbury stated, that to obtain an impression at all, upon
 a plate of metal, of a plant, it was indispensable that the plant should be
 thoroughly dried and free from sap ; otherwise the plant would spread in all
 directions, without leaving any visible indentation. Objects such as lace, and
 figured fabrics, can be impressed without any preparation, provided they be
 spread flat between the plates.
     VOL. II.                                                          i

112                      Mr. Henry Bradbury                      [May 11,
so favourable to adding density or body ofcolour, without obliterating
the tender veins and fibres. Peter Kyhl died in the same year that
he made known his invention. At his death, his manuscripts and
drawings were deposited in the archives of the Imperial Academy
of Copenhagen, where they remained for upwards of twenty years :
and it is a remarkable fact, that, shortly after his death, was dis
covered the only thing wanting to render the process, as explained by
him, at once available for practical purposes. Had Kyhl lived to pro
 secute his experiments, he might have accomplished more than he did
without requiring the aid of other means.* It was he who discovered
how to take impressions in metal plates, by using steel-rollers.
    This is the first element in the process of Nature-Printing. It
fell to Dr. Ferguson Branson, of Sheffield, to suggest the second,
 and the most important.
    During the next twenty years Nature- Printing was but indiffer
ently prosecuted by various persons for various purposes. Mr.
Taylor, of Nottingham, as far back as 1842, printed lace, &c.,
specimens of which were exhibited at the Great Exhibition; and
Mr. Twining, of Nottingham, in 1847, printed ferns, grasses, and
plants, which were exhibited by the Botanical Society of London.
He adopted the same plans as those used by Kniphof and Hoppe.
    In 1847, also, Dr. Ferguson Branson commenced a series of
experiments, an interesting paper upon which was read before the
 Society of Arts in 1851, and therein for the first time was suggested
the application of that second and most important element in
Nature-Printing which is now its essential feature—the application
 of the Electrotype.
    " I beg leave," says he, " to bring before the notice of the Socie'ty
of Arts a new method of engraving plates for printing ferns, leaves,
seaweeds, and other flat plants                    Having taken in gutta-
percha some impressions of ferns, the singularly beautiful manner
in which the exact character of the plant was transferred to the gum
suggested to me the possibility of printing from the gutta-percha
itself, so as to produce on paper ajac-ximile of the plant. That
experiment partially succeeded, and curiously tested the elasticity of
the substance ; for the impression remained uninjured, after being
subjected to the great pressure of a copper-plate roller. I say that
it partially succeeded ; for the printer found it utterly impossible
so thoroughly to cleanse the ink from the margin around the im
pression, as not when printed to leave a dirty stain on the paper.
The impressions thus produced were very accurate ; but the process
was valueless as regards multiplication of the prints."
    It then occurred to Dr. Branson that an electrotype copy would
obviate the difficulty.
   * Kyhl, as it was, had had his attention directed, and had made experi
ments to overcome this one remaining difficulty. His manuscript also contains
mauy interesting and practical remarks upon other processes than simply
Nature-Printing.

 1855.]                    on Nature-Printing.                           113
    He afterwards stated that he abandoned the process of electro-
typing in consequence of his finding it tedious, troublesome, and
costly, to produce large plates. Having occasion, however, to get
an article cast in brass, he was astonished at the beautiful manner in
which the form of the model was reproduced in the metal. He
determined, therefore, to have a cast taken in brass from a gutta-
percha mould of ferns, and was much gratified to see the impression
rendered almost as minutely as by the electrotype process ;* but,
however curious his individual specimens, the process produced no
practical result.
    In 1849, Professor Leydolt, of the Imperial Polytechnic Insti
tute at Vienna, availed himself of the resources of the Imperial
Printing-Office to carry into execution a new method he had
conceived of representing agates and other quartzoze minerals in
a manner true to nature. Professor Leydolt had occupied himself
 for a considerable period in examining the origin and composition
of these interesting objects in geology. In the course of his ex
periments and investigations he had occasion to expose them to the
action of fluoric acid, when he found, in the case of an agate, that
many of the concentric scales were totally unchanged, while others,
to a great extent, decomposed by the acid, appeared as hollows
between the unaltered scales. It occurred to Leydolt that the
surfaces of bodies thus corroded might be printed from, and copies
multiplied with the greatest facility.
    The simplest mode for obtaining printed copies is to take an
impression direct from the stone itself. The surface after having
been etched is well washed with dilute hydrochloric acid and dried ;
tfien carefully blackened with printer's ink. By placing a leaf of
paperf upon it, and by pressing it down upon every portion of the
etched or corroded surface with a burnisher, an impression is ob
tained, representing the crystallised rhomboidal quartz black, and the
weaker parts that have been decomposed by the action of the acid
white. It requires but a small quantity of ink—and particular care
must be exercised in the rubbing down of the impression. This
mode is good as far as it goes—but it is slow and uncertain—and
incurring a certain amount of risk, owing to the brittle nature of
the object ; and the effect produced is not altogether correct, since
it represents those portions black that should be white, and those
white that should be black.
    The stone is not sufficiently strong to be subjected to the action
of a printing-press ; an exact fac-simile cast, therefore, of it must
be obtained, and in such a form as can be printed from. To effect
this, the surface of any such stone (previously etched by corrosion)
must be extended by imbedding it in any plastic composition that
   * The casting in brass is a very interesting experiment—but its results
cannot be compared with the production of the electrotype.
   t India-paper and Chaili-jxiper are the best adapted for the purpose.
                                                                    i2

114                     Mr. Henry Bradbury                   [May 1 1 T
will yield a perfectly flat and smooth surface, so that the surround
ing surface of the plastic composition will be exactly level with the
surface of the etched stone : all that is necessary now is to prepare
the electrotype apparatus, by which a perfect fac-simile is produced,
representing the agate impressed, as it were, into a polished plate of
copper. This forms the printing-plate. The ink in this case, as
opposed to the mode before referred to, is not applied upon the
surface, but in the depressions caused by the action of the acid on
the weaker parts ; the paper is forced into these depressions in the
operation of printing, which results in producing an impression in
relief—a feature that is rather peculiar to the process, as the raised
appearance, especially in the case of plants, adds very much to
their effect.
   The impressions printed in this latter manner present far more
beautiful and natural representations, since the crystallised quartz
are represented white, while the decomposed parts appear black.
   Professor Leydolt, however, suggests that some corroded stones
are better suited sometimes for one method of representation than
the other ; and attention should be paid to this while the stones
are being exposed to the action of the acid. He considers that
important advantages will result to science from the perfect faith
fulness of such representations, and from the facility and incon
siderable expense of their production.
   Other objects in geology—such as the fossil remains of fishes,
plants, and other organic remains—in some cases can be, and have
been, copied with unmistakeable resemblance to the original.
   It is not clear who may have suggested the possibility of creating
impressions of these last-named objects, but one thing is beyond a
doubt, that the production of them was left entirely to the judgment
of Andrew Worring, as was also the case in the production of the
agates and other stones.
   In operating upon this class of objects, it is desirable that the
original should be as flat as possible, as the flatter the general
surface is, the more successful will be the effect produced.
   A mould in the first place is taken with gelatine or liquid gutta-
percha, the elasticity of which materials are favourable for flattening
the mould without distortion when separated from the original,—
a mode that is to be preferred to depositing copper direct upon them,
since it is very much more easily manipulated and without the slightest
risk of damaging the originals, owing to the absence of pressure.
   This gelatine or gutta-percha mould is rendered metallic or con
ducting in the usual way by the application of plumbago, and copper
is deposited until of sufficient thickness to form a printing plate.
   In 1852, Mr. Aitken, of Birmingham, followed the footsteps of
Kyhl in various experiments made by him in Britannia metal.
He took impressions of lace, skeleton-leaves, feathers, &c., in
Britannia metal, for the purpose of ornamentation, in the same way
as Kyhl is said to have done in articles of silver. About this

 1855.]                      on Nature- Printing.                             115
 period Dr. Branson again made experiments, and endeavoured to
 bring Nature-Printing into practical operation. He too tried Im
 pressions on Britannia metal, not altogether with the view of printing
 direct from such plates, desirable as it would be to dispense with
 the operation of taking casts—but of transferring impressions to
 stone ; and after printing an impression in some neutral tint, to
 resort to colouring by ham I. (Specimens of this method were lying
on the table ; but, on examination, would not bear comparison with
the productions of the present time.)
    In the Imperial Printing-office of Vienna, the first application of
 taking impressions of lace on plates of mc'tal, by means of rollers,
took place in the month of May, 1852 : * it originated in the
 Minister of the Interior, Baumgartner, having received specimens
from London, which so much attracted the attention of the chief
 Director, that he determined to produce others like them. This
led to their using gutta-percha in the same way that Dr. Branson
had used it ; but finding this material did not possess altogether the
necessary properties, the experience of Andrew Worring induced
him to substitute lead, which was attended with remarkable success.
Professor Haidinger, on seeing specimens of these laces, and learn
ing the means by which they had been obtained, proposed the
application of the process to plants. The results of these experi
ments,f as well as those of Professor Leydolt above referred to,
appeared in the fifth volume of Memoirs of the Imperial Academy,
published at Vienna, in 1850.
    Up to this time, however, in England, notwithstanding the above-
mentioned experiments, the discovery had not assumed any practical
form ; but there is little doubt that if any of these persons had had
the requisite means and appliances it would have been brought to
 perfection earlier. These consist mainly in the precipitation of metals
 upon moulds or matrixes by means of electro-galvanic agency.
    Nature-Printing owes its present success to the electrotype, which
was then, and even at the present time is, the only means by which
faithful copies can be taken of those delicate fibrous details that are
furnished in the examples of the impressions of botanical and other
figures in metal. It may be said to be owing to the extensive scale
upon which the process of the electrotype is conducted in the Im
perial establishment, that Worring was enabled to render the process
of Nature-Printing practically available as a Printing Art.
    The deposition of metals by galvanic agency, though long known
and practised in England, has been considered more as a scientific
than a practical mode of casting ; and it is only within the last
few years that its value in its manufacturing capabilities has been
   * The Austrian patent was taken out on the 12th October, 1853, in the name
of Andrew Worring.
   t These consisted of specimens of lace, leaves, plants, mosses, serpent-skins,
the whig of a bat, agates, fossils, and petrifactions ; and it is somewhat curious
that these examples were similar in character to those chosen by KvhI.

 116                         Mr. Henry Bradbury                          May 11,
properly understood. Up to within a short time it has been found
uncertain, difficult, tedious, expensive, and requiring great length
of time to obtain adequate results from it ; but Mr. Bradbury stated
that he had for the last two years devoted his energies to overcome
these difficulties, and that his experiments had been attended with
many practical advantages in the Art of Printing. On the table
before him he had a small electrotype apparatus, by which was pro
duced a perfect electrotype cast of an impressed metal plate before
the audience in half an hour.* He stated, that one of his experiments
had been crowned with such success that he had reduced the opera
tion of the battery and the decomposition trough to so rapid and
certain a result as to be able to duplicate the woodcuts contained in
a number of the Illustrated London News, no matter what their
number or size, in the short space of twelve hours (ready in every
respect for the press), which he stated as his belief was one of the
greatest practical accomplishments that had ever been made in
any country in this branch of science ; the value of which to the
journal in question will be best understood when it is known, that
without this or other means (not yet discovered), the production of
the requisite number of copies in time for publication would be a
mechanical impossibility (so extensive is its circulation) since from
one set of engravings there is a limit to the number of impressions
that can be printed from one machine in a given time.
    The mode of printing these electrotype | plates of plants is the
same as in ordinary copper-plate printing, where the impression is
produced by passing the inked plate with the sheet of paper laid
upon it through a pair of rollers, one of which is covered with four
or five thicknesses of blanketing, which causes the peculiar raised
or embossed appearance of the impression.
    In such cases, where there are three, four, or more colours, for
instance,—as in flowering plants, having stems, roots, leaves, and
flowers,—the plan adopted in the inking of the plate is to apply the
darkest colour first, which generally happens to be the roots—the
superfluous colour is cleaned off,—the next darkest colour, such as
perhaps the colour of the stems, is then applied—the superfluous
colour of which is also cleared off,—this mode is continued until
every part of the plant in the copperplate has received its right
colour. In this state, before the plate is printed, the colours in the
different parts of the copper look as if the plant was imbedded in
copper. By putting the darkest colour in at the beginning, there is
less chance of smearing the lighter ones : the printer too is not only
   * In the afterpart of the evening Mr. Bradbury succeeded in producing thin
electro-plates of impressed plates m five minutes.
   t The copper deposited upon moulds by electro-galvanic agency, is pre
cipitated in such inconceivably small atoms, that the defects previously referred
to in the surf.ice of the lead plate, are olsofaithfully copied, but the surface of
copper funlike that of load) will allow of these defects being removed by the
aid of the burnisher, ami a polished surface preserved.

 1855.]                     on Nature-Printing.                        117
able by this means to blend one colour into another, but to print all
the colours at one single impression.
    Thefirst practical application of Nature-Printing for illustrating
a botanical work, and which has been attended with considerable
success, is Chevalier Von Heufler's work on the Mosses,* collected
from the Valley of Arpasch, in Transylvania ; the second, (lliejirst
in this country,) is the " Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland," in
course of publication, under the editorship of Dr. Lindley, and
printed by Messrs. Bradbury and Evans. Ferns, by their peculiar
structure and general flatness, are especially adapted to develope
the capabilities of the process, and there is no race of plants where
minute accuracy in delineation is of more vital importance than
the Ferns ; in the distinction of which, the form of indentations,
general outline, the exact manner in which repeated subdivision is
effected, and most especially the distribution of veins scarcely
visible to the naked eye, play the most important part. To express
such facts with the necessary accuracy, the art of a Talbot or a
Daguerre would have been insufficient until Nature-Printing was
brought to its present state of perfection.
    Mr. Bradbury then adverted to the ingenious and beautiful
productions of Felix Abate, of Naples. His Nature-representations
consist of sections of wood, in which the grain is admirably repre
sented. He terms his peculiar process Thermography, or the Art
of Printing by Heat. The process consists in wetting slightly the
surface of the wood of which fac-similes are to be made, with any
diluted acid or alkali, and then taking an impression upon paper,
or calico, or white wood ; the impression is quite invisible, but by
exposing it for a few instants to a strong heat, the impression appears
in a more or less deep tone, according to the strength of the acid or
alkali. In this way every gradation of brown from maple to
walnut is produced ; but for some woods which have a peculiar
colour, the paper, &c. is to be coloured, either before or after the
impression, according to the lightest shades of the wood. Abate,
in his manipulations, also employs the ordinary dyeing process.
    It is to be hoped that Abate's process may become alike useful to
the natural sciences and the decorative arts.
    Mr. Bradbury stated, in conclusion, that we are indebted to—
       Kniphof, for the application of the process in its rude state ;
       Kyhl, for having first made use of steel-rollers ;
       Branson, for the suggestion of the electrotype ;
       Leydolt for the remarkable results he obtained in the repre
          sentation of flat objects of mineralogy, such as agates, fossils,
          and petrifactions ;
   * Specimen Flora Cryptoganue vallis Arpasch Carpatce Transylvani ; Con-
scripsit Ludovicus Eques de Heufler. Vienna, 1853. Imp. folio.

118                            Mr. Lacaita                        [May 18,
      Haidinger, for having promptly suggested the impression of a
        plant into a plate of metal at the very time the modus operandi
         had been provided ;
      Abate, for its application to the representation of different sorts
         of ornamental woods on woven fabrics, paper, and plain
         wood ;
      Worring, of the Imperial Printing-Office, Vienna,* for his
         practical services in carrying out the plans of Leydolt and
         Haidinger.
   Nature-Printing may be considered as still in its infancy ; but the
results, already obtained in its application, encourage us to expect
from continued efforts such further improvements as will place it
not least among the Printing Arts.
                                                                 [H.B.]
   [A great number of specimens of Nature-Printing, in its various
applications, were exhibited ; and the different processes referred
to by the speaker, were exemplified in the presence of the audience,
during and after the discourse, by workmen and apparatus from the
establishment of Messrs. Bradbury and Evans.]
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 18.
REV. JOHN BAKI.OW, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President and Secretary,
                              in the Chair.
                 JAMES PHILIP LACAITA, Esq. LL.D.
              On Dante and the " Divina Commedia."
THE speaker, after a few preliminary remarks, proceeded to state,
that he should not attempt to give an account of the life of Dante,
which was so connected with the chief events of his time, that it
was impossible to sketch it with any degree of interest, without
entering into many details of the mediaeval history of Italy. Carlo
Troya, and Count Cesare Balbo, two of the most profound Italian
   * It is gratifying to know that the services of this gentleman were recog
nised by his Sovereign, who munificently rewarded him with a gift, and like
wise the Order of Merit.

1855.]          on Dante and the " Divina Commedia."                        1 19
historians of this century, whose recent loss their countrymen have
so much reason to regret, might be adduced as illustrations of the
statement. Troya, by his researches on Dante's life, and on the
meaning of the well-known lines—
                   "            Infin che '1 Veltro
                     Verrtt, che la fara morir di doglia."
                                                 Iilf. i. 101-102.
was led to write a mediaeval history of Italy ; and Balbo, by a
converse process, ended his studies on the mediaeval history of Italy,
 by writing a life of Dante.
    There was an event in that life, however, which he would not
omit to notice, as it had a peculiar interest for an English audience.
 Dante visited, and most probably attended a course of theology at,
 Oxford. Boccaccio asserts, in some Latin verses, which he
 addressed to Petrarca, in sending him a copy of the " Commedia"
 that Dante had been
               ". . . . Parisios dudmn, extremosque Britannos."
    Boccaccio, who was born in 1313, had certainly heard it from
 his fattier, who resided in Paris as a merchant ; and who, being a
 Florentine, had no doubt known, and perhaps been familiar with,
 Dante. John, of Serravalle, Bishop of Fermo, in 1416, translated
 into Latin, and expounded the " Commedia," at the request of
 Cardinal Amadeo de Saluces, and of the Bishops of Bath and Salis
 bury, whom he had met at the Council of Constance. In the pre
 face to his translation, which is in MS. in the Vatican library,
 Serravalle says : " Dantes dilexit Theologiam sacram, in qua diu
 studuit tarn in Oxoniis in regno Angliae quam Parisiis ;" and
 again : " Se in juventute dedit omnibus artibus liberalibus, studens
 eas Paduae, Sononiae, demum Oxoniis et Parisiis." The lines
 allusive to the murder of the nephew of Henry III., in the church
 of Viterbo, by Guy de Montfort :—
                 " Mostrocci nn' umbra dall' mi canto sola,
                    Dicendo, colui fesse in grembo a Dio
                    Lo cor che 'n sul Tamigi aucor si cola."
                                                         Inf. xii. 118-120.
 also evidence the same fact ; for they convey an impression that
  Dante had himself seen the place in which the head of the
  murdered youth was preserved. His visit to Oxford must have
 been between 1308 and 1311, when, after leaving the Malaspinas,
 he went to Paris.
     The speaker expressed a wish that some one of the sons of that
  great seat of learning would enquire fully into the subject, to which
  as yet no attention had been paid, and to the glories of his " Alma
  Mater," add that of having received within her walls the greatest
  poet of Christendom.

120                           Mr. Lacaita                     [May 18,
   A rapid enumeration was then given of the minor works of
Dante :—the Vita Nuova ; the Convito ; the Poesie Minori ; the
treatise De Monarchia; the treatise De Vulgari Eloquio; and
several Latin letters. With regard especially to his minor poems,
it was observed that with the exception of a few sonnets, and the
ode to Florence, they are modelled on the Proven9al School, and
are a mixture of conventional poetry and scholastic theology, which
would scarcely be recognised as proceeding from the same author as
the Commedia.
   The speaker proceeded next to the great poem, which was called
by Dante La Commedia, a name it preserved in many of the
earlier editions till the end of the fifteenth century, when the epithet
of " Divina " was added to it. He gave a short account of the
different opinions with regard to what may have suggested the idea
of the poem, and noticed how Fontanini supposed it had been sug
gested by a novel of the day containing a description of St. Patrick's
well ; while Denina would assign a like honour to two French novels
of the 12th century ; Gingueneto the Tesorelto of Brunetto Latini ;
Viliemain to a sermon of Gregory VII., containing the account of
a vision of the other world ; and Cancellieri and others to the
 Visione di Prate Alberico, whose original manuscript is still pre
served in the library of the Benedictine Monastery of Monte Casino.
He concluded by saying, that the multiplicity of the sources from
which it was maintained to have been derived, went only to prove,
not that Dante had borrowed the idea from any previous compo
sition, but that the vision was a prevailing form of the literature
of the time ; a form which might be said to have been chiefly
introduced and made popular by the spurious Gospels of the second
century, pretending to give an account of St. Paul's ascent to the
third heaven, and by the Pastor of Hermas. It was worthy of
remark, that Dante, when only nine years old, on seeing and admir
ing Beatrice, one year younger than himself, wrote a sonnet, which
caused him to be favourably noticed by the contemporary poets,
except Dante da Maiano, who ridiculed him ; and that the form
that his thoughts assume, even at that very early age, is that of
a vision or a dream.
   After alluding to the various controversies which for five centuries
 had been raised concerning the allegory of the poem, the speaker
stated that he adopted Troya and Balbo's historical explanations of
most of the allegorical passages. He pointed out the absurdity of
the hidden anti-papal spirit supposed to run through the whole
 poem ; a theory first hinted by Ugo Foscolo, and afterwards en
larged upon by Gabriele Rossetti. He conceived that Dante was
strictly orthodox in his Roman Catholic tenets; and he felt no
hesitation in asserting that a learned theological reader might almost
consider the Commedia, especially the " Paradise" as a poetical
synopsis of the Summa Theologica of St. Thomas Aquinas, whose
 leading tenets were propounded throughout the poem, clothed in

1855.]         on Dante and the " Divina Commedia."                121
the most beautiful poetical language, such as Dante alone had
the power of combining with the scholastic theology. It was
the temporal power of the Popes that Dante so constantly attacked,
and that in no hidden way, as might be seen by a reference to three
beautiful passages in Inf. xix. 46-123, Purg. xvi. 97-132, and
Par. xxvii. 1-66. Dante in this respect might be considered a
proof that the teaching of Arnaldo da Brescia had taken hold on
the Italian minds. Mr. Lacaita then briefly commented on the
controversy raised with regard to the orthodoxy of Dante at the
time of the Reformation, and the strange decision given by the
I'ere Hardouin, that La Commedia was the work of a disciple of
Wicliff.
   He afterwards took a rapid survey of the fluctuations of the
estimation in which the Commedia had been held at different
times ; as a proof of which he noticed that the poem, from 1420 to
 1500, had gone through 20 editions ; through 42, from 1501 to
1597 ; through 4, from 1598 to 1727 ; throngh 42, from 1728 to
18lX); and through more than 180, from 1800 to 1850. He
ascribed the neglect into which it had fallen during the whole of
the 16th century to the influence of Spanish rule, and the power
of the Inquisition in Italy ; and pointed out how the falling off of
taste in literature, and even in the Fine Arts in Italy had been, if
not consequent upon, at least simultaneous with, such neglect. The
poem was well known in England in the 14th and 15th centuries;
passages were quoted in which Chaucer had alluded to, or translated
from it. But afterwards the poem seems to have been nearly for
gotten, till attention was again called to it by a first English trans
lation in 1773. A few observations were here introduced on the
respective merits of the various English translations ; and -Mr.
Pollock's recent translation was particularly noticed for its faithful
conveyance of the meaning of the original. The speaker after
wards proceeded to say, that it was remarkable that Addison seems
to have ignored, if not the existence, at least the great merits of
the Commedia, so far, that in his journey to Italy, although he
describes several monuments at Ravenna, he does not even allude to
the tomb of Dante, which only a few years before his visit had
been restored by Cardinal Corsi. It was a curious coincidence that
at the revival of the study of Dante in Italy, in the 18th century,
Voltaire and the ex-jesuit Bettinelli both agreed, though from
different motives, in attacking Dante ; Bettinelli. in his Letters
 Virgiliane, went even further than Voltaire, who admitted that the
 Commedia was, " Un ouvrage bizarre ; mais brillant de beaut«!s
naturelles, ou 1'auteur s'eleve dans les details au dessus du mauvais
gout de son siecle et de son sujet."
   After warmly contending against the preference sometimes given
of the Inferno as the finest part of the poem, a preference explained
perhaps by the fact that many never read the Purgatorio and the
Paradiso, which nevertheless display, when compared with the In

  122         Mr. Lacaita on the "Divina Commedia."            [May 18.
ferno, finer poetical expression, finer powers of description, more
 gentle and nobler feelings, and a total freedom from coarseness of
 allusion : the speaker -went on to censure F. Schlegel's assertion that
 the chief defect of the poetry of Dante is a want ofgentle feelings ;
 he felt sure that the German critic had scarcely glanced at the Pw-
 gatorio and the Paradiso. He proceeded next to point out what he
 conceived to be the finest passages in the Purgatorio, which from
 the 1st to the end of the 31st canto is an almost uninterrupted
 flow of soft and brilliant poetry. He called particular attention
 to the beautiful opening of the 1st canto ; to the touching meeting
 of Casella, ii. 67-133 ; the meeting of Manfred!, iii. ; Buonconte
 di Montefeltro and La Pia de' Tolommei, v. 88-136 ; the meeting
 of Virgil with Sordello, and the splendid apostrophe to Italy and
  to Florence, vi. 58-151 ; and to the whole 8th canto, one of the
  finest in the poem. In quoting the beautiful lines in praise of
 the Malaspinas, the speaker mentioned that 520 years after Dante
  had found hospitality among them, another exile, Carlo Troya, driven
 away from Naples when Austrian bayonets had suppressed the
  Neapolitan constitution in 1821, was also hospitably received by a
  Malaspina, with whom he went wandering through Val di Magra,
  and collecting the local traditions connected with the residence of
  Dante in that mountainous district. Mr. Lacaita further referred
  the audience to the description of sculptures, the story of Trajan
  and the poor woman, x. 28-96, 121-129; Oderisi d'Agubbio,
  Cimabue, Giotto, and the beautiful lines on worldly fame, xi.
  73-117; Sapia from Siena, xiii. 91-154; Guido del Duca, the
  Yal d' Arno, and the Romagna, xiv. 16-126 ; the speech of Marco
  Lombardo, and the allusion to the temporal power of the Popes,
  xvi*. 67-129; Pope Adrian V., xix. 100-145; Ugo Capeto and
  Pope Boniface VIII., xx. 43-96 ; Forese de' Donati's praises of his
  widow, and censure of the Florentine ladies, xxiii. 76-1 1 1 ; Forese's
  mention of his sister Piccarda, Buonagiunta da Lucca, Dante's
  poetry, &c., xxiv. 1-90 and 145-154; Guido Guinicelli, xxvi.
  91-135; Dante's dream, &c. xxvii. 70-142; the terrestrial Para
  dise, and meeting of Matelda, xxviii. 1 -63 ; the meeting of Beatrice,
. the parting of Virgil, and reprimand of Beatrice to Dante, xxx.
  22-145 ; and the whole canto, xxxi.
     The speaker regretted that time did not allow him to point out
  in the same way what he considered to be the finest passages in the
   Paradiso. After some general remarks on the peculiar character
   and suggestiveness of Dante's poetry, on the truth and wonderful
   variety of his similes, on the essentially moral tendency of the
   whole poem, &c., he concluded by quoting the following passage
   from a very able essay on Dante by Mr. Church, in the Christian
   Remembrancer, which embodied, better than he could express by
   words, his feelings in parting with a subject, to which he felt he
  could scarcely have done adequate justice.
     " Those who know the Divina Commedia best, will best know

1855.]       Professor Faraday OH Electric Conduction.            123
how hard it is to be the interpreter of such a mind ; but they will
sympathise with the wish to call attention to it. They know, and
would wish others also to know, not by hearsay, but by experience,
the power of that wonderful poem. They know its austere, yet
subduing beauty ; they know what force there is in its free and
earnest and solemn verse, to strengthen, to tranquillize, to console.
   . . . But, besides this, they know how often its seriousness
has put to shame their trifling, its magnanimity their fainthearted
ness, its living energy their indolence, its stern and sad grandeur
rebuked low thoughts, its thrilling tenderness overcome sullenness
and assuaged distress, its strong faith quelled despair and soothed
perplexity, its vast grasp imparted the sense of harmony to the
view of clashing truths. They know how often they have found, in
times of trouble, if not light, at least that deep sense of reality,
permanent, though unseen, which is more than light can always
give—in the view which it has suggested to them of the judgments
and the love of God ! "
                                                        [J.P.L.]
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 25.
       SIK CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice-president, in the Chair.
                PROFESSOR FARADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                       Ott Electric Conduction.
SINCE the time when the law of definite electrolytic action was first
laid down (Exp. Res. 783-966), it has become a question whether
those bodies which form the class of electrolytes, conduct only
whilst they are undergoing their proper change under the action of
the electric current ; or whether they can conduct also as metals,
dry wood, spermaceti, &c. do in different degrees, i. e. without the
accompaniment of any chemical change within them. The first
kind of conduction is distinguished as the electrolytic ; the trans
ference of the electric force appearing to be essentially associated
with the chemical changes which occur : the second kind may be
called conduction proper ; and there the act of conduction leaves
the body ultimately as it found it. Electrolytic conduction is
closely associated with the liquid state, and with the compound

 124                        Professor Faraday                            [May 25,
nature and chemical proportions of the bodies in which it occurs ;
and it is considered as varying in degree (i. c. in facility) with the
affinities of the constituents belonging to these bodies ; there are.
however, other circumstances which evidently, and indeed very
strongly affect the readiness of transfer, such as temperature, the
presence of extraneous matters, &c. Conduction proper differs as
to facility by degrees so far apart, that that quantity of electricity
which could pass through a hundred miles of one substance, as
copper, in an inappreciably small portion of time, would require
ages to be transmitted through the like length of another sub
stance, as shell-lac ; and yet the copper with its similars offers
resistance to conduction ; and the lac, and its congeners, conduct.
    The progress and necessities of science have rendered it important
within the last three or four years, and especially at the present
 moment, that the question " whether an electrolyte has any degree of
conduction proper " should be closely considered, and the experiments
which are fitted to probe the question have been carried to a very
 high degree of refinement. Buff,* by employing the electric
machine, and Wollaston terminals, »'. e. platinum wires sealed into
glass tubes, and having the ends only exposed, has decomposed water
by a quantity of electricity so small that it required four hours to
collect gas enough to fill a little cylinder only !\th of an inch in
 diameter, and the -yth of an inch in length ; yet the decomposition
 was electrolytic and polar ; and therefore the conduction was
electrolytic also. When one pole only was in the water, and the
other in the air over it, still the decomposition, and therefore the
conduction, was electrolytic ; for one element appeared at the pole
in the water, and the other in the air or gas over the water at the
corresponding pole. Buff concludes that electrolytes have no con
duction proper. Many other philosophers have supported, with
more or less conviction, the same view, and believe that electrolytic
conduction extends to, and includes cases, which formerly were
supposed to depend upon conduction proper. Soret advances certain
experimental results, | but reserves his opinion from being absolute.
Von Breda and Logeman adopt the more general view unreservedly.J
De la Rive, I think, admits that a very little may perhaps pass'by
conduction proper, but that electrolytic conduction is the function
of electrolytes.§ Matteucci has at one time admitted a little con
duction proper, but at present, I believe, denies that any degree exists.
On the other hand, Despretz,|| Leon Foucault,U Masson,** and
myself, have always admitted the possibility that electrolytes possess
a certain amount of conduction proper—small indeed, but not so
small as to prevent its being evident in certain forms of experiments :
   * MS. letter.    t Anuales de Chimie, xlii. 2S7.     t Phil. Mag. viii. 4C5.
§ Bibl. de Geneve, xxvi. 134, 144 ; xxvii. 177. || Comptes Rendus, xxxviii. 897.
•[ Comptes R., xxxvii. 580 ; or Bibl. de Geneve, xxiv. 2li3 ; xxv. 1 80 ; xxvi. 12C.
                   ** Prize Essay, Haarlem Trans., xi. 78.

1855.]                  on Electric Conduction.                      125
and beautiful and close as the electrolytic proofs have been carried,
they are not by us considered as sufficient to show that the function
of conduction proper is altogether absent from electrolytes.
   (Some account was then given of the experiments and arguments
on both sides ; and of the striking electrolytic fact, that if a current
of electricity, however small, is sent through a circuit containing
a couple of platina plates in dilute sulphuric acid, the plates are
found thereby electrically polarized.)
   The enquiry as regards electrolytes takes on three forms. They
may possess a degree of conduction proper at all times—or they
may be absolutely destitute of conduction proper—or they may
possess conduction proper up to a certain condition, governed either
by requisite intensity for electrolyzation or by other circumstances,
but which, when that condition is acquired, changes into electrolytic
conduction ; and these three forms may be further varied by con
siderations dependent upon the physical state of the electrolyte, as
whether it be solid or liquid, hot or cold, and whether it be pure or
contain other substances mingled with it.
   From the time when the question was raised by myself, twenty
years ago, to the present day, I have found it necessary to suspend
my conclusions ; for close as the facts have in certain cases been
urged by those who believe they have always obtained decompo
sition results, when an electrolyte has performed the part of a
conductor, and freely as I could have admitted the facts and the
conclusions if there had been no opposing considerations, still,
because there are such considerations, I am obliged to reserve my
judgment. In the first place all bodies not electrolytic, even up to
gases (Becquerel,) are admitted to possess conduction proper ; a
priori, therefore, we have reason to expect that electrolytes will
possess it also. If from amongst different bodies we retain for con
sideration the class of electrolytes only, then though the amount of
electricity of a given intensity which these can transmit electrolyti-
cally when they are fluid, is often almost infinitely greater than
that which they can convey onwards by conduction proper, when
they are solid; still the conduction in the latter cases is very
evident. A piece of perfectly dry solid nitre, and of many other
electrolytes, discharges a gold leaf electrometer very freely, and I
believe by the power of conduction proper; and that being the
case, I do not see that the assumption of the very highest con
dition of electrolytic conduction when the nitre is rendered fluid is
any argument for the absolute disappearance of the conduction
proper which belonged to the body in the solid state, though it
may override the latter for the time and make it insensible. These
considerations are, however, such as arise rather from the absence
of the final and strict proof on the opposite side, than from any
thing very positive in their own character ; but it has occurred
to me that the phenomena of static electricity will furnish us with
many reasons of a positive nature, in favour of the possession by

  126                       Professor Faraday                     [May 25,
  liquid electrolytes of the power of conduction proper. Some of
  these I will endeavour briefly to state, illustrating the subject by a
  reference to water, which in its pure state has but a low degree of
  electrolytic conduction.
     The ordinary phenomena of static charge and induction are well
  known. If an excited glass rod or other body be held near a light
  gilt sphere, suspended from the hand by a metal thread, the in
  ductive action disturbs the disposition of the electricity in the sphere,
  and the latter is strongly attracted : if in place of the sphere a soap
  bubble be employed, the same results occur. If a dish filled with
  pure distilled water be connected with the earth by a piece of
  moist bibulous paper, and a ball of excited shell-lac be suspended
  two or three inches above the middle of the water,—and if a plate
  of dry insulating gutta-percha, about eight inches long and two
  inches wide, have its end interposed between the water and the
  shell-lac, it may then be withdrawn and examined, and will be
  found without charge, even though it may have touched the shell-
  lac ; but if the end once touch the water under the lac (and it
  may be dipped in,) so as to bring away a film of it, charged with
  the electricity the water has acquired by the induction, it will
  be found to possess, as might be expected, a state contrary to that of
' the inductric shell-lac.
     In order to exclude any conducting body but water from what
  may be considered as a reference experiment, two calico globular
  bags with close seams were prepared ; and being wetted thoroughly
  with distilled water, were then filled with air by means of a fine
  blow-pipe point ; they were then attached to two suspending bands
  of gutta-percha, by which they were well insulated, and being about
  three inches diameter they formed, when placed in contact, a double
  system six inches in length. A metallic ball, about four inches in
  diameter, was connected with the electric machine to form an induc
  tric body, an uninsulated brass plate was placed about nine inches
  off to form an inducteous body ; between these the associated water
  balls could be placed so as to take part in the induction, and when
  the electric charge was so low that the moist atmosphere caused no
  transmission of electricity, the balls could be introduced into position
  and brought away without having received any permanent charge.
  Under these circumstances if the associated balls were brought into
  the place of induction, were then separated, withdrawn, and ex
  amined, they were found, the one charged positively and the other
  negatively, by electricity derived from themselves, and without
  conductive or convective communication with any other substance
  than their own water.
     It is well known indeed that by the use of water we may replace
  metal in all electro-static arrangements, and so form Leyden jars,
  condensers, and other induction apparatus, which are perfect in
  principle though with imperfect action. The principles are the
 same, whether water or metals be used for conductors, and the

1855.]                 on Electric Conduction.                       127
function of conduction is essential to all the results ; therefore con
duction cannot be denied to the fluid water, which in all such cases
is acting as the only conductor. In nature, indeed, the phenomena
of induction, rising up to their most intense degree in the thunder
storm, are almost, if not altogether, dependent upon the water which
in the earth, or the clouds, or the rain, is then acting by its conduct
ing power ; and if this conducting power be of the nature of con
duction proper, it is probable that that function is as large and as
important as any exercise of the electrolytic conduction of water in
other natural phenomena.
    But it may be said that all these cases, when accompanied by
conduction, involve a corresponding and proportionate electrolytic
effect, and are therefore cases of electrolytic conduction ; and it is
the following out of such a thought that makes me think the results
prove a conduction proper to exist in the water. For suppose a
water bubble to be placed midway between a positive and a nega-
tive*surface, as in the figure, then the parts at and about p will
become charged positive, and those at and about a negative, solely
by the disturbance of the electric force originally in the bubble,
i. e. without any direct transmission of the electric force from
N or P ; the parts at e or q will have no electric charge, and
from those parts to p and n the charge will rise gradually to a
maximum. The electricity which appears at p, n, and elsewhere,
will have been conducted to these parts from other parts of the
bubble ; and if the bubble be replaced by two hemispheres of metal,
slightly separated at the equatorial parts e q, the electricity (before
conducted in the continuous bubble,) will then be seen to pass as a
bright spark. Now the particles at any part of the water bubble
may be considered under two points of view, either as having had
a current passed through them, or as having received a charge ; in
either view the idea of conduction proper supplies sufficient and
satisfactory reasons for the results ; but the idea of electrolytic con
duction seems to me at present beset with difficulties. For consider
the particles about the equator e q, they acquire no final charge,
and they have conducted, as the action of the two half spheres above
referred to show ; and they are not in a state of mutual tension, as
is fully proved by very simple experiments with the half hemi
spheres. Therefore oxygen must have passed from c towards «,
hydrogen from e towards p, i. e. towards and to the parts to which
the electricity has been conducted, for without such transmission of
   VOL. II.                                                     K

 128                     Professor Faraday                   [May 25,
 the anions and cations there would be no transmission of the elec
 tricity, and so no electrolytic conduction. Hut then the questions
 arise,—Where do these elements appear ? is the water at n oxygen
 ated, and that about p hydrogenated ? and may the elements be at
 last dispersed into the air at these two points, as in the case of
 decompositions against air poles? (Exp. Bes. 455, 461, &C.) In
 regard to such questions other considerations occur respecting the
 particles about p and n, and the condition of charge they have
 acquired. These have received the electricity which has passed as
 a current through the equatorial parts, but they have had no current
 or no proportional current through themselves—the conduction has
 extended to them but not through them ; no electricity has passed
for instance through the particle at n or at p, yet more electricity
has gone by some kind of conduction to them than to any other of
the particles in the sphere. It is not consistent with our under
standing of electrolytic conduction to suppose that these particle*
have been charged by such conduction ; for in the exercise of rtiat
function it is just as essential that the electricity should leave the
decomposing particle on the one side, as that it should go to it on
the other : the mere escape of oxygen and hydrogen into the air is
not enough to account for the result, for such escape may be freely
permitted in the case of electrodes plunged into water ; and yet if
the electricity cannot pass from the decomposing particles into the
electrodes, and so away by the wires, in a condition enabling it to
perform its full equivalent of electric work any where else in the
circuit, there is no decomposition at the final particles of the elec
trolyte, nor any electrolytic conduction in its mass. Even in the air
cases above referred to there is a complete transmission of the elec
tricity across the extreme particles concerned in the electrolysis.
    If the above reasoning involve no error, but be considered suffi
cient to show that the particles at p and n are not electrolyzed, then
it is also sufficient to prove that none of the particles between p
and n have been electrolyzed ; for though one at e or q may have
had a current of electricity passed through it, it could not give up
its elements unless the neighbouring particles were prepared to take
them in a fully equivalent degree. To stop the electrolysis at n and
p, or at those parts of the surface where the moving electricity
stops, is to stop it at all the intervening parts according to our
present views of electrolysis, and to stop the electrolysis is to shut
out electrolytic conduction ; and nothing at present remains but
conduction proper, to account for the very manifest effects of con
duction which occur in the case.
   It may be imagined that a certain polarized state of tension occur*
in these cases of static induction, which is intermediate between it
and electrolytic conduction (Exp. Res. 1164); or that a certain
preparatory and as it were incomplete condition may be assumed,
distinguishing the case of static conduction with globes of water,.
         I have taken as the ground of consideration from the same

 1855.]                 on Electric Conduction.                     129
case when presented by globes of metal. Our further and future
knowledge may show some such state ; but in respect of our present
distinctive views of conduction proper and electrolytic conduction,
it may be remarked that such discovery is just as likely to coincide
with the former as with the latter view, though it most probably
would alter and correct both.
    Falling back upon the consideration of the particles between
e and n, we find, that whether we consider them as respects the
current which has passed through them, or the charge which they
have taken, they form a continuous series ; the particle at e has had
most current, that at n none, that at r a moderate current ; and
there are particles which must have transmitted every intermediate
degree. So with regard to charge ; it is highest at n, nothing at
e, and every intermediate degree occurs between the two. Then
with respect to these superficial particles, they hold all the charge
that exists, and therefore all the electricity which has been con
ducted is in them ; consequently all the electrolytic results must be
there ; and that would be the case, even though for the shell we
were to substitute a sphere of water. For, if those particles which
 have had more current through them than others be supposed to
 have more of the electrolytic results about them than the others,
then that electricity which is found associated chiefly, if not
 altogether, with these others, could have reached them only by
 conduction proper, which for the moment is assumed to be non
 existent. So, to favour the electrolytic argument, we will consider
 the conduction as ending at, and the electrolytic results as summed
 up in, these superficial particles, passing for the present the former
 objection that though the electricity has reached, it has not gone
 through, these particles. Taking, therefore, a particle at r, and con
 sidering its electrolytic condition as proportionate to the electricity
 which has arrived at that particle, and given it charge, we may then
 assume, for we have the power of diminishing the inductive action
 in any degree, that the electricity, the conduction of which has
 ceased upon the particle that was there has been just enough to
 decompose it, and has left what was the under but is now the
 surface particle, charged. In that case, some other particle, in a
 higher state of charge, and nearer to n, as at s, will have had
 enough electricity conducted towards its place to decompose two
 particles of water ;—but it is manifest that this cannot be the next
 particle to that at r, but that a great number of other particles in
 intermediate states of charge must exist between r and *. Now the
 question is, how can these particles become intermediately charged
  by virtue of electrolytic conduction only ? Electrolytic action is
 definite, and the very theory of electrolytic conduction assumes that
 the particles of oxygen and hydrogen as they travel convey not a
 variable but a perfectly definite amount of power onward in its
 course, which amount they cannot divide, but must take at once
 from alike particle, and give at once to another like particle. How
                                                             K2

130                       Professor Faraday                   [May 25,
then can any number of particles, or any action of such particles
carry a fraction of the force associated with each particle ? It is
no doubt true, that if two charged particles can throw their power
either on to one, or to three or more other particles, then all the
difficulty disappears. Conduction proper can do this : but, as we
cannot conceive of a particle half decomposed, so I cannot see how
this can be performed by electrolytic conduction, i.e. how the
particle between r and s can be excited to the intermediate and
indefinite degree, conduction without electrolysis being denied both
to it and the particles around it.
   If the particles between e and n be supposed to conduct electro-
lytically by the current which passes through them (dismissing for a
time, amongst other serious objections, that already given that the
products would not be found at the places to which the electricity
has been conveyed) still the present argument would have like
force. At r enough electricity may have passed through to decom
pose two particles of water, at s only enough to decompose one,—
how is a particle between r and s to change elements with the par
ticles either towards r or towards *, if electrolytic change only is to
be admitted ? or how, as before enquired, can two particles throw
their power on to, or receive their power from one ? Many other
considerations spring out of the thought of a water bubble, under
static induction ; but these just expressed, with those that relate
to the seat of electrolytic action, whether at the place of current or
of charge, create a sum of difficulty fully sufficient, without any
others, to make me suspend for the present any conclusions on the
 matter in question.
    The conduction power of water may be considered under another
point of view; namely, that which has relation to the absolute
charge that can be given to the fluid. A point from the electrical
machine can charge neighbouring particles of air, and they issue
off in streams. It can do the same to particles of camphine, or oil
of turpentine ;—it can do the same to the particles of water ; and if
two fine metallic wires connected with RuhmkorfFs apparatus,
be immersed in distilled water, about half an inch apart, the motes
usually present will soon show how the water receives charge, and
how the charged water passes off in streams, which discharge to each
 other in the mass. Now such charge is not connected with electro
 lysis ; the condition of electrolyzation is that the electricity pass
 through the water and do not stop short in it. The mere charge of
 the water gives us no idea where any constituents set loose by electro
 lysis can be evolved, and yet conduction is largely concerned in the
 act of charging. A shower of rain falls across a space in the atmo
 sphere subject to electric action, and each drop becomes charged ;
 spray may be thrown forth from an electrified fountain very highly
 charged ;—conduction has been eminently active in both cases, but
 I find it very difficult to conceive how that conduction can be
 electrolytic in its character.

1855.]                  on Electric Conduction.                      131
   When drops of water, oppositely electrified, are made to approach
each other, they act by convection, i. e. as carriers of electricity ;
when they meet they discharge to each other, and the function
of conduction is for the time set up. When the water bubble,
described p. o, is taken out of the sphere of induction, the opposite
electricities about p and n neutralize each other, being conducted
through the particles of the water. Are we to suppose in these
cases that the conduction is electrolytic ? if so, where are the con
stituents separated, and where are they to appear? It must be a
strong conviction that would deny conduction proper to electrolytes
in these cases ; and if not denied here, what reason is there ever to
 deny it absolutely.
    The result of all the thought I can give to the subject is a sus
pended judgment. I cannot say that 1 think conduction proper is
as yet disproved in electrolytes ; and yet I cannot say that I know
of any case in which a current, however weak, being passed by
platinum electrodes across acidulated water does not bring them into
a polarized condition. It may be that when metallic surfaces are
present, they complete by their peculiarities the condition necessary
 to the evolution of elements, which, under the same degree of
electrification would not be evolved if the metals were away ; and,
 on the other hand, it also may be that after the metals are polarized,
 and a consequent state of reactive tension so set up, a degree of con
 duction proper may occur between them and the electrolyte simul
 taneously with the electrolytic action. There is now no doubt that
 as regards electrolysis and its law, all is as if there were but electro
 lytic conduction ; but, as regards static phenomena (which are
 equally important) and the steps of their passage into dynamic
 effects, it is probable that conduction proper rules with electro
 lytes as with other compound bodies : for it is not as yet disproved,
 is supported by strong presumptive evidence, and may be essential.
 Yet so distant are the extremes of electric intensity, and so
 infinitely different in an inverse direction are the quantities that
 may and do produce the essential phenomena of each kind, that this
 separation of conductive action may well seem perfect and entire to
 those whose minds are inclined rather to see conduction proper
 replaced by electrolytic conduction, than to consider it as reduced,
 but not destroyed ; disappearing, as it were, for electricity of great
 quantity and small intensity, but still abundantly sufficient for all
 natural and artificial phenomena, such as those described, where in
 tensity and time both unite in favouring the final results required.
     But we must not dogmatise on natural principles, or decide upon
 their physical nature without proof; and, indeed, the two modes of
 electric action, the electrolytic and the static, are so different yet
 each so important, the one doing all by quantity at very low
 intensity, the other giving many of its chief results by intensity with
 scarcely any proportionate quantity, that it would be dangerous to
 deny too hastily the conduction proper to a few cases in static

 132                       Professor Tyndall                [June 1,
 induction, where water is the conductor, whilst it is known to be
 essential to the many, only because, when water is the electrolyte
 employed, electrolytic conduction is essential to every case of
 electrolytic action.
                                                          [M. F.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, June 1.
    THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                             in the Chair.
                      PROFESSOR TYXDALL, F.R.S.
               On the Currents of the Leyden Battery.
IN our conceptions and reasonings regarding the forces of nature
we perpetually make use of symbols, which, when they possess a
high representative value, we dignify with the name of theories.
We observe, for example, heat propagating itself through a bar of
metal, and help ourselves to a conception of the process by com
paring it with water percolating through sand, or travelling by
capillary attraction through a lump of sugar. In some such way
we arrive at what is called the material theory of heat. The thing
seen is thus applied to the interpretation of the thing unseen, and
the longing of the human mind to rest upon a satisfactory reason, is
in some measure satisfied. So also as regards the subject of the
present evening's discourse ; we are not content with the mere facts
of electricity ; we wish to look behind the fact, and prompted by
certain analogies we ascribe electrical phenomena to the action of a
peculiar fluid. Such conceptions have their advantages and their
disadvantages : they afford peaceful lodging to the intellect for a
time, but they also circumscribe it ; and by and by, when the mind
has grown too large for its mansion, it often finds a difficulty in
breaking down the walls of what has become its prison instead of
its home. Thus, at the present day, the man who would cross the
bounds which at present limit our knowledge of electricity and
magnetism finds it a work of extreme difficulty to regard facts in
their simplicity, or to rid them of those hypothetical adornments
with which common consent has long invested them.
   But though such is the experience of the earnest student of
Natural Philosophy at the present—though he may be compelled to
refuse his assent to the prevalent theoretic notions, he may never-

1855.]          on the Currents of the Leyden Battery.             133
theless advantageously make use of the language of these theories in
bringing the facts of a science before a public audience ; and in
speaking of electricity, the speaker availed himself of the convenient
hypothesis of two fluids, without at all professing a belief in their
existence. A Leyden jar was charged. The interior of the jar
might be figured as covered with a layer of positive electricity,
and the exterior by a layer of negative electricity ; which two
electricities, notwithstanding their mutual attraction, were prevented
from rushing together by the glass between them. When the
exterior and interior coating are united by a conducting body, the
fluids move through the conductor and unite ; thus producing what
is called an electric current. The mysterious agent which we darkly
recognise under this symbol is capable of producing wonderful
effects ; but one of its most miraculous characteristics is its power
of arousing a transitory current in a conductor placed near it. The
phenomena of voltaic induction are well known ; and it is interest
ing to inquire whether frictional electricity produces analogous
phenomena. This question has been examined by Dr. Henry, and
still more_recently by that able and experienced electrician M. Riess,
of Berlin. The researches of these gentlemen constituted the sub
ject of the evening's discourse.
   A wooden cylinder was taken, round which two copper wires,
each 75 feet in length, were wound ; both wires being placed upon
a surface of gutta-percha, and kept perfectly insulated from each
other. The ends of one of these wires were connected with a
universal discharger, whose knobs were placed within a quarter of
an inch of each other ; when the current of a Leyden battery was
sent through the other wire, a secondary current was aroused in
that connected with the discharger, which announced itself by a
brilliant spark across the space separating the two knobs.
   The wires here used were covered externally with a sheet of
gutta-percha ; and lest it should be supposed that a portion of the
electricity of the battery had sprung from one wire to the other,
two flat disks were taken. Each disk contained 75 feet of copper
wire, wound in the form of a flat spiral, the successive convolutions
of which were about two lines apart. One disk was placed upon
the other one, the wire being so coiled that the convolutions of
each disk constituted, so to say, the impress of those 'of the other,
and the coils were separated from each other by a plate of varnished
glass. The ends of one spiral were connected with the universal
discharger, between whose knobs a thin platinum wire, ten inches
long, was stretched. When the current of the Leyden battery was
sent through the other spiral, the secondary current, evoked in the
former, passed through the thin wire, and burnt it up with brilliant
deflagration. A pair of spirals were next placed six inches apart,
and a battery was discharged through one of them ; the current
aroused in the other was sufficient to deflagrate a thin platinum wire
four inches in length.

134                      Professor Tyndall                     [June 1,
   We have every reason to suppose that the secondary current thus
developed is of the same nature as the primary which produced it ;
and hence we may infer, that if we conduct the secondary away
and carry it through a second spiral, it, in its turn, will act the
part of a primary, and evoke a tertiary current in a spiral brought
near it. This was illustrated by experiment. First, two spirals
were placed opposite to each other, through one of which the cur
rent of the battery was to be sent ; the other was that in which the
 secondary current was to be aroused. The ends of the latter were
 connected by wires with a third spiral placed at a distance, so that
when the secondary current was excited it passes through the third
spiral. Underneath the latter, and separated from it by a sheet of
varnished glass, was a fourth spiral, whose two ends were connected
with the universal discharger, between the knobs of which a quantity
of gun-cotton was placed. When the battery was discharged
through the first spiral, a secondary current was aroused in the
second spiral, which completed its circuit by passing through the
 third spiral : here the secondary acted upon the spiral underneath,
 developed a tertiary current which was sufficiently strong to pass
between the knobs, and to ignite the gun-cotton in its passage. It
was shown that we might proceed in this way and cause the tertiary
to excite a current of the fourth order, the latter a current of the
fifth order, and so on ; these children, grandchildren, and great
grandchildren of the primary being capable of producing all the
effects of their wonderful progenitor.
   The phenomena of the extra current, which exists for an instant
contemporaneously with the ordinary current in a common voltaic
spiral, were next exhibited ; and the question whether a spiral through
which a Leyden battery was discharged exhibited any similar
phenomena was submitted to examination. It was proved, that the
electric discharge depended upon the shape of the circuit through
which it passed : when two portions of such a circuit are brought
near each other, so that the positive electricity passes in the same
direction though both of them, the effect is that the discharge is
weaker than if sent through a straight wire : if, on the contrary, the
current flow through both portiong in opposite directions the
discharge is stronger than if it had passed through a straight wire.
A flat spiral was taken, containing 75 feet of copper wire ; one end
of the spiral was connected with a knob of the universal discharger,
and the other knob was connected with the earth : between the knobs
of the discharger about four inches of platinum wire were stretched ;
on connecting the other end of the spiral with the battery a discharge
passed through it of such a strength that it was quite unable to
raise the platinum wire to the faintest glow. The same length of
copper wire was then bent to and fro in a zigzag manner, so that on
every two adjacent legs of the zigzag the current from the battery
flowed in opposite directions. When these 75 feet of wire were
interposed between the battery and the platinum wire, a discharge

1855.]           ou the Current! of the Leyden Battery.           135
precisely equal to that used in the former instance, raised the plati
num wire to a high state of incandescence, and indeed could be
made to destroy it altogether.
   When a primary and a secondary spiral are placed opposite to
each other, a peculiar reaction of the secondary upon the primary
is observed. If the ends of a secondary (50 feet long) be connected
by a thick wire, the effect upon the primary current is the same as
when the ends of the secondary remain wholly unconnected. If
the ends of the secondary be joined by a long thin platinum wire,
the reaction of the secondary is such as to enfeeble the primary.
This enfeeblement increases up to a certain limit as the resistance is
increased, from which forwards it diminishes until it becomes insen
sible. This would appear to prove that to react upon the primary
 the secondary requires to be retarded ; and that the greater the
 amount of the retardation, up to a certain limit, the greater is the
 enfeeblement. But by increasing the resistance we diminish the
 strength of the secondary, and when a certain limit is attained, this
 diminution is first compensated for by the influence of retardation,
 from which point forwards with every increase of the resistance, the
 enfeeblement of the primary is diminished. A primary current
 which fuses a certain length of platinum wire where the ends of the
 secondary are disunited, or where they are united by a thick wire,
 fails to do so when they are united with a thin wire. But if, instead
 of a thin wire, a body of much greater resistance, a column of water
 for example, be introduced, the platinum wire is fused as before.
                                                            [J. T.]

 136                      General Monthly Meeting.                  [June 4,
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                               Monday, June 4.
     TUB DUKE OF NORTHCMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
    J. S. Coleraan, Esq.                 Col. William Kirkman Loyd.
    Wm. De Lannoy, Esq.                   R. Bentley Todd, M.D. F.R.S.
    George H. Ingall, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                              George Ade, Esq.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
   The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   FROM
Administration of the Mines of Russia —Compte Reudu Annuel, 1853 Par
     A. T. Kupffer. 4to. St. Petersburg. 1854.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 246. 8vo. 1855.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XV. No. 6. 8Vo. 1855.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for May, 1855. 8vo.
Blashfield, J. M. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—History and Manufacture of
     Terra-Cotta, Ancient and Modern. 8vo. 1855.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for May, 1855. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute (/—Proceedings in May, 1855. 4to.
Civil Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings in May, 1855. 8vo.
Dilhe, C. Wentworth, Esq. (the Author)—Catalogue of a Collection of Works
     on, or having reference to, the Exhibition of 1851. in the possession of
     C. W. Dilke. 8vo. 1855.
Editors—The Medical Circular for May, 1855. 8vo.
  The Practical Mechanic's Journal for May, 1855. 4to.
  The Journal of Gas-Lighting for May, 1855. 4to.
  The Mechanics' Magazine for May, 1855. 8vo.
  Deutsches Athenaum for May, 1855. 4to.
  The Athenaeum for May, 1855. 4to.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss. Aka-
    demie, fur April, 1855. 8vo. Berlin.
  Whitelocke, B.—Journal of the Swedish Ambassy in 1653-4, from the Com
   monwealth of England, Scotland, and Ireland, written by the Ambassador,
   the Lord Commissioner Whitelocke. 2 vols. 4to. 1762.
  Shcrmami, A. J.— Historia Collcgii Jesu Cantabrigiensis, edidit et notis
   instruxit J. O. Halliwcll. 8vo, 1840.

1855.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                         137
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S—Sedgwick, A.—Discourse on the Studies
     of the University. 8vo. 1834.
   Jardine, G.—Outlines of Philosophical Education. 8vo. Glasgow, 1818.
   Deleuze, J. P, F.—Eudoxe : Entretiens sur 1'Etude des Sciences, des Lettres
     et de la Philosophic. 2 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1810.
  Memorie della Reale Accademia della Scienze di Torino. Serie Seconda.
     Tomo XIV. 4to. Torino, 1854.
   Macvicar, J. G.—Elements of the Economy of Nature, or the Principles of
     Physics, Chemistry, and Physiology. 8vo. 1 830.
  Tryon, T.—Letters on Subjects Philosophical, Theological, andlMoral. 12mo.
     1700.
   Howell, J. W.—The Unity of Nature. 8vo. 1849.
   Leeuwenhoek, A.—Arcana Naturae ope et beneficio Microscopiorum detecta.
     4to. Lug. Bat. 1696.
  Addison, W.—The actual Process of Nutrition in the Living Structure, de
    monstrated by the Microscope, &c. 8vo. 1843.
  Hales, Stephen.—Statical Essays : Vegetable Statics and Haemastatics. 3rd
     Ed. 2 vols. 8vo. 1738-1740.
  Varley, Cornelius.— A Treatise on Optical Drawing Instruments. 8vo. 1845.
  Vallc'e, L. L.—The"orie de 1'CEil, Premiere Partie. 8vo. 1844-6.
   Reynaud, A. A. L.—Eldmens d'Algcbre. 3° Ed. 2 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1810.
  Elemens des Sections Coniques. Par M. M**. 8vo. Paris, 1757.
  Institutions de Physique. 8vo. 1741.
  Nollet, J. A.—Le$ons de Physique Expe*rimentale. 4' Ed. 5 vols. 12mo.
    Paris, 1753-5.
  Gay-Lussae, J. L.—Cours de Physique. 8vo. Paris, 1827.
  Baily, F.—Astronomical Tables and Formulce. 8vo. 1827.
  Boyle, B.—New Experiments touching the Spring of the Air and its effects
    (made for the most part in a new Pneumatical Engine^. 4to. 1662.
  Bcrzelius, J. J.—Nouveau Systeme de Mine>alogie. 8vo. Paris, 1819.
  La Platine, 1'or blanc ou le Huitieme Metal. 12mo. Paris, 1758.
  De Born, Ignace.— Methode d'extraire les Metaux parfaits des Minerals par
    le Mercure. 4to. Vienne, 1788.
  Bouillon-Lagrange, E. J. B.—Essai sur les Eaux MinSrales Naturelles et
    Artificielles. 8vo. Paris, 1811.
  Wardrop, J.—On Diseases of the Heart. 8vo. 1851.
  Royle, J F.— On the Antiquity of Hindoo Medicine. 8vo. 1837.
  Berthier, M. P.—Memoires et Notices Chimiques, Mineralogiques, &c. 8vo.
    Paris, 1833.
  Le Begue de Presle—Le Conservateur de la Sant*. 12mo. Paris, 1763.
  Berzelius, J. J.—Essai sur la Theorie des Proportions Chimiqnes. 8vo.
    Paris, 1819.
 Chevreul, E.—Conside'rations ge"ne"rales sur 1'Analyse Organique. 8vo.
   Paris, 1824.
 Elemens de Chimie Theorique et Pratique, pour servir aux cours public de
    1'Acaddmie de Dijon. 3 vols. 12mo. 1777-8.
 Collectanea Chymica—A collection of several Treatises in Chymistry con
   cerning the Liquor Alkahest, the Mercury of the Philosophers, &c. 8vo.
   1684.
 Gay-Lussae, J. L.—Cours de Chimie. 2 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1828.
 De Nuisement, Le Sieur—Traittez du Vray Sel, secret des Philosopher et de
   1'Esprit General du Monde. 12mo. Paris, 1621.
 Laugier, M.—Chimie Generale. 3 vols. 8vo. 1828.
 Low, D.—Inquiry into the Nature of the Simple Bodies of Chemistry. 2nd
   Ed. 8vo. 1848.
 Louyet, P.—Cours Elementaire de Chimie Generate. 3 vols. 8vo. Brux-
   elles, 1841-4.
 Macqucr, M.—Dictionnairc de Chymie ; avec une Supplement, par M. H.
  Struve. 5 vols. 8vo. Neuchatel, 1789.

138                       General Monthly Meetiny.                     [June 4,
faraday, Professor, V.C.L. F.lt.S.—Pictet, M. A.— Essais sur le Feu. STo.
     Geneve, 1790.
   Pott, J. H.—Dissertations Chymiques, recueillies et traduites, par J. F.
     Demachy. 4 vols. 12mo. Paris, 1759.
   Kecueil de Memoires et d'Observations sur la Formation et sur la Fabrication
     du sal petre. Par les Commissaires nommcs par I'Academie pour le jugc-
     meut du prix du sal petre. 8vo. Paris, 1776.
   Si gur, Octave. — Lettres Elementaires sur la Chimie. 2 vols. 18mo. 1803
   Stahl, G. E.—Traite des Sets. 18mo. Paris, 1783.
   Otto Tachenius.— Hippocrates Chymicus. Translated by J.W. 4to. 1677.
   IJruck, K.—ElectrieUe ou Mague'tisme du GJobe Terrestre. 8vo. Bruxelles,
     1851.
   Bostock, J.—An Account of the History and Present State of Galvanism.
     8vo. 1818.
   Carpue, J. C.—An Introduction to Electricity and Galvanism. 8vo. 1803.
   Nollet, J. A.—Lettres sur I'Electriciti. Nouvelle Ed. 2 vols. 12mo.
     Paris, 1764.
   Guglielmini, D. —Delia Natura de Fiumi. 4to. Bologna, 1G97.
   Smyth, Capt. W. H.—Nautical Observations on the Port and Maritime
     Vicinity of Cardiff, and on the Bute Docks. 8vo. 1810.
   Theophrastns.—History of Stones, by J. Hill : with two Letters. 8vo. 1 746.
   Martin, W.—Outlines of an attempt to establish a knowledge of Extraneous
     Fossils. 8vo. 1809.
   Burnet, T.—The Theory of the Earth. 3rd Ed. fol. 1697.
   Smith, J. Pyc— Ou the Relation between the Holy Scriptures and some Parts
     of Geological Science. 8vo. 1839.
   Schlagintweit, H. und A.—Untersuchungen iiber die Physikalische Geogra-
      phie der Alpen. 4to. 1850.
    Knight, W.—Facts and Observations towards forming a New Theory of the
      Earth. 8vo. 1818.
    Eaton, A.—Geological Text-book (for America.) 8vo. Albany, U.S.
      1830.
    Ainsworth, W.—Account of the Caves of Ballybunian in the county of
      Kerry. 8vo. Dublin, 1834.
    Exposition des Produits de 1' Industrie Francaise en 1839 — Rapport du Jury
     central. 3 vols. 8vp. Paris, 1839.
    Treatise on Calico Printing. 12mo. 1793.
    Black, W.—A Practical Treatise on Brewing. 8vo. 1835.
    Moselcy, B.—A Treatise on Sugar. 8vo. 1799.
    Curr, J.— Railway Locomotion and Steam Navigation : their Principles and
     Practice. 8vo. 1847.
    Hall, Mr.—The principal Roots of the Latin Language. 8vo. 1825.
    Roberts, T.—An English and Welsh Vocabulary. 12mo. 1827.
    Forde, W.—The True Spirit of Milton's Versification developed. 8vo. 1831.
    Schweigger, J. S. C.—Emleitung in die Mythologie. 8vo. Halle, 1836.
 Fellows, Sir Charles, V.P.R.I. (tlie Author)—Coins of Ancient Lycia before
       the reign of Alexander : with an Essay on the relative dates of the Lycian
       Monuments in the British Museum. 8vo. 1855.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXIX. Nos.4, 5. 8vo. 1855.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 42. 8vo. 1855.
 Graham, George, Esq. Registrar-General— Reports of the Registrar-General for
       May, 1855. 8vo.
 Hamilton, W. J. Exq. Pres. Geol. Soc. (the Author) —Address at the Anniversary
       Meeting of the Geological Society, Feb. 16, 1855. 8vo. 1855.
 Hopkins, Thomas M. Esq. (the Author)—On the Atmospheric Changes which
       produce Rain and Wind. 2nd Ed. 8vo. 1854.
 Horticultural Society of London—Journal, Vol. IX. Part 4. 8vo. 1855.
 Ingall, G. H. Emj.—The History of Britain. By John Milton. 4to. 1670.

1855.]         Prof Faraday on Ruhmkorffs Apparatus.                     139
Jennings, Richard, Esq. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—Natural Elements of
     Political Economy. IGmo. 1855.
London, Library (Committee of the Corporation—Catalogue of London Traders'
     Tokens—Buaufoy Cabinet. By J. H. Burn. 2nd Ed. 8vo. 1855.
Manning, Frederick, Esq. M.R.I.—The Life of Thomas Ken, Bishop of Bath
     and Wells. By a Layman. 2nd Ed. 2 vols. 8vo. 1 854.
   Approach to the Holy Altar. By Bishop Ken. USmo. 1854
   Exposition of the Apostles' Creed. Bp. Bishop Ken. 16mo. 1834.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for May, 1855. 4to.
Pliillipps, Sir Thomas, Bart. F.R.S. F.S.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—Index
     Nominum in Libris Dictis Cole's Escheats. 16mo. 1852.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 30. 8vo. 1855.
Radclijfe Trustees, Oxford— Astronomical and Meteorological Observations
     made at the Radcliffe Observatory, in 1853. 8vo. 1855.
Royal Society.—Proceedings, Vol. VII. No. 12. 8vo. 1855.
Sachisclie Gesellsclinft, Leipzig.—Abhandlungen, Band III. Heft 7. 8vo. 1854.
   Berichte, Phil.-Hist. Classe. 1854. Heft 2-6 ; 1855. Heft 1,2. 8vo.
   Gedachtnissrede auf Friedrich August, Konig von Sachsen. Von E. von
     Wietersheim. 8vo. 1854.
ScJiarf, George, Esq.jun. F.S.A. (the Author)—Notes upon the Sculptures of a
     Temple discovered at Bath, in 1790. 4to. 1855.
Socicti/ of Arts—Journal for May, 1855. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XVIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1855.
 Wrey, J. W. Esq. M.A. M.R. /.—Explanations : a Sequel to "Vestiges of the
     Natural History of Creation." By the Author of that work. 12mo. 184C.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                Friday, June 8.
    THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
                 PROFESSOR FARADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                   On Ruhmhorff's Induction Apparatus.
THIS apparatus is known to consist of a soft iron core, intended to
act magnetically, around which there is a coil of coarse copper wire,
to be connected at pleasure with few or many cells of a voltaic
battery ; and external to this is a second coil of much thinner copper
wire, having great length, in which the peculiar currents of the
apparatus are to be produced. The coils of the wires are insulated
from one another by a very careful mode of preparation. The
inner, called the primary coil, is supplied with an automatic con
trivance, so that when the battery is connected with it, the con
tinuity is broken, to be renewed again an instant after ; and thus a

140                         Professor Faraday                    [June 8,
series of short intermitting currents, rapidly recurring, pass through
it instead of one constant current. The outer coil, usually called
the secondary, has its terminations apart ; and these can be con
nected either metallically by a wire, or arranged with any interval
or apparatus placed between them, in which effects of the induced
current are to be shown, and by which its characters are to be
examined.
    When the secondary circuit is metallically complete, each brief
current in the primary wire causes, according to well-known prin
ciples (Exp. Res. 10, &c.), two successive currents in opposite
directions in the secondary wire ; and if a galvanometer be
included in the secondary circuit, it is seen that the communica
tion of the primary wire with the battery is followed by a deflection
of the needle in one direction, which then gradually swings to and
fro, accompanied by curious spasmodic motions (which are under
stood upon a moment's inspection), until it comes to zero : if the
primary current be then stopped, the galvanometer needle is de
flected in the other direction, and after a few oscillations subsides
quietly to zero again. The sum of the alternate induction cur
 rents having been thus shown to be equal in effect to zero, it was
 then explained how, if the secondary currents be interrupted in the
 smallest degree, even by the intervention of a hair or a piece of
 paper, all the currents of one kind, due to the beginnings of the
 short inducing currents in the primary wire, were stopped off from
the secondary wire (being expended in the primary wire itself;, and
 only those due to the cessations of the primary currents left to show
 their power there ; so that the secondary wire could then give a
 continuous series of intermitting (but not alternating) currents, all
 of which, therefore, had a common direction.
    The remarkable character of the electricity of these currents was
 then shown and explained. Its intensity is such that it can strike
 across J or i an inch of air, whilst the intensity ofthe inducing current
 is so feeble that it cannot traverse any sensible striking distance :
 but it was also shown, that the more intense the electricity the less
 the sum of force transmitted in a given time by the action of the
 same battery and apparatus ; and that when the interruption of the
 secondary circuit was the smallest possible, as by a hair's-breadth,
 the largest amount of electricity passed through the galvanometer
 connected with it. The power of the induced current to pass
 through six inches or more of rarified air, was shown in the form of
 Gassiot's cascade :* and the conversion of the dynamic force of the
 primary and inducing current into the static force of the induced
 electricity, was illustrated by the charging of electrometers and
 Leyden jars.
    When the secondary current is interrupted, as just described, the
 inducing power of the primary current acts in its own wire to pro
                         * Phil. Mag. 1854, vii. p. 99.

 1855.]         on Ruhmkorff's Induction Apparatus.                141
duce certain hurtful or wasteful results. Fizeau, by applying a
Leyden jar (or its equivalent,) to the parts of the primary circuit
near the contact breaker, took up this extra power at the moment of
time, and converted it to a useful final purpose, upon principles
belonging to static induction, the effects of which were briefly ex
plained. Masson,* Grove,f and Sinsteden have made a like applica
tion to the terminals of the secondary wire ; and Grove has pointed
out striking changes in the character of the currents in it thus
produced, and useful applications of the results. For instance,
the spark in air between the ends of two platinum wires con
nected with the secondary terminals is flame-like, soft, and
comparatively quiet compared with that which is produced when
the terminals are respectively connected with the inner and outer
coatings of a Leyden jar ; for then it becomes very bright, sonor
ous, and apparently large, so that two sparks can hardly differ
more than the same spark under these circumstances. The differ
ences are even greater than the appearances show ; for whilst the
powerful rattling spark cannot fire wood, or paper, or even gun
powder, except by the use of expedients, the soft quiet spark at
once inflames any of them. The effect of the static induction thus
introduced is not so much to vary the quantity of electricity which
passes, as the time of the passage. That electricity which, moving
with comparative slowness through the great length of the secondary
coil, produces a spark having sensible duration (and therefore in
character like that of a Leyden jar passed through a wet thread,)
is, when the jar is used, first employed in raising up a static induc
tion charge, which when discharged produces a concentrated spark
of no sensible duration, and therefore much more luminous and
audible than the former. Fixing a piece of platinum wire horizon
tally across the ball of a Leyden jar, and then bringing the platinum
wire secondary terminals respectively near its ends, two interruptions
are produced in the secondary circuit, the sparks at which are like
each other and equal in quantity of electricity, for the jar as yet
forms only an insulating support. But if, in addition, either
secondary terminal be connected by a wire with the outside of the
jar, the spark on that side assumes the bright loud character before
described, but ceases to fire gunpowder or wood ; and no one would
at first suppose, what is the truth, that there is the same electricity
passing in one as in the other.
    Another interesting effect of the static induction is the double
 spark. If one of the secondary terminals be connected with the
outside of a Leyden jar, and the other be continued until near the
 knob or a wire connected with it, a soft spark appears at that inter
 val for every successive current in the primary circuit. This spark,
 however, is double ; for the electricity thrown into the jar at the
              * Prize Essay, Haarlem Trans. 1854, pp. 46, 47.
                      t Phil. Mag. Jan. 1855, ix. p. 1.

142      Prof. Faraday on Ruhmkorff's Apparatus. [June 8, 1 855.
moment of induction, is discharged back again at the same place the
instant the induction is over ; the first discharge heats and prepares
the air there for the second discharge, and the two are so nearly
simultaneous as to produce the appearance of a single spark to the
unaided eye.
   Reference was then made to the hopes raised by this instrument,
of advance in the investigation of the magneto-electric power,
by means of the great aid which it seems competent to supply.
The results obtained by Grove* apparently referable to polarization
were adverted to ; as also the remarkable transverse bands presented
in the recurring discharge across very rarified airf ; and, founded
as the instrument is by its core and its wires upon the joint effects
of electro-dynamic and magneto-electric induction, it was observed
that it gave great promise of aid in the investigation of that condi
tion of either the space or the ether which is about magnets, and
around every discharge of electricity, whether in good or bad
conductors, and which is expressed by the terms (themselves syn
onymous) of the magnetic or the electrotonic state.
                                                             [M. F.]
    Phil. Trans. 1852, p. 93, &c.          t Phil. Mag. 1852, iv, p 514.

                 Institution of CKreat Britain.
                                1855.
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING\.C
                          Friday, June 15.
 H.R.H. THE PKIKCE ALBEBT, K.G. F.R.S. Vice-Patron R.I.,
                            in the Chair.
                   COLONEL H. C. RAWLINSON,
  On the Results of the Excavations in Assyria and Babylonia.
THESE excavations, independently of the treasures of art disclosed
by them, have opened up to us a period of about 2000 )'ears in
the world's history, which, as far as the East is concerned, was
before almost entirely unknown. The cuneiform inscriptions of
Babylonia and Assyria furnish a series of historical documents
from the 22nd century B.C. to the age of Antiochus the Great.
The speaker divided these documents into three distinct periods of
history, the Chaldeean, the Assyrian, and the Babylonian, and he
then proceeded briefly to describe each period in succession. During
the Chaldaean period the seat of empire was to the south, towards
the confluence of the Tigris and Euphrates, and the sites of the
ancient capitals were marked by the ruins of Mugheir, of Warka,
of Senkereh, and of Niffer. At Mughier, called in the inscriptions
Jfur, and representing the biblical Ur of the Chaldees, inscriptions
have been found of a king, "Kudur, the conqueror of Syria," who
was probably the Chedorlaomer of the Bible. At' any rate, a king
named Ism.i-Dagan, who lived some generations later, is proved,
by a series of chronological dates found in the Assyrian tablets,
to belong to the 19th century B.C., so that the era of the earlier
king agrees pretty well with the ordinary computation of the age
of Abraham. The names of about twenty-five kings have been
recovered of the ancient period, and there are good grounds for
believing that the Assyrians did not succeed in establishing an
independent empire at Nineveh till the early part of the fifteenth
century B.C.
    From B.C. 1273 to 625, the Assyrians seem to have been the
lords paramount of Western Asia, and their history is preserved
   VOL. II.— (No. 22.)                                     L

 144            Col. Rawlinson, on the Retulu oftlte               [June 15,
 in an almost continuous series of documents, from the institution of
 the empire to the taking of Nineveh by the Medes and Babylonians.
 During the later part of this period, or from about 800 B.C., Jewish
 history runs in a parallel line with that of Assyria ; and wherever
 a comparison can be instituted between the sacred records and the
 contemporary annals of Nineveh, the most complete agreement is
 discovered between them ; and that not only in regard to the names
 of the kings, but also in respect to their order of succession, their
 relationship to each other, the wars in which they were engaged,
 and even the leading features of those wars. Col. Rawlinson
 noticed many such examples of coincidence, and drew attention
 to the great value of the verification which was thus obtained of
 Scripture history.
      The third, or Babylonian period, was then shortly discussed ;
 the reigns of Nebuchadnezzar and Nabonidus being especially se
lected for illustration. A description was given of the excavation of
 the great ruin near Babylon called Birs Nirnrud, and a translation
 was read of the edict of Nebuchadnezzar inscribed upon the clay
cylinders, which were found imbedded in the walls of the temple.
 A number of original relics, discovered among the ruins of Chal-
daea, Assyria, and Babylonia, and illustrative of these tliree periods
of history, were also exhibited to the meeting, previously to their
 being deposited in the British Museum.
                           LIST OF KINGS.
       I. CHALDEAN PERIOD.               Name of King.            Approximate
                                                                       Date.
                        Apjtroximate    Rim-Sin      .   .   .     B.C. 1500
 Name of King.
                               J)ale.   Zur-Sin
Urukh .      ,             B.C. 2234        •      .       •
Ilgi
                         •          •
Sint'i-Shil-Khak'    .                                               .    1400
Kudur-Mapula                 .     1950     .
                                                                    .     1300
Ismi-Dagan                   .     1860     •     •      t
Ibil-Aim-Duma
Gurguna .                                   II.—ASSYRIAN PKRIOD.
Naram-Sin                               Belukh         . .      .    .    1273
Durri-Galazu .               .     1700 I'udil                            1255
Purna-Puriyas .                         Phulukh I. . .         .    .     1240
    •      •     •                      Shalama-Bar I. .       .    .     1220
Kharnmurabi .                           Sanda-Pal-Imat         .    .    1200
Samshu-Iluna .              .      1600 Asshur-Dapal-Il        .    .     1185
    •      •     •                      Mutaggil-Nebo .        .    .     1165
Sin-Shada .                             Asshur-Rish-Ipan       .    .     1140

1855.]         Excavations in Assyria and Babylonia.             145
Name cf King.           Approximate
                            Date.
Tiglath-Pileser I. . B.C. 1120       Sargon ....            B.C. 721
Asshur-Bani-Pal I. . . 1100          Sennacherib     . .         702
                                     Esar-haddon     . .         680
Asshur-Adan-Akhi .              950  Asshur-Bani-Pal II.         660
Asshur-Danin-Il       .         925  Asshur-Emit-Ilut .
Phulukhll.         . .          900                           t „„ ,
Tigulti-Sanda . .               880
Sardanapalus . .                850   III.—BABYLONIAN PERIOD.
Shalama-Bar II. .               815  Nabopolassar        , .     625
(Asshur-Danin-Pal)                   Nabokodrossor (or 1
Shamas-Phul ...                 780    Nebuchadnezzar) f         605
Phulukh III. for Pul and 1      -—   Evil-Merodach .             562
Samuramit (Semiramisj                Nergal-Shar-Ezer            560
                                     Nabonidus, and Bel-Shar-1 554
Tiglath-Pileser II. .     .     747    Ezer (Belshazzar) . f to 538
Shalmaneser (?)       .   .     730 Taking of Babylon, by Cyrus.
    N.B.—It must be understood that the reading of many of these
names is still far from certain.
                                                          [H. R-]
             GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, July 2.
      SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  Thomas Pargiter Dickenson, Esq.
                  Thomas Dunn, Esq.
                  John MacLennan, M.D. and
                  Captain Raymond White,
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                  Eustace Anderson, Esq.
                  J. Richard Andrews, Esq.
                  John Sherard Coleman, Esq.
                  William Delannoy, Esq. and
                  Col. William Loyd,
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.

146                       General Monthly Meeting.                    [July 2,
   The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   FROM
Airy, G. B. Esq. F.B.S. Astronomer-Royal. — Report on Greenwich Obser
      vatory. June 2, 1855. 4to.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XV. No. 7. 8-vo. 1805.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1855. 8vo.
Bertie, Hon. and Kev. Frederick.—Five Generations of a Loyal House—
      Part I. —Lives of Richard Bertie, and his son Peregrine Lord Willoughby.
      By Lady Georgina Bertie. 4to. 1845.
       y, Messrs. (the_Publishers')—The Musical World for June, 1855. 4to.
Bradbury, Henry, Esq. MM. I.—The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland. By
      T. Moore, F.L.S. Edited by J.Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.S. Parts, fol. 1855.
British Architects, Royal Institute of— Proceedings in June, 1855. 4to.
Coleman, J. Sherard, Esq. M.R.I.—Journal of the Ethnological Society of
      London. Vols. I-III. 8vo. 1848-54.
Commissioners in Lunacy. —Ninth Report. 8vo. 1855.
Diamond, Hugh W. M.D. M.B. I.—Fac-simile of a Letter from Sir H.Davy
      to Sir F. Baring, dated October 3, 1805 (relating to the London Institution
      Museum).
East India Company, Hm.—Fibrous Plants of India, fitted for Cordage and
      Paper. By J. Forbes Royle, M.D. F.B.S. 8vo. 1855.
Editors— The Medical Circular for June, 1855. 8vo.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for June, 1855. 4to.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting for June, 1855. 4to.
   The Mechanics' Magazme for June, 1855. 8vo.
   Deutsches Athenaum for June, 1855. 4to.
   The Athenceum for June, 1855. 4to.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Kaiserliche Academic der Wissen-
     schaften, Wien:—
  Philosuphisch-Historische Classe — Sitzungsberichte. Band XIII. Heft 3 ;
     Band XIV. und Band XV., Heft 1 . 8vo. 1 855.
   Archiv fur Kundc (Esterreichischer Geschichtsquellen. Band XIV. Heft 1.
     8vo. 1855.
   Notizenblatt, 1855. Nos. 1-12. 8vo.
  Mathemati&ch-Naturwissenschaftliche Classe :—
   Denkschriften. Band VIII. 8vo. 1854.
   Sitzungsberichte. Band XIV.; und Band XV. Heft 1, 2. 8vo. 1854-5.
    Almauach fiir 1855. 16mo.
 Geographical Society, Royal.—Journal, Vol. XXIV. 8vo. 1854.
 Graham, George, Esq. Registrar-General— Report of the Registrar-General for
      June, 1855. 8vo.
 James, Lieut.-Col. H. R.E.—Abstracts of the Meteorological Observations at
      the Stations of the Royal Engineers, in 1853-4. 4to. 1855.
 Kovello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for June, 1855. 4to.
 Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)— Karte vom Sud-Westl. Russland. 1855.
    Mittheilnngen auf dem Gesammtgebicte der Geographic. Heft 1, 2, 3, 4.
       4to. Gotha, 1855.
 Photographic Society—Journal, No. 31 . 8vo. 1855.
 Royal Society.— Proceedings, Vol. VIII. No. 13. 8vo. 1855.
 Society of Arts—Journal for June, 1855. 8vo.
 Societyfor improving the Condition of the Insane— Rules and List of Members,
       and Prize Essay on the Changes in the Management of the Insane ; By
       D. H. Tuke, M.D. 8vo. 1854.
 Taylor, Kev. H'.— Magazine for the Blind. July, 1855.

1855,]                  General Monthly Meeting.                     147
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, November 5.
           Sir GEORGE POIAOCK, G.C.B., Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                     Delamore Jubilee Bailey, Esq.
                     Archibald Campbell, Esq.
                     John Evelyn -Denison, Esq. M.P.
                     K. Dick, Esq.
                     Thomas Farquhar Hill, Esq. and
                     Jonathan Rigg, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                     William Chapman, Esq.
                     Thomas Dunn, Esq. and
                     John MacLennan, M.D.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Managers reported, That on July 2nd, they appointed
THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY, Esq. F.R.S. to fill the vacant office of
Fulleriau Professor of Physiology.
    The Secretary having reported that the three specimens of
Nature-Printing accompanying the abstract of Mr. H. BRADBURY'S
Discourse on May 1 1 last, were presented by that gentleman, the
special thanks of the Members were returned to him for his
valuable donation.
    The special thanks of the Members were also returned to
DECIMUS BURTON, Esq. and R. HUTTON, Esq., executors of the
late GEORGE GREENOUGH, Esq., for their present of a copy of Mr.
GREENOUGH'S "Physical and Geological Map of India," in six
sheets ; and to WIIOJAM NEWTON, Esq. for his present of a copy
of his Map and Memoir of " London in the Olden Time."
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
  FROM
Accademia de, Nnovi Lincei, Roma—Atti, Anno I. Tomo I. ; Anno IV. ; Anno
   V. f Session! 1-6. 4to. 1851-3.
Actuaries, Institute of—The Assurance Magazine, Nos. 20, 21. 8vo. 1855.

148                       General Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov. 5,
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Vol. XVI. Parti. 8vo. 1855.
American Academy of Aris ami Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. III. Nos. 14-23.
      8vo. 1854-55.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 51. 8To. 1855.
Amsterdam, Koninklijhe Akademie van Wetenschappcn — Verhandelingen.
      Deel II. 4to. 1855.
   Verslagen en Mededeelungen, Deel II. Stuk 3. Deel III. 8vo. 1854-5.
   Catalogue der Boekerij. Anflevering I. 8vo. 1855.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings. No. 41, 42. 8vo. 1854-5.
   Archffiologia, Vol. XXXVI. Part 1. 4to. 1855.
Arnold, Thomas J. Esq., Life Sub. R.I. (the A uthor)—Reynard the Fox,
    after the German version of Goethe. With illustrations by J. Wolf. 8vo.
    1855.
Arnott, Neil, M.D. F.K.S. (the Author)—On the Smokeless Fireplace, Chim
    ney-valves, and other means of obtaining Healthful Warmth and Ventilation.
    8vp. 1855.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 247-249. 8vo. 1855.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XV.. Part 2. 8vo. 1854.
   Vestiges of Assyria, 3 Maps, by F. Jones.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, 1855, No. 8. 8vo.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M. .R./.—Pharmaceutical Journal, August to November, 1 855.
      8vo.
Bombay Medical Board—Deaths in Bombay in 1853. 4to.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World, Jnly to Oct., 1855. 4to.
Boston Society of Natural History—Proceedings, Vol. IV., Noe. 25, 26. ;
      Vol. V. Nos. 1-11. 8vo. 1854-5.
Bradbury, Henry, Esq. M.R.I.—The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland.
      By T. Moore, F.L.S. Edited by J. Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.& Parts 4-7.
      fol. 1855.
Britisli Architects, Royal Institute ^—Proceedings in Jnly, 1855. 4to.
   Papers read in Session 1854-5. tin.
British Association—Report of the Twenty-fourth Meeting held at Liverpool
      in 1854. 8vo. 1855.
Burton, 1). fr R. Huiton, Esgs. (Executors of the late G. B. Greenoagh, Esq.)
    Physical and Geological Map of India. By G. B. Greenough, Esq. I-'. U.S.
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 30. 8vo. 1855.
De la Rive, Prof. A. (the Author)—On the Cause of the Aurora BorealU. 8vo.
     1855.
Editors—The Medical Circular for July to October, 1855. 8vo.
   The Athenaeum for July to October, 1855. 4to.
   The Practical Mechamc's Journal for July to October, 1855. 4to.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting for July to October, 1855. 4to.
   The Mechanics' Magazine for July to October, 1855. 8vo.
   Newton's London Journal, for Jnly to October, 1855.
Ethnological Society of London—Address by John Cono1ly, M.D. followed by
      a Sketch of the recent Progress of Ethnology, by R. Cull. 8vo. 1 355.
  Regulations. 8vo. 1855.
  The Ethnological Exhibitions of London. By J. Conolly, M.D. 8vo. 1855.
  Probable Origin of the American Indians, by J. Kennedy, Esq. 8vo. 1854.
Faraday, Projessor, D.C.L. F.U.S.—Mouatsbericht der Kbnigl. Preuss.
    Akademie, Mai zu August, 1855. 8vo. Berlin.
  Abhandlungen der Koniglichen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin.
    1854. 4to. 1855.
  Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien :—
    Philosopliisch-Ifistonsclie Classe :—Sitzungsberichte, Band XV. Hefte 2, 3:
      Band XVI. Heft 1. 8vo. 1855.
    Denkschriften. Band VI. 4to. 1855.                                 „
    Mathematisch-Nuturwissenschaftliche Claase:—Denkschriften. Band IX.
      4to. 1855.

1855.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                           149
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Sitzungsberichtc. Rand XV. Heft 3. :
      Band XVI. Heft 1. 8vo. 1855.
   Observations de Phenomenes Periodiques. Par M. Quetelet. 4to. 1855.
   L'Academic Royale de la Belgique :—Annuaire. 1855. 8vo.
       Bulletins des Seances de la Classe des Sciences, Ann, c 1854. Svu.
   Mumuires de 1'Acade'mie des Sciences de 1'Institut Imperial de France:
      Sciences Morales et Politiqnes. Tome IX. 4to. Paris, 1855.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXIX, No. 6. ; Vol. XXX.
     Nos. 1-3. 8vo. 1855.
Geographical Society, lioyal—Address by the Earl of Ellesmere, May, 1855. 8vo.
Geological Society —Quarterly Journal, No. 43. 8vo. 1855.
Graham, George, Esq. Registrar- General—Weekly Report of the Registrar-
     General for July to October, 1855. 8vo.
Graty, Col. A. M. (the Author)—Memoires sur les Productions Mine rales de
     de la confederation Argentine. 16mo. Paris, 1855.
Hiyliley, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Asylum Journal of Mental Science. No.
     15. 8vo. 1855.
Hophins, Evan, Esq. C.E. F.G.S. (the Author)—Illustrated Introduction to the
     Connection of Geology and Magnetism. 8vo. 1855.
Liverpool Literary and Philosuphical Society — Proceedings, No. 9. 8vo.
       1854-5.
Macloughlin, D. M.D. M.R.I. (the Author)—Two Letters on Cholera. 8vo.
       1855.
Morris, H. S. M.D. M.R.I.—Laennee, H. T. H.—Traitc de rAusenltation
     Mediate et des Maladies des Poumons et dn C<eur. 2°- edition. 2 veils.
     8vo. Paris, 1826.
   Roche, L. Ch. & Sanson, L. J.—Noaveaux Elemens de Pathologic Medico-
     chirurgicale. 2C- edition. 5 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1828.
   Richter, A. L.—Die Necrose. 8vo. Berlin, 1826.
   Leupolt, J.—Grundziige einer Propadeutik zum Stadium der Heilkunde.
     8vo. Berlin, 1826
   Bartels, E. D. A.—Lehrbnch der allgemeinen Therapie. 8vo. Marburg, 1824.
   Schmalz, K. G.—Versnch einer Medizinisch-chirurgischen Diagnostik, in
     Labellen. fol. Dresden, 1825.
   Broussais, F. J. V.—De 1'Irritation et de la Folie. 8vo. Paris, 1820.
    Ennemoser, J.—liber die Seele. 8vo. Bonn, 1824-5.
Newton, William, Esq. (the Author)—London, Westminster, and Southwark in
    the Olden Times, being a bird's-eye view of the City and its suburbs, in the
    reign of Henry VIII., with a Memoir.' folio. 1855.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for July to October, 1855. 4to.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen aufdem Gesammtgebiete der
       Geographic. Hefte 5, 6. 4to. Gotha, 1855.
Photographic Society— Journal, No. 32-35. 8vo. 1855.
lioyal Society of Edinburgh—Proceedings, No. 45. 8vo. 1854-5.
    Transactions, Vol. XXI. Part 2. 4to. 1854-5.
Koyal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXLV. Part 1.
       4to. 1855.
    Proceedings, Vol. VII. No. 14. 8vo. 1855.
St. Petertbourg, Acade'mie Imperiale de—Bulletin de la Classe Physico-Mathe-
       matique. Tome XIII. 4to. 1855.
Smithsonian Institution, Washington—Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge.
       Vol. VII. 4to. 1855. '
    Eighth and Ninth Annual Reports. 8vo. 1854-5.
 Society ofArts—Journal, for July to October, 1855. 8vo.
 Supwuh, Thos. Esq. F.R.S. (the Author)—Addresses to the Tyneside Natural
     ists' Field Club, May 23, 1855, 9th Anniversary. 8vo. 1855.
 Statistical Society— Journal, Vol. XVIII. Part 3. 8vo. 1855.
 Tachf, M. J. C. M.P. Canadien (the Author)— Esquisse sur le Canada.
      16mo. 1855.

150                          General Monthly Meeting.              [Dec. 3,
 Taylor, Rev. W. FJJ.S. M.R.I—Magazine for the Blind. Nos. 13, 14. 4to.
    The Yorkshire Dialect exemplified. 8vo. 1839.
 Vereiia zur BrfSrdertwg det Gewerbfleinet in Preiaten —Verhandlungen, ll'ira
    yn August, 1855. 4to. Berlin.
 Visitors of the County Lunatic Asylum, at Hanwell—Ninth and Tenth Beports.
      8vo. 1854-5.
 Watkias, C. R. W. Esq. (the Author)—Principles »nd Rudiments of Minera
      logy, Botany, Zoology. 12mo. 1855.
 Webster, John, M.D. F.B.S. J/..R./.—Journal of Public Health, Part II. 8vo.
       1855.
 Window, Forbes, M.D. D.C.L. (the Author)—The case of Lnigi Buranclli
      Medico-legal ly considered. 8vo. 1855.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, 1851-5.      svo.
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                Monday, December 3.
                         AARON ASHER GOLDSMID, Esq.,
                                    in the Chair.
                              Delamore J. Bailey, Esq.,
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
       The Secretary reported that the following Arrangements had
been made for the Lectures before Easter, ] 856 :—
       Six Lectures on the DISTINCTIVE PROPERTIES OF THE COMMON
METALS (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory), by MICHAEL FARADAY,
Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. &c. Fullerian Professor of Chemistry, R.I.
       Twelve Lectures on PHYSIOLOGY AND COMPARATIVE ANATOMY,
by THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY, Esq. F.R.S. Fullerian Professor of
Physiology, R.I.
       Eight Lectures on LIGHT, by JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. F.R.S.
Professor of Natural Philosophy, R.I.
       Eight Lectures on ORGANIC CHEMISTRY, by WILLIAM ODLING,
Esq. M.B. Professor of Practical Chemistry at Guy's Hospital.
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
    FBOM
.•li-iiilii: Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 250. 8vo. 1855.
Agronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XV. No. 9. 8vo. 1855.
liarlow, Keo. J. M.A. Sec. R.I,—Lord Alvanley on the State of Ireland.
        Bio. 1841.

 1855.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                       151
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for Nov. 1855. 8vo.
lionsei/, Messrs. (tlic Publishers)—The Musical World for Nov. 1855. 4to.
 Hnii/''inri/, Henry, Esq. M.K.I.—The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland. By
       T. Moore, F.L.S. Edited by J. Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.S. Parts, fol. 1855.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in Nov. 1855. 4to.
 Civil Engineers, Institution gf— Proceedings in Nov. 1855. 8vo.
 College of Surgeons, Royal—Catalogue of the Histological Series in the Mu
        seum. Vol. II. 4to. 1855.
    List of Members. 8vo. 1855.
Editors—The Medical Circular for Nov. 1855. 8vo.
       The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Nov. 1855. 4to.
       The Journal of Gas-Lighting for Nov. 1855. 4to.
        The Mechanic's Magazine for Nov. 1855. 8vo.
       The Athenaeum for Nov. 1855. 4to.
       Newton's London Journal for Nov. 1855. 8vo.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXX. No. 4. 8vo. 1855.
    Berichte, 1854. Hefte 1 and 2. 8vo.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 44. 8vo. 1855.
 Graham, George, Esq. Registrar-General—Report of the Registrar-General for
        Nov. 1855. 8vo.
 Guthrie, G. J. Esq. F.R.S. (the Author).—Addenda to his Commentaries ou
       Surgery. 16mo. 1855.
Hoper, Richard, Esq. M.R.I.—The Organ: its History and Construction.
       By E. J. Hopkins and E. F. Rimbault. 8vo. 1855.
Holland, Sir Henry, Bt. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author).—Medical Notes
       and Reflections. Third Edition. 8vo. 1855.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,
       Vol. XXXVIII. 8vo. 1855.
North of England Institute of Mining Engineers—Transactions, Vol. III. 8vo.
       1854-5.
ffooello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for Nov. 1855. 4to.
Peternuam, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
       Geographic. Hefte 7, 8. 4to. Gotha, 1855.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 36. 8vo. 1855.
Qnaritch, Mr. B. (the Publisher)—A Practical Grammar of the Arabic Tongue,
       by Paris El-Shidiac. 18mo. 1856.
Royal Society.—Proceedings, Vol. VIII. No. 15. 8vo. 1855.
Robinson, Henry, Esq. C.E. (the Author)—A Plan for the effectual Improve
       ment of the River Thames. 8vo. 1855.
Sachsiscke Gesellschaft, KSnigliche, Leipzig, Math.-Nat. Classe. Abhandlungen,
       Band IV. 3 Hefte. 8vo. 1855.
Society of Arts—Journal for Nov. 1855. 8vo.
Vincent, B. Assist. Sec. R.I. (the Editor)—Haydn's Dictionary of Dates. 7th
       edition. 8vo. 1855.
Word, S. H. M.D. (the Author)—Healthy Respiration. 16mo. 1855.
Weale, John, Esq. (the Publisher)—Rudimentary Treatise on Galvanism, by
      Sir W. Snow Harris. 16mo. 1855.
   Rudimentary Treatise on Railways, by E. D. Chattaway. 16mo. 1855.
   Five Legislative Enactments for the Guidance of Contractors, Merchants,
      and Tradesmen. 16mo. 1855.

152           Mr. W. R. Grove, on Inferences from             [Jan. 25,
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, January 25, 1856.
SIR BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, D.C.L. F.R.S. V ice-President,
                              in the Chair.
              W. R. GROVE, Esq. Q.C. F.R.S. M.R.I.'
          Inferences from the Negation of Perpetual Motion.
SCATTERED among the writings of philosophers will be found
allusions to the subject of perpetual motion, and here and there are
arguments like the following -. such a phenomenon cannot take place,
or such a theory must be fallacious, because it involves the idea of
perpetual motion : thus Dr. lloget advanced as an argument against
the contact theory of electricity, as originally propounded, that if
mere contact of dissimilar metals, without any chemical or molecular
change, could produce electricity, then as electricity could, in its
turn, be made to produce motion, we should thus get perpetual
motion.
     It may be well to define, as far as such a definition is possible,
what is commonly meant by the term perpetual motion. In one sense,
all motion, or rather all force, is perpetual ; for example, if a clock
weight be wound up, it represents the force derived from the muscles
of the arm which turns the key, the muscles again derive force
indirectly from the chemical action of the food, and so on. As the
weight descends it conveys motion to the wheels and pendulum ; the
former giving force off in the form of heat from friction, the latter
communicating motion to the air in contact with it, thence to the
case of the clock, thence to the air of the room,—proved in a very
simple manner by the ticking heard, which is in fact, a blow to the
organ of hearing. Although ultimately lost to our senses, there is
no reason to suppose that the force is ever in fact lost. The weight
thus acting, reaches the ground quietly, and produces no effect at
the termination of its course.
     If, instead of being allowed to communicate its force to the works
 of the clock,the weight be allowed to descend suddenly, as by cutting
the string by which it is suspended, it strikes the floor with a force
which shakes the house ; and thus conveys, almost instantaneously,
the amount of force which would be gradually dissipated, though
not ultimately consumed, by the clock in a week or nine days.
     This idea, however, of the perpetuity of force, is not what is

1856.]             lite Negation of Perpetual Motion.              153
commonly understood by the term perpetual motion : that expression
is used to convey the notion of a motive machine, the initial force
of which is restored by the motion produced by itself,—a clock, so
to speak, which winds itself up by its own wheels and pendulum, a
pump which keeps itself going by the weight of the water which it
has raised. Another notion, arising from a confusion between
static and dynamic forces, was, that motion might be obtained with
out transferring force, as by a permanent magnet. All sound
philosophers are of opinion that such effects are impossible ; the
work done by a given force, even assuming there were no such
thing as friction, aerial resistance, &c., could never be more than
equal to the initial force ; the theoretical limit is equilibrium. The
weight raised at one end of a lever can never, without the fresh
application of extraneous force, raise the opposite weight which has
produced its own elevation. A force can only produce motion
when the resistance to it is less powerful than itself; if equal, it is
equilibrium : thus if motion be produced, the resistance, being less
than the initial or producing force, cannot reproduce this ; for then
the weaker would conquer the stronger force.
     The object of this evening's communication was not, however, to
adduce proofs that perpetual motion, in the sense above defined,
is impossible ; but assuming that as a recognised truth, to show
certain consequences which had resulted, and others which were
likely to result, from the negation of perpetual motion ; and how
this negation may be made a substantive and valuable aid to
scientific investigation.
     After Oersted made his discovery of electro-magnetism, philo
sophers of the highest attainments argued, that as a current of
electricity, circulating in a wire round a bar of iron, produced mag
netism, and as action and reaction are equal, and in contrary
directions, a magnet placed within a spiral of wire should produce in
 the wire an electrical current : had it occurred to their minds that,
if a permanent magnet could so produce electricity, and thence
 necessarily motion, they would thus get, in effect, perpetual motion,
they would probably have anticipated the discovery of Faraday,
and found that all that was required was to move the magnet with
reference to the wire, and thus electricity might have been expected
to be produced by a magnet without involving the supposed
absurdity.
     In a very different instance, viz. the expansion of water when
freezing, not only heat, or the expansive force given to other bodies
by a body cooling, would be given out by water freezing, but also
the force due to the converse expansion in the body itself; and
 upon the argument that force would, in this case, be got out of
nothing, Mr. J. Thomson saw that this supposed impossibility
would not result if the freezing point of water were lowered by
pressure, which was experimentally proved to be the case, by his
brother.

154             Mr. W. R. Grove, on Inferencesfrom             [Jan. 25,
     In the effects of dilatation and contraction by heat and cold, when
applied to produce mechanical effects, and consequently in the
theory of the steam-engine, this subject possesses a greater practical
interest. Watt supposed, that a given weight of water required
the same quantity of what is termed total heat (that is, the sensible
added to the latent heat) to keep it in the state of vapour, whatever
was the pressure to which it was subjected, and consequently, how
ever its expansive force varied. Clement Desormes was also sup
posed to have experimentally verified this law. If this were so, vapour
raising a piston with a weight attached would produce mechanical
power ; and yet the same heat existing as at first, there would be no
expenditure of the initial force ; and if we suppose that the heat in
the condenser was the real representative of the original heat, we
should get perpetual motion. Southern supposed that the latent
heat was constant, and that the heat of vapour under pressure
increased as the sensible heat. M. Despretz, in 1832, made some
experiments which led him to the conclusion that the increase was
not in the same ratio as the sensible heat, but that yet there was an
increase ; a result confirmed and verified with great accuracy by
M. Kegnault, in some recent and elaborate researches. What seems
to have occasioned the error in Watt and Clement Desormes' ex
periments was, the idea involved in the term latent heat ; by which
supposing the phenomenon of the disappearance of sensible heat to
be due to the absorption of a material substance, that substance,
' caloric,' was thought to be restored when the vapour was con
densed by water, even though the water was not subjected to
pressure ; but to estimate the total heat of vapour under pressure the
vapour should be condensed while subjected to the same pressure
as that under which it is generated, as was done in M. Despretz
and M. Regnault's experiments.
     Carnot's theory, that the mechanical force is produced by the
transfer of heat, and that there is no ultimate cost or expenditure of
heat in producing it, was founded in part on similar considerations ;
it is true that mechanical motion may be produced by the transfer
of heat from a higher to a lower temperature, without ultimate
loss, or, strictly speaking, with an infinitely small loss, but not, a»
he seemed to think, an available mechanical force, except upon an
assumption which he did not make, and to which allusion will
presently be made. Thus, let a weight be supposed to rest on a
piston confining air of a certain temperature, say 50°, in a vessel
non-conducting for heat ; part of this temperature will be due to the
pressure exerted, since compression produces heat in air, while
dilatation produces cold. If the air be now heated, say to 70°, the
piston, with the weight attached, will rise, and the temperature in
consequence of the expansion of the air will cool somewhat, say to
69°, (the heat of friction of the piston may be taken to compensate
the power lost by friction) : if now a cold body be made to abstract
203, the piston descending will, by its pressure, restore the 1° lost

1856.]           the Negation of Perpetual Motion.                 155
by expansion ; and when the piston has returned to its first position,
the original 50° will remain as at first. Suppose this experiment
repeated up to the rise of the piston ; but when the piston is at its
full elevation, and the cold body is applied, let the weight be
removed, so as to drop upon a wheel, or to be used for other
mechanical purposes, the descending piston will not now reach its
original point without more heat being abstracted ; from the
removal of the weight there will not be the same force to restore the
1°, and the temperature will be 49°, or some fraction short of the
original 50° ; if this were otherwise, then as the ball in falling may
be made to produce heat by friction, we should have more heat than
at first, or a creation of heat out of nothing, in other words, per
petual motion.
    When force is abstracted from a thermal machine we ought to
lose heat, if we suppose degrees of heat at a lower temperature to
represent the same amount of force as the same number of degrees
at a higher temperature ; if, for instance, we suppose that a body
cooling from 120° to 100°, gives off the same force as a body
cooling from 20° to zero ; this seems to be tacitly assumed by
Carnot, but is probably not correct, the results of high-pressure
steam, and other facts indicating a contrary conclusion. If then the
20° on the lower scale do not represent an equivalent force to the
20° on the higher, we may gain the same heat in degrees in the
condenser as was lost from the furnace, and yet get derived power.
There is frequently a confusion between the work performed which
returns to the machine, and the derived work, or that which does
not return, and is used for other purposes. This is puzzling to the
reader of treatises on the steam-engine, and kindred subjects, and
has led to much obscurity of thought and expression.
    .M. Seguin, in 1839, controverted the position that derived power
could be got by the mere transfer of heat, and by calculation from
certain known data, such as the law of Mariotte, viz. that the elastic
force of gases and vapours increased directly with the pressure, and
assuming that for vapour between 100° and 150° centigrade each
degree of elevation of temperature was produced by a thermal unit,
he deduced the equivalent of mechanical work capable of being
performed by a given decrement of heat ; and thus concluded that
for ordinary pressures about one gramme of water losing one degree
centigrade would produce a force capable of raising a weight of 500
grammes through a space of one metre ; this estimate is a little
beyond that given by the more recent experiments of Mr. Joule.
M. Seguin has, however, since the accurate and elaborate experi
ments of M. Begnault, necessarily varied his estimate, as by these
experiments it appears that, within certain limits, for elevating the
temperature of compressed vapour by one degree, no more than
about ^pjths of a degree of total heat is required ; consequently, the
equivalent multiplied in this ratio would be 1666 grammes, instead
of 500. Other investigators have given numbers more or less dis

  156          Mr. W. R. Grove, on Inferences from             [Jan. 25,
 cordant ; so that without giving any opinion on their different
 results, this question may be considered at present far from settled.
 M. Regnault himself does not give the law by which the ratio of
 heat varies with reference to the pressure, and is still believed to be
 engaged in researches on the subject, one involving questions of
 which experiments on the mechanical effects of elastic fluids seem
 to offer the most promising means of solution.
      One of the greatest difficulties which had presented itself to
 Mr. Grove's mind, with reference to the theory of Carnot, had
 been one of analogy, derived from the received theories of elec
 tricity. Many electrical cases might be cited in which no electricity
 is supposed to be lost, though a certain mechanical effort is produced
 by the electricity ; if, for instance, a ball vibrates between a posi
 tively and negatively electrified substance, none of our electrical
 theories lead us to believe that any difference in the actual amount
of electricity transferred would be occasioned by the ball being
attached to a lever which would strike a wheel or produce any other
 mechanical effect.
     In preparing this evening's communication an experiment had
occurred to him, which, though performed with imperfect apparatus
 and therefore requiring verification, does, as far as it goes, support
 the view derived from the negation of perpetual motion, viz. that
 when electricity performs any mechanical work which does not
 return to the machine, electrical power is lost. The experiment is
 made in the following manner. A Leyden jar of one square foot
coated surface has its interior connected with a Cuthbertson's elec
trometer, between which and the outer coating of the jar are a pair
of discharging balls fixed at a certain distance (about i an inch
apart). Between the Leyden jar and the prime conductor is in
serted a small unit jar of nine square inches surface, the knobs of
which are 0' 2 inch apart.
     The balance of the electrometer is now fixed by a stiff wire
inserted between the attracting knobs, and the Leyden jar charged
by discharges from the unitjar. After a certain number of these,
(22 in the experiment performed in the theatre on this occasion,)
the discharge of the large jar takes place across the i-inch in
terval ; this may be viewed as the expression of electrical power
received from the unit jar. The experiment is now repeated, the
wire between the balls having been removed, and therefore the
' tip ' or the raising of the weight, is performed by the electrical
repulsion and attraction of the two pairs of balls ; at 22 discharges
of the unit jar the balance is subverted, and one knob drops upon
the other, but no discharge takes place, showing that some electricity
has been lost, or converted into the mechanical power which raises
the balance. By another mode of expression the electricity may
be supposed to be masked or analogous to latent heat, and would
be restored if the ball were brought back, without discharge, by
extraneous force.

  1856.]            the Negation of Perpetual Motion.                 157
     This experiment has succeeded in so large an average of cases,
 and so responds to theory, that, notwithstanding the imperfection of
 the apparatus, Mr. Grove places much reliance on it ; indeed, it is
 difficult to see, if the discharges or other electrical effects were the
 same in both cases, why the raising the ball, being extra, and the
 ball being capable by its fall of producing electricity or other force,
 force would not thus be got out of nothing, or perpetual motion
 attained.
     The experiment is believed to be new, and to be suggestive of
 others of a similar character, which may be indefinitely varied.
 Thus, two balls made to diverge by electricity should not give to
 an electrometer the same amount of electricity as if they were,
 whilst electrified, kept forcibly together, an experiment which may
 be tried by Coulomb's torsion balance.
     There is an advantage in electrical experiments of this class, as
 compared with those on heat, viz. that though there is no perfect
 insulation for electricity, yet our means of insulation are immeasur
 ably superior to any attainable for heat.
     Similar reasoning might be applied to other forces ; and many
cases, bearing on this subject, have been considered by Mr. Grove
 in his essay on the " Correlation of Physical Forces."
     Certain objections to these views were then discussed, and espe
cially some apparently formidable ones presented by M. Matteucci
in a paper published by him some time ago.*
     This distinguished philosopher cites the fact, that a voltaic
battery decomposing water in a voltameter, while the same current
is employed at the same time to make an electro-magnet, never
theless gives in the voltameter an equivalent of gas, or decomposed
substance, for each equivalent of chemical decomposition in the cells,
and will give the same ratios if the electro-magnet be removed.
In answer to this objection it may be said, that in the circumstances
under which this experiment is ordinarily performed, several cells of
the battery are used, and so there is a far greater amount of force
generated in the cells than is indicated by the effect in the volta
meter. If, moreover, the magnet is not interposed, still the magnetic
force is equally existent through the whole circuit ; for instance, the
wires joining the plates will attract iron filings, deflect magnetic
needles, &c. By the iron core a small portion of the force is ab
sorbed while it is being made a magnet, but this ceases to be
absorbed when the magnet is made ; this is proved by the recent
observations of Mr. Latimer Clarke, which were fully entered into
and extended by Mr. Faraday, in a lecture at the Institution
(.Tan. 20, 1854|). It is like the case of a pulley and weight, which
latter exhausts force while it is being raised, but when raised the
force is free, and may be used for other purposes.
              * Archives des Sciences Physiqnes, Vol. IV., p. 380.
             t Proceedings of the Royal Institution, Vol. I., p. 345.

158     Mr. W. JR. Grow, on Negation of Perpetual Motion.
     If a battery of one cell, just capable of decomposing water and
no more, be employed, this will cease to decompose while making a
magnet. There must, in every case, be preponderating chemical
affinity in the battery cells, either by the nature of its elements or
by the reduplication of series, to effect decomposition in the vol
tameter, and if the point is just reached at which this is effected,
and the power is then reduced by any resistance, decomposition
ceases : were it otherwise, were the decomposition in the voltameter
the exponent of the entire force of the generating cells, and these
could independently produce magnetic force, this latter force would
be got from nothing, and perpetual motion be obtained.
     In another case, cited by M. Matteucci, viz. that a piece of zinc
dissolved in dilute sulphuric acid gives somewhat less heat than
when the zinc has a wire of platinum attached to it, and is dissolved
by the same quantity of acid, the argument is deduced that as there
is more electricity in the second than in the first case, there should
be less heat ; but, as according to our received theories the heat
is a product of the electric current, and in consequence of the
impurity of zinc, electricity is generated in the first case molecularly
in what is called local action, though not thrown into a general
direction, there should be more of both heat and electricity in the
second than in the first case ; as the heat and electricity due to the
voltaic combination of zinc and platinum are added to that excited
on the surface of the zinc, and the zinc should be, as in fact it is,
more rapidly dissolved. Other instances are given by M. Matteucci,
and many additional cases of a similar description might be sug
gested. But although it is difficult, perhaps impossible, to restrict
the action of any one force to the production of one other force,
and one only ; yet if the whole of one force, say chemical action,
be supposed to be employed in producing its full equivalent of
another force, say heat ; then as this heat is capable in its turn of
reproducing chemical action, and, in the limit, a quantity equal to
or at least only infinitesimally less than the initial force ; if this
could at the same time produce independently another force, say
magnetism, we could, by adding this to the total heat, get more
than the original chemical action, and thus create force or obtain
 perpetual motion.
     The impossibility of perpetual motion thus becomes a valuable
 test of the approach that in any experiment we may have made to
 eliminating the whole power which a given natural force is capable of
 producing ; it also serves, when any new natural phenomenon is dis
 covered, to enable us to ascertain how far this can be brought into re
lation with those previously known. Thus when Moser discovered that
dissimilar metals would impress each other respectively with a faint
 image of their superficial inequalities ; that, for instance, a copper
 coin placed on a polished silver plate, even in the dark, would, after
a short time, leave on the silver plate an impression of its own
 device, it occurred to Mr. Grove that as this experiment showed a

1856.]        Prof. Tyndall, on the Disposition of Force,          159
physical radiation taking place between the metals, it would afford a
reason for the effects produced in Volta's contact experiment, with
out supposing a force without consumption or change in the matter
evolving it. This led him to try the effect of closely approximating
discs of zinc and copper without bringing them into metallic contact ;
and it was found that discs thus approximated, and then quickly
separated, affected the electroscope just as though they had been
brought into contact. Without giving any opinion as to what may
be the nature of the radiation in Moser's phenomena, this experi
ment removes the difficulty presented by that of Volta to the
chemical theory of electricity.
     The general scope of the argument from the negation of per
petual motion leads the mind to regard the so-called imponderables
as modes of motion, and not as different kinds or species of matter ;
the recent progress of science is continually tending to get rid of the
hypotheses of fluids, of occult qualities, or latent entities, which
might have been necessary in an earlier stage of scientific enquiry,
and from which it is now extremely difficult to emancipate the
mind : but if we can, as it is to be hoped we shall, ultimately arrive
at a general dynamic theory, by which the known laws of motion
of masses can be applied to molecules, or the minute structural
parts of matter, it seems scarcely conceivable that the mind of
man can further simplify the means of comprehending natural
phenomena.
                                                        [W. R. G.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 1.
                                                               .N^ -'.^ . ,
    THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. Preside?^?
                             in the Chair.
                    PROFESSOR TYNDALL, F.R.S.
        On Ike Disposition of force in Paramagnetic and
                        Diamagnetic Bodies.
THE notion of an attractive force, which draws bodies towards the
centre of the earth, was entertained by Anaxagoras and his pupils,
by Democritus, Pythagoras, and Epicurua ; and the conjectures
of these ancients were renewed by Galileo, Huyghens, and others,
who stated that bodies attract each other as a magnet attracts iron.
    Vot. II.                                                 M

 160         Prof. Tyndall, on the DisjwsitioH of Force         [Feb. 1,
 Kepler applied the notion to bodies beyond the surface of the
 earth, and affirmed the extension of this force to the most distant
 stars. Thus it would appear, that in the attraction of iron by a
 magnet originated the conception of the force of gravitation.
 Nevertheless, if we look closely at the matter, it will be seen that the
 magnetic force possesses characters strikingly distinct from those of
 the force which holds the universe together. The theory of gravi
 tation is, that every particle of matter attracts every other particle ;
 in magnetism also we have the phenomenon of attraction, but we
 have also, at the same time, the fact of repulsion, and the final effect
 is always due to the difference of these two forces. A body may
 be intensely acted on by a magnet, and still no motion of translation
 will follow, if the repulsion be equal to the attraction. A dipping
 needle was exhibited : previous to magnetization, the needle, when
 its centre of gravity was supported, stood accurately level ; but,
 after magnetization, one end of it was pulled towards the north
 pole of the earth. The needle, however, being suspended from the
 arm of a fine balance, it was shown that its weight was unaltered by
 its magnetization. In like manner, when the needle was permitted
 to float upon a liquid, and thus to follow the attraction of the north
 magnetic pole of the earth, there was no motion of the mass towards
 the pole referred to ; and the reason was known to be, that although
 the marked end of the needle was attracted by the north pole, the
 unmarked end was repelled by an equal quantity, and these two
 equal and opposite forces neutralized each other as regards the pro
 duction of a motion of translation. When the pole of an ordinary
 magnet was brought to act upon the swimming needle, the latter was
 attracted,—the reason being that the attracted end of the needle being
 much nearer to the pole of the magnet than the repelled end, the
 force of attraction was the more powerful of the two ; but in the case
 of the earth, the pole being so distant, the length of the needle was
 practically zero. In like manner, when a piece of iron is presented
 to a magnet, the nearer parts are attracted, while the more distant
 parts are repelled ; and because the attracted portions are nearer to
 the magnet than the repelled ones, we have a balance in favour of
 attraction. Here then is the most wonderful characteristic of the
 magnetic force, which distinguishes it from that of gravitation.
 The latter is a simple unpolar force, while the former is duplex or
 polar. Were gravitation like magnetism, a stone would no more fall
 to the ground than a piece of iron towards the north magnetic pole :
 and thus, however rich in consequences the supposition of Kepler
 and others may have been, it was clear that a force like that of mag
 netism would not be able to transact the business of the universe.
     The object of the evening's discourse was to inquire whether the
force of diamagnetism, which manifested itself as a repulsion of cer
tain bodies by the poles of a magnet, was to be ranged as a polar
force, beside that of magnetism ; or as an unpolar force, beside that of
gravitation. When a cylinder of soft iron is placed within a helix,

 1856.]       in Paramagnetic and Diamagnetic Bodies.                   161
and surrounded by an electric current, the antithesis of its two ends,
 or in other words, its polar excitation, is at once manifested by its
 action upon a magnetic needle ; and it may be asked why a cylinder
 of bismuth may not be substituted for the cylinder of iron, and its
 state similarly examined. The reason is, that the excitement of the
 bismuth is so feeble, that it would be quite masked by that of the
 helix in which it is enclosed ; and the problem that now meets us
is, so to excite a diamagnetic body that the pure action of the body
upon a magnetic needle may be observed, unmixed with the action
of the body used to excite the diamagnetic.
     How this may be effected, was illustrated in the following man
ner :—an upright helix of covered copper wire was placed upon the
table, and it was shown that the top of the helix attracted, while its
bottom repelled the same pole ofa magnetic needle ; its central point,
on the contrary, was neutral, and ^^                                   ../•
exhibited neither attraction nor °'
repulsion. This helix was caused
to stand between the two poles                         a,
N' S' of an astatic magnet ; the
two magnets S N' and S'N were N'
united by a rigid cross piece at                     m
their centres, and suspended from the point a, so that both magnets
swung in the same horizontal plane. It was so arranged that the
poles N'S' were opposite to the central or neutral point of the helix,
so that when a current was sent through the latter, the magnets were
unaffected by the current. Here then we had an excited helix which
itself had no action upon the magnets, and we were thus at liberty to
examine the action of a body placed within the helix and excited by it,
undisturbed by the influence of the latter. The helix was 1 2 inches
high, and a cylinder of soft iron 6 inches long suspended from a
string and passing over a pulley could be raised or lowered within
the helix. When it was so far sunk that its lower end rested
upon the table, the upper end found itself between the poles N S
attracting one of them, and repelling the other, and consequently
deflecting the astatic system in a certain direction. When the cylinder
was raised so that the upper end was at the level of the top of the
helix, its lower end was between the poles N' S' ; and a deflection op
posed in direction to the former one was the immediate consequence.
To render these deflections more visible to the audience, a mirror m,
was attached to the system of magnets ; a beam of light thrown
upon the mirror was reflected and projected as a bright disk against
the wall of the theatre ; the distance of this image from the mirror
being considerable, and its angular motion double that of the latter,
a very slight motion of the magnet was sufficient to produce a dis
placement of the image through several yards. This then is the
principle of the beautiful apparatus* by which the investigation now
  * Devised by Prof. W. Weber, and constructed by M. Leyscr, of Leipzig.
                                                              M 2

162          Prof. Tyndall, on the Disposition of Force          [Feb. 1.
brought forward was conducted. It is manifest that if a second
helix be placed between the poles S N with a cylinder within it, the
action upon the astatic magnet may be exalted. This was the
arrangement made use of in the actual inquiry. Thus to intensify
the feeble action, which it is here our object to seek, we have in the
first place neutralized the action of the earth upon the magnets, by
placing them astatically. Secondly, by making use of two cylinders,
and permitting them to act simultaneously on the four poles of the
magnets, we have rendered the deflecting force four times what
it would be, supposing only a single pole to be used. Finally,
the whole apparatus was enclosed in a suitable case, which protected
the magnets from atmospheric currents, and the deflections were
read oft' through a glass plate in the case, by means of a telescope
and scale placed at a considerable distance from the instrument.
     A pair of bismuth cylinders was first examined. Sending a
current through the helices, and observing that the magnets swung
perfectly free, it was first arranged that the cylinders within the
helices had their central points opposite to the poles of the magnets.
All being at rest the number on the scale marked by the cross wire
of the telescope was 572. The cylinders were then moved so that
two ends were brought to bear simultaneously upon the magnetic
poles : the magnet moved promptly, and after some oscillations*
came to rest at the number 612 ; thus moving from a smaller to a
larger number. The other two ends of the bars were next brought
to bear upon the magnet : a prompt deflection was the consequence,
and the final position of equilibrium was 526 ; the movement being
from a larger to a smaller number. We thus observe a manifest
polar action of the bismuth cylinders upon the magnet ; one pair of
ends deflecting it in one direction, and the other pair deflecting it in
 the opposite direction.
     Substituting for the cylinders of bismuth thin cylinders of iron,
of magnetic slate, of sulphate of iron, carbonate of iron, proto-
chloride of iron, red ferrocyanide of potassium, and other magnetic
bodies, it was found that when the position of the magnetic cylinders
was the same as that of the cylinders of bismuth, the deflection
produced by the former was always opposed ia direction to that
produced by the latter; and hence the disposition of the force in
the diamagnetic body must have been precisely antithetical to its
disposition in the magnetic ones.
     But it will be urged, and indeed has been urged against this
inference, that the deflection produced by the bismuth cylinders is
purely due to the currents of induction excited in the mass by its
 motion within the helices. In reply to this objection, it may be
 stated, in the first place, that the deflection is permanent, and cannot
 therefore be due to induced currents, which are only of momentary
 duration. It has also been urged that such experiments ought to be
              * To lessen these a copper damper was made use of.

!8oG.]      i/i Parunutynetic and Diamaynctic Budics.              163
made with other metals, and with better conductors than bismuth, for
if due to currents of induction the better the conductor the more
exalted will be the effect. This requirement was complied with.
     Cylinders of antimony were substituted for those of bismuth.
This metal is a better conductor of electricity, but less strongly
diamagnetic than bismuth. If therefore the action referred to be
due to induced currents we ought to have it greater in the case of
antimony than with bismuth ; but if it springs from a true dia-
magnetic polarity, the action of the bismuth ought to exceed that
of the antimony. Experiment proves that the latter is the case, and
that hence the deflection produced by these metals is due to their
diamagnetic, and not to their conductive capacity. Copper cylinders
were next examined : here we have a metal which conducts electri
city fifty times better than bismuth, but its diamagnetic power is
nearly null ; if the effects be due to induction we ought to have
them here in an enormously exaggerated degiee, but no sensible
deflection was produced by the two cylinders of copper.
     It has also been proposed by the opponents of diamagnetic
polarity to coat fragments of bismuth with some insulating sub
stance, so as to render the formation of induced currents impossible,
and to test the question with cylinders of these fragments. This
requirement was also fulfilled. It is only necessary to reduce the
bismuth to powder and expose it for a short time to the air to cause
the particles to become so far oxidised as to render them perfectly
insulating. The power of the powder in this respect was exhibited
experimentally in the lecture ; nevertheless, this powder, enclosed in
glass tubes, exhibited an action scarcely less powerful than that of
the massive cylinders.
     But the most rigid proof, a proof admitted to be conclusive by
those who have denied the antithesis of magnetism and diarnagnetistn,
remains to be stated. Prisms of the same heavy glass as that with
which the diamagnetic force was discovered, were substituted for the
metallic cylinders, and their action upon the magnet was proved to
be precisely the same in kind as that of the cylinders of bismuth.
The inquiry was also extended to other insulators : to phosphorus,
sulphur, nitre, calcareous spar, statuary marble, with the same
invariable result : each of these substances was proved polar, the
disposition of the force being the same as that of bismuth and the
reverse of that of iron. When a bar of iron is set erect, its lower
end is known to be a north pole, and its upper end a south pole,
in virtue of the earth's induction. A marble statue, on the con
trary, has its feet a south pole, and its head a north pole, and there
in no doubt ?that the same remark applies to its living archetype;
each man walking over the earth's surface is a true diamagnet, with
its poles the reverse of those of a mass of magnetic matter of the
same shape and in a similar position.
     An experiment of practical value, as affording a ready estimate
of the different conductive powers of two metals for electricity, was

164                     General Monthly Meeting.                 [Feb. 4,
exhibited, for the purpose of proving experimentally some of the
assertions made by the speaker in reference to this subject. A
cube of bismuth was taken and suspended by a twisted string
between the two poles of an electro-magnet. The cube was at
tached by a short copper wire to a little square pyramid, the base
of which was horizontal, and its sides formed of four small triangu
lar pieces of looking-glass. A beam of light was suffered to fall
upon this reflector, and as the reflector followed the motion of the
cube the images cast from its sides followed each other in succes
sion, each describing a circle of about 30 feet in diameter. As the
velocity of rotation augmented, these images blended into a con
tinuous ring of light. At a particular instant the electro-magnet
was excited, currents were evolved in the rotating cube, and the
strength of these currents, which increases with the conductivity
of the cube for electricity, was practically estimated by the time
required to bring the cube and its associated mirrors to a state of
rest. With bismuth this time amounted to a score of seconds or
more : a cube of copper, on the contrary, was struck almost instantly
motionless when the circuit was established.
                                                                [J. T.]
              GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, February 4.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
   George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. F.R.C.S.
   Major-General Anthony Emmett, Royal Engineers, and
   William Baker Taylor, Esq. Surgeon-General, Bombay Army,
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                    Thomas Farquhar Hill, Esq. and
                    Jonathan Rigg, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members were returned for the same :—
   FROM—
H.R.H. PRINCE ALBERT, K.G. F.R.S. Vice-Patron, R.I.—Vf. Macgillivray,
     Natural History of Dee-Side ami Braemar. Edited by E. Lankester, M.D.
     8vo. 1855.

1856.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                         165
British Museum, Trustees of the—Catalogue of the Maps, Prints and Drawings,
      &c., forming the Geographical Collection attached to King George Ill.'s
      Library. 2 vols. 8vo. 1829.
   Catalogues of the Zoological Collections. 36 Parts. 12mo. 1853-5.
Actuaries, Institute of—The Assurance Magazine. No. 22. 8To. 1856.
Arnold, T. J. Esq. Life-Sub. R.I.—G. D. Barber; Suggestions on the Ancient
      Britons. 8vo. 1854.
    Ancient Oral Records of the Cimri or Britons, in Asia and Europe, recovered.
       16mo. 1855.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 250. 8vo. 1855.
Astronomical Society, Jioyal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XVI. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
      1855-6.
Basel, Naturforschende Gesellschaft —Verhandlungen, Zweite Heft.            8vo.
      1855.
Bayley, F. Esq. M.R.I.—By. White Kennett, on Ecclesiastical Synods and Par
      liamentary Convocations in the Church of England. 8vo. 1701.
    Letters on Bishop Merks ; and on the Nomination, Election, Investiture, and
      Deprivation of English Prelates. 8vo. 1713-17.
    Two Sermons : (on Gunpowder Treason, and on the Office of a Bishop.) 4to.
       1706-15.
    Abp. Wake, Sermon on Popery. 4to. 1 706.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for Jan. Feb. 1856. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for Jan. Feb. 1856. 4to.
Bradbury, Henri/, Esq. Af.R.I.—The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland. By
      T.Moore, F.L.S. Edited by J.Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.S. Parts 9, 10. fol.
      1855-6.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in Jan. 1856. 4to.
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 32. 8vo. 1856.
t'iril Engineers, Institute of— Proceedings in Jan. 1856. 8vo.
Dames, R. M.A. Dean of Hereford (the Author)—Address at the H
      Institute, Dee, 13, 1855. 16mo. 1856.
Editors—The Medical Circular for Jan. 1856. 4to.
      The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Jan, 1856. 4to.
      The Journal of Gas-Lighting for Jan. 1856. 4to.
      The Mechanic's Magazine for Jan. 1856. 8vo.
      The Athenrcum for Jan. 1856. 4to.
      The Engineer for Jan. 1856. 4to.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Monatsberichte der Konigl. Prenss.
      demie, Sept.-Nov. 1855. 8vo. Berlin.
    Appendix to Report of the Committee for Scientific Inquiries in relation to
      the Cholera Epidemic of 1854. 8vo. 1855.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXX. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1855.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar- General)—Reportof the Registrar-General for
      Jan. 1S56. 8vo.
Graves, Messrs. and Co. (the Publishers)—View of the Docks of Sebastopol.
      Nov. 1855.
Holland, Lady (the Author)—Memoir of the Rev. Sydney Smith ; by his
      daughter Lady Holland ; with a Selection from his Letters. Edited by
      Mrs. Austin. 3rd Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 1855.
Irish Academy, Royal—Memoirs, Vol. XXII. Part 6. 4to. 1855.
      Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 2. 8vo. 1854-5.
Johnson, Edmund C. M.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—Inquiry into the Musical
      Instruction of the Blind in France, Spain, and America. 8vo. 1855.
Levin, Malcolm, Esq. MJl.I. (the Author)—Speech (on Indian Government),
      Dec. 13, 1855. 8vo. 1856.
   Torture in Madras. 8vo. 1855.
f. iunnni Society of London—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Part 4. 4to. 1855.
      Proceedings, Nos. 59-66. 8vo. 1854-5.
London University—London University Calendar for 1856. 12mo.

166                       General Monthly Meeting.                   [Feb. 4,
Londesborough, the Lord, K.C.H. F.R.S. MJK.I. —Miscellanea Graphica.
      Parts 3-7. 4to. 1854-5.
Macaulay, Kt. Hon. T. B. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—The History of
      England from the Accession of James II. Vols. I-IV. 8vo. 1854-5.
Macrory, Ed. Esq. M.R.I, — Dr. Robinson's Speeches at the Meeting of the
      British Association at Belfast, Sept. 1852. 8vo.
Madrid, Real Academia de Ciencias— Memoriae, Tomo I. Parte 3. Tomo II.
      Parte 1. 4to. 1853-4.
   Resumen de las Actas, 1851-3. 4to.
Newton, Messrs.—Newton's London Journal for Jan. and Feb. 1856.
Noad, Henry M. JEtq. Ph.D. M.R.I (the Xu</ior>-Manual of Electricity :
      including Galvanism, Magnetism, &c. PartI. 8vo. 1855.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher) -The Musical Times, for Jan. 1856. 4to.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)— Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographic. Hefte 9, 10, 11. 4to. Gotha, 1855.
Peripal, H. Jan. Esq. (the Author)— Ellipses. 8vo. 1856.
Philological Society.—Transactions for 1854 and 1855. 8vo.
Photographic Society.—Journal, Nos. 37, 38. 8vo. 1855-6.
Royal Society of Literature—Proceedings, Nos. 21-24. 8vo. 1850-4.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXLV. Part 2.
      4to. 1855.
   Proceedings, Vol. VII. Nos. 15, 16. 8vo. 1855.
Society of Arts—Journal for Jan. 1856. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XVIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1855.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S. M.R.I.— Magazine for the Blind. No. 16. 4to. 1855.
   Memoir of W. Smith, LL D. by J. Phillips. With a Portrait. 8vo.
      1839.
Thrupp, Joseph W. Esq. M.R.I.—Antient Jerusalem : a New Investigation into
      its History, Topography, &c. By the Rev. J. F. Thrupp. 8vo. 1855.
Twining, Henry, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Elements of Picturesque
      Scenery. Vol. II. 8vo. 1856.
Wall, W. S. Esq. (the Author)—History and Description of the Skeleton of s
      new Sperm Whale, lately set up in the Australian Museum, Sydney. 8vo.
      1851.
 Washington, Capt. R.N. Hydrographer to the Admiralty— Map of the Entrance
      to the Dardanelles, with the Plain of Troy, &c. by Com. Graves and
      Lieut. T. Spratt. 1840.
Webster, John, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Statistics of Grave-yards
      in Scotland. 8vo. 1856.
Wheatstone, Professor, F.R.S. M.R.I.—Reply to Mr. Cooke's Pamphlet: "The
      Electric Telegraph, was it invented by Professor Wheatstone ? " 8vo.
      1855.
 Vereins zur BefOrderung des Geiaerbfleisses in Preutsen—Verhandlnngen, Sept.-
      Oct. 1855. 4to. Berlin.
 Ville, M. Ge~orges (the Author)—Rechcrches Experimeutalcs cur la Vegetation.
      8vo. 1855.

1856.]     Prof. Roger»,on the Geology of North America.         167
               AVEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, February 8.
    SIR HENRY HOLLAND, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                    PROFESSOR HENRY D. ROGEUS,
                         (From the United States,)
    On the Geology and Physical Geography of North America.
 THE speaker stated that his object in this discourse was to present
a condensed view of the physical features and geological outlines of
 North America,—a country highly interesting, from the majestic
 scale of its natural structure—from its peculiar position on the
earth's surface, lying intermediate between Europe on the one
 hand, and Asia and Australasia on the other—as a half-way house
 to connect the commerce and civilization of the world; and tenanted
 by an energetic people, essentially a composite nation, made up of
 the enterprising and ardent spirits, who have gone from the various
 more civilized countries of Europe.
     Taking a comprehensive but rapid survey of the general physical
 features of North America, we find it presents but two great slopes,
 one sinking towards the Atlantic, the other towards the Pacific,
 divided by a lofty mountain axis, the Chippewayan or RockyMoun
 tain chain, the true watershed or backbone of the continent.
      From either base of this chain, where the plain of the country
 has an elevation of 5000 to 6000 feet above the sea, the continent
  slopes eastward and westward, interrupted by only two important
 intervening mountain swells— the Atlantic or Appalachian chain,
  and the Pacific or Californian. These oceanic chains only partially
 turn the drainage ; some of the largest rivers, the Susquehanna and
  Kanawha, in the one case, Frazer's River and the Great Columbia in
 the other, cutting quite through them. Another broad swell of the
  surface crosses the continent, nearly westward, from Labrador to the
  sources of the Columbia, passing between the Lawrentian Lakes and
  Hudson's Bay, and between the sources of the Missouri and those of
  the Saskatchawan. From this the continent slopes gently north
  wards, to its Arctic shores, and southwards, to its Mexican. All
  these slopes are well indicated in the river drainage.
      Looking closer, there appear seven grand primary division!) of

 168       Professor H. D. Rogers, on the Geology and           [Feb. 8,
the surface of the continent, comprising two broad continental plains,
three great belts of mountains, and two narrow oceanic slopes.
     A.—The largest of these areas is the GREAT CENTRAL PLAIN,
extending from the Gulf of Mexico to the Arctic Sea and Hudson's
Bay, and from the Appalachians to the Rocky Mountains, a wide
continental region of table-lands, plains, and gentle slopes.
     It consists of two physically different districts—the one a western
region of elevated table lands, or steppes ; the other, a parallel
eastern zone of less average elevation, comprising three great basins
or plains, of river and lacustrine drainage.
     I. The Western Steppes.—These constitute a wide zone, east of
the Rocky Mountains, about 350 miles broad, ranging from the 28th
to beyond the 60th degree of latitude ; including, indeed, the Arctic
Highlands, east of Mackenzie River. From the Arkansas to the
Upper Missouri this plateau has a mean level above the sea of about
4000 feet, rising, at the base of the mountains, to 5000, and at the
highest east and west swell of the surface, to 6000 feet. The general
eastern boundary of this great terrace, which has a mean height of
about 2000 feet, follows approximately the meridian of 98° W. ; but
northward of the Nebraska and Missouri, it is not so well defined.
Rising to the foot of the Rocky Mountains, by successive steps and
gentle slopes, the plain contains one escarpment, which being much
more conspicuous than the rest, seems to divide it into two belts.
This, which coincides with the meridian of 101° W., is best marked
between lat. 32' and the Arkansas, but extends to the Forks of the
Nebraska, and yet further. From the Pecos to the Nebraska, the
upper plateau is about 3500 feet above the sea, and is 1000 feet
higher than the table land east of it. This entire western belt, as
far north as the Missouri, is a barren and thirsty treeless desert,
especially in its southern half. It is without verdure, except along
the very attenuated streams, and at certain seasons is entirely rain
less. North of the Missouri it is better irrigated, and more grassy,
and includes many rivers and lakes.
   The lower terrace resembles the upper in its flat monotonous
surface, its treeless wastes, and arid summer climates, but it is
rather more grassy, and its southern streams are better fringed
with trees and verdure. All the rivers, from the Pecos to the
Arkansas, issue from the upper table land to the lower, through
deep narrow sluices (canons), between precipices of enormous
height. For more than 400 miles, from the Brazos to the Arkansas,
the lower treeless plain is fringed by a remarkable belt of woodland,
 from 5 to 25 miles wide, which is called the " Cross Timbers."
This strip of forest forms the western boundary of the fertile'; and
better watered still lower plain of Texas, a region of verdant
prairies, dotted with natural parks, and clumps of live oaks and other
noble trees.
     If. Tlie Eastern Basins.—This vast tract, embraced between
the north-west base of the Appalachian mountains and the eastern

1856.]         Physical Geography of North America.                   169
border of the elevated western plateau, is a broad well-watered
plain, full of streams and lakes, rising nowhere higher than 1500 feet
above the sea ; and in few districts higher than 500 or 700 feet. It
includes three large natural basins of drainage—that of the Missis
sippi, and its affluents east of the high western steppes ; that of the
Lawrentian Lakes and their feeders ; and that of the southern,
western and eastern tributaries of Hudson Bay.
    1. The Mississippi Basin.—This wide river basin slopes so
gently southward that its height at the mouth of the Missouri,
nearly 700 miles from the sea, is only 388 feet ; and at the Falls of
St. Anthony, 1150 miles from the sea, it is no more than 856 feet.
Its eastern and western slopes are likewise extremely gentle, as
shown by the fact, that the elevation of the plain at Pittsburg,
nearly 600 miles from the Mississippi, eastward, is only 679 feet ;
and in the opposite direction, at the mouth of the republican fork of
the Kansas, it is still but 927 feet. The basin of the Mississippi and
Missouri is divided from that of Hudson Bay,—from the western
end of Lake Superior to the foot of the Rocky Mountains, but east
ward from the drainage of the Lawrentian Lakes, —by a low water
shed, nowhere higher than 1300 feet, and in few districts more than
1000 feet above the sea. This whole Mississippi plain enjoys a soil
and climate of rare fertility, and, possessing enormous coal-fields and
other mineral wealth, is endowed with extraordinary' agricultural,
commercial, and manufacturing resources. From the western slopes
of the Appalachians to the Mississippi, the Wabash, and Lake
Michigan, nearly the entire surface was originally clothed with
forest ; but west of those limits, the vast plain consists of gently-
rolling verdant prairies, intersected by strips of woodland along the
valleys of the streams ; and on the south-west, sprinkled with parks,
and scattered clumps of trees.
    2. Tlie Lawrentian Lake Basin. —This middle basin, from the
head of Lake Superior to Lake Ontario and the Ottawa, is separated
on its south from the basin of the Mississippi and Ohio by the low
watershed bordering its lakes ; and on the north, from the southern
feeders of Hudson Bay by a somewhat higher watershed, ranging
from Missabay Heights, where the summit tract is about 1500 feet
high, north of Lake Superior and the Ottowa, and gradually declin
ing to the sources of the Saguenay. It is a curious feature of this
basin, that its western rim is only 50 miles west of the head of
Lake Superior, the southern and northern watersheds which em
brace it, uniting in about long. 92° 50'. An unusual portion of the
surface of this basin is covered with water. Its five great lakes con
trast their magnitude with the smallness of the area which supplies
them ; for both the watersheds are in relatively close proximity to these
basins. In some districts the southern watershed is only a few miles
distant from Lakes Michigan and Erie ; while some of the streams
descending southward are more than 2000 miles from the Gulf of
Mexico. But this anomaly vanishes, when we recognise in these

170        Professm- H. D. Rogers, on the Geology and         [Feb. 8,
lakes only expansions of the Upper St. Lawrence, their southern
watershed then taking its true half-way position below the Gulf of
St. Lawrence and the Gulf of Mexico. The basin of the five lakes
is a wide level plateau falling eastward, by successive stages, from a
level at the surface of Lake Superior of 628 feet, to one of 232 feet
at the surface of Lake Ontario. Its confining watersheds are only
the eastern extensions of the great central swell of the Continent,
forking where it approaches Lake Superior ; one branch ranging
northward, the other southward, of this long and narrow basin.
     3. The Hudson Bay Basin.— This almost rivals in size that of
the Mississippi. It is separated from that of the St. Lawrence by a
low, crescent-shaped, curving watershed, beginning in the highlands
of Labrador and the Watchish Mountains, and extending westward
in the Missabay Heights. To the south-west and west its boundary
is the vaguely-traced limit of the western plateau, prolonged north-
north-west from the Missouri towards Lake Athabaska. This great
basin is a region of innumerable tortuous streams and inosculating
lakes and swamps, converging their drainage into Hudson Bay. In
the northern half of the continent, the larger rivers which enter
Hudson Bay, as the Great Saskatchawan, descend from the base of
the Rocky Mountains, across the low watershed which forms the
western rim of this basin ; thus linking it hydrographically with
the high western plateau, and establishing, in a wider sense, one
great hydrographic basin from the Watchish to the Rocky Moun
tains, north of the east and west swell of the continent. The general
elevation of the extensive rim of the Hudson Bay Basin is scarcely
anywhere higher than 1600 feet above the sea ; the average level of
the whole girdle probably not exceeding I (MX) feet. It is a cold,
inhospitable, and snowy district, its rocks deeply overlaid with sterile
 drift, and its surface extensively covered with a network of waters
and wet swamps.
                B. THE APPALACHIAN MOUNTAIN ZONE.
     This Atlantic mountain range embraces the whole belt of moun
tain ridges extending from the Gulf of St. Lawrence at Gaspe, to
 Georgia and Northern Alabama. It consists of two divisions -a
north-eastern, ranging from Gaspe to the valley of the Hudson :
and a south-western, thence to the interior of Alabama : the total
length of the chain is about 1500 miles, while its breadth varies
from 150 to 200 miles. In the chief divisions of its length it is a
wide complex belt of many parallel ridges, whose crests nowhere
ascend much beyond 4000 feet above the sea ; the base of the chain,
where highest, being about 1800 feet above the sea level. From
Alabama to the Hudson, the Appalachian chain is the watershed
between the Atlantic rivers and those of the Ohio and Lake
Ontario ; and from the Hudson to the Gulf of St. Lawrence it
separates the drainage of those flowing to the Atlantic from the
shorter streams entering the St. Lawrence. The Hudson valley

1856.]          Physical Geography of North America."                 171
does not entirely separate this long, nearly continuous mountain
system. A depression of the continent to a depth of only 300 feet
would let the ocean through from the Gulf of St. Lawrence to the
Bay of New York, and interpose a strait nearly as broad as that
between England and the European continent, between the main
land of North America and the even now half-insulated district of
New England, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia. That this great
transverse depression of the surface, now uniting the estuaries of
the St. Lawrence and the Hudson, was once thus actually submer
ged is proved by indisputable geological monuments, consisting of,-^
oceanic clays containing marine pleistocene tertiary fossils.            /
     The North-eastern section of the Appalachians contains as its
principal chain the Green Mountains, a long belt of parallel and
swelling ridges commencing in the Notre Dame range south of the
St. Lawrence, in Lower Canada, and terminating at the Schuylkill*
River in Pennsylvania. These mountains at the Hudson, under the
name of the Highlands, are cut to their base by that tidal river. In
Vermont their rounded summits are 4000 feet high, but on the
Hudson they nowhere exceed 1 600 feet. The White Mountains of
New Hampshire, and the Adirondac group in the north-east corner
of New York, are lofty outlying masses, subsidiary to the Appala
chians. They consist chiefly of the crystalline rocks. Their highest
 peaks exceed 5000 feet, and that of Mount Washington, the loftiest
 east of the Rocky Mountains, is 6428 feet above the sea level.
     South-western Appalachians.— From the Hudson and Mohawk
 to middle Alabama extends the other great division of the Appa
lachian chain, marked by an extraordinary parallelism, length,
 narrowness, steepness, and evenness of its numerous ridges. Its
 south-eastern belt, the most undulating and picturesque, is the Blue
 Ridge of Virginia, and the Smoky or Unaka Mountain range of
 Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee ; it is nearly identical in geological
 structure with the Green Mountains, and resembles them in contour
 and scenery. Its highest crests, which are in North Carolina and
 Tennessee, reach to 4000 and 5000 feet above the sea. The rocks
 of the Blue Ridge and Green Mountain chains are chiefly ancient
 metamorphic strata, as gneiss, talcoze, and chloritic schists, and highly
 altered argillaceous and sandy strata low in the palaeozoic system,
 including, indeed, some of the oldest fossiliferous formations : these
 stratified masses are penetrated by igneous veins and dykes.
     To the north-west of the Blue Ridge, and separated from it by
 a long continuous plain called the G reat Appalachian Valley, runs
 the parallel range of the middle Appalachian belt, traceable from
 the St. Lawrence to Alabama. This central zone of mountains
 consists of long narrow level ridges, divided by narrow longitudinal
 valleys, and cut to their bases by sharp deep ravines permitting the
 passage of the rivers. These ridges, caused by excessive erosion of
 the parallel waves of the strata of which the central Appalachians
 consist, are linked into groups of several parallel crests, some of

   172      Professor H. D. Rogers, on the Geology and          [Feb. 8,
   them remarkably straight for great distances, others gently curving.
   In many instances two narrow mountain crests unite at the two
  extremities to inclose a deep trough-shaped valley ; some of these val
  leys, with their mountain borders, having a remarkable resemblance
  to a long narrow canoe or skiff. One class have a synclinal structure,
  the highest strata being in the bed or centre of the valley, and the
  hard lower rocks forming the enclosing parallel mountain crests.
  The other class are anticlinal in their form, a powerful erosive
  action of waters having carved them out by cutting through the
  crests of the original crust-waves, and scooping down to the softer
  lower strata. In some portions of this middle belt the long narrow
  ridges unite in wider mountain table lands of the general height of
  the chain.
      The rocks of this long middle Appalachian belt are exclusively
i palaeozoic strata, comprising all from the base of that system to the
  upper coal measures inclusive. Scarcely a single igneous dyke
  or mineral vein intrudes itself into this, or the next more western
  division of the Appalachians.
      The north-western belt of the Appalachians is a long and com
  paratively narrow high table land, called the Alleghany Mountain
  in Pennsylvania, the Sewell Mountain in Virginia, and the Cumber
  land Mountain in Tennessee. Almost the whole way continuously
  from North-eastern Pennsylvania to Northern Alabama, it presents
  a high escarped slope, facing south-eastward toward the middle
  chain. This table land is composed of nearly horizontal strata of
  the upper Devonian formations at its base, and of carboniferous
  rocks in its higher parts, wide tracts of it being covered ex
  clusively by bituminous coal measures. Along its south-eastern
  border it is gently undulated with parallel broad regular anticlinal
 and synclinal flexures of the strata, the expiring waves of the middle
  Appalachian belt, where these crests are stronger, steeper, and more
 crowded. The plateau subsides to the north-west with the dying
 out of these flexures, and sinks into the broad plain of the basins
 of the Ohio and Mississippi.
      A longitudinal survey of the Appalachian chain shows much
  undulation in its direction, and discovers ten distinct sections as
  respects its trend. Five of these are straight, three of them con
  vex towards the north-west, and two of them convex towards the
 south-east.
       C. THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS, OR CHIPPEWAYAN CHAIN.
      This very elevated mountain axis, or main water-shed of the
  continent, consists generally of two, but in some districts of three,
  principal ranges, each composed of many high mountain crests,
  deep valleys, and elevated table lands. The great component
  ranges are approximately parallel, but they are variously linked
  and inosculated by transverse ridges. Their crest lines undulate

1856.]         Physical Geography of North America.                173
on a stupendous scale, and many of their summits are sharply
notched and serrated like the Alps. The main eastern range rises
like a huge rampart above the great table land at its base, present
ing a deeply gashed flank and vast mountain buttresses towards the
plain. Longitudinally the whole chain consists of many sections
broken by deep passes, and by the cessation of the leading ridges,
which, in many instances, do not join, but lap past each other.
This recently ascertained feature presents unexpected facilities for
the construction of railways, and other avenues of communication
across the continent. In Northern Mexico the eastern range is the
Cordillera of Cohahuela and Potozi, the Guadaloupe Mountains
being only an outlying chain of ridges ; and the western range is
the Sierra de los Mimbres. Opposite the sources of the Arkansas,
the eastern belt is the Moro and Chowatche, or Wet Mountain ;
and the western the San Juan, and La Plata Mountains. The
noble valley of the Rio del Norte is here embraced between the
two ranges. From the Arkansas to the north fork of the Platte,
the chain is more complex and triple ; its eastern range, comprising
the Medicine Mountains, contains some of the loftiest peaks of the
Rocky Mountains : such are the Spanish Peaks, Pike's, Long's, and
Laramie's Peaks, all rising to 10,000 and 12,000 feet above the sea.
North of the Platte rise the Wind River Mountains, the loftiest
division of the chain. Here Fremont's Peak has an elevation of
 13,568 feet. This high mountain axis is the focal watershed of
the continent, for it parts the head fountains of the Missouri flowing
to the Atlantic, from those of the Columbia and Rio Colorado,
descending westward to the Pacific.
    Branching southward from the Rocky Mountains, near the
Wind River range, is the long and lofty chain called the Wahsatch.
It is the eastern boundary of the Great Utah Desert, and the west
ern barrier of the basin of the Rio Colorado, the Rocky Mountains
being the eastern. Northward of the Wind River chain the eastern,
or main axis of the Rocky Mountains, is exceedingly high, where it
divides the middle and northern streams of the Columbia from the
sources of the Missouri and Saskatchawan. Near the head of the
latter great river Mount Hooker towers to the height of 15,700
feet above the sea ; and a little further north, Mount Brown, the
feeder of the river Athabasca, reaches the yet greater altitude
of 15,990 feet. From this culminating district the chain gradually
declines northward to the Arctic Ocean. Beyond lat. 55° the main
eastern crest ceases to be the watershed between the Pacific and
Hudson Bay or the Arctic Ocean.
    The geological constitution and structure of the Rocky Moun
tains are very imperfectly known. Granite and gneissic rocks, and
various palaeozoic strata, including much carboniferous limestone,
have, however, been extensively noticed in many districts. Between
the higher ridges occur table lands and valleys, consisting apparently
of cretaceous and tertiary deposits.

 174       Professor If, D. Rogers, on the Geology and          [Feb. 8,
           D. THE GREAT WESTERN DESERT PLATEAU.
     Between the Rocky Mountains on the east, and the Pacific Alps,
Cascade Chain, and Sierra Nevada on the west, there stretches
from the Gulf of California to the Arctic Ocean, an elevated
desert zone of great breadth and height, especially in its central
section, between latitudes 35° and 45°, where its mean level above
the sea is about 5000 feet. It consists of three principal regions,—
 the Central Desert Plateau, now indicated ; a semi-desert area,
 south-east and south of this, the basin of the Rio Colorado, divided
 from it by the Wahsatch Mountains ; and a northern region, that
of the Columbia and Frazer's Rivers, sterile and rugged, separated
 from the central by the mountains south of the Columbia.
     The Central Plateau, or Great Utah Desert, is an almost
rainless region, parched by dry winds. The evaporation balancing
the rain-fall, none of its scanty drainage passes to the sea, but each
attenuated stream ends in a closed lake, the water of which is more
or less salt. It is avast elevated arid waste, containing wide plains
encrusted with salt, a soil generally more or less saline, and large
tracts of light volcanic scoriae and ashes. Through its centre there
runs, southward, a broad belt of straight mountain ridges, the
Humboldt Mountains, composed in part of crystalline rocks, in part
of carboniferous limestone, and other palaeozoic strata. The chief
stream is the Humboldt River, which, flowing west, dies away in
the salt plain before it reaches the foot of the Sierra Nevada.
There are twelve or fifteen salt lakes of considerable magnitude in
this high insulated basin. The largest of these is the Great Mor
mon, or Utah Salt Lake, the waters of which are impregnated
almost to saturation, containing 20 per cent, of common salt, and
2 per cent, only of other salts. Its length is 75 miles, and mean
breadth about 30 miles.
    Tfte Southern Desert Basin, or that of the Rio Colorado, lying
between the Rocky Mountains and the Wahsatch and Californian
Mountains, is, like the Utah Desert, a succession of arid table lands
and plains, intersected by rugged mountains. Its north-eastern por
tion is better fed with rain than its western ; those tracts most under
the lee of the intercepting barrier of the Pacific Mountains being
more desiccated than the districts further removed. The Pacific
Mountains are also less elevated in this latitude than further north,
opposite the Central Desert. This Southern or Colorado Desert
slopes gently southward to the ocean level at the head of the Gulf
of California, north of which there is an arid tract of the surface,
which is actually lower than the surface of the sea, believed to have
a depression in its centre of 300 feet,—a region of continental
depression, from which the dry winds have lapped up the remnant
waters of the Gulf of California, and annually drink away every
trace of the back waters of the Rio Colorado, at the season of its
rise from the rains in the mountains. In some localities along the

1856.]         Physical Geography of North America.                175
western edge of the Colorado Desert, the rounded water-worn peb
bles which strew the surface are beautifully polished, from the
action of the sharp dry sand driven furiously over the gravelly
pavement by the prevailing westerly winds ; and in several of the
gorges or passes through the Sierra Nevada, in the same neighbour
hood, the fixed rocks of the mountains are themselves smoothed
and striated by the same agency.
                E.   THE PACIFIC MOUNTAIN CHAIN.
     The third, or western belt, of the great elevated mountain~zone
of Western North America, is the oceanic chain which runs
adjacent to the Pacific from Russian America to the peninsula of
Lower California. The northern section of this chain traversing
Russian and British America, is sometimes called the Pacific Alps ;
the middle section, from Frazer's River to the Klamath, the Cascade
Range ; and the southern section, lapping past part of the southern
end of the latter, and extending from the Columbia River to about
 lat. 35°, and becoming extinct in the San Barnadino country, is
called the Sierra Nevada. The central ridge of the peninsula of
Lower California, a part of the same great Pacific chain, is the south
ward prolongation of a parallel mountain axis, which, in Middle and
 Northern California ranges parallel to the Sierra Nevada, west of
 it, and close to the Pacific coast, and is there known as the Coast
 Mountains. Low in its southern sections, this great mountain chain
 in Middle California, Oregon, and Russian America is broad, com
 plex, and very lofty, its main central crests containing nearly the
 highest summits upon the continent. The Sierra Nevada, a great
 watershed insulating the high rainless plateato of Utah from the basin
 of California and from the sea, carries a very elevated crest, many
 parts of which reach a height of 10,000 feet ; but it has few insula
 ted peaks towering above this line. The Cascade range, on the
 contrary, wholly different in its geological structure, being largely
 volcanic, is cleft nearly to the sea level in many places, and yet
 bears some of the most colossal conical summits to be met with on
 the globe. The three great volcanic peaks, Mount Jefferson,
 Mount Hood, and Mount St. Helen's, tower in great masses to the
 height of 15,500 feet, and even above this. Mount Fair-weather,
  14,782 feet high, and Mount St. Elias 17,850 feet, are both vol
 canoes, believed to be occasionally active ; while Mount St. Helen's
 and Mount Regnier, though rather torpid, are known to be occasion
 ally in eruption. About latitude 35°, the Sierra Nevada and the
 coast range diverge northward, to enclose between them the gold-
 producing valley of California.
      The geological constitution of the Pacific chain differs in its
 different sections. The Sierra Nevada, peninsular chain and coast
 mountains, consist largely of the azoic or semi-crystalline strata,
 with belts of the gneissic and true plutonic rocks, in some parts of
     VOL. II.                                                 N

176         Professor H. D. Rogers, on the Geology and         [Feb. 8,
their higher crests, and in less proportion, the older palaeozoic rocks
low upon their flanks. The Cascade chain, commencing in the huge
extinct volcano Mount Shaste, and crossing the Klamath, Columbia,
and Frazer rivers, dividing the northern desert from the Pacific
slope, is composed entirely of comparatively recent volcanic emis
sions, though in some tracts it contains also belts of the older crys
talline rocks. This mixed volcanic and plutonic character appears
to characterise this chain throughout its long course into Russian
America.
                F. THE PACIFIC OR WESTERN SLOPE.
     Between the great Pacific chain and the western shore of the con
tinent there extends the very long and comparatively narrow Pacific
slope, everywhere declining, more or less steeply, to the sea. Slender
in the Californian peninsula, it widens north of lat. 34° to admit
the coast mountains and the gold-bearing valley of upper California,
here presenting three subordinate belts, covering a breadth of about
100 miles, which dimension it maintains to Vancouver's Island, and
beyond it. From the valley of the Sacramento, northward, its
surface becomes more rugged.
     The geological constitution of the Pacific slope is considerably
more diversified than that of the Atlantic slope, descending east
ward from the Appalachians. It consists generally of tertiary strata,
mainly of miocene age : eocene, pliocene, and pleistocene, having
also been recognised. These tertiaries are generally undulated and
broken from violent crust movements, and in some quarters they
are extensively penetrated by eruptive volcanic rocks ; in other
tracts the older azoic and palaeozoic rocks, and still more ancient
gneissic strata, forming fhe spurs of the coast range, intrude them
selves through the tertiaries, which have probably been deposited
around these ancient masses while they were above the waters.
               G. THE ATLANTIC OR EASTERN SLOPE.
     This long and slender zone stretches from the Gulf of St. Law
rence to the Gulf of Mexico, and descends with a gentle lateral
slope from the base of the Appalachians to the Atlantic coast. Its
several subordinate belts differ both in physical features and geolo
gical structure. One sub-division, ranging from the Gulf of St.
Lawrence to the Hudson, through New Brunswick and New Eng
land, has a hilly surface, and many rivers, which meet the tidal
level far inland from the sea. It contains short chains of rounded
hills, some of them mountains in size, and it is spotted with a
multitude of clear lakes and ponds, and is throughout admirably
watered. This region forms one general slope to the sea, not being
fringed on its ocean border, as the corresponding zone further south
 is, by a true tide-water tertiary plain.
      In its geological composition, this north-eastern division of the
Atlantic slope consists generally of the older crystalline rocks, with

  1856.]         Physical Geography of North America.                 177
 palaeozoic strata resting upon them. Its entire surface is covered
  with northern pleistocene drift, to so great a depth in some tracts
 as effectually to conceal the formations underneath. The limpidness
 of its streams and lakes must be attributed mainly to the filtering
 action of this sandy and gravelly boulder drift, which contains but
 little dispersed clay, though beds of pure brick clay regularly
 stratified do occasionally occur in it.
      The south-western section of the Atlantic slope, expanding
 south-westward from the Hudson, attains in Virginia a width of at
 least 200 miles, under which it continues to the southern end of
 the Appalachians. It includes two parallel belts, quite distinct in
 their geology and scenery : that nearest the mountains is a true
 slope, descending from a height of several hundred feet to the level
 of the tide ; that bordering the sea is a low monotonous and very
 level plain. Between the slope and the plain runs a well defined
 line ofdemarcation, indicated in a sudden change in the topography,
 and in the abrupt transition in all the streams, from rapids to the
 ebb and flow of the tide. Upon this physical boundary are seated
 all the chief cities of the Atlantic sea-board, from Trenton, in New
Jersey, to Halifax, in North Carolina. This line marks, indeed, an
ancient sea coast of the earlier continent in the times anterior to
 the elevation of the horizontal tertiary deposits.
     The upper, or Appalachian division of the Atlantic slope, traced
south-westward, ascends from the level of the tide at the Hudson,
 to its maximum height of 1000 feet near the sources of the Roanoke,
 and declines again beyond the Catawba, to a more moderate level in
middle Alabama. From Long Island Sound to the Potomac its
surface is varied and pleasing, and its soil very fertile.
     Geologically, this belt includes tracts of the gneissic series, and
synclinal troughs of the most ancient palaeozoic formations—all in a
more or less metamorphic condition. These are overlaid by a zone
of middle secondary red sandstone, of older Jurassic age. This zone
embraces low rugged wooded ridges, and hills of trappean and other
gneous rocks. It possesses many broad, fruitful, and salubrious
valleys ; is singularly well watered by clear running brooks, but is
nowhere marshy, and is altogether the garden spot of the Atlantic
border of the continent.
     From the Potomac, south-westward, the features of this slope
are more monotonous, the soil less fertile, consisting of light sands
and meagre clays, produced from the subjacent talcose and chloritio
schists, and other altered azoic rocks. The climate is less temperate,
being liable to great heat in summer, and to heavy rains, which wash
its pulverulent soil. These conditions of soil and climate impart
excessive turbidness to its swiftly flowing streams, causing indirectly
extensive sand bars and shoals at the mouths of its rivers and estua-
aries, tending to block the navigation. Immediately at the base of
the blue ridge, in Virginia and North Carolina, this region contains
highly fertile and picturesque tract.
                                                           N2

178        Professor H. D. Rogers, on the Geology and          [Feb. 8,
     The Atlantic Plain, or sea-board belt of the Atlantic slope, no
where rises above 100 feet from the ocean level. From Long Island
to North Carolina, though intersected by many tidal creeks, it is
not marshy, except near the ocean, and bordering the estuaries of
the Delaware and Chesapeake ; but farther to the south-west, through
North and South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida, its seaward half is
excessively swampy and much overflowed.
    Geologically, this ocean border is composed exclusively of
cretaceous and tertiary deposits : the former consisting of clays and
sands, including thick wide-spread beds of pulverulent green sand,
greatly valued as a fertiliser for the soil ; the latter, or tertiary, of
sands, clays, and beds of shell marl, with few or no concreted rocky
layers. The cretaceous strata outcrop along the continental side of
this plain in a narrow zone, extending from the northern sea coast of
New Jersey to the Chesapeake, and reappear again low upon some
of the rivers of the Carolinas and Georgia ; but, throughout a large
part of the plain, they are deeply covered by the tertiaries. The
 eocene tertiary strata have a narrow long line of outcrop in a cor
responding position along the western edge of the plain, from the
Potomac to the Cape Fear River ; they reappear again from under
the middle tertiary beds, in a more central position in the plain, from
the Cape Fear River to the Altamaha. Still farther to the south
west, these eocene beds fringe the southern edge of the cretaceous
regions of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi, south of the termina
tion of the Appalachian Mountains. This wide southern tract of
eocene extends southwards into the interior of the peninsula of
Florida, showing this peninsula to have originated as early at least
as the morning period of the tertiary day.
    The miocene tertiaries cover nearly the whole of the tide-water
plain, except the narrow eocene strip on the west, and a pliocene
area on the sea coast of Virginia and North Carolina, from southern
New Jersey, through Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and North
Carolina.
    The pliocene deposits skirt, at intervals, the entire Atlantic
sea coast from the Chesapeake to Florida, and also the whole
coast of the Gulf of Mexico, from Florida to Texas ; forming, for
the most part, a fringe to the eocene beds, the miocene not having
been deposited in these regions.
           GEOLOGICAL FEATURES OF THE UNITED STATES.
    Turning, next, to a more special description of the geological
features of the United States, the speaker sketched briefly the great
natural areas occupied by its separate formations.
     1st. To the north of the east and west Lawrentine watershed,
which itself consists generally of the ancient crystalline rocks, in
cluding the older metamorphic or gneissic, later metamorphic or
azoic, or non-fossiliferous palaeozoic strata, and many plutonic out
bursts ;—there extends to a high latitude, and filling a large part of

 1856.J        Physical Geography of North America.                 179
the natural hydrographic basin of Hudson Bay, an area or basin of
fossiliferous palaeozoic strata of the upper Silurian, Devonian, and
possibly Carboniferous periods. This may be called the Hudson
Bay, or Arctic Palaeozoic Basin.
     To the south of the before-mentioned Lawrentine igneous water
shed, and westward from the Atlantic slope to the Rocky Mountains,
and even to the great Pacific chain, and probably north-westward to
the basin of Mackenzie River, there spreads another still larger palaeo
zoic basin. The south-eastern and best-developed part of this area,
from the Appalachians to the plains of Kanzas and Nebraska, en
titled the Appalachian Basin, includes formations of all the palaeozoic
 periods known to geologists, from the dawn of life upon the globe,
to the close of the age of the coal.
     From this brief statement of the two basins, and an inspection of
the geological map, it appears that the Appalachian Basin, or that
south of the Lawrentian Lakes, was depressed or under water in the
earlier palaeozoic periods, while the region north of the Lawrentine
watershed was above the level of the sea. But at the close of the
 Cambrian or older Silurian ages, that great disturbance of the crust,
 which let the ocean in upon the area of the present basin of Hudson
 Bay, for the production of the Silurian and later strata, lifted out a
 part, and shallowed other portions of the sea-bed of the other, or
Appalachian Basin, to the south. This is manifested in a break in
 the sequence of the strata, wherever the older Silurian or Cam
brian, and the later palaeozoic rocks are there recognisable together.
     The first stage, then, in the physical geography of the primeval
North America, was the existence of a small northern continent, the
southern coast of which was nearly coincident with the northern skirt
of the present valley of the St. Lawrence and its lakes. This con
tinent, or nucleus of one, sent forward to the south a long peninsular
tract, the vestiges of which we may discern in the hypozoic and azoic
belt of the Atlantic slope, stretching from New Brunswick to
Georgia. Very possibly other lands lay to the eastward of this
region of the Atlantic slope at that early date, and were depressed
during some of the earlier oscillations of the crust in this quarter of
the hemisphere ; the seeming eastern origin of many of the Appa
lachian palaeozoic strata, to the coal rocks inclusive, is eminently
suggestive of the existence in the palaeozoic times, of some such
large tract of land, an antient Atlantis, now under the bed of the
western part of the Atlantic.
     The next general movement of the crust, in the region now con
stituting the eastern half of North America, was at the end of the
coal period, manifestly an epoch of very extensive uplift of the con
tinent. This shift of level, and total drainage of the eastern half of
the Appalachian sea-bed, caused a large accession to the continent,
the new shore of which, if assumed to be coincident with the line
which now separates the palaeozoic Appalachian formations, and yet
older ones of the Atlantic slope, from the later horizontal cretaceous

180          Professor H. D. Rogers, on the Geology and         [Feb. 8,
and tertiary deposits that fringe them, was that well-marked physical
limit already partially traced as the inner edge of the low tertiary
and cretaceous plain. Probably, however, this newly-produced part
of the continent, particularly on its western side, was somewhat more
extended at the date of elevation than the present margin of the
cretaceous formation indicates ; for it is upon this supposition,
coupled with a belief that the newly uplifted formations remained
out of water, under somewhat wider boundaries than they now
exhibit, that we can best explain the non-existence of any Permian
and Triassic formations between the Carboniferous, the latest of the
American palaeozoics, and the Cretaceous, the next more recent
sediments deposited against them. During all the long geological
ages which intervened between the lifting out the palaeozoic region
of the United States east of the Missouri, and the deposition of the
Cretaceous strata, no sedimentary formations of the Mesozoic periods,
such as those which fill large tracts in other quarters of the globe,
were permanently upraised into dry land, saving only a few narrow
strips—products of estuary sedimentation—stretclvng at intervals
along the Atlantic slope from Prince Edward's Island to Carolina.
Elsewhere, certainly as far westward as the Rocky Mountains, either
nothing was deposited during the permian, triassic, and Jurassic ages,
or, what is far more probable, the formations then produced were
formed outside of the present palaeo/oic limits, and have been
covered up from sight by the wider sediments of the cretaceous sea,
which, lapping over them, have shut in all the earliest border tracts
of the palaeozoic lands, formed at the end of the coal period.
     The nature of the crust movements which elevated the palaeozoic
strata was in the region of maximum disturbance— that of the
 Atlantic slope and Appalachian chain,—a stupendous undulation
 or wave-like pulsation, the strata being elevated into permanent
 anticlinal and synclinal flexures, remarkable for their wave-like
 parallelism, and for their steady declining gradation of curvature,
 when they are compared in any east and west section across the cor
 rugated zone. To the westward of the Appalachian chain, where
 this structure is so conspicuous, the crust waves flatten out, recede
 from each other, and vanish into general horizontality ; and this
 nearly level condition extends thence throughout all the older'rocks
 to the plains of Texas and Nebraska, where the cretaceous beds
 overlap them. The orographic features of the Appalachian chain,
 even to 'the minutest slopes and terraces upon the flanks of the
 ridges, are all beautifully impressive of the carving action of deep
 retreating waters.
     The cretaceous deposits of the United States all imply a marine
 origin, no fresh water remains having hitherto been discovered
 among them ; and the geological map now exhibited pictures ap
 proximately the wide extent of the cretaceous, or later mesozoic
 sea, as it washed the boundaries of the palaeozoic continent. The
 shore of that sea was, as before hinted, the inner edge of the Atlantic

1856.]         Physical Geography of North America.                    181
plain on the east ; on the south it was the southern termination of the
Appalachian chain and the other great north-east and south-west
palaeozoic tract, west of the present Mississippi ; and on the west, for
along distance northward, it coincided generally with the present
valley of the Upper Missouri. This cretaceous sea lapped round
the southern end of the Rocky Mountains, and spread as far to the
west as the Cordilleras of New Mexico and the Wahsatch chain of
Utah. We do not at present know that it extended any further.
     The close of the cretaceous or chalk period was marked by the
rise and desiccation of nearly the whole now continental area of
this great northern Mediterranean. The movement along the
Atlantic border of the continent was comparatively slight, for it
brought above the sea level only very limited and narrow tracts of
the shoal water cretaceous sediments. South of the Appalachian
region it was somewhat more extensive, elevating a wider zone
between the previous dry land and the newly formed tertiary shore ;
but to the west of the region of older rocks it was a broad conti
nental rising, draining dry nearly the whole bed of the then existing
ocean to the limit indicated beyond the Rocky Mountains. The
coast line established by this lift of the crust, set new and much
more restricted bounds westward and northward to the Atlantic
ocean, and established the outlines of the present Gulf of Mexico,
which thus dates back as far as the commencement of the eocene
tertiary age. It does not seem probable that Florida was then any
part of the dry land, the true southern peninsula of the continent
being rather the newly formed cretaceous plain at the end of the
Appalachians.
     From that date, the movements in the level of the continent
have been manifestly less and less. Its great outlines, established at
the close of the chalk period, have remained as its contour to the
present day ; and each successive gain of territory, during the
 several tertiary revolutions—that which ended the eocene, that
 which closed the miocene, and that which cut off the pliocene, and
 even the pleistocene deposits, was but an enlargement of the primi
 tive mesozoic pattern, a mere addition of a lighter and lighter fringe
 to the broad mantle of laud, which earlier convulsions had con
 structed.
                        AMERICAN COAL FIELDS.
    The speaker selected from the many topics presented by this
sketch of the geology of North America, that of the coal-fields of
the United States and British Provinces, as presenting a theme of
general interest, describing first briefly the carboniferous formations,
especially their coal measures.
     This formation consists, in the United States and North-eastern
 British provinces, of argillaceous and siliceous sandstones, conglome
 rates, clay shales, fire clays, and coal slates ; argillaceous limestones,
 chiefly of marine origin, and seams of coal. A coarse siliceous con
 glomerate or millstone grit, generally destitute of coal, underlies the

 182        Professor H. D. Rogers, on the Geology and       [Feb. 8,
productive coal measures throughout nearly all the different basins,
proving the universality of the action which attended the commence
ment of that state of the physical geography that witnessed the pro
 duction of the coal seams and the sediments which enclose them.
     The eastern half of the continent exhibits five great coal fields,
 extending from Newfoundland to Arkansas. 1. The first, or most
 eastern, is that of the British provinces, Newfoundland, Nova
 Scotia. Cape Breton, Prince Edward's Island, and New Brunswick.
This seems to have been originally one wide coal-field, subse
quently broken up into patches by upheaval and denudation,, and
by the submergence which formed the Gulf of St. Lawrence: the
area of the coal measures of the provinces is probably about 9000
square miles, though only one-tenth of this surface appears to be
underlaid by productive coal seams. 2. The second, or great
Appalachian coal-field, extends from North-eastern Pennsylvania to
near Tuscaloosa, in the interior of Alabama. It is about 875 miles
long, and 180 broad, where widest in Pennsylvania and Ohio, and
by a careful estimate contains about 70,000 square miles. The
narrow basins of anthracite in eastern Pennsylvania, containing
less than 300 square miles of coal, are outlying troughs from this
great coal-field. 3. A third, smaller coal-field, occupies the centre
of the state of Michigan, equidistant from Lake Huron and Michi
gan ; it covers an area of about 15,000 square miles, but it is very
poor in coal. 4. A fourth great coal-field is that situated between
the Ohio and Mississippi anticlinals, in the States of Kentucky,
Indiana, and Illinois. It has the form of a wide elliptical basin.
It is about 370 miles long, and 200 miles wide, and contains by
estimation 50,000 square miles of coal measures. 5. The fifth,
and most western, is the large and very long coal-field filling the
centre of the great basin of carboniferous rocks which spreads from
the Mississippi and Ozark anticlinals, westward to the limit of the
palaeozoic region, where the cretaceous strata begin. The coal
field itself has its northern limit on the Iowa River, and its south
ern near the Red River, on the western border of Arkansas. It is
in length 650 miles, and in greatest breadth 200 miles. The total
area of this great irregular basin is probably not less than 57,000
square miles. Three or more small detachtd tracts of coal strata,
encompassed by the cretaceous deposits, stretch at intervals south-
westward from the southern limit of the longer field through Texas.
They are probably extensions of the great field laid bare by denu
dation. Other localities of coal-bearing strata occur in the high
table lands on both sides of the Rocky Mountains, and also in the
Wahsatch chain of Utah, but it is doubtful whether any of them
belong to the true carboniferous series. The aggregate space under
laid by these vast fields of coal amounts to at least 200,000 square
miles, or to more than twenty times the area which includes all the
known coal deposits of Europe, or indeed, of the whole eastern
continent.

  1856.]        Physical Geography of North America.                183
      These coal-fields, especially the four lying west of the Atlantic
 slope, exhibit several interesting facts of gradation, which render it
 highly probable that they were, at one time, all of them connected,
 the vacant intervals now separating them having been denuded of
 their coal measures by the wide-sweeping erosive action of the
 waters of the Appalachian Sea, set in motion at the uprising
 of this part of the continent. The first fact of such gradation
 relates to the thickness of the formation, and that of the individual
 coal seams in the respective coal-fields, the comparison indicating
 a marked reduction in this respect from east to west. Thus the
 productive coal measures of Nova Scotia have a thickness of nearly
 3000 feet, those of the anthracite basins of Pennsylvania a depth
 about as great, while those in the central parts of the great
 Appalachian basin show a thickness not exceeding 2500 feet.
 Again, in the Illinois basin the probable thickness is reduced to 1500
 feet, while in the farthest, or Ohio and Missouri basin, it cannot
 exceed 1000 feet. Very similar is the reduction in the number of
 the coal seams. Those at the Joggins, in Nova Scotia, are about
 50 ; though only five of them are of workable dimensions, being
 equivalent to about 20 feet of coal. The deepest anthracite basin
 of Pennsylvania, that of the Schuylkill, contains also about 50 coal
 seams, but 25 of these have a thickness each of more than three
 feet, and are available for mining. Further west, the great Appa
 lachian coal-field contains about 20 beds in all, 10 of which are
thick enough to be mined. Still farther onward, the broad basin of
 Indiana and Illinois shows apparently not more than 10 or 12 beds,
 and it is believed that only 7 of these are thick enough and pure
 enough for mining. Northward, in the Michigan coal-field, denu
 dation has left only the two or three lower beds. Still further west
 ward the coal-field of Iowa and Missouri contains, it is believed,
 but 3 or 4 beds of profitable size, and the total number, thick
 and thin, does not exceed 6 or 7. A similar gradation is noticeable
 in the general size of the individual coal seams, by far the thickest
 being in the anthracite basins of eastern Pennsylvania.
     Parallel with this progressive reduction in the amount of land-
derived material in the upper coal formation, is a diminution in the
coarseness of the mechanical ingredients of the strata, the eastern
coal measures having more conglomerates and coarse sandstones,
the western, more fine-grained argillaceous sandstones and clay
beds ; and as a further indication that the first land lay to the east,
and the ocean to the west, of the wide coal-producing plains or
meadows, there is with this westward reduction of the mechanically
derived sediments from the land, a steady augmentation of marine
limestones, and other true aqueous deposits, precipitates of a shallow
carboniferous sea. In some of the more western coal-fields the
alternation of the terrestrial coal seams with super-imposed lime
stones, containing marine fossils, amounts even to an occasional
actual contact of the two kinds of strata.

184        Professor H. D. Rogers, on the Geology and          [Feb. 8,
    Apart from these general phenomena of gradation which belong
to the conditions under which the strata originated, there exist
other facts of transition, which also imply a declension westward, of
quite another class of forces than the productive ones. In the
Appalachian chain, all the eastern coal basins, and the eastern
margin of the great Appalachian field, give evidence of a crust meta-
morphism, affecting all the palaeozoic rocks, the degree of alteration
dependant on the nature of the stratum, and its situation, eastward
or westward, in this great undulated zone. The coal, of all rocks,
the most sensitive to metamorphism from heat, presents invariably
among the eastern flexures of the Appalachians, where the crust
action has been greatest, the condition of a hard and flinty anthracite
with ajaspery or large conchoidal fracture ; further westward in the
same set of basins, the anthracite has a more cuboidul fracture, is
softer, and is even slightly gaseous. Entering the eastern border
of the great Appalachian bituminous coal-field, we everywhere find
the coal possessed of only half its full share of volatile or gaseous
matter ; and it is not until we reach the middle and western side of
this wide basin, that the coal is found fully bituminous,— in other
words, not until we pass beyond the last of the perceptible undula
tions of the crust. Throughout all the flat fields of the Western
States, the coal invariably retains its original full amount of bitu
minous or gaseous ingredients.
     Comparing the areas of the coal-fields of other countries with
those of North America now indicated, Great Britain may be
estimated to contain about 5400 square miles, France 1000, and
Belgium 510 square miles. Bhenish Prussia—Saarbrook field—has
960 square miles,Westphalia 380, the Bohemian field, about 400 ;
that of Saxony, only 30 ; that of the Asturias, in Spain, probably
200 ; and that of Kussia, scarcely 100 square miles. And as these
are the principal known coal-fields in Europe, the whole is thus seen
to possess less than 9000 square miles of productive coal measures.
Comparing the coal areas with the total areas of the respective
countries, the United States has one square mile of coal-field to each
 15 square miles of its 3,000,000 miles of territory ; Great Britain
has one square mile to each 22J of surface ; Belgium a like propor
tion ; while France possesses only one square mile of coal-field to
every 200 miles of country. Assuming the total area of the pro
ductive coal measures of the world at 220,000 square miles, and
accepting 20 feet as the average thickness of the available coal, the
entire quantity, if estimated as one lump, is equivalent to a cube of
very nearly 10 miles dimensions, or equivalent to a cake or plateau
of coal 100 miles square in its base, and 440 ft. high.
     The present annual product of the chief coal producing coun
tries is as follows : —Great Britain extracted from her coal mines
last year— 1855—-the enormous quantity of 65,000,000 tons ;
the United States, between 8 and 9,000,000; Belgium, about
5,000,000 ; and France, 4,500,000.

1856.]          Physical Geography of North America.             185
    It is interesting to compare the dynamic force of coal applied
as fuel to the generation of steam in the steam-engine, with the
dynamic effect of a man. The human labourer, exerting his
strength upon a treadmill, can raise his own weight, say 150 lbs.,
through a height of 10,000 ft. per day, equivalent to 1 Ib. raised
1,500,000 ft. The mechanical virtue of fuel is best estimated by
ascertaining the number of pounds which a given quantity, say one
bushel, will raise to a given height, say one foot, against gravity.
In the steam-engine this is called the duty of the fitel. .Now, the
present maximum duty of one bushel of good coal in the improved
Cornish steam-engines, is equivalent to 100,000,000 lbs. lifted
through one foot ; but one bushel has been made to raise 125,000,000
lbs. one foot high, or one pound 125,000.000 of feet ; but as there
are 84 Ibs. in one bushel, this divisor gives 1 pound as equal to
1 ,500,000 ft. ; just the result of a man's toil for one day upon a
treadmill. Thus a pound of coal is really worth a day's wages. If
we estimate a lifetime of hard work at 20 years, giving to each year
300 working days, we have for a man's total dynamic effort 6000
days. In coal this is represented by the amazingly small amount
of three tons. Another proof of the extraordinary power derivable
through the combustion of fuel, is presented in the following calcu
lation ; one cubic inch of water is convertible into steam, of one
atmospheric pressure, by 15| grains of coal, and this expansion of
the water into steam is capable of raising a weight of one ton the
height of a foot. The one cubic inch of water becomes very nearly
one cubic foot of steam, or 1728 cubic inches. When a vacuum is
produced by the condensation of this steam, a piston of one square
inch surface, that may have been lifted 1728 inches, or 144 feet,
will fall with a velocity of a heavy body rushing by gravity through
one half of the height of the homogeneous atmosphere, or through
13,500 feet. This gives a terminal velocity of 1300 feet per second,
greater than that of the transmission of sound. From this we can
form some estimate of the strength of the tempest which alternately
blows the piston in its cylinder, when elastic steam of high pressure
is employed. Applying the calculations of the dynamic efficiency
of coal, for estimating the mechanical strength latent in the coal
fields of the earth, or in the large coal product annually furnished
by the mines of Great Britain, we get some interesting results.
Each acre of a coal seam, four feet in thickness, and yielding one
yard nett of pure fuel, is equivalent to about 5000 tons ; and
possesses, therefore, a reserve of mechanical strength in its fuel
equal to the life-labour of more than 1600 men. Each square mile
of one such single coal bed contains 3,000,000 of tons of fuel :
equivalent to 1,000,000 of men labouring through twenty years of
their ripe strength. Assuming, for calculation, that 10,000,000 of
tons, out of the present annual product of the British coal mines,
namely 65,000,000, are applied to the production of mechanical
power, then England annually summons to her aid an army of

186      Prof. Rogers, on the Geology of North America.       [Feb. 8,
3,300,000 fresh men, pledged to exert their fullest strength through
20 years. Her actual annual expenditure of power, then, is re
presented by 66,000,000 of able-bodied labourers. The ktent
strength resident in the whole coal product of the kingdom may,
by the same process, be calculated at more than 400,000,000 of
strong men, or more than double the number of the adult males
now upon the globe.
     Climates.—Adverting to the causes of the characteristic features
of the North American climates, those of all the eastern and northern
divisions of the continent were shown to depend primarily upon the
peculiar distribution of the land and water, and the general circula
tion of the winds and oceanic currents in the North Atlantic and
the Polar Basins, resulting from general phenomena of rotation of
the fluids, and from the configuration of those seas. The chief
surface currents of both these basins belong all to one great circu
lating stream, which, crossing the Atlantic from Africa to the Gulf
of Mexico, under the northern tropic, and following for a vast dis
tance the highly-heated shores of South and Central America, enters
the North Atlantic at Florida, under the name of the Gulf Stream,
carrying a temperature 5° to 6° higher than the mean heat of the
equator, and imparting to the southern coast of the United States
the ocean temperature of the tropics. Pursuing its career to the
north-east, this current transports its own mild climate to the
whole north-western side of Europe, and even subdues the rigours
of the European Polar sea ; but refrigerated, as it sweeps round in
its circumpolar course, the shores of Siberia and Western Arctic
America ; and, loaded with the annual ice of all that extended zone,
it streams through the great Archipelago of North-eastern Arctic
America, clogs its deep channels with its floating packs of ice, and
chills to the zero temperature of the whole hemisphere this coldest
of all the summer climates of the globe. Returning into the At
lantic around Greenland, and by its main passage through Baffin
Bay, this now Arctic ice-chilled and ice-transporting current, hugs
the whole north-eastern coast of the continent inside of the Gulf
Stream. It thus weaves a track somewhat resembling the figure 8.
The Gulf Stream on the south-east, and the Arctic current on the
north, conjointly with the tropical and the polar winds with which
they are connected, produce such a contrast in the temperature of
the southern and northern latitudes of eastern America, that all
the zones of the climates of the sphere are there compressed within
not more than 30° of a great circle, crossing the continent from the
Gulf Stream to lat. 70D north of Hudson Bay.
     The climatology of the western half of the continent was next
discussed. There the controlling agent in the latitudes north of the
north-east Trade "Wind of the tropic, is the south-west and west wind
from the Pacific Ocean, and in the Southern Atlantic States from
the Gulf of Mexico. This Pacific Ocean wind, moderately charged
with moisture in the lower latitudes, and excessively humid in the

 1856.]              Mr. Huxley, on Natural History.                     187
more northern ones from traversing a wider tract of sea, confers a
temperate, moist, and oceanic climate upon the Pacific slope; but
deprived largely of its moisture by ascending the high mountain
barrier of the Pacific chain, which robs it of nearly the whole of
its wetness, it exerts in the more southern latitudes just the opposite
effect upon the plains and table lands to the leeward or eastward
of that barrier. The high evaporative power of the winds thus
parched accounts for the excessive aridity of the Colorado and
Utah deserts, and the whole desert belt of the interior, which in
the lower latitudes stretches to Texas. It likewise explains the
prevalence of numerous salt lakes, destitute of outlets, and the
occurrence of the wide tracts covered with salt, or with a saline
soil, within this area.
     Gold.—To the same general cause, the Pacific wind, we are to
attribute the abundant gold alluvia of the western slope and base
of the Sierra Nevada. The copious precipitation of rain, amounting
to nearly the whole humidity of the Pacific wind, against the gold-
containing western flank of the Californian chain, greater probably
in the pleistocene than in the modern epochs, has produced an
enormous erosion of the gold-bearing and cleavage fissured rocks ;
and has strewn and sorted their fragments and particles in the
ravines of the mountain, and in the plains at its base. The speaker
concluded with an announcement of the general fact that, whereas
the salt-fields of the earth are found upon the continental or interior
dry sides of its oceanic chains, its gold-fields are restricted to their
wet or oceanic slopes.
                                                                [H. D. R.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, February 15.
    SIR HENRY HOIJUAND, Bart. M.D. F.E.S. Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY, Esq. F.R.S.
                  fl 1.I.1.UI AN PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY, 11.1.
    On Natural History, as Knowledge, Discipline, and Power.
THE value of any pursuit depends upon the extent to which it fulfils
one or all of three conditions. Either it enlarges our experience ;
or it increases our strength ; or it diminishes the obstacles in the
way of our acquiring experience and strength. Whatever neither
teaches, nor strengthens, nor helps us, is either useless or mischievous.

     188               Mr. Huxley, on Natural History,              [Feb. 15,
    The scientific calling, like all others, must be submitted to these
    tests, if we desire fairly to estimate its digtiity and worth ; and as
    the object of the present discourse is to set forth such an estimate of
    the science of Natural History, it will be necessary to consider—
    Firstly, its scope and range as mere knowledge ; Secondly, the
    amount to which the process of acquiring Natural History know
    ledge strengthens and developes the powers of the gainer,—its
    position, that is, as discipline; Thirdly, the extent to which it
    enables him, so to speak, to turn one part of the universe against
    another, in order to attain his own ends ; and this is what is com
    monly called the power of science.
        There can be little doubt as to which is the highest and noblest
   of these standards of value. Science, as power, indeed, showers daily
   blessings upon our practical life ; and science, as knowledge, opens
   up continually new sources of intellectual delight. But neither
   knowing nor enjoying are the highest ends of life. Strength—
   capacity of action and of endurance—is the- highest thing to be
   desired ; and this is to be obtained only by careful discipline of all
   the faculties, by that training which the pursuit of science is, above
   all things, most competent to give.
        First, let us regard Natural History as mere Knowledge.
        The common conception of the aims of a naturalist of the pre
   sent day does him great injustice, although it might perhaps fairly
* apply to one of a century and a half ago ; when natural history,
   which began in the instinctive observation of the habits, and the
   study of the forms, of living beings, had hardly passed beyond the
   stage of more or less accurate anecdotes, and larger or smaller col
   lections of curiosities.
       The difference between the anoient naturalist and his modern
  successor, is similar to that between the Chaldaean watcher of the
  stars and the modern astronomer ; but the scientific progress of the
  race is epitomized in that of the individual, and may be best exem
  plified, perhaps, by tracing out the lines of inquiry into which any
  person of intelligence, who should faithfully attempt to solve the
  various problems presented by any living being, however simple and
  however humble, would necessarily be led. By the investigation of
  habits, the inquirer is insensibly led into Physiology, Psychology,
  Geographical and Geological distribution ; by the investigation of
  the relations of forms, he is no less necessarily impelled into system
  atic Zoology and Botany, into Anatomy, Development, and Mor
  phology, or Philosophical Anatomy. Now each of these great
  sciences is, if followed out into all its details, the sufficient occupa
  tion of a lifetime ; but in their aggregate only, are they the equivalent
  of the science of natural history : and the title of naturalist, in the
  modern sense, is deserved only by one who has mastered the princi
 ples of all.
       So much for the range of natural history. If we consider, not
 merely the number, but the nature of the problems which it presents,

1 856.]          ns Knowledge, Discipline, and Power.                   1 89
we shall find that they open up fields of thought unsurpassable in
interest and grandeur. For instance, morphology demonstrates that
the innumerable varieties of the forms of living beings are modelled
upon a very small number of common plans or types. (" Haupt-
 Typen," of Von Ba'r, whose idea and term are merely paraphrased
by " archetype," common plan, &c.) In the animal world we find
only five of these common plans, that of the Protozoa, of the Ccden-
terata, of the Mollusca, of the Annulosa, and of the Vertebrctla.
Not only are all animals existing in the present creation organized
according to one of these five plans ; but palaeontology tends to
show that in the myriads of past ages of which the earth's crust con
tains the records, no other plan of animal form made its appearance
on our planet. A marvellous fact, and one which seems to present
no small obstacle in the way of the notion of the possibly fortuitous
development of animal life.
     Not merely does the study of morphology lead us into the depths
of past time, but it obliges us to gaze into that greater abyss which
lies between the human mind and that mind of which the universe
is but a thought and an expression. For man, looking from the
heights of science into the surrounding universe, is as a traveller
who has ascended the Brocken and sees, in the clouds, a vast image,
dim and awful, and yet in its essential lineaments resembling him
 self. In the words of the only poet of our day who has fused true
science into song, the philosopher, looking into Nature,
                     " Sees his shadow glory-crowned,
                       He sees himself in all he sees."
                                                 Tennyson's "In Memoriam."
      The mathematician discovers in the universe a " Divine
 Geometry ;" the physicist and the chemist everywhere find that the
 operations of nature may be expressed in terms of the human intellect ;
 and, in like manner, among living beings, the naturalist discovers
 that their " vital " processes are not performed by the gift of powers
 and faculties entirely peculiar and irrespective of those which are
 met with in the physical world ; but that they are built up and their
 parts adapted together, in a manner which forcibly reminds us of the
 mode in which a human artificer builds up a complex piece ofmechan
 ism, by skilfully combining the simple powers and forces of the matter
 around him. The numberless facts which illustrate this truth are
 familiar to all, through the works of Palcy and the natural theolo
 gians, whose arguments may be summed up thus—that the structure
 of living beings is, in the main, such as would result from the benevo
 lent operation, under the conditions of the physical world, of an
 intelligence similar in kind, however superior in degree, to our own.
 Granting the validity of the premises, that from the similarity of
 effects we may argue to a similarity of cause, does natural history
 allow our conclusions to rest here ? Is this utilitarian adaptation to
 a benevolent purpose, the chief or even the leading feature of that
 great shadow, or, we should more rightly say, of that vast arche

190               Mr. Huxley, on Natural History,                [Feb. 15,
type of the human mind, which everywhere looms upon us through
nature ? The reply of natural history is clearly in the negative.
She tells us that utilitarian adaptation to purpose is not the
greatest principle worked out in nature, and that its value, even as
an instrument of research, has been enormously overrated.
    How is it then, that not only in popular works, but in the
writings of men of deservedly high authority, we find the opposite
dogma—that the principle of adaptation of means to ends is the
great instrument of research in natural history— enunciated as an
axiom ? If we trace out the doctrine to its fountain head, we shall
find that it was primarily put forth by Cuvier—the prince of
modern naturalists. Is it to be supposed then that Cuvier did not
himself understand the methods by which he arrived at his great
results? that his master-mind misconceived its own processes?
This conclusion appears to be not a little presumptuous ; but if the
 following arguments be justly reasoned out, it is correct.
    In the famous " Discours sur les Revolutions de la Surface du
Globe," after speaking of the difficulties in the way of the restora
tion of vertebrate fossils, Cuvier goes on to say—
    " Happily, comparative anatomy possesses a principle whose just
development is sufficient to dissipate all difficulties ; it is that of the
correlation of forms in organized beings, by means of which every
kind of organized being might, strictly speaking, be recognised by
a fragment of any of its parts.
    " Every organized being constitutes a whole, a single and com
plete system, whose parts mutually correspond, and concur, by
their reciprocal reaction, to the same definitive end. None of these
parts can be changed without affecting the others ; and consequently,
each taken separately indicates and gives all the rest."
    After this Cuvier gives his well-known examples of the correla
tion of the parts of a carnivore, too long for extract ; and of which
therefore his summation merely will be given :—
    " In a word, the form of the tooth involves that of the condyle ;
that of the shoulder blade ; that of the claws : just as the equation of
a curve involves all its properties. And just as by taking each pro
perty separately and making it the base of a separate equation, we
should obtain both the ordinary equation, and all other properties
whatsoever which it possesses ; so, in the same way, the claw, the
scapula, the condyle, the femur, and all the other bones taken
separately will give the tooth, or one another ; and by commencing
with any one, he who had a rational conception of the laws of the
organic economy, could reconstruct the whole animal."
    Thus far Cuvier : and thus far and no further, it seems that the
compilers, and copyers, and popularizers, and id genus omne, proceed
in the study of him. And so it is handed down from book to book,
that all Cuvier's restorations of extinct animals were effected by
means of the principle of the physiological correlation of organs.
    Now let us examine this principle ; taking in the first place, one

1856.]            as Knowledge, Discipline, and Power.                191
of Cuvier's own arguments and analyzing it ; and in the second place,
bringing other considerations to bear.
     Cuvier says—" It is readily intelligible that ungulate animals
must all be herbivorous, since they possess no means of seizing a
prey (1). "We see very easily also, that the only use of their fore feet
being to support their bodies, they have no need of so strongly
formed a shoulder ; whence follows the absence of clavicles (2) and
acromion, and the narrowness of the scapula. No longer having any
need to turn their fore-arm, the radius will be united with the ulna,
or least articulated by a ginglymus and not arthrodially with the
humerus (3). Their herbivorous diet will require teeth, with flat
crowns, to bruise up the grain and herbage ; these crowns must needs
be unequal, and to this end enamel must alternate with bony mat
ter (4) ; such a kind of crown requiring horizontal movements for
trituration, the condyle of the jaw must not form so close a hinge as in
the carnivora ; it must be flattened ; and this entails a correspondingly
flattened temporal facet. The temporal fossa which will have to
receive only a small temporal muscle will be shallow and narrow(5)."
     The various propositions are here marked with numbers, to
avoid repetition ; and it is easy to show that not one is really
based on a necessary physiological law :—
           (1.) Why should not ungulate animals be carrion feeders?
       or even, if living animals were their prey, surely a horse could
      run down and destroy other animals with at least as much ease
      as a wolf.
           (2, 3.) But what purpose, save support, is subserved by the
       forelegs of the dog and wolf ? how large are their clavicles?
       how much power have they of rotating the fore-arm ?
           (4, 5.) The sloth is purely herbivorous, but its teeth pre
       sent no trace of any such alternation of substance.
Again, what difference exists in structure of tooth, in the shape of
the condyle of the jaw, and in that of the temporal fossa, between
the herbivorous and carnivorous bears ? If bears were only known to
exist in the fossil state, would any anatomist venture to conclude
from the skull and teeth alone, that the white bear is naturally
carnivorous, while the brown bear is naturally frugivorous?
Assuredly not ; and thus, in the case of Cuvier's own selection, we
see that his arguments are absolutely devoid of conclusive force.
Let us select another then ; on the table is a piece of carbonifer
ous shale, bearing the impression of an animal long since extinct.
 It is a mere impression of the external form, but this is amply
sufficient to enable us to be morally certain that if we had a living
specimen, we should find its jaws, if it had any, moving sideways
—that its hard skeleton formed a sheath outside its muscles—that
its nervous system was turned downwards when it walked—that the
heart was placed on the opposite side of the body—that if it
 possessed special respirator}' organs, they were gills, &c. &c.
     In fact we have in the outward form abundant material for the
    VOL. II.                                                     o

 192              Mr. Huxley, on Natural History,              [Feb. 15,
restoration of the internal organs. But how do we conclude, from
the peculiar many-ringed body, with jointed limbs, of this ancient
marine animal, that it had all these other peculiarities ; in short, that
it was a crustacean ? For any physiological necessity to the con
trary, the creature might have had its mouth, nervous system, and
internal organs arranged like those of a fish. We know that it was
a crustacean and not a fish, simply because the observation of a vast
 number of instances assures us that an external structure such as
this creature possesses, is invariably accompanied by the internal
peculiarities enumerated. Our method then is not the method of
adaptation, of necessary physiological correlations ; for of such ne
cessities, in the case in question, we know nothing : but it is the
method of agreement ; that method by which, having observed
facts invariably occur together, we conclude they invariably have
done so, and invariably will do so ; a method used as much in the
common affairs of life as in philosophy.
     Multitudes of like instances could be adduced from the animal
world ; and if we turn to the botanist, and inquire how he restores
fossil plants from their fragments, he will say at once that he knows
 nothing of physiological necessities and correlations. Give him a
 fragment of wood, and he will unhesitatingly tell you what kind of
a plant it belonged to, but it will be fruitless to ask him what phy
siological necessity combines, e.g. peculiarly dotted vessels, with fruit
in the shape of a cone and naked ovules, for he knows of none.
Nevertheless, his restorations stand on the same logical basis as
those of the zoologist.
     Therefore, whatever Cuvier himself may say, or others may
repeat, it seems quite clear that the principle of his restorations was
not that of the physiological correlation or coadaptation of organs.
And if it were necessary to appeal to any authority, save facts and
reason, our first witness should be Cuvier himself, who, in a very
remarkable passage, two or three pages further on, (Discours, pp.
184-185,*) implicitly surrenders his own principle.
    Thus then natural history plainly teaches us that the utilitarian
principle, valuable enough in physiology, helps us no further, and
is utterly insufficient as an instrument of morphological research.
    But does she then tell us that in this, her grander sphere, the
human mind discovers no reflex, and that among those forms of
being which most approach himself alone, man can discover no
indication of that vast harmony with his own nature which seemed
so obvious elsewhere? Surely not. On the contrary, it may be
regarded as one of the noblest characteristics of natural history
knowledge, that its highest flights point, not to a discrepancy between
the infinite and the finite mind, but to a higher and closer union
than can be imagined by those whose studies are confined to the
physical world. For where the principle of adaptation, of mere
                   * Ossemens Fossiles, 4me Edition, T. 1.

1856.]          as Knowledge, Discipline, and Power.                193
mechanical utilitarian contrivance fails us, it is replaced by another
which appeals to the aesthetic sense as much as the mere intellect.
     Regard a case of birds, or of butterflies, or examine the shell
of an echinus, or a group of foraminifera, sifted out of the first
handful of sea sand. Is it to be supposed for a moment that the
beauty of outline and colour of the first, the geometrical regularity
of the second, or the extreme variety and elegance of the third, are
any good to the animals ? that they perform any of the actions of
their lives more easily and better for being bright and graceful
rather than if they were dull and plain? So, to go deeper, is it
conceivable that the harmonious variation of a common plan which
we find everywhere in nature serves any utilitarian purpose? that
the innumerable varieties of antelopes, of frogs, of clupeoid fishes,
of beetles, and bivalve mollusks, of polyzoa, of actinozoa, and
hyclro/.oii. are adaptations to as many different kinds of life, and
consequently varying physiological necessities ? Such a supposition
with regard to the three last, at any rate, would be absurd ; the
polyzoa, for instance, presenting a remarkable uniformity in mode of
life and internal organization, while nothing can be more striking than
the wonderful variety of their external shape and of the sculpture of
their cells. If we turn to the vegetable world, we find it one vast
illustration of the same truth. Who has ever dreamed of finding
an utilitarian purpose in the forms and colours of flowers, in the
sculpture of pollen-grains, in the varied figures of the frond of
ferns ? What " purpose " is served by the strange numerical re
lations of the parts of plants, the threes and fives of monocotyledons
and dicotyledons?
     Thus in travelling from one end to the other of the scale of life,
we are taught one lesson, that living nature is not a mechanism but
a poem ; not a mere rough engine-house for the due keeping of
pleasure and pain machines, but a palace whose foundations, indeed,
are laid on the strictest and safest mechanical principles, but whose
superstructure is a manifestation of the highest and noblest art.
     Such is the plain teaching of Nature. But if we have a right
to conclude from the marks of benevolent design to an infinite
 Intellect and Benevolence, in some sort similar to our own, then
 from the existence of a beauty (nay, even of a humour,) and of a
 predominant harmonious variety in unity in nature, which, if the
 work of man, would be regarded as the highest art, we are simi
larly bound to conclude that the aesthetic faculties of the human
 soul have also been foreshadowed in the Infinite Mind.
     Such is a brief indication of the regions of thought into which
natural history leads us, and we may surely conclude that as Knaio-
ledge it stands second in scope and breadth to no science.
     As Discipline, impartial consideration will show that k takes no
 lower rank ; whether we regard it as a gymnastic for the intellectual,
 the moral, or the aesthetic faculty.
                                                             o2

194               Mr. Huxley, on Natural History,             [Feb. 15,
    For the successful carrying on of the business of life, no less
than for the pursuit of science, it is essential that the mind should
easily and accurately perform the four great intellectual processes
of observation, experiment, induction, and deduction. No training
can be so well adapted to develope the first of these faculties as that
of the naturalist, the very foundation of whose studies lies in exact
observation of characters and nice discrimination of resemblances
and differences. In fact, the skilled naturalist is the only man who
combines the moral and intellectual advantages of civilization with
that acuteness and minute accuracy of perception which distinguish
the savage hunter ; and if man's senses are to keep pace with his
intellect as the world grows older, natural history observation must
be made a branch of ordinary education.
    Again, what science can present more perfect examples of the
application of the methods of experiment than physiology ? All that
we know of the physiology of the nervous system rests on experiment ;
and if we turn to other functions, the investigations of Bernard
might be cited as striking specimens of experimental research.
    To say that natural history as a science is equivalent to the
assertion that it exercises the inductive and deductive faculties ; but
it is often forgotten that the so-called " natural classification " of
living beings is, in reality, not mere classification, but the result of
a great series of inductive investigations. In a " natural classifica
tion " the definitions of the classes are, in fact, the laws of living
form, obtained, like all other laws, by a process of induction from
observed facts.
     For examples of the exercise of deduction, of the arguing
from the laws of living form obtained by induction, to their legiti
mate consequences, the whole science of palaeontology may be cited.
As has been already shown, the whole process of palaeontological
restoration depends—First, on the validity of a law of the invariable
coincidence of certain organic peculiarities established by induction ;
Secondly, on the accuracy of the logical process of deduction from
this law. Professor Owen's determination of the nature ofthe famous
Stonesfield mammal is a striking illustration of this. A small jaw
of a peculiar shape, was found, containing a great number of teeth
some of which were imbedded by double fangs in the jaw.
     Now these laws have been inductively established—
           (a) That only mammals have teeth imbedded in a double
      socket.
          (V) That only marsupials have teeth in so great a number,
         imbedded in so peculiarly formed a jaw.
    By deduction from these laws to the case in question, the legiti
mate conclusion was arrived at, that the jaw belonged to a marsupial
mammal.
    The naturalist then, who faithfully follows his calling leaves no
side of his intellect untrained ; but, after all, intellect, however
gigantic, confers but half the qualifications required by one who

  1856.]         as Knoicledge, Discipline, and Power.               195
 desires to follow science with success, and he who gains only know
 ledge from her, gains but little. The moral faculties of courage,
 patience, and self-denial, are of as much value in science as in life ;
 the origin of an erroneous doctrine lies as often in the heart as in
 the head ; and the basis of the character of a great philosopher will
 commonly be found, on close analysis, to be earnest truthfulness—
and no imaginary gift of genius. It is character and not talent which
is the essential element of success in science. But as the muscle of
the smith grows stronger by reason of its constant use in hammer
ing, so it seems impossible to doubt that the training of the moral
faculty, necessarily undergone by the philosopher, must react upon
the man. There are, indeed, lamentable examples of men who
seem to have one moral faculty for science, and another for their
daily affairs : but such instances are hardly found in the highest
ranks of philosophy ; and when they occur, the daily poison may be
 traced spreading higher and higher, and sooner or later falling like
a Nemesis upon the scientific faculty.
     Let those who doubt the efficacy of science as moral discipline,
make the experiment of trying to come to a comprehension of the
meanest worm or weed, of its structure, its habits, its relation to the
great scheme of nature. It will be a most exceptional case, if the
mere endeavour to give a correct outline of its form, or to describe its
appearance with accuracy, do not call into exercise far more patience,
perseverance, and self-denial than they have easily at command ; and
if they do not rise up from the attempt, in utter astonishment at the
habitual laxity and inaccuracy of their mental processes, and in some
dismay at the pertinacious manner in which their subjective concep
tions and hasty preconceived notions interfere with their forming a
truthful conception of objective fact. There is not one person in
fifty whose habits of mind are sufficiently accurate to enable him to
give a truthful description of the exterior of a rose.
     Finally, the power of natural history was illustrated by examples
of recent applications of that science in opening up sources of
industrial wealth.
                                                         [T. H. II.]

196                   Mr. Faraday, on certain                 [Feb. 22,
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 22.
      SIR BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                     Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   MR. FAUADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S.
           On certain Magnetic Actions and Affections.
ALL bodies subject to magnetic induction, when placed in the
ordinary magnetic field between the poles of a magnet, are affect
ed ; paramagnetic bodies tend to pass bodily from weaker to
stronger places of force, and diamagnetic bodies from stronger to
weaker places of force. If the bodies are elongated, then those
that are paramagnetic set along the lines of force, and those that
are diamagnetic across them : but if these bodies have a spherical
form, are amorphous, and are perfectly free from permanent mag
netic charge, they have no tendency to set in a particular direction.
Nevertheless, there are bodies of both classes, which being crystal
line, have the power of setting when a single crystal is wrought into
the form of a sphere, and these are called magne-crystals ; their
number is increasing continually ; carbonate of lime, bismuth,
tourmaline, &c., are of this nature. Bodies which being magnetic,
set, because they are elongated, are greatly influenced in the force of
the set by the nature of the medium surrounding them, and to such
an extent that they not merely vary in their force from the maximum
to nothing, but will often set axially in one medium, and equatori-
ally in another. Yet the same bodies, if magne-crystallic and
formed into spheres, though they set well in the magnetic field, will
set with the same force whatever the change in the media about
them, and are perfectly freed from the influence of the latter.
Thus, if a crystal of bismuth formed into a sphere, or a vertical cylin
der, has, when suspended, its magne-crystallic axis horizontal, and
if the various media about it, from saturated solution of sulphate
of iron, up to phosphorus, through air, water, alcohol, oil, be
changed one for another, no alteration in the amount of torsion
force required to displace the magne-crystal will occur, provided
the force of the magnet be constant, notwithstanding that the list
of media includes highly paramagnetic and diamagnetic bodies ; and
in such cases the measurement of the power of set is relieved from
a multitude of interfering circumstances existing in other cases, and
that power which is dependent upon the internal structure and con

1856.]            Magnetic Actions and Affections.                         197
dition of the substance is proved to be, at the same temperature,
always the same.
    A consequence of magne-crystallic structure is that the same
body is more paramagnetic, or more diamagnetic in one direction
than in another ; and therefore it follows, that though such a crystal
may have no variation in set-force, produced ^by change of the
surrounding medium, it may have a variation produced in the
absolute force of attraction or repulsion ; even up to the point of
being attracted in one position and repelled in another, though no
change in form, or in the surrounding medium, or in the force of
the magnet, or in the nature of the body itself, be made, but simply
a change in the direction of the structure. This was shown by a
crystal of the red ferroprussiate of potassa, which, being coated
carefully with wax, was suspended from the arm of a torsion balance
so that it dipped into a solution of proto-sulphate of iron occupying
the magnetic field.* When the magne-crystallic axis was parallel
to the lines of force the crystal was attracted by the magnetic pole,
when it was perpendicular to the lines of force the crystal was
repelled ; acting like a paramagnetic and a diamagnetic in turns.
!No magne-crystal has yet been found having such a relation to
a vacuum, or to carbonic acid (its magnetic equivalent) ; calcareous
spar is nearly coincident with such a medium, and shows different
degrees of force in the two directions, but is always a little on the
diamagnetic side. Calcareous spar having a trace of iron has been
found very nearly up to the desired point, on the paramagnetic
side ; and as these preserve the full magne-crystallic relation of the
two directions, there is no reason to suppose that a crystal may not
be found which may not be paramagnetic in one direction, and dia
magnetic in another, in respect of space as zero.
    There is every reason to believe that the general magnetic rela
tions of a magne-crystal are the same with those of the same substance
in the amorphous state ; and that the circumstances which influence
one, influence the other to the same degree. In that case, the magnetic
affections of a body might be ascertained by the examination of the
magne-crystallic affections ; thus the effect of heat upon bismuth,
tourmaline, &c., might be examined by the set of the crystals ; and
with so much the greater advantage, that short globular forms
could be used, perfectly free from the magnetic influence of the
surrounding media required as temperature baths, and requiring no
displacement of these media with the motion of the crystal. So
crystals of bismuth, tourmaline, carbonate of iron, and other bodies,
were suspended in baths of oil, water, &c., the temperature gradually
raised and lowered, and the torsion force of the set for each tem
perature observed. With bismuth, a crystal having a force of 200
at'20° F. was reduced to a force of 70 at 300°, and the diminution
of force appeared to be nearly equal in all parts of the scale for an
     * 2i volumes of saturated solution, at 65° F., and 1 volume of water.

 198       Mr. Faraday, on certain Magnetic Actions.          [Feb. 22,
equal number of degrees. A piece of amorphous bismuth, com
pressed in one direction, gave nearly the same amount and degree of
 change for the same alteration of temperature ; leading us to the
 persuasion that the whole magnetic force of bismuth as a diamag-
 netic body would suffer like change. A crystal of tourmaline, which
at 0° had a setting force of 540, when raised to 300°, had a setting
force of only 270 : the loss of force was progressive, being greater at
lower than at high temperatures ; for a change from 0° to 30° caused
a loss of force equal 50, whilst a change from 270° to 300°, caused a
loss of only 20. Carbonate of iron suffered a like change ; at 0° the
force was 1140, at 300° it was only 415 ; at the lower temperature
the loss for 30° was 120 offeree, at the upper it was only 34.
     In all these and in many other cases, both with paramagnetic
and dianmgnetic bodies, the magne-crystallic differences diminished
with the elevation of temperature ; and therefore it may be con
sidered probable, that the actual magnetic force changed in the same
direction. But on extending the results to iron, nickel, and cobalt,
employing these metals as very small prisms associated with copper
cubes to give them weight, it was found that another result occurred.
Iron, whether at the temperature of 30° or 300°, or any intermediate
degree, underwent no change of force, it remained at 300, which
was the expression for the piece employed under the circumstances.
We know that at higher temperatures it loses power, and that at a
bright red it is almost destitute of inductive magnetic force. A
piece of nickel, which at 95° had a setting power of 300, when
raised to 285 °, had a power of only 290, so that it had lost a thirtieth
part of its force ; at the heat of boiling oil, it is known to lose
nearly all its force, being unable then to affect a magnetic needle.
Cobalt, on the other hand, requires a far higher temperature than
iron to remove its magnetic character, a heat near that of melting
copper being necessary. As to lower temperatures it was found,
that an elevation from 70° to 300^ caused an absolute increase of
the magnetic force from 293 to 333. It is evident, therefore, that
there is a certain temperature, or range of temperature above 300°,
at which the magnetic force of cobalt is a maximum ; and that
elevation above, or depression below that temperature causes a
diminution of the force. The case is probably the same for iron ;
its maximum magnetic force occurring at temperatures between 0°
and 300". If nickel is subject to the same conditions of a maximum,
then that state must come on at temperatures below 0s : and it may
be further remarked, that as the maximum conditions occur in the
following order for ascending temperatures, nickel, iron, cobalt,
such also is the same order for the temperatures at which they lose
their high and distinctive magnetic place amongst metals.
                                                             [M.F.]

1856.]         Profestor Tltomson on Motive Power.                  199
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 29.
       SIK HENRY HOLLAND, M.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
                PROFESSOR WM. THOMSON, F.R.S.
       On the Origin and Transformations of Motive Power.
THE speaker commenced by referring to the term work done, as
applied to the action of a force pressing against a body which yields,
and, to the term mechanical effect produced, which may be either
applied to a resisting force overcome, or to matter set in motion.
Often the mechanical effect of work done consists in a combination
of those two' classes of effects. It was pointed out that a careful
study of nature leads to no firmer conviction than that work cannot
be done without producing an indestructible equivalent of mechan
ical effect. Various familiar instances of an apparent loss of me
chanical effect, as in the friction, impact, cutting, or bending of
solids, were alluded to, but especially that which is presented by a
fluid in motion. Although in hammering solids, or in forcing solids
to slide against one another, it may have been supposed that the
alterations which the solids experience from such processes con
stitute the effects mechanically equivalent to the work spent, no
such explanation can be contemplated for the case of work spent in
agitating a fluid. If water in a basin be stirred round and left
revolving, after a few minutes it may be observed to have lost all
sensible or otherwise discernible signs of motion. Yet it has not
 communicated motion to other matter round it ; and it appears as
if it has retained no effect whatever from the state of motion in
 which it had been. It is not tolerable to suppose that its motion
 can have come to nothing ; and until fourteen years ago confession
 of ignorance and expectation of light was all that philosophy taught
 regarding the vast class of natural phenomena, of which the case
 alluded to is an example. Mayer, in 1842, and Joule, in 1843,
 asserted that heat is the equivalent obtained for work spent in
 agitating a fluid, and both gave good reasons in support of their
 assertion. Many observations have been cited to prove that heat is
 not generated by the friction of fluids : but that heat is generated by
 the friction of fluids has been established beyond all doubt by the
 powerful and refined tests applied by Joule iu his experimental
 investigation of the subject.

200             Professor W. Thomson, on the Origin          [Feb. 29,
    An instrument was exhibited, by means of which the temperature
of a small quantity of water, contained in a shallow circular case
provided with vanes in its top and bottom, and violently agitated
by a circular disc provided with similar vanes, and made to turn
rapidly round, could easily be raised in temperature several degrees
in a few minutes by the power of a man, and by means of which
steam power applied to turn the disc had raised the temperature of
the water by 30a in half an hour. The bearings of the shaft, to the
end of which the disc was attached, were entirely external ; so
that there was no friction of solids under the water, and no way
of accounting for the heat developed except by the friction in the
fluid itself.
     It was pointed out that the heat thus obtained is not produced
from a source, but is generated; and that what is called into exist
ence by the work of a man's arm cannot be matter.
     Davy's experiment, in which two pieces of ice were melted by
rubbing them together in an atmosphere below the freezing point,
was referred to as the first completed experimental demonstration
of the immateriality of heat, although not so simple a demonstration
as Joule's ; and although Davy himselfgives only defective reasoning
to establish the true conclusion which he draws from it. Rumford's
inquiry concerning the " Source of the Heat which is excited by
Friction" was referred to as only wanting an easy additional ex
periment—a comparison of the thermal effects of dissolving (in an
acid for instance), or of burning, the powder obtained by rubbing
together solids, with the thermal effects obtained by dissolving or
burning an equal weight of the same substance or substances in one
mass or in large fragments—to prove that the heat developed by
the friction is not produced from the solids, but is called into ex
istence between them. An unfortunate use of the word " capacity
for heat," which has been the occasion of much confusion ever since
the discovery of latent heat, and has frequently obstructed the
natural course of reasoning on thermal and thermo-dynamic
phenomena, appears to have led both Rumford and Davy to give
reasoning which no one could for a moment feel to be conclusive,
and to have prevented each from giving a demonstration which
would have established once and for ever the immateriality of heat.
    Another case of apparent loss of work, well known to an
audience in the Royal Institution—that in which a mass of copper is
compelled to move in the neighbourhood of a magnet —was adduced ;
and an experiment was made to demonstrate that in it also heat
appears as an effect of the work which has been spent. A copper
ball, about an inch in diameter, was forced to rotate rapidly between
the poles of a powerful electro-magnet. After about a minute
it was found by a thermometer to have risen by 15° Fahr. After
the rotation was continued for a few minutes more, and again
stopped, the ball was found to be so hot that a piece of phosphorus
applied to any point of its surface immediately took fire. It is

1856.]         and Transformations of Motive Power.                201
clear that in this experiment the electric currents, discovered by
Faraday to be induced in the copper in virtue of its motion in the
neighbourhood of the magnet, generated the heat which became
sensible. Joule first raised the question, Is any heat generated by
an induced electric current in the locality of the inductive action ?
He not only made experiments which established an affirmative
answer to that question, but he used the mode of generating heat
by mechanical work established by those experiments, as a way of
finding the numerical relation between units of heat and units of
work, and so first arrived at a determination of the mechanical
 value of heat. At the same time (1843) he gave another determi
nation founded on the friction of fluids in motion ; and six years
later he gave the best determination yet obtained, according to
which it appears that 772 foot pounds of work, (that is 772 times
the amount of work required to overcome a force equal to the
weight of 1 Ib. through a space of 1 foot,) is required to generate
as much heat as will raise the temperature of a pound of water by
one degree.
   The reverse transformation of heat into mechanical work was
next considered, and the working of a steam-engine was referred
to as an illustration. An original model of Stirling's air-engine
was shown in operation, developing motive power from heat sup
plied to it by a spirit lamp, by means of the alternate contractions
and expansions of one mass of air. Thermo-electric currents, and
common mechanical action produced by them, were referred to as
illustrating another very distinct class of means by which the same
 transformation may be effected. It was pointed out that in each
case, while heat is taken in by the material arrangement or machine,
 from the source of heat, heat is always given out in another locality,
which is at a lower temperature than the locality at which heat is
taken in. But it was remarked that the quantity of heat given out
is not, (as Carnot pointed out, it would be if heat were a substance.)
the same as the quantity of heat taken in, but, as Joule insisted,
less than the quantity taken in by an amount mechanically equivalent
to the motive power developed. The modification of Carnot's
theory to adapt it to this truth was alluded to ; and the great dis
tinction which it leads to between reversible and not reversible
transformations of motive potfer was only mentioned.
     To facilitate farther statements regarding transformations of
 motive power, certain terms, introduced to designate various forms
 under which it is manifested, were explained. Any piece of
matter, or any group of bodies, however connected, which either is
in motion, or can get into motion without external assistance, has
what is called mechanical energy. The energy of motion may be
called either " dynamical energy," or " actual energy." The energy
of a material system at rest, in virtue of which it can get into
motion, is called " potential energy," or, generally, motive ]x>wer
possessed among different pieces of matter, in virtue of their relative

 202             Professor W. Thomson, on the Origin                  [Feb. 2&,
 positions, is called potential energy. To show the use of these
 terms, and explam the ideas of a store of energy, and of conversions
 and transformations of energy, various illustrations were adduced.
 A stone at a height, or an elevated reservoir of water, has potential
 energy. If the stone be let fall, its potential energy is converted
 into actual energy during its descent, exists entirely as the actual
 energy of its own motion at the instant before it strikes, and is
 transformed into heat at the moment of coming to rest on the
 ground. If the water flow down by a gradual channel, its
 potential energy is gradually converted into heat by fluid friction,
 and the fluid becomes wanner by a degree Fahr. for every 772 feet
 of the descent. There is potential energy, and there is dynamical
 energy, between the earth and the sun. There is most potential
 energy and least actual energy in July, when they are at their
 greatest distance asunder, and when their relative motion is slowest.
 There is least potential energy and most dynamical energy in
 January, when they are at their least distance, and when their
relative motion is most rapid. The gain of dynamical energy from
 the one time to the other is equal to the loss of potential energy.
     Potential energy of gravitation is possessed by every two pieces
of matter at a distance from one another ; but there is also poten
tial energy in the mutual action of contiguous particles in a spring
when bent, or in an elastic cord when stretched.
     There is potential energy of electric force in any distribution of
electricity, or among any group of electrified bodies. There is
potential energy of magnetic force between the different parts of a
steel magnet, or between different steel magnets, or between a
magnet and a body of any substance of either paramagnetic or dia-
magnetic inductive capacity. There is potential energy of chemical
force between any two substances which have what is called affinity
for one another,—for instance, between fuel and oxygen, between
food and oxygen, between zinc in a galvanic battery and oxygen.
There is potential energy of chemical force among the different
ingredients of gunpowder or gun cotton. There is potential energy
of what may be called chemical force, among the particles of soft
phosphorus, which is spent in the allotropic transformation into red
phosphorus ; and among the particles of prismatically crystallized
sulphur, which is spent when the substance assumes the octahedral
crystallization.
     To make chemical combination take place without generating
its equivalent of heat, all that is necessary is to resist the chemical
force operating in the combination, and take up its effect in some
other form of energy than heat. In a series of admirable researches
on the agency of electricity in transformations of energy,* Joule
    * On the Production of Heat by Voltaic Electricity," communicated to the
Royal Society Dec, 17, 1840, (see Proceedings of that date,) and published Phil.
Mag. Oct. 1841.                                                             [On

1856.]            and Transformations of Motive Power.                    203
showed that the chemical combinations taking place in a galvanic
battery may be directed to produce a large, probably in some forms
of battery an unlimited, proportion of their heat, not in the locality
of combination, but in a metallic wire at any distance from that
locality ; or that they may be directed not to generate that part of their
heat at all, but instead to raise weights, by means of a rotating engine
driven by the current. Thus if we allow zinc to combine with
oxygen by the beautiful process which Grove has given in his bat
tery, we find developed in a wire connecting the two poles the heat
which would have appeared directly if the zinc had been burned in
oxygen gas ; or if we make the current drive a galvanic engine, we
have, in weights raised, an equivalent of potential energy for the
potential energy between zinc and oxygen spent in the combination.
     The economic relations between the electric and the thermo-
dynamic method of transformation from chemical affinity to avail
able motive power were indicated, in accordance with the limited
capability of heat to be transformed into potential energy, which the
modification of Carnot's principle, previously alluded to, shows, and
the unlimited performance of a galvanic engine in raising weights
to the full equivalent of chemical force used, which Joule has estab
lished.
     The transformation of motive power into light, which takes place
when work is spent in an extremely concentrated generation of
heat, was referred to. It was illustrated by the ignition of platinum
wire by means of an electric current driven through it by the
 chemical force between zinc and oxygen in the galvanic battery ;
and by the ignition and volatilization of a silver wire by an electric
 current driven through it by the potential energy laid up in a
 Leyden battery, when charged by an electrical machine. The
 luminous heat generated in the last-mentioned case was the com
 plement to a deficiency of heat of friction in the plate-glass and
     " On the Heat evolved by Metallic Conductors of Electricity, and in the
 cells of a battery during Electrolysis."— Phil. Mug. Oct. 1841.
     "On the Electrical Origin of the Heat of Combustion."—Phil. Mag.
 March 1843.
     " On the Heat evolved during the Electrolysis of Water," Proceedings of
 the Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester, 1843, Vol. vii. Part 3,
 Second Series.
     " On the Calorific Effects of Magneto-Electricity, and on the Mechanical
 Value of Heat," communicated to the British Association (Cork), Aug. 1843,
 and published Phil. Mag. Oct. 1843.
     " On the Intermittent Character of the Voltaic Current in certain cases of
 Electrolysis, and on the Intensity of various Voltaic arrangements."—Phil.
 Mag. Feb. 1844.
     " On the Mechanical Powers of Electro-Magnetism, Steam, and Horses."
 By Joule and Scoresby.— Phil. Mag. June 1846.
     " On the Heat disengaged in Chemical Combination."—Phil. Mag. June
 1852.
     "On the Economical Production of Mechanical Effect from Chemical
 Forces."— Phil. Mag. Jan. 1853.

204          Professor W. Thomson, on Motive Power.            [Feb. 29,
rubber of the machine, which a perfect determination, and com
parison with the amount of work spent in turning the machine,
would certainly have detected.
     The application of mechanical principles to the mechanical
actions of living creatures was pointed out. It appears certain,
from the most careful physiological researches, that a living animal
has not the power of originating mechanical energy ; and that all
the work done by a living animal in the course of its life, and all
the heat that has been emitted from it, together with the heat that
would be obtained by burning the combustible matter which has
been lost from its body during its life, and by burning its body
after death, make up together an exact equivalent to the heat that
would be obtained by burning as much food as it has used during
its life, and an amount of fuel that would generate as much heat
as its body if burned immediately after birth.
     On the other hand, the dynamical energy of luminiferous vibra
tions was referred to as the mechanical power allotted to plants
(not mushrooms or funguses, which can grow in the dark, are
nourished by organic food like animals, and like animals absorb
oxygen and exhale carbonic acid,) to enable them to draw carbon
from carbonic acid, and hydrogen from water.
     In conclusion, the sources available to man for the production
of mechanical effect were examined and traced to the sun's heat and
the rotation of the earth round its axis.
     Published speculations* were referred to, by which it is shown to
be possible that the motions of the earth and of the heavenly bodies,
and the heat of the sun, may all be due to gravitation ; or, that the
potential energy ofgravitation may be in reality the ultimate created
antecedent of all motion, heat, and light at present existing in t/te
universe.*
                                                              [W. T.]
    * Trans. Roy. Soc. Edinburgh, April 1854 (Professor W. Thomson, "On
the Mechanical Energies of the Solar System "). Also British Association
Report, Liverpool, Sept. 1854 (" On the Mechanical Antecedents of Motion,
Heat, and Light).

  18o(j.]                General Monthly Meeting.                         205
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, March 3.
      SIR B. C. BRODIE, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                The Lord Stanley, M.P.
                Hon. Mr. Baron Bramwell.
                Rev. Charles John Fynes Clinton, M.A.
                Rev. John Craig, M.A.
                Edmund Beckett Denison, Esq. M.A. Q.C.
                William Dodsworth, Esq.
                Francis B. Duppa, Esq.
                Graham M. M. Esmeade, Esq.
                John Joseph Forrester, Esq.
                Ralph Allen Husey, Esq.
                Alexander Murray, Esq.
                Francis Pitney Brouncker Martin, Esq. M.A. and
                John Pyle, Esq. F.R.C.S.Eng.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                George Busk, Esq. F.R S. and
                William Baker Taylor, Esq.
 were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
      The Secretary reported that the following Arrangements had
 been made for the Lectures AFTER Easter, 1856 :—
      Four Lectures (in continuation) on PHYSIOLOGY AND COM
 PARATIVE ANATOMY, by THOMAS HENKY HUXLEY, Esq. F.R.S.
 Fullerian Professor of Physiology, R.I.
      Seven Lectures on PHOTOGRAPHY, by T. A. MALONE, Esq.
 F.C.S. Director of the Laboratory, London Institution.
     Eleven Lectures on LIGHT, by JOHN TYNDALL, Esq F.R.S.
 Professor of Natural Philosophy, R.I.
     Eleven Lectures on the NON-METALLIC ELEMENTS, THEIR
MANUFACTURE AND APPLICATION, by DR. A. W. HOFMANN, F.R.S.
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members were returned for the same :—
   FROM—
Agricultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XVI. Part 2. 8vo. 1856.
Anderson, Eustace, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Chamooni and Mont Blanc: a
     Visit to the Valley and an Ascent of the Mountain in the Autumn of 1855
      HJiiio. 1856.

206                       General Monthly Meeting.                [March 3,
Arnold, T. J. Esq. Life-Sub. R.I.— Annual Reports of the Poor Law Commis
     sioners and Poor Law Board, 1834-54. 21 vols. 8vo.
  Report on the further Amendment of the Poor Laws, and on the continuance
      of the Commission. 8vo. 1840.
  Report of the Poor Law Commissioners on Local Taxation. 8vo. 1844.
Asiatic Society of Benqal—Journal, No. 251. 8vo. 1855.
Astronomical Society, .feoya/—Monthly Notices. Vol. XVI. No. 3. 8vo. 1856.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1856. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishert)—Ike Musical World for March, 1856. 4to.
Bradbury, Henry, Esq. M.R.I.—The Kerns of Great Britain and Ireland. By
     T. Moore, F.L.S. Edited by J. Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.S. Part 11. fol. 1856.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in Feb. 1856. 4to.
British and Foreign Bible Society— Reports, Vol. XVI. and XVII. 1849-54.
  The Holy Bible in Lithuanian. 8vo. 1853.
  The Old Testament in Hindustani, and in Turco-Grcek. 3 vols.
  The New Testament in Chinese, Feejean, Canarese, Tongan, French Basque,
      Kaffir, Maltese, and Modern Greek and Albanian. 8 vols.
  Parts of the Scriptures in Accra (or Ga), Cree, Hindu'i, Kutchce, Kinika,
      Mahratta, Micmae, Khassee, Punjabi, Scinde, and Yoruba: in 12 vols.
Civil Engineers, Institute of—Proceedings in Feb. 1856. 8vo.
De Romand, Baron G. (the Author) —Un Mot sur le Caracterc et les consequen
     ces de la Paix Future. 8vo. Paris, 1856.
Devincenzi, M. J. (the Author)—MOmoire sur 1'Elcctrographie. 4to. 1S5G.
Editors—The Medical Circular for Feb. 1856. 8vo.
     The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Feb. 1856. 4to.
     The Journal of Gas-Lighting for Feb. 1856. 4to.
     The Mechanic's Magazme for Feb. 1 856. 8vo.
     The Athenceum for Feb. 1856. 4to.
     The Engineer for Feb. 1856. 4to.
     Newton's London Journal, March 1856. 8vo.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L F.B.S.—Kaiserliche Akademie, Wien:
  PhiL-Hist. Classe—Sitzungsberichte. Band XVI. Heft 2; Band XVII.
      Heft 1. 8vo. 1855.
  Monumenta Habsburgica : Iste Abtheilung. Band II. 8vo. 1855.
  Fontes Remm Austriacarum : Erstc Abtheilung, Scriptores. Zweite Abthei
     lung, Acta, Band VIII. IX. 8vo. 1855.
  Notizenblatt filr 1855. Nos. 13-24. 8vo.
  Archiv, Band XIV. Heft 2. Band XV. Heft 1. 8vo. 1855.
  Math.-Nat. Oasse-Sitzungsberichte. Band XVI. Heft 2. Band XVII.
     8vo. 1855.
f Monatsberichte der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie, Dec. 1855. 8vo. Berlin.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXI. No. 1. 8vo. 1855.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General)—Report of the Registrar-General
     for Feb. 1856. 8vo.
J. P. Esq.—Asphyxia, its Nature and Remedy. By Marshall Hall, M.D.
      8vo. 1856.
Linnean Society of London—Journal of Proceedings. Vol. I. No. 1. 8vo. 1856.
Macrory, Edmund, Esq. M.R.I.—W. Crawford, History of Ireland from the
      Earliest Period to the Present Time. 2 vols. 8vo 1783.
  D. Taaffe, Impartial History of Ireland from the English Invasion to the
      Present Time. 4 vols. 8vo. 1809-11.
   S. O'Halloran, History of Ireland. 3 vols. 8vo. 1819.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for Feb. 1856. 4to.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen aufdem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographic. Heft 12. 4to. Gotha, 1855.
Philological Society—Transactions for 1855. Nos. 12 and 13. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 39. 8vo. 1856.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings. Nos. 17, 18. 8vo. 1855-6.
Society of Arts.—Journal for Feb. 1856. 8vo.

1856]           Sir C. Lyell, on the Temple of Serapis.                   207
Taylor, Rm.W. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Magazine for the Blind. No. 17. 4to. 1855.
Tliomas, Rev. Vaughan (the Author)— Memoir of the Rev. Samuel Warneford,
     LL D. 8vo. 1855.
Vcreins zur Beftirderung des Gewerlfleisses in Preassrn— Verhandlungen, Nov.
     and Dec. 1855. 4to. Berlin.
Vincent, B. Astitt. Sec. R.I.—Tracts by Bps. Burnett and Fowler, and by W.
     Whiston,&c. 1vol. 8vo. 1719-31.
Yotes, James, Enq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the A ulhor)—Narrative of the Origin and
     Formation of the International Association for obtaining a uniform Deci
     mal System of Measures, Weights, and Coins. 8vo. 1856.
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 7, 1856.
                                                                    \ri
                                                                   \\--V   '(•
      SIR B. C. BRODIE, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-Preside^/,,
                                 in the Chair.
                        Sin CHARLES LYELL, F.R.S.
          On the successive Changes of the Temple of Serapis.
THE Temple of Serapis, near Naples, is, perhaps, of all the struc
tures raised by the hands of man, the one which affords most in
struction to a geologist. It has not only undergone a wonderful
succession of changes in past time, but is still undergoing changes
of condition, so that it is ever a matter of fresh interest to learn
what may be the present state of the temple, and to speculate on
what next may happen to it. This edifice was exhumed in 1750,
from a mixed deposit, extending for miles along the eastern shores
of the Bay of Baiae, and consisting partly of strata containing marine
shells, with fragments of bricks, pottery, and sculpture, and partly
of volcanic matter of subaerial origin. Various theories were pro
posed in the last century to explain the lithodomous perforations,
and attached serpulae, observed on the middle zone of the three erect
marble columns now standing ; some writers, and the celebrated
 Goethe among the rest, suggesting that a lagoon had once existed
in the atrium, filled, during a temporary incursion of the sea, with
salt water, and that marine mollusca and annelids flourished for
years in this lagoon, at a height of 12 feet or more above the sea
level. This hypothesis was advanced at a time when almost any
 amount of fluctuation in the level of the sea was thought more pro
 bable than the slightest alteration in the level of the solid land.
 In 1807, the architect Niccolini observed that the pavement of the
temple was dry, except when a violent south wind was blowing ;
 whereas, on revisiting the temple 15 years later, he found the pave
 ment covered by salt water twice every day at high tide. This
 induced him to make a series of measurements from year to year,
    VOL. II.                                                         v

208    Sir C. Lyell, OH theChanges of the Temple of Serapis.
first from 1822 to 1838, and afterwards from 1838 to 1845 ; from
which he inferred that the sea was gaining annually upon the floor
of the temple, at the rate of about one-third of an inch during the
first period, and about three-fourths of an inch during the second.
Mr. Smith, of Jordan-hill, when he visited the temple in 1819, had
remarked that the pavement was then dry, but that certain channels
cut in it for draining off the waters of a hot spring, were filled with
sea water. On his return, in 1845, he found the high-water mark to
be 28 inches above the pavement, which, allowing a slight deduc
tion on account of the tide, exhibited an average rise of about an
inch annually. As these measurements are in accordance with
others, made by Mr. Babbage in 1828, and by Professor James
Forbes, in 1826 and 1843, Mr. Smith believes his own conclusion
to be nearest the truth, and attributes the difference between his
average and that obtained by Niccolini (especially in the first set
of measurements by the latter observer), to the rejection by the
Italian architect, of all the highest water-marks of each year, caus
ing his mean to be below the true mean level of the sea. In 1852,
Signor Arcangelo Scacehi, at the request of Sir Charles Lyell,
visited the temple, and compared the depth of water on the pave
ment with its level as previously ascertained by himself in 1839,
and found, after making allowance for the tide at the two periods,
that the water had gained only 4£ inches in thirteen years, and was
not so deep as when measured by M.M. Niccolini and Smith, in
1845 ; from which he inferred, that after 1845, the downward move
ment of the land had ceased, and before 1852, had been converted
into an upward movement. Since that period, no exact account of
the level of the water seems to have been taken, or at least none
which has been published.
     Sir Charles Lyell then called attention to the head of a statue,
lent to him for exhibition by Mr. W. R. Hamilton, and which Mr.
H. had purchased from a peasant at Puzzuoli, in the neighbourhood
of the temple. This head bears all the distinctive marks of the
Jupiter Serapis of the Vatican ; and, among others, a flat space is
seen on the crown, doubtless intended to receive the ornament,
called the modius, or bushel, an emblem of fertility, which adorns
the ancient representations of this deity. One side of the head is
uninjured, as if it had lain in mud or sand, while the other has
" suffered a sea change," having been drilled by small annelids, and
covered with adhering serpulae, as if submerged for years in salt
water, like the three marble columns before mentioned.
     The speaker then alluded to an ancient mosaic pavement, found
at the time of his examination of the temple, in 1828, five feet
below the present floor, implying the existence of an older building
before the second temple was erected. The latter is ascertained by
inscriptions, found in the interior, to have been built at the close of
the second and beginning of the third centuries of the Christian era.
     A brief chronological sketch was then given of the series of



           •S'ir C. Lyell, on the Changes of the Temple of Scrapis. 211
  natural and historical events connected with the temple and the
  surrounding region ; comprising the volcanic eruptions of Ischia,
  Monte Nuovo, and Vesuvius ; the date of the first and second tem
  ples, and their original height above the sea ; the periods of the
  submergence and emergence of the second temple ; the nature of
  the submarine and supramarine formations, in which it was found
  buried in 1750 ; and, lastly, allusion was made to a bird's-eye view
  of this region, published at Rome in 1652, and cited by Mr. Smith,
  in which the three columns are represented as standing in a garden,
  at a considerable distance from the sea, and between them and the
  sea two churches, occupying ground which has since disappeared.
  The history of the sinking and burying of the temple in the dark
  ages, respecting which no human records are extant, has been
   deduced from minute investigations made by Mr. Babbage and
   Sir Edmund Head, in 1828, respecting the nature and contents of
   certain deposits formed round the columns, below the zone of
  lithodomous perforations.
                                                    Flgl.
                                                                                                      A
       Sfa.
     TEMPLE OF SERAPIS at Its period of greatest depression, between A.D. 1000 and A.», 1500.*
a, 6, Ancient mosaic movement, cc, Dark marine incrustation, d d. First filling up, shower of ashes.
               e e. Fresh water calcareous deposit. //, Second filling up. A, Stadium.
        The unequal amount of movement in the land and bed of the
   sea, and its different directions in adjoining areas in and around the
   Bay of Baiae, were then pointed out ; and the fact that the Temples
   of Neptune and the Nymphs are now under water, as well as some
                                                    Fig.'2.
        o. Remains of Cicero's villa, N. side of Puzruoli.                 l>. Ancient cliff, now Inland.
                 r, Terrace (called La Starza) composed of recent submarine deposits.
                          d. Temple of Serapls In 1346, 2 ft. 4m. below sea-level.
            A detailed account of the
            •'*• uvMftiicu nWVlUM "I           Eil >l I ill up-fillings
                                          lin; several      lip-Ill I II1M» of     IIJI Temple represented
                                                                              ' '1 the
   in this cut' will be found in the 9th Edition of Hie PrinciplFe» of Geology C1853),
   P. 514.

 212                      Sir Charley Lycll, on                [March 7,
 Roman roads, while no evidence of any -corresponding subsidence
 or oscillations of level are discoverable on the site of the city
 nf Naples, which is only four miles distant in a straight line.
 Analogous examples of upward and downward movements in other
 parts of the Mediterranean were cited, such as the sarcophagus
 of Telmessus in Lycia, described by Sir Charles Fellows ; and the
 changes in Candia, recently established by Captain Spratt, R.N.,
 who has ascertained that the western end of that island has been
 uplifted 17 feet above its ancient level, while another part of the
 southern coast has risen more than 27 feet, so that the docks of
 ancient Grecian ports are upraised, as well as limestone rocks
 drilled by lithodomi. At the same time the eastern portion of
 Candia (an island about 200 miles long,) has sunk many feet,
 causing the ruins of several Greek towns to be visible under water.
 Looking beyond the limits of the Mediterranean, the buried Hindoo
 temple of Avantipura in Cashmere, with its 74 pillars, described
 by Dr. Thomson and Major Cunningham, were mentioned, and
 how their envelopment in lacustrine silt, at some period after the
year 850 of our era, had caused them and their statues to escape the
fury of the Mahometan conqueror Sicander, who bore the nam-
of the idol-breaker. (Principles of Geology, 9th edition, p. 762.)
The gradual subsidence of the coast of Greenland, and the eleva
tion of a large part of Sweden, century after century, were also
instanced ; and lastly, the latest event of the kind, yielding to no
other in the magnitude of its geological and geographical import
ance, the earthquake of New Zealand, of January 23rd, 1855.
The shocks of this convulsion extended over an area of land and sea
three times as large as the British Isles ; after it had ceased, it was
found that a tract of land, in the immediate vicinity of Wellington,
comprising 4600 square miles, or nearly equal to Yorkshire in di
mensions, had been upraised from one to nine feet, and a range of
hills, consisting of older rocks, uplifted vertically, while the tertiary
plains to the east of it remained unmoved ; so that a precipice, nine
feet in perpendicular height was produced, and is even said to be
traceable for 90 miles inland, from north to south bordering the plain
of the Wairarapa. In consequence of a rise of five feet of the land
on the north side of Cook's Strait, near Wellington and Port
Nicholson, the tide had been almost excluded from the river Hutt,
while on the south side of the same straits in the Middle Island,
where the ground has sunk about five feet, the tide now flows several
miles further up the river Wairau than before the earthquake.*
     * Some memoranda respecting the changes in physical geogra
phy, effected during the earthquake of January 23rd, 1855, will be
found in the Appendix of a new work by the Rev. Richard Taylor,
entitled " New Zealand and its Inhabitants," London, 1855. These

1856.]     the successive C/tanges of the Temple of Serapis.         213
     Sir Charles then alluded to his discovery, in 1828, of marine
shells in volcanic tuff, at the height of nearly 2000 feet, in the island
were furnished by Mr. Edward Roberts, of the Royal Engineer
Department, who has since (March 1856), on his return to London,
communicated other particulars to Sir C. Lyell. Mr. Walter
Mantell, also now in London, and who was in Wellington (New
Zealand) during the shocks of last year, besides confirming the
statements of Mr. Roberts, has supplied valuable information re
specting the geological structure of the country upraised or depressed
during the catastrophe. The upheaval around Wellington was only
from one and a half to four feet, but went on increasing gradually
to Muka Muka Point, 12 miles distant, in a direct line to the south
east, where it reached its maximum, amounting to nine feet, and
 beyond, or eastward of which, there was no movement. Mr. Roberts
was enabled to make these measurements with accuracy, as a white
 zone of rock, covered with nullipores just below the level of low
tide, was upraised.
      The perpendicular cliff, at the point above mentioned, formed
 part of the seaward termination of the Rimutaka chain of hills,
 which consist of argillite (not slaty), of ancient geological date.
 Their eastern escarpment faces a low country, consisting of very
 modern tertiary strata, which also terminate when they reach the
 sea in a cliff, 80 feet high, and considerably lower than that formed
 by the older rocks. This tertiary cliff remained absolutely un
 moved, the junction of the older and newer rocks constituting a
 line of fault, running north and south, for a great distance (accord
 ing to a resident, 90 miles,) inland along the base of the hills,
 where rising abruptly they bound the low tertiary plains. A
 fissure open in part of its course, and in which some cattle were
  engulphed in 1 855, marks the line of fault in many places.
      Among other proofs of subsidence experienced on the opposite
 side of Cook's Straits, or in the northern part of the Middle
 Island, contemporaneously with the upheaval above mentioned,
 Mr. Roberts states, that settlers have now to go three miles further
 up the river Wairau to obtain supplies of fresh water, than they
 did before the earthquake of January 1855. There was no volcanic
  eruption in the northern island at the time of these events ; but the
  natives allege that the temperature of the Taupo hot-springs was
  sensibly elevated just before the catastrophe.
      During a previous earthquake in 1832, other alterations in the
  relative level of land and sea occurred ; and many of the colonists
  fear a repetition of such movements every seven years, for in 1841
  and in 1848 there were violent convulsions. The larger part,
  however, of New Zealand has not suffered any injury during the
  same period from earthquakes.

214     Sir C. Lyell, on the Changes of the Temple of Serapis.
of Ischia ; and to the exact agreement of these, as well as other fossil
shells, since collected by M. Fhilippi, with species now inhabiting
the Mediterranean. If the antiquity of such elevated deposits, when
contrasted with those found during the last 2000 years in the
neighbourhood of the Temple of Serapis, be as great as the relative
amount of movement in the two cases, or as 2000 is to 30 feet, it
would show how slowly the testaceous fauna of the Mediterranean
undergoes alteration : and therefore that naturalists ought not to
expect to detect any sensible variation in the marine fauna in the
course of a few centuries, or even several thousand years.
     In conclusion : the probable causes of the permanent upheaval
and subsidence of land were considered—the expansion of solid rocks
by heat, and their contraction when the temperature is lowered, the
shrinkage of clay when baked, the excess in the volume of melted
stone over the same materials when crystallized, or in a state of
consolidation ; and, lastly, the subterraneous intrusion of horizontal
dikes of lava, such as may have been injected beneath the surface,
when melted matter rose to the crater of Monte Nuovo, in 1538.
A large coloured section of a cliff, 1000 feet high, at Cape Giram,
in Madeira, was referred to as illustrating the intrusion both of
oblique and horizontal dikes, between layers of volcanic materials
previously accumulated above the level of the sea, and after
Madeira had been already clothed with a vegetation very similar to
that with which it is now covered. The intercalation of such
horizontal sheets of lava between alternating beds of older lava and
tuff would uplift the incumbent rocks, and form a permanent support
to them ; but when the fused mass cools and consolidates, a partial
failure of support and subsidence would ensue.
                                                             [C. L.]

1856.]             Rev. J. Barlow, on Aluminium.                      215
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 14.
                                                                 ^
     SIR B. C. BKODIE, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
        THE REV. J. BARLOW, M.A. F.R.S. V.P. Sec. R.I.
                            On Aluminium.
MR. BAIILOW commenced his discourse by presenting M. Sainte-
Claire Deville to the Members of the Institution. M. Deville had
travelled from Paris for the purpose of exhibiting specimens of
aluminium, both unwrought and manufactured ; and also of assisting
in experiments devised by him for illustrating the processes by
which this remarkable metal is obtained.
     Aluminium was discovered by Wohler, in 1827.* But the
means of producing this metal, to which that eminent philosopher
was obliged to have recourse, were too costly to admit of its being
employed in any practical use. Having succeeded in greatly
diminishing this cost of production, and being supplied with funds
by the liberality of the Emperor of the French, M. Deville has
obtained this metal in an amount sufficient for scientific investiga
tion and for some important applications.')-
     It was the object of the speaker, 1st, to cause that the difficulties
attendant on the production of aluminium should be understood and
appreciated : 2ndly, to describe its physical and chemical properties,
and to mention uses which have been or can be made of it.
     1st. For the purpose of illustrating the obstacles presented by
nature to this last conquest of science, a comparison was made
between the modes of producing— (a) the metals of the early age;
(b) of the middle age ; (c) of the scientific age, from their respec
tive ores ; and the means had recourse to for separating aluminium
from its ore.
   (a) Gold was taken as the type of the ancient metals. The com
mon ore of gold is a mass of silica, to which this metal is found
attached. Silica is a strong acid ; but it cannot combine with
gold. The two substances, therefore, being merely attracted toge-
    * Ueber das Aluminium. Von F. Wohler. Pogg. Ann. xi. 146.
    t Recherches sur les M6taux. Par M. H. Sainte-Clairc Deville. Annales
<le Chemie. Ser. 3. tom. xl. p. 21.

216                         Rev. J. Barlow,                       [March 14,
ther by their mutual cohesion, can be detached by mechanical means.
A comparison was made between this ore of gold and pure clay, the
ore of aluminium. Clay consists of silica and alumina (the oxide of
aluminium). In this substance, however, the silica combines as an
acid, so as to form a natural salt, from which the alumina, and then
the aluminium from the alumina, have to be successively separated,
not by mechanical force but by powerful chemical reagents. The
ore of gold occurs rarely, but is recognized at once by any experi
enced eye ; the ore of aluminium is one of the most abundant
substances in nature, but its recognition as a metallic ore has
tasked the extreme attainments of modern science.
     (b) Iron, tin, antimony, and lead were next referred to as types
of the metals of the middle age. Their ores were exhibited. The
sapphire,* the purest form of corundum, which is native oxide of
aluminium, was contrasted with haematite, the native sesquioxide of
iron. The metallic aspect, characterizing the ores of this class of
metals, was noticed. This appearance must naturally have led to
these substances being subjected to the action of fire. The separa
tion of a metal by the reducing action of the fuel of the furnace on
its ore, was illustrated by metallic lead, one of the ingredients of
flint glass, being made visible by the action of the flame of a spirit
lamp on a piece of that substance. Glass is a combination of silica
with oxide of lead and other metals ; it therefore carries on the
analogy with pipe-clay, the silicate of alumina : but aluminium
cannot be reduced from the silicate of alumina by any known fuel,
at any known temperature. Were this not the case, crucibles,
furnaces, even houses which are made of clay, would be decom
posed, and the aluminium they contain extracted, whenever they
were exposed to the force of a sufficiently intense combustion.
     (c) The metals of the scientific age.—These metals were
brought into visible existence by the pile of Volta. The searching
and separating properties of this wonderful invention were made
known at the commencement of the present century. Simulta
neously with this discovery there commenced an age of research,
which began and is continued to this time in the Royal Institution.
It is characterized by the historian of the " Inductive Sciences,"
as the epoch of Davy and of Faraday.f The knowledge and
sagacity of Davy induced that distinguished man to seek for an
alkaligen (or generator of alkali) at that (so called) pole of the
voltaic battery, where Nicholson and Carlisle had recently found
hydrogen (generator of water). This alkaligen was the metal of the
alkali—t he metal of the scientific age.
    * Miss Coutts, M.R.I., kindly lent three sapphires of great size and beauty
to illustrate this discourse. It has been suggested that the characteristic
colour of these jewels may be due to the presence of a protoxide of alumi
nium (Al 0).
    t Whewell's Hist, of Induct. Sciences, Vol. iii. p. 178.

  1856.]                        on Aluminium.                               217
      The speaker here adverted to the enormous difference which
 exists, not only between the alkaline metal:) and those of the former
 groups, but also between their respective ores. Neither the ore of
 potassium, nor (in Davy's time) the ore of sodium, could be ob
 tained directly from the soil through which its weak solution is
 diffused ; it had to be sought in the tissues of plants, which
 absorbed it from the ground. When obtained and concentrated,
 this substance is fusible, soluble, corrosive, and possessed of im
 mense chemical power. The metal derived from this strange ore,
 though possessing lustre, ductility, malleability, power of conducting
 heat and electricity, differs in every other respect from every
 metal yet known. Its specific gravity is less than that of water, and
 its affinity for oxygen so great as to necessitate the invention of
 hitherto unknown expedients to prevent the metal from returning
 to its state of oxide as soon as it was separated from it.
      Davy seems to have accounted for the results he produced by
 assuming that the poles of the battery acted as centres of force ; that
 the potassium being repelled by one pole was attracted by the other,
 like any light substance placed between two surfaces charged with
 opposite Franklinic electricity. Faraday* has taught that the whole
 of the subjected body is pervaded by this decomposing force as an
 axis of power, so that a particle in the middle is as much affected as
 a particle at the extremities of it ; that, in order to be under the
 influence of this force, the body must be fluid, and a conductor of
 electricity, and that its elements must exist in a simple relation to
 each other, and that the proportional amount in which these elemen
 tary substances, separated by electrical decomposition, are severally
 ejected at the electrodes (electrical outlets), corresponds exactly
 with that of their combining numbers. In accordance with these
 views the voltaic pile may be regarded as a flameless furnace, whose
 reducing power is conveyed by the conducting wires to the spot
 where the ore is subjected to its influence. By these means not
only the alkalies but the alkaline earths were decomposed, and their
respective metals, barium, calcium, strontium, and lithiumf obtained.
But aluminium cannot be separated from alumina, its sesquioxide,
by electrolysis. The metal does not in this case (as in those of
potass, lime, strontia, &c.,) combine with oxygen or any like body
 in single proportionals ; and alumina, its only known oxide, is also
infusible, except before the blow-pipe.
      But although the voltaic battery be unable to separate alumi
    * Experimental Researches in Electricity, Fifth Series. A perspicuous
summary of the principles of this philosophy will be found in the History of the
Inductive Sciences, ed. 1837, Vol. Hi. p. 163, &o. ; and Grove's Correlation of
the Physical Forces, ed. 1355, p. 172, &c.
     t M. Warren De la Rue exhibited specimens of lithium produced from the
fused chloride by means of voltaic electricity. The negative pole was an
iron wire ; the positive, a piece of coke. Lithium is the lightest substance
 known.

218                              Rev. J. Barlow,                   [March 14,
ilium from alumina, it has effectually aided in obtaining that metal.
Not only was it the first source of potassium and sodium, substances
indispensable to the production of aluminium, but in the subsequent
preparation of those bodies, the philosophy of the pile has rendered
essential service to chemists. Faraday has shown that electrical
power is identical with chemical power. This being admitted,
whatever the one power can effect, the other may be expected to
accomplish. This consideration sanctions, if it does not suggest,
the processes by which Gay Lussac and Thenard, and Mitscherlich,
and Brunner, and Donny and Mareska,* and ultimately Deville,
have obtained potassium and sodium (the latter metal especially,)
by direct chemical reaction ; by a process so productive, that the
melted sodium actually runs out in a continued stream, as in com
mon distillation, from the iron retort, into a receptacle placed to
receive it-t
     The powerful deoxidizing effect of the alkaline metals has been
proved by its effecting not only the decomposition of carbonic
acid gas, but also by the reduction of calcium, barium, and of
silicium, a substance to which the attention of the audience was
especially directed.
     Clay had already been designated as a silicate of alumina : in
fact, three-fourths by weight of a portion of pure clay are silica.
Of this silica one half is oxygen, the other half silicium, a substance
altogether new in its properties ; it is not affected by water or by
air, and it can be kept in either ; it has no lustre, or any other
resemblance to a metal ; it is analogous to carbon.
      Now it is important to notice, that it was not from silica (the
oxide), but from the fluoride and chloride of silicium that Berzelius
obtained this substance. This fact perhaps instigated Wohler's
successful attempt to decompose the chloride of aluminium (a
fusible and volatile substance,) by the vapour of potassium, which
has no effect on the oxide of aluminium. But the production of
the chloride of aluminium demands a concentration of chemical
power. The hydrated chloride, resulting from the solution of
alumina in hydrochloric acid, on being evaporated, decomposes
the last portions of the mother-liquor, and the operation ends by
the reproduction of alumina. This difficulty was surmounted by
CErsted : he caused the affinity of oxygen for carbon and of
aluminium for chlorine to act simultaneously, and under the most
favourable circumstances, by chlorine gas being led over an intimate
mixture of alumina and charcoal heated to redness in a porcelain
     * Recherches sur 1'extraction du Potassium, par M.M. J. Mareska et F.
 Donny, An. de Chem. Ser. 3, tom. xxxv. p. 147.
     t Recherches sur les Metaux, &c., An. de Chem., Ser. 3, tom, xliii. p. 19.
 M. Deville fused and cast above half a pint of sodium in a large ingot-mould
 to illustrate this part of the discourse. The present retail price of sodium, in
 London, is 4s. the ounce.

 1856.]                     on Aluminium.                          219
tube. The anhydrous chloride was thus evolved in vapour, anil
condensed in a suitable receiver. The apparatus contrived by M.
Deville for procuring this substance, and described in the memoir
already referred to,* was exhibited. Wohler's process of obtaining
aluminium from its chloride is well known. The following mo
dification of that process, devised by M. Deville, was shown in
action.
    A tube of Bohemian glass, 36 inches long, and about one inch
in diameter, was placed on an empty combustion-furnace, con
structed for the purpose. Chloride of aluminium was introduced
at one extremity of the tube ; at the same extremity a current of
dry hydrogen gas was made to enter the tube, and was sustained
till the operation was finished. The chloride was now gently
warmed by pieces of hot charcoal, in order to drive off any hydro
chloric acid it might contain ; porcelain boats, filled with sodium,
were inserted into the opposite extremity of the tube ; the heat was
augmented by fresh pieces of glowing charcoal until the vapour of
the sodium decomposed that of the chloride of aluminium. Intense
ignition usually attends this re-action. At length the aluminium
was liberated in buttons, which were found in the boat adhering to
a substance consisting of the mixed chlorides of aluminium and
sodium. The boat was now transferred, with its contents, to a
porcelain tube, through which hydrogen gas was passed. At a red
heat, the double chloride distilled into a receiving vessel, attached
to the tube for the purpose ; the buttons of aluminium were col
lected, washed with water, and subsequently fused together under a
flux consisting of the double chloride.
    Another method of obtaining aluminium from the chloride has
been adopted with success. It is as follows :—
        4'200 grammes of the double chloride of aluminium
                and sodium (i.e., 2-800 grammes chloride of
                aluminium, and 1-400 grammes common salt),
        2-100 grammes of common salt,
        2-100 grammes of cryolite,
thoroughly dry, and carefully mixed together, are to be laid in alter
nate layers, with 840 grammes of sodium (cut into small pieces), in
a crucible lined with alumina—a layer of sodium should cover the
bottom of the crucible. When the crucible is tilled, a little pow
dered salt is to be sprinkled on its contents, and the crucible, fitted
with a lid, is to be introduced into a furnace, heated to redness,
and kept at that temperature until a reaction, whose occurrence
and continuance is indicated by a peculiar and characteristic sound,
shall have terminated. The contents of the crucible, having been
stirred with a porcelain rod, while in their liquified state—(this
part of the operation is essential)—are poured out on a surface of
                    * Recherches sur les M£taux, &c.

220                           Rev. J. Barlow,                        [March 14,
baked clay, or any other suitable material—the flux, &c., on one
side, and the metal on'.the other.*
     In the experiment just described, the cryolite chiefly fulfils the
office of a flux. But, twelve months since, Dr. Percy obtained
aluminium directly from this mineral.f Cryolite is a fluoride of
aluminium and of sodium. Dr. Percy found that layers of this
substance, minutely pulverized, and heated with sodium in the
manner described in the last experiment, yielded aluminium. Cry
olite is found only in Greenland. A geological diagram of its
locality, as well as some interesting specimens of the mineral itself,
were exhibited by Mr. J. W. Tayler.J
     Such being the present known methods of producing this re
markable metal, the speaker adverted—
     2nd. To the properties of Aluminium. Its physical properties
are very characteristic. Its specific gravity (2-25)§ is nearly that
of glass, and consequently below that of any metal (with the excep
tion of the alkaline metals, and the metals of the alkaline earths).
It is malleable, ductile, and sonorous. Its fusing point is between
that of silver and zinc ; it resembles silver in its excellence as a
conductor of electricity. Lastly, it has great capacity for heat—
(about six times that of silver). But the chemical properties of
this metal are such as could not have been conceived until ascer
tained by experiment. Instead of reassuming oxygen (like the
alkaline or earthy metals) with an energy proportioned to its ex
treme tenacity of that element while in the state of oxide, aluminium
appears to be as indifferent to oxygen as gold or platinum are. It
is not affected by sulphur, like silver ; nor is it acted on (except to
a very slight degree) by any of the oxy-acids in the cold, its only
solvent being hydrochloric acid. The strong affinity between this
metal and oxygen before its separation, contrasted with the appa
rently total indifference afterwards, suggests the possibility that at
the instant of its coming in contact with air, aluminium may receive
a fine coating of oxide—a film of transparent sapphire—from the
atmosphere, which protects it against the above-named corroding
substances.
     This conjecture is rendered plausible by the result obtained on
exposing a leaf of aluminium to the oxidizing flame of the blowpipe.
The result of the combustion, though apparently a mass of alumina,
    * As time and space for fire operations in the theatre were limited, this
 experiment was not attempted during the discourse. Bat at an earlier period
 of the day, M. Sainte-Claire Deville had the honour of performing it, in the
presence of I [.It. 11. Prince Albert, in the Laboratory of the Institution.
    t Proceedings of the Royal Institution,Vol. ii. March 30, 1855, p. 79 ; Phil.
 Mag. Ser. 4, Vol. x. pp. 233 and 364 ; Comptes Kendus, Dec. 10, 1 855, p. 1 054.
    t Lit. Gazette, No. 2039, p. 109.
    § The low specific gravity of aluminium, being nearly that of the flux em
ployed in fusing it, enhances materially the difficulty of its production. M.
Deville, however, melted together some pieces of pure aluminium without flux,
 and cast the fused mass in an ingot-mould before the audience.

1856.]                        on Aluminium.                         221
shows by its metallic lustre, when rubbed in an agate mortar, that
the oxygen has not penetrated below the surface ; magnesium, on
the contrary, whose oxide, like that of iron, separates immediately
on being formed, when similarly treated, burns away with intense
ignition.
     Alloys of Aluminium may become important in the arts. The
following, in the proportions given, were exhibited by Dr. Percy :—
            Gold I
            Silver
            Tin      ? alloyed with 5 per cent, of aluminium.
            Copper I
            Lead )
     In the gold-alloy, the presence of the small proportion of alumi
nium was sufficient to convert the golden to a grey colour.
     The copper-alloy was very interesting ; it is malleable, and it
" dips " of a fine golden colour. A slip of this alloy seemed to
have been little affected by a fortnight's exposure to the atmosphere
of the laboratory. Should this substance be found, on further
trial, capable of withstanding the corroding vapours of a London
atmosphere, it might be used advantageously to make " tongues "
for the " reed-pipes " of organs, as a material of clock-work, &c.
     Dr. Percy also exhibited other alloys of aluminium, respectively,
consisting of
              Tin 90—Aluminium 10
              Copper 90—Aluminium 5 —Tin 5
              Copper 93'7—Aluminium 4-5—Silicium T8
              Copper 80— Aluminium 20
(In this alloy the characteristic colour of copper was turned to white.)
              Silver 80—Aluminium 2O
                        (A hard and brittle alloy).
      Solder of Aluminium.—Two parts of aluminium, and one of
silver, will produce an aluminium solder without flux.
      Uses of Aluminium.—Both the physical and the chemical pro
perties of this metal are likely to ensure its application to many
 important uses, as soon as it can be supplied at a moderate price.
(At present it is sold in England at £3 per ounce.)
      M. Sainte-Claire Deville exhibited the beam of a balance, and
weights, specially designed for the determination of small quan
tities, made of this metal, whose lightness peculiarly recommends
it for such a purpose.
      The same quality, as well as that of resisting corrosion, has
been taken advantage of by the surgeon and the dentist. The
      • Messrs. F. Grace Calvert and R. Johnson have made'experiments on
 this subject.—Phil. Mag. Ser. 4, Vol. x. p. 244, &c.

222                 Rev. J. Barlow, on Aluminium. [[March 14, 1856.
sonorousness and ductility of aluminium have led to piano-forte
wires being made of it ; it may likewise be found useful in lining
brass musical instruments, especially those having valves and slides.
The properly of resisting oxygen, sulphur, and acids, as well as its
great power of retaining heat, render it highly valuable for culinary
purposes. If, as may fairly be hoped, aluminium be hereafter pro
duced at a rate that will bring it into competition with iron, it may
supersede that metal in fabrics where lightness would, to a certain
extent, compensate for inferiority of strength.
     For example, the low specific gravity of aluminium, its freedom
from all tendency to rust or tarnish, and its consequent power
of reflecting the hot rays of the sun, indicate it as an appropriate
material for the roofs of houses. As this metal is capable of plating
iron, it would furnish a permanent and imperishable substitute for
the paint now used for the protection of iron-railings, water-pipes,
cisterns, &c., and which requires (what an aluminium surface would
not) constant renewing.* The value of the oxide of aluminium in
the ancient arts of life, pottery, dyeing, &c., is notorious. It may
not be visionary to expect that, before this century shall have closed,
equally important services in augmenting the comforts of civilized
life may be performed by the metal itself.
                                                                      [J. B.]
     At the close of Mr. Barlow's discourse, Dr. Faraday briefly,
but earnestly expressed his sense of the obligations which M. Sainte-
Claire Deville had conferred on the Royal Institution by his presence
on that occasion, as well as by the time, intelligence, and trouble
which he had devoted to make the members and their friends
thoroughly acquainted with the interesting substance so honourably
associated with his name. These sentiments were cordially re
sponded to by the company.
     * It is calculated that more than a quarter of a million sterling is annually
expended, in the metropolis, on the paint necessary to protect the iron work of
houses and other buildings from decay.

                   Institution of <£teat Britain
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, April 4.
    SIR HENRY HOLLAND, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                HENRY E. ROSCOE, Esq. B.A. Ph.D.
       On the Measurement of the Chemical Action of Light.
 No attempt has been made, up to the present time, accurately to
measure the changes brought about in chemical substances by the
action of the solar rays.
    The peculiar action of light on chemical bodies was first ob
served by Scheele on chloride of silver. Since that time the
subject of the chemical action of light has attracted a large amount
of attention, as the present perfection of the arts of the daguerreo-
typist and photographer fully testify. Although we possess so
many facts concerning the chemical action of light, this branch of
science has only as yet arrived at that first or qualitative stage of
developement, through which every science must pass. The laws
which regulate these phenomena are unknown to us, and we possess
no means of accurately measuring the amount of the decomposition
effected by the light.
    The speaker proceeded to describe the results of a series of
experiments carried on by him in conjunction with Professor Bun-
sen, which had for their object :—
          1. To determine the laws which regulate the chemical
               action of light ;
          2. To obtain a measure for the chemically active rays.
    When aqueous solutions of chlorine, bromine, or iodine, are
exposed (under certain conditions) to the direct solar rays they
are decomposed, the corresponding hydracid being formed, and
the oxygen of the water liberated. The difference between the
amounts of free chlorine, bromine, or iodine, contained in the
liquid before and after exposure to light, gives the quantity of the
substance decomposed during the insolation. Now it was found
that this quantity of chlorine, bromine, or iodine, which disappeared,
was not pro|K>rtional to the time of exposure to the light ; in twice
the time, for instance, less than twice as much substance was de-
    Vot. II.—(No 23.)                                         <i

224          Mr. Roscoc, on the Measurement of Light.               [April 4,
 composed. The relation between the amount of light and the
 amount of decomposition was found in this case not to be a simple
 one.
     This anomalous action may be explained even from a theoretical
 point of view. Chemical affinity is the resultant of all the forces
 which come into play during the reaction ; hence it is not only the
 interchanging atoms which influence the result, but also those atoms
 which, without taking part in the decomposition, surround those
 actively engaged. The so-called catalytic phenomena show this
 action in a striking manner. To apply this general principle to the
 special case before us ; we have to begin with pure chlorine water ;
 after the first action of the light, however, hydrochloric acid is
 formed, hence the composition of the solution is altered, and a
different result must be expected. This theoretical conclusion was
 verified by experiment. Chlorine water, to which 10 per cent, of
hydrochloric acid was added, did not suffer any decomposition by
 an exposure of six hours to the direct sunlight ; during which time
the same chlorine water, without previous addition of hydrochloric
acid, lost nearly all the free chlorine which it contained.*
     In order then to obtain a true measure of the action of light on
any chemical substance, it is necessary that the body formed by the
decomposition should be removed from the sphere of action. This
cannot be done with chlorine water ; a new sensitive substance was
therefore employed.
     Equal volumes of chlorine and hydrogen gases when exposed to
the direct sun light unite with explosion ; in diffuse light, the action
proceeds gradually. In presence of water the hydrochloric acid
formed by the combination is immediately absorbed, and thus
withdrawn from the sphere of action, and the diminution of the
volume of the mixed gases arising from this absorption gives an
exact measure of the amount of action effected by the light. The
diminution in volume of the gas measured by the rise of water in a
graduated tube was found to be regular, proving that when the
light is constant the amount of action is directly proportional to the
time of exposure.
     The relation between the amount of action and the amount of
light was experimentally determined, by allowing known quantities
of diffuse light to fall upon the sensitive gas. Experiments thus
conducted showed that the amount of action is directly proportional
to the amount or intensity of the liyht. These simple relations
were observed by Dr. Draper, of New York, in 1843 ; but his
method of experimenting differed essentially from that employed in
these researches, and was not susceptible of any very great degree of
accuracy. The relation between the amount of action and the mass
of the sensitive gas has not as yet been fully determined ; experi
    * See Poggendorff's Annalen, xcvi.,373 ; and Quarterly Jouraal of Chemical
Society, Oct. 1855.

1 856.]                General Monthly Meeting.                       225
ment has however already shown that the relation is not a simple
one.
     Many very interesting phenomena were observed in the course
of these investigations. When the gas is first exposed to the light
no action whatever is observed ; after a short time the absorption
slowly begins, and increases until a maximum has been attained,
after which it proceeds regularly. This phenomenon of induction
probably depends on a peculiar allotropic change which the
chlorine must undergo before it is capable of uniting with the
hydrogen.
     The speaker concluded by expressing his intention of continu
ing these experiments at Heidelberg, in order exactly to determine
the relation which exists between the amount of action and the
volume of gas employed ; to investigate the phenomenon of induc
tion ; and to obtain, if possible, an absolute measure for the chemical
rays.
                                                          [H. E. R.]
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,                        •
                            Monday, April 7.
    THE DOKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                 Hon. Sir Charles Crompton, Justice Q.B.
                 Montague Chambers, Esq. M.P. Q.C.
                  Charles Palmer, Esq. and
                 Thomas Wilson, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                  F. B. Duppa, Esq.
                 Graham M. M. Esmeade, Esq.
                  Alexander Murray, Esq.
                  Rev. Charles John Fynes Clinton, and
                 F. P. B. Martin, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
   The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
  FROM
Arnold, 71mmas James, Esq. Life Sab. R. 1.—Reports of the Commission on
     the Criminal Law. 1834-1845. fol.
  The Law Amendment Journal, and Papers Nos. 1-3. Reports Nos. 1,2. 1856.
   Letter to Lord Pamnure on the Magistracy. 8vo. 1856.
                                                             Q2

226                        General Monthly Meeting.                   [April 7,
Astronomical Society, llnynl- Monthly Notices. ,Vol. XVI. Nos. 4,5. 8vo. 1856.
Author—Two Letters (on Educating the Deaf). 8To. 1856.
Babbage, Charles, Esq. F.K.S, (the Author)-—Observations (on Mr. Scheutz's
      Calculating Machine) at the Anniversary of the Koyal Society, 1855. 8vo.
      1856.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.— Pharmaceutical Journal for April 1856. 8vo.
Boosei/, Messrs. («/ie Publishers)—The Musical World for March 1856. 4to.
Botfield, lieriah, Esq. F.K.S. M.K.I, (the Author)—Some Account of the
      first English Bible : and of Early- English Books, printed on Vellum. 4to.
      1856.
Bradbury, Henri/, Esq. M.R.I.—The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland. By
      T. Moore, F.L.S. Edited by J. Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.S. Part 12. fol. 1856.
British Architects, Koyal Institute gf—Proceedings in March 1856. 4to.
British Meteorological Society—Fourth Report read at the Annual Meeting,
      1855. 8vo.
Civil Engineers, Institute (/—Proceedings in March 1856. 8vo.
Cardale, John Uate, Esc]. M.K.I.—The Liturgy and other Divine Offices of
      the Catholic Apostolic Church (Gordon Square). 8vo. 1853.
Editors—The Medical Circular for March 1856. 8vo.
      The Practical Mechanic's Journal for March 1856. 4to.
      The Journal of Gas-Lighting for March 1856. 4to.
      The Mechanic's Magazine for March 1856. 8vo.
      The Athenaeum for March 1856. 4to.
      The Engineer for March 1856. fol.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.K.S.—Monatsberichte der Konigl. Preuss.
      Akademie, Jan. 1856. 8vo. Berlin.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania —Journal, Vol. XXXI. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1856.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 45. 8vo. 1856.
 Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General)— Report of the Registrar-General
      for March 1856. 8vo.
    13th, 14th, lOth.and 16th Annual Reports, for 1850-3. 8vo. 1854-6.
 Graaville, Rev. A. H. B. A.M.—Hov to settle the Church Rate Question.
       8vo. 1856.
 Granoille, A. li. M.D. F.R.S.—Fresh Analyses of the Kissingen Mineral
       Waters. 1856.
Johnson, Edmund C. Esq. M.D. M.K.I.—The Life and Times of Marlborough
      and Wellington. By Viscount Cranborne. 8vo. 1856.
Jopling, J. Esq. (the Author)—Key to the Proportions of the Parthenon. 8vo.
       1856.
 Leicin, Malcolm, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—On Torture in Madras, &c. 8vo.
       1856.
 Londesborough, The Lord, K.H. M.R. /.—Miscellanea Graphica, Part 8. 4to.
       1856.
 Newton, Messrs.— London Journal (New Series), April 1856. 8vo.
 Novello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for March 1856. 4to.
  Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mitthcilungen nuf dem Gesammtgebicte der
       Geographic. 1856. Heft 1. 4to. Gotha, 1856.
 Photographic Society—Journal, No. 40. 8vo. 1856.
 Koyal Society of London—Proceedings. No. 19. 8vo. 1855-6.
 Society of Arts—Journal for March 1856. 8vo.
 Smith, \V. A. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—A last Appeal ! War—Peace, or an
       Armed Truce. 8vo. 1856.
 Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XIX. Part 1. STo. 1856.
  Taylor, Rev. W. F.K.S. M.K.I.—Engraving and Description of Cowthorpe
        Oak, Yorkshire By C. Empson. 4to. 1842.
  Trustees of the British Museum—Catalogue of Shield Reptiles, with Engra
       vings. Part 1. By J. E. Gray. 4to. 1855.
  Van Diemen's Land, Koyal Society of— Papers, &c. Vol.11. Parts. 8vo. 1854.
        Tasmanian Contributions to the Paris Exhibition, fol. 1855.

1856.]        Mr. Siemens on a Regenerative Steam-Engine.                  227
Webster, John, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Observations on the Medical Profession
      Bill. 8vo. 185fi.
Walt/wood, Hendeiijh, Esq. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)— Geometry of the
      'Three first Books of Euclid from Definitions alone. 12mo. 1856.
Anderson, Eustace, Esq. M.R.I—Piece of Granite from the Petits Mulcts (near
      the summit of Mont Blanc ), broken off during his ascent, Aug. 16, 1855.
De la Bue, Warren, Esq. M.R.I, (through Ren .I Barlow, Sec. It. I.)—Two
      Specimens of Lithium, prepared from the fused Chloride, by means of
      Voltaic Electricity.
Moore, Mr. Josiuh —Model of his Patent Ventilator.
Smith, Mr. C. II. —Two specimens of the Lizard Rock, Cornwall.
 Tai/ler, J. W. Esq.—Two Crystals of Columbite.
   Specimens of Cryolite, Sodalite, Tantalite, Sapphirin, and Allanite, from
      Greenland.
 Taylor, Rev. W.—Taylor's Reflecting Tube.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, April 11.
        SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the
                         C. AY. SIEMENS, ESQ. C.E.
                     On a Regenerative Steam-Engine.
THE application of the steam-engine to our various purposes of
manufacture and locomotion is of very recent date, although the
elastic force of steam was known even by the ancients ; for we read
in Hero of Alexandria, on Pneumatics (translation by \Voodcroft),
that the Egyptian priesthood made use of it for their somewhat
undignified purpose of performing pretended miracles before an
ignorant population. The first suggestion of its useful application
for raising water is due to the Marquis of Ayorcester, and dwelt
 upon in his " Century of Inventions."
      The idea was taken up by Papin, Savory, and Newcomen, who
added important elements towards its practical realization ; but to
James Watt belongs the merit of having laid down a comprehensive
principle of the steam-engine, and of having devised means to
render the same capable of performing the rudest as well as the
most delicate operations.
      Ifany proof were wanting of the great genius of AVatt, it would
be sufficient to observe that the steam-engine of the present day is,
in point of principle, still the same as it left his hands half a cen
tury ago, and that our age of material progress could only affect its
 form. Great honour, however, is due to Fulton, Stephenson,
 Nasmyth, and others, fur having adapted the same to the most
 important purposes.

228                     Mr. C. W. Siemens, on a               [April 11,
     The steam-engine of Watt was composed of four organic parts,
 which were pointed out on a working model before the meeting,
 namely : — 1. The furnace, or chamber of combustion, with its flues
 and chimney. 2. The boiler, or steam generator. 3. The steam-
 vessel, or cylinder, wherein the elastic force of the steam is imparted
 to the piston, or other first moving parts of the machinery. 4. The
 condenser, where the elastic force of the steam is destroyed by
 abstracting its latent heat, by injection of cold water, or by ex
 posure of cooled metallic surfaces.. In the case of high-pressure
 engines, it would seem that the condenser was suppressed ; but it
 might be said, that this class of engines makes use of one great
 common condenser, namely the atmosphere ; the separate con
 denser possessing only the advantage of relieving the working
piston of the opposing atmospheric pressure. The only essential
improvement of the steam-engine that has been introduced since the
 time of Watt consists in working the steam expansively, whereby
a considerable economy has been attained ; but it is well known
that Watt foresaw the advantages that would be realised in this
direct ion, and was prevented only by insufficiency of the mechanical
means at his disposal from realising the same.
     The lofty superstructure proved the soundness of the foundation
 Walt had laid ; and it would seem hopeless to change the same,
unless it could be proved that the very principle regarding the
nature of heat, whereon Watt had built, had given way to another
more comprehensive principle. The engine of Watt was based
upon the material theory of heat that prevailed at his time, and
almost to the present day. According to this theory, steam was
regarded as a chemical compound of water and the supposed im
ponderable fluid " heat," which possessed amongst others the pro
perty of occupying under atmospheric pressure nearly 1700 times
the bulk of the water contained in it. The Boulton and Watt con
densing engine took the full advantage of this augmentation of
volume, which effected a proportionate displacement of piston, and
the condensation of the steam obviated all resisting pressure to the
piston.
     In the course of the last few years our views of the nature of heat
had however undergone a complete change ; and, according to the
new " dynamic theory," heat, as well as electricity, light, sound,
and chemical action, are regarded as different manifestations of
motion between the intimate particles of matter, and can be ex
pressed in equivalent values of palpable motion and dynamic effect.
In support of this theory, he (Mr. Siemens) could not do better
than refer to the able discourses, recently delivered in the Royal
Institution, by Mr. Grove and Professor Thomson.*
    Viewed from the position of the new theory, the heat given out
in the condenser of a steam-engine, represented a loss of mechanical
                           * Sec pp. 152 and 199.

  1856.]               Regenerative Steam-Engine.                     229
  effect, amounting to yj part of the total heat imparted to the
  boiler ; and the remaining ^ part was all the heat really converted
  into mechanical effect. The greater proportion of the lost heat
  might be utilized by a perfect dynamic engine. A vast field for
  practical discovery was thus opened out ; but it might yet be
  asked whether it was worth while to leave our present tried and
  approved forms of engines, to seek for economy, however great, in
  a new direction, considering the vast extent of our coal fields.
  The reply to this objection was, that the coal in its transit from
. the pit to the furnace acquired a considerable value, which, for this
  country, might be estimated at £8 per horse-power per annum
  (taking a consumption of ] 3i tons of coal, at an average expen
  diture of 12 shillings per ton).
       Estimating the total force of the stationary and locomotive
  engines employed in this country at one million nominal horse
  power ; it followed that the total expenditure for steam coal
  amounted to eight millions pounds sterling per annum, of which at
  least two-thirds might be saved. In other countries, where coal is
  scarce, the importance of economy becomes still more apparent ;
  but it is of the highest importance for marine engines, the coals
  whereof had to be purchased at transatlantic stations, at a cost of
  several pounds per ton, to which must still be added the indirect
  cost of its carriage by the steamer itself in place of merchan
  dise.
       These observations, Mr. Siemens thought, might justify him in
  bringing before the Institution an engine, the result of nearly ten
  years' experimental researches, which he thought to be the first
  practical application of the dynamic theory of heat, of which he was
  proud to call himself an early disciple. Others, more able than
  himself, might probably have arrived sooner at a practically useful
  result ; but he might claim for himself at least that strong conviction,
  approaching enthusiasm, which alone could have given him strength
  to combat successfully the general discouragement and the serious
  disappointments he had met with.
       The following illustrations, proving the imperishable nature of
  physical forces and their mutual convertibility, were made use of to
  indicate more clearly the principles his engine was based upon.
       A weight falling over a pulley, to which it was attached by a
  string, would impart rotary motion to a fly wheel, fixed upon the
  same axis with the pulley, and the velocity imparted to the wheel
  would cause the string to wind itself upon the pulley, till the weight
  had reached nearly its original elevation. If the friction of the
  spindle and the resistance of the atmosphere could be dispensed with,
  the weight would be lifted to precisely the same point from whence
  it fell, before the motion of the wheel was arrested. In descending
  again, it would impart motion to the wheel as before, and this opera
  tion of the weight, of alternately filling and rising, cuuld continue
  ad iii/inituin. If the string were cut at the instantjwhen the weight

230                   Mr. C. W. Siemens, on a               [April 11,
had descended, the rotation of the wheel would continue uniformly,
but it might soon be brought to a stop by immersing it in a basin
filled with water. In this case the water was the recipient of the
force due to the falling weight residing in the wheel ; and by
repeating the same experiment a sufficient number of times, we
should find an increase of temperature in the water, a fact discovered
by Joule, in 1843, which first proved the identity of heat and
dynamic effect, and established their numerical relation. If the
weight falling over a pulley were one pound, and the distance
through which it fell one foot, then each impulse given to the
wheel would represent one foot pound, or commonly adopted unit
of force ; and if the water contained in the basin weighed also one
pound, it would require 770 repetitions of the experiment of arrest
ing the wheel in the water, before the temperature of that water
was increased by one degree Fahrenheit.
     Another illustration made use of, was that of a hammer falling
in vacua upon a perfectly elastic anvil. The hammer would, under
these circumstances, rebound to precisely its original elevation ; and
granting the perfect elasticity of both hammer and anvil, neither
sound nor heat would be produced at the point of concussion.
If a piece of copper were suddenly introduced between anvil and
hammer, the latter would not rebound, but would make the copper
the recipient of the expended force. If the hammer were now lifted
again and again by an engine, and the piece of copper were turned
about on the anvil, so that at the end of the operation it had pre
cisely the same form as at the commencement, then no outward effect
would be produced by the force expended, but the piece of copper
would be heated perhaps to redness ; and if the engine employed
to lift the hammer were perfect, then the heat produced within the
copper should be sufficient to sustain its motion.
     A familiar instrument for converting force into heat was the
fire-syringe. The force expended in compressing the air imparted
a sufficient temperature to the same to ignite a piece of German
tinder (about 6003 Fah.). When the plunger of the syringe was
drawn back, it might be observed that the temperature of the
enclosed air was again reduced to its original degree, because the
heat developed in compression of the air had been spent again in
its expansion behind the piston. If the expansion of the heated
and compressed air had been without resistance, no reduction of its
temperature could have taken place, because no force would be
obtained ; a fact which had been recently proved by Regnault, and
which was perhaps the strongest proof in favour of the dynamic
theory of heat that could be brought forward. If the heated and com
pressed air in the fire-syringe could be produced by some external
cause and be introduced behind the plunger after it had descended
freely to the bottom, then the force imparted to the plunger in the
expansion might be turned to some useful purpose, and a dynamically
perfect engine might be obtained. But although the elevated tem

 1856.]              Regenerative Steam- Engine.                     231
 perature might be readily supplied by means of a fire, it would not
be possible to give a sufficient density to the air, except by an expen
diture of force in its compression. If, however, heat were applied
to a drop of water confined below the plunger till its temperature was
raised sufficiently to effect its conversion into steam of the density
 of the water itself, (Gaignard de la Tour's state of vapours,)
 and then allowed to expand below the plunger till its temperature
 was reduced to zero, a dynamically perfect engine would be obtained.
 The impracticable nature of such an engine was however manifest,
if it was considered that steam of the density of the Water producing
it, would exert a pressure of probably several hundred atmospheres,
which pressure the moving part of the engine must be made strong
enough to bear at a temperature of more than 1000° Fah., and
that the capacity of the working cylinder must be sufficient to allow
of an expansion of the steam to several thousand times its original
volume. It was therefore necessary to look for other means of ob
taining from heat its equivalent value of force, which means, it
was contended, were furnished by the " regenerative steam-engine."
     This engine, of which several diagrams and a model were ex
hibited, consisted of three essential parts, namely, the furnace ; the
working cylinder, with its respirator and heating vessel ; and the
regenerative cylinder. It consisted also of a boiler and condenser,
(unless the steam were discharged into the atmosphere,) but these
were not essential to the working of the engine, although of great
practical utility. The regenerative cylinder had for its object
alternately to charge and discharge two working cylinders, and the
action of its piston might be compared to that of a hammer oscil
lating between two elastic anvils. The regenerative cylinder com
municated at its one extremity with one working cylinder, and at
the other extremity with another and similar working cylinder, and
these communications were not intercepted by valves. The working
cylinders were so constituted that their capacity for steam of con
stant pressure was the same, no matter where the working piston
stood. Each consisted of a cylinder of cast iron, open at both ends,
which was completely enclosed in another cylinder or heating vessel,
one end of which was exposed to the action of a fire. Within the
inner cylinder was a large hollow piston, filled with non-conducting
material, to which was attached a long trunk or enlarged hollow
piston rod of nearly half the sectional area of the piston itself. This
trunk was attached to the working crank of the engine in the usual
manner. The trunk of the second working cylinder stood precisely
opposite, and was connected with the same crank. The piston of
the regenerative cylinder was also connected with the same crank,
but stood at right angles to the two working cylinders. The con
sequence of this arrangement was, that while the two working trunks
made their strokes (the one inward and the other outward) the
piston of the regenerative cylinder remained comparatively quiescent
upon its turning or dead point, and vice versa. Around the two

   232                  Mr. C. W. Siemens, on a                [April 11,
  heating vessels boilers were disposed, which received the heat of
  the fire, after it had acted upon the former. The steam generated
  within the boilers was introduced into the engine by means of an
  ordinary slide valve (of comparatively very small dimensions) at
  short intervals, and when the piston of the regenerative cylinder
  was in its extreme position. The admission of the steam, which
  was of high pressure, took place on that side of the regenerative
  cylinder where compression by the motion of its piston had already
  taken place, and at the same instant a corresponding escape of
  expanded steam on the other side of the regenerative piston was
  allowed to take place into the atmosphere. The quantity of steam
  freshly admitted at each stroke did, however, not exceed one-
  tenth part of the steam contained in the working cylinders of the
  engine, and served to renew the same by degrees, while it added its
 own expansive force to the effect of the engine. The compression
 of the steam into either of the working cylinders took place when
 its hollow piston stood at the bottom. While iu this position the
 steam occupied the annular chamber between the working trunk
 and the cylinder, besides the narrow space between the cylinder and
 the surrounding heating vessel. The pressure of the steam being
 the same above and below the hollow piston, but the effective area
 below being equal to twice the area above, the working trunk,
 attached to the piston, would be forced outward through the stuffing
 box, while the steam of the annular chamber above the piston passed
 through the narrow space intervening, into a space of twice the
 capacity of the annular chamber below the hollow piston. During
 its passage the steam had to traverse a mass of metallic wire gauze
 or plates, (the respirator, presenting a large aggregate surface,) which
 reached at one end sufficiently downward into the heating vessel
 so that its temperature was raised from GOO to 700J Fah., while its
 other extremity remained at the temperature of saturated steam, or
about 250° Fah. In consequence of the addition of temperature
the steam received on its passage through the respirator, its elastic
 force was doubled, and it therefore filled the larger capacity
 below the hollow piston or displacer without loss of pressure. When
the effective stroke of the working trunk was nearly completed, the
regenerative piston commenced to recede, and the steam below the
hollow piston expanded into the regenerative cylinder, depositing
on its regress through the respirator the heat it had received on its
egress through the same, less only the quantity that had been lost
in its expansion below the working piston, and which was converted
into dynamic effect or engine power, and which had to be supplied
by the fire. The expansion and simultaneous reduction of tempe
rature of the steam caused a diminution of its pressure from four
to nearly one atmosphere ; and the working trunk could now effect
its return stroke without opposing pressure, and while the second
working trunk made its effective or outward stroke impelled by a
pressure of four atmospheres.

1856.]               Regenerative Steam-Engine.                    233
     The respirator, which was invented by the Rev. Mr. Stirling,
of Dundee, in 1816, fulfilled its office with surprising rapidity and
perfection, if it were made of suitable proportions. Its action was
proved at the end of the discourse by a working model. It had been
applied without success to hot-air engines by Stirling and Ericsson,
but failed for want of proper application ; for it had been assumed
(in accordance with the material theory of heat) that it was capable
of recovering all heat imparted to the air, and, in consequence, no
sufficient provision of heating apparatus had been made. It having
been found impossible to produce, what in effect would have been
a perpetual motion, the respirator had been discarded entirely, and
was even now looked upon with great suspicion by engineers and
men of science. Mr. Siemens had, however, no doubt that its real
merits to recover heat that could not practically be converted by
one single operation into mechanical effect, would be better appre
ciated. The rapidity with which the temperature of a volume of
steam was raised from 250° to 650° Fall, by means of a respirator,
was indicated by the fact that he had obtained with his engines a
velocity of 150 revolutions per minute. The single action of heating
the steam occupied only a quarter the time of the entire revolution
of the engine, and it followed that it was accomplished in one-tenth
part of a second. But, in explanation of this phenomenon, it was
contended, that the transmitting of a given amount of heat from a
hotter to a cooler body, was proportionate to the heating surface
multiplied by the time occupied, and that the latter factor might be
reduced ad libitum, by increasing the former proportionately. The
air-engines of Stirling and Ericsson had failed also, because their
heated cylinders hud been rapidly destroyed by the fire ; but the
cause for this was, that an insufficient extent of heating surface
had been provided, and it was well known that even a steam-
boiler would be rapidly destroyed under such circumstances. Mr.
Siemens was led by his own experience to believe that his heating
 vessels would last certainly from three to five years ; and being only
a piece of rough casting, that could be replaced in a few hours, and
at a cost below that of a slight boiler repair, he considered that he
 had practically solved the difficulty arising from high temperature.
 It was however important to add, that all the working parts of his
 engine were at the temperature of saturated steam, and therefore
 in the same condition of ordinary steam-engines ; whereas in Erics
 son's engine, the hot air had entered the working cylinder. • In
 surrounding the heating vessel with the boiler, an excessive accu
 mulation of heat was prevented from taking place, and the pressure
 of the steam in the boiler became the true index to the engine-driver
 of the temperature of the heating vessel. Another essential pro
 perty of the heating vessel was, that all its parts should be free to
 expand by heat without straining other parts, which was accom
 plished by a free suspension, and by undulating its surface. Lastly,
 it should be massive, to withstand the fire with impunity, for iron

234                  Mr. C. W. Siemens, on a.                [April II,
was, strictly speaking, a combustible material. The pyropherus
or finely divided metallic iron, took fire spontaneously on exposure
to the atmosphere, a chip of iron was ignited in flying through the
flame of a candle ; an iron tea-kettle was destroyed by exposing it
(unfilled with water) to a kitchen fire ; whereas, in forging a crank
shaft, the solid mass of iron withstands the white heat of the forge
fire for several weeks without deteriorating. A heating vessel,
properly constructed and protected, might be heated with safety to
700J Fah., at which temperature it would be almost as able to
resist pressure, as at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere,
the point of maximum strength of iron being at 550° Fah., as had
been proved by experiments made for the Franklin Institute.
The construction of a heating vessel combining these desiderata
was of paramount importance for the success of Mr. Siemens' engine,
and had not been accomplished without combating against consider
able practical difficulty.
    Although heat may be entirely converted into mechanical effect,
it would nevertheless be impossible to construct an engine capable
of fulfilling this condition without causing at the same time a
portion of heat to be transferred from a hotter to a cooler body,
and which must ultimately be discharged. This necessity has been
generally proved, and in a very elegant manner, by Professor
Clausius, of Zurich, and implies at least the partial truth of " Car-
not's theory." In the " regenerative steam-engine," provision had
been made for absorbing this quantity of heat, arising in this case
from the circumstance, that the saturated steam enters the respirator
in a state of greatest density or compression, and returns through it
(expanding into the regenerative cylinder) at a gradually diminishing
density, although the temperature of the extreme edges of the respi
rator remains proportionateM:o the condensing point of the steam of
greatest density, by providing water chambers about the cover of the
working cylinder, and around the regenerative cylinder, which are
in communication with the steam-boiler. The heat absorbed from
the slightly superheated steam is thus rendered useful to generate
fresh steam.
     Objection had been raised by casual observers against the rege
nerative steam-engine, on account of its apparent similarity in prin
ciple to the " air-engines " of Stirling and Ericsson, implying similar
sources of failure. The apparent similarity in principle arose from
the circumstance that both Stirling and Ericsson, as well as himself,
had employed the respirator and high temperatures; but these
were but subordinate means or appliances, that might be resorted
to in carrying out a correct as well as an erroneous principle.
     In the winter of 1852-53, when Ericsson was engaged upon his
gigantic experiment in America, the speaker had had occasion to
read a paper to the Institution of Civil Engineers, entitled, " On
the conversion of heat into mechanical effect," wherein he had
endeavoured to set forth the causes of the probable failure of that

1856.]                Regenerative Steam-Engine.                   235
experiment, and to guard against a sweeping condemnation on that
account of some of the means Ericsson had employed.
     According to the dynamic theory of heat, the elastic medium
employed in a perfect caloric engine was a matter of indifference,
and air had been resorted to, because it was perfectly elastic, and
always at hand. In practice, however, the elastic medium em
ployed was a matter of very great importance, and he (Mr. Siemens)
had given the decided preference to steam, and for the following
reasons :—
     1. The co-efficient of expansion of saturated steam by heat
exceeded that of air in the proportion of about 3 : 2, but decreased
with an increase of temperature. This was not in accordance with
the established rule by Gay-Lussac and Dalton, but was the result
of his own experiments (described in a paper, " On the expansion
of steam, and the total heat of steam," communicated to the Insti
tution of Mechanical Engineers, in 1850), and had been borne out
by his practical experience on a large scale. Mr. Siemens had
been first induced to undertake these experiments in consequence
of an observation by Faraday, that the elastic force of the more
permanent vapours gave way rapidly, when by abstraction of heat
their points of condensation was nearly obtained. He conceived
that gases and vapours would expand equally by heat, when com
 pared, not indeed at the same temperature, but at temperatures
 equally removed from their points of condensation.
     2. When saturated steam was compressed (within the regene
 rative cylinder), its temperature would not rise considerably (as the
 fire-syringe evinced in respect of air), because Hegnault had proved
 that the total heat of steam increased with its density, and conse
 quently the heat generated in compression was required by the
 denser steam to prevent its actual condensation. Without this
 fortunate circumstance, the steam would be heated already by com
 pression to such an extent, that it would be difficult indeed to
 double its elastic force by the further addition of heat in the respi
 rator.
      3. Steam exercised no chemical action upon the metal of the
 heating vessel and respirator, because the oxygen it contained was
 engaged by hydrogen, which latter had the stronger affinity for it
 until a white heat was reached ; whereas the free oxygen of atmo
 spheric air attacked iron and brass at much lower temperatures.
      4. The specific gravity of steam was only about one-half that of
 atmospheric air at equal temperature and pressure ; moreover it
 was a far better conductor of heat, and both circumstances qualified
 it for rapid respirative action.
      5. The fresh steam required for starting and sustaining the
 power of the engine was generated by heat that would otherwise be
 lost. No air-pumps, &c., were required, and the management of
 the engine became as simple as that of an ordinary high-pressure
 steam-engine.

236               Dr. Bence Jones an Ventilation,           [April 18,
    In conclusion, it was stated that at present there were several
regenerative engines in constant practical operation, in this country
(at the works of Messrs. Newall and Co., al Gateshead), in France,
and in Germany, varying from five to forty horse power, which had
proved the practicability of the principle involved, although they
were still capable of improvement. Several other engines were now
in course of construction at establishments celebrated for precision
of execution, and with the advantage of Mr. Siemens' increased ex
perience in designing them. He had been fortunate to meet with
men of intelligence and enterprise, lately joined together in a
public company, whose co-operation insured a more rapid deve-
lopement of his invention than individual effort could produce.
The benefit he had hoped to derive from his discourse, incom
plete as it necessarily was, would be realized, if those men,
eminent in science, whom he saw around him, would accept his
labours as an earnest towards the practical realization of the dyna
mical theory of heat, and hasten its triumphs by their own re
searches. It was impossible to over-estimate the benefits that
mankind would derive from a motive force at one-third or one-
fourth part the cost and incumbrance of the present steam-engine.
The total consumption of coal would certainly not diminish ; but
our powers of locomotion and production would be increased to
an extent difficult to conceive, tending to relieve men from every
kind of bodily toil, and hasten the advent of the hoped for period
of general enlightenment and comfort.
                                                        [C. W. S.]
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 18.
   SIR BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-
                       President, in the Chair.
              H. BENCE JONES, M.D. F.R.S. M.K.I.
                           iN TO si. CEOEUE'S HOSPITAL.
     On Ventilation, and the means of determining its amount.
IN regard to all our wants, three questions constantly present them
selves. First, what it is exactly that we do want ; secondly, when
have we got what we do want ; and thirdly, how to get what wo want.

1856.]         and the Means of Determining its Amount.                237
We may know exactly the quality or quantity of bread and water th.it
we want : we may see them measured or weighed, but how to get
possession of them may still present many difficulties. So with our
want of fresh air, the question, How much we want, and how to
know when we have got enough, and no more than enough, is totally
different from the question, How to get what air is wanted. It is
not my intention to say anything now on the means of ventilation.
I intend to bring before you the two other questions—partly,
because I think that some error exists as to what is wanted, and
much is required to be done by good experiments to perfect our
knowledge on this subject ; and partly, because the means of de
termining what air we have got is nowhere clearly stated. Usually
the various sensations of individuals constitute the test of purity or
impurity ; more rarely the rate of the passage of the air in or out
of the room is determined ; and most rarely the chemical analysis
of the air gives the amount of impurity which it contains. In
dependently of any of these methods it has been thought that
measuring the cubic space in which we are breathing might suffice
to tell us what air we have, and to let us know what air we want ;
but it can be proved, in few words, that by the yard measure such
questions cannot be determined.
     If a fish were confined under water in a glass tube open at the
two ends, the time during which the fish would live in the tube
would not depend on the cubic contents of the tube, but on the
quantity of water caused to pass through the openings. So the
cubic contents of a room will give no more information than the
cubic contents of the glass tube. The rate of passage of the air,
(or rather the rate and quantity of air which passes in,) which
depends on the size of the openings, and on the difference of tem
perature within and without the room, is the important question.
 For the cubic contents which are enough or too much when one
 amount of ventilation exists, are quite insufficient when the ventila
 tion is less ; that is, when the expired air is not sufficiently removed.
 Moreover, in a room which is constantly inhabited, the cubic space
soon after the room is occupied ceases to be of importance, being
 entirely lost in comparison with the importance of the change of
air or ventilation of the room. On the cubic space depends only
 how soon change of air will become requisite, but it does not at all
 influence the amount of change required. For example, if a single
 man constantly inhabit the largest room ; if it be perfectly closed,
 he will be poisoned in it just as certainly as in the smallest room,
 the difference will only be in the time required ; and whether in
 the small room or in the large room to live healthy he would require
 exactly the same amount of ventilation. The following table will
 prove that the cubic space actually given to persons in different
 circumstances is so different that no general rule can be true.

238                   Dr. Dencc Jones on Ventilation,                    [April 18,
                           VARYING CUBIC SPACE.
                                      Cubic                                     Cuhk
                                       Krai.                                     Few.
In a slave ship, with 311 persons        14  Hospitals, Dundee (old, now de "1 398
                                                           stroyed)
Emigrant ships, upper deck        .      90       „     Liverpool               561
        „        lower do. 7ft. high   126        „     Glasgow .               750
        „          „     if under      173        „     Walton (convs lescent ) 800
 H.M.S. Rodney (sleeping space)          76       „     Middlesex              1000
         Ariel                          94        „     Edinburgh              1090
         Aiax .        .                98        „     Haslar                 1100
         Falcon                       104         „     Westminster            121)0
                                                  „     Guy's (old wa rds)     1200
         Pylades       . • . . 125                „     Newcastle              1500
   ,"    Duke of Wellington       . 128           „     Dundee (new^           1545
   „     Imperieuse .... 1 IV,                    „     King's College         1600
                                                  „     St. Bartholom :w's     1650
                                                  „     Guy's ("new w  ardsN   1700
                                                  „     London                 1700
      As a striking example of the error which prevails regarding the
cubic space necessary for health, and as a good instance of the
worthlessness of the appeal to practical experience, in many similar
cases, I may give the following police regulation for lodging-
houses :—
      " The space allowed in common lodging-houses for each lodger,
in rooms from 5 ft. 6 in. to 6 ft. in height, is 50 superficial feet ; and
in rooms more than 6 ft. in height, 30 superficial feet are allowed for
each lodger.
      " This arrangement has been found to work satisfactorily, and
to secure the health of the lodgers. Two children under 10 years
of age are reckoned as one adult."
               POLICE ALLOWANCE IN LODGING-HOUSES.
   When 5 ft. 6 in. to 6 ft. high, 50 superficial feet = 275 to 300 cubic feet.
    When 6 ft. 1 in. high,          30         „         =183 cubic feet.
That is, rooms from 5 ft. G in. to 6 ft. high give from 275 to 300
cubic feet for each person; and if 6ft. 1 in. high, then only 183
cubic feet are given.
      To obtain an equal amount of cubic feet of air the rooms should
be between 9 and 10ft. high. The police rule is, however, justified
by experience ! " This arrangement has been found to work satis
factorily, and to secure the health of the lodgers." This does
not prove the truth of the rule, but only that there is some great
mistake in the rule.
      What rule then must be made ? It appears to me that instead
of taking the cubic contents of a room as the guide, the ventilation
and the square contents, or in other words, the change of air and
the size of the Hoor, can alone determine the number of persons
that can safely and properly be admitted into any space.

1856.]             and the Means of Determining its Amount.                                                239
      As then we have learnt that a fixed amount of cubic space will
not give us what air we want, or tell us what we have, we will turn
to the question, How much air we do want, and how are we to know
when we have got it ? According to the best experiments on
                                            RESPIRATION,
Man inkales 15,885 cubic inches of oxygen in 12 hours.
                      44 cubic feet of atmospheric air contain this oxygen.
                      3-7 per hour, = 0-06 cubic foot per minute.
Man expires . .160 cubic feet in 1 2 hours, containing 4 per cent carbonic acid
If fresh air . .160                    „      are added, there will be 2 per cent.
If then fresh air . 320                „      are added, there will be 1 per cent.
Hence, if a man has 640                „       in 12 hours, it will contain 1 per cent.
                      = 53-3           „       per hour, = 0-88 per minute.
                      = rather less than 1 cubic foot per minute.
      In other words, for diluting the carbonic acid we require 14$
times more air than for the supply of oxygen.
      In different ages, sexes, states, and conditions, the variation in
these numbers is great, and no experiments have yet been made
with human beings in the best and most natural conditions.* The
following variations, obtained by single inspirations, may show how
easily errors may be made—
  EFFECT OF RAPID BREATHING ON THE AMOUNT OF EXPIRED
                                         CARBONIC ACID.
 lumber of cxpimtiuns  Duration of ouch ia    Carbonic acid in 1««    Conduit amount of        Proportional
     in a miaute.            •ccoadft.          TO!*, expired air.       Carbonic acid.           iacnoac.
         192               0-3125                     2-6                    2-6                     0-
          96               0-625                      S-7                    >•«                    0*1
          48                1-25                      3-9                    8*6                    0*3
          84               3-5                        3-3                    2-6                    0-7
          12               5-0                        4-1                    2-6                     1-5
            6             10-0                        5-7                    2*6                    3*1
EFFECT OF HOLDING THE BREATH ON THE AMOUNT OF CARBONIC
                                         ACID EXPIRED.
              Ordinary Respiration.                           Extraordinary deep Respiration.
                         Carbonic ackl in expired air.         Breath belli.        Carbonic acid in expired air.
       20 seconds.         6'03perlOOvols.                     20 seconds.            4-80perlOOvols.
       25      n           6*18             ,                 40       tt             5-21
      30       n           6'39            .                  60       n             6 '06
      40       9t          6*62            »                  80       n             6-44
      50       n           6*62             »                 90       n             6-50
      60       n           6-72                             100        "             8-06
    * Even the experiments of MM. Regnault and Reiset on the respiration of
animals, though perfect in their physical and chemical arrangements, are far
from conclusive, in consequence of the physiological conditions to which the
animals were subjected.
    VOL. II.                                                                                     R

210                 Dr. Bence Jones on Ventilation,           [April 18,
     Moreover, we have no accurate experiments to show the smallest
quantity of carbonic acid that is injurious in the longest time. Is
one per cent, of carbonic acid in air breathed for 12 hours injurious?
Is half a per cent, injurious in 24 hours ? Is a quarter per cent,
hurtful if breathed for 48 hours or longer ? Assuming that about
one cubic foot of fresh air per minute gives to a man about one per
cent, of carbonic acid in air he breathes—
     2 cubic feet would give                              -J per cent.
    (24     „     minimum, according to Vierort)
    3 to 4 „      Dr. Arnott considers insufficient    . 5 to i „
   10      „      Dr. Reed advises                       ^       „
   20       „     Dr. Arnott advises                     T'ff    „
     Is then one part of carbonic acid in 2000 parts of air injurious
when continually breathed ? The atmosphere contains 3 parts
carbonic acid in 10,000 parts of air when most pure, that is 1 part
carbonic acid in 3333 parts of air.
     Hence Drs. Arnott and Reed have given the highest limit,
whilst the lowest healthy limit is what we require to enable us to
decide when we have got as much air as we want.
     From the best experiments, namely, those of M. Leblanc, I
shall assume that air containing one per cent, of carbonic acid
indicates such an impure state of atmosphere, that if breathed for
12 hours there will be an injurious action on the system ; and that
air containing half a per cent, of carbonic acid breathed continuously
for 24 hours or more will probably prove hurtful. Whether at
mospheres having this amount of impurity are more injurious to
women and children, though probable, is also unproved. Whether
this amount of impurity, acting day after day, becomes more tolerated
by the system is very doubtful. On all these questions much
might be said, and much has yet to be done. But the question at
present to be answered is, How are we to know when the air is
thus far impure ? What means do we possess of determining the
amount of ventilation in this or any other room ?
    There are three methods of obtaining this knowledge. The
physiological method ; the physical method ; and the chemical
method.
     1. The physiological method consists in the determination of
the action of the air of any room on its inmates, when well or
when ill. The offensiveness of a room to a person just entering it,
that is the action of the air on the sense of smell, is liable to great
variations, depending on the observer himself. The nerves do not
measure actual amounts of impression, but only variations arising
from different degrees of impression ; and the action on the nervous
system of one person is not a measure of the impression on the
nerves of another person. Moreover, it is far from proved that
the offensive smelling substances are poisonous. They may be more

J856.]         and the Means nf Determining its Amount.           241
poisonous than carbonic acid, but we do not know that this is a
fact. The best example I can give you of an animal substance in
a state of decomposition is musk, and yet it is no highly poisonous
substance ; but even if these animal substances are not poisonous,
still, as the offensiveness perceived by a person just entering from
the fresh air bears an inverse proportion to the dilution of the air
in the room by fresh air, the offensiveness to such a person may be
taken as one test of the want of ventilation.
     Another part of the physiological method consists in determi
ning the general action of the air of the room on the body inside as
well as outside, on the nerves, muscles, skin, and mucous mem
branes.
     Carbonic acid, in very large doses, immediately destroys life by
stopping the breath, but of this rapid action there is no question.
What we want to know is,—What is the action of the smallest
injurious doses ? Carbonic acid, like other poisons in small doses,
is a medicine. We take it in soda water, and in effervescing medi
cines to allay irritation. It is used as a douche ; at first exciting
the eyes or the nose, and soon allaying irritation.
     Like other medicines its effects vary with the age of the person
taking it, with the time during which it is continued, with the
strength of the dose, and with the peculiarities of the individual.
A very small dose, long continued, will produce effects, whilst the
same dose, in a short time, may give no perceptible result. The
action of a full overdose may be well compared with the action of
aether, of an overdose of alcohol, or of chloroform. At first
irritation, then slight giddiness, intense giddiness, desire to vomit,
excessive prostration, inability to make any muscular effort, syncope,
death.
     The symptoms from small doses, long continued, closely resemble
the symptoms from smaller doses of alcohol, long continued ; slowly
the nutrition of the textures of the body is affected ; debility,
unhealthy blood, passive congestions, low inflammations, especially
of the mucous membranes, and broken skin, with ulceration and
gangrene, are produced.
     If these effects are observed in any atmosphere, then the venti
lation is proved to be insufficient.
     2. The physical method consists in determining the velocity of
the air passing out of the room or into the room, either by calcula
tion or by experiment.
     The mean temperature of the air in the chimney is determined.
Hence the increase in volume of the air is known. This volume of
heated air is then compared with the volume of an equal weight
of cold air. The difference in height in these two volumes of air
is obtained, and the force of the draught is equal to the velocity
which a heavy body would acquire by falling freely through this
height. The velocity of a falling body, in feet per second, is equal
                                                            R2

 242                Dr. Bence Jones on Ventilation,         [April 18,
 to eight times the square root of the number of feet in the fair.
 Hence the velocity of the air in the chimney per second is eight
 times the square root of the difference in the height of the two
 volumes of air. From this, the friction of the air in the chimney
 must be deducted ; this varies directly as the length, and as the
 square of the velocity, and inversely as the diameter ; usually from
 one-third to one-fourth, must be deducted, and then multiplying
 by 60 the velocity of the air per minute is found ; and multiplying
the velocity per minute by the area of the chimney, the number of
cubic feet of air discharged per minute is known ; that is, when the
entrance of air is as free as the exit.
     Another method consists in determining the rate of motion of
 the air per minute by an anemometer, by multiplying the area of
 the narrower part of the chimney by the velocity, the number of
cubic feet of air per minute passing out of the room may be ob
 tained.
     The determination of the rate of motion of the air passing into
the room is still more difficult ; no two openings into the room
give the same velocity, even if they are the same size, unless the
 temperature of the air on the sides of the two openings is exactly
the same.
     Moreover, in all the physical methods the temperature of the
external air is constantly changing ; and the heat of the air in the
chimney is liable to great variations ; and the occasional ventilation
caused by opening the doors and windows interferes with the
accurate determination of the amount of constant ventilation.
     Though the physical method alone is still very imperfect, yet,
with the physiological method, it constitutes almost all the evidence
that has hitherto been sought in doubtful cases.
     3. The chemical method consists in weighing or measuring the
products of combustion in -the room. These products are heat,
water, and carbonic acid ; possibly small quantites of other sub
stances are produced, but they cannot be determined quantitatively.
Moreover, the animal heat is so easily lost, and other sources of
variations in the temperature so interfere with the measurement of
the heat produced in the body, that it can afford no help.
    The amount of moisture in the room and in the internal air may
be found by experiment ; and assuming that each adult man by
respiration produces 3857 grs. of water in 24 hours, the quantity of
moisture which would be present if the room were closed may be
determined by calculation ; hence the quantity of air which
has escaped may be known. The same method may be followed
with the carbonic acid, which is a poison, and though it exists in
the atmosphere still it is only in very small and nearly constant
amount.
    Hence the chemical method mainly consists in determining how
much carbonic acid exists in any space in a given time, when a

1856.]       and the Means <>J Determining its Amount.            243
given number of people have remained in it. Then the quantity of
carbonic acid which this number of people would produce in the
given time must be calculated, and by deducting the quantity found,
from the total quantity produced, the quantity of air which escaped
from the given space in that time can be determined.
    The following examples from M. Leblauc's paper will best
illustrate this method.
    M. Leblanc remained himself for ten hours in a perfectly closed
atmosphere, the capacity of the chamber = 459 cubic feet (13 met.
cube) ; this gave him less than one cubic foot of air per minute
(= 0*76 cubic foot). At the end of this time he found the car
bonic acid = 0.0075 in volume, or one part carbonic acid in one
hundred and thirty-three parts of air.
    He found in a soldier's sleeping-room 25 men in a cubic space,
which if perfectly closed would have given about 0'8 cubic foot per
minute per man. Analysis gave 3 parts carbonic acid in 1000 air.
Had the room been perfectly closed whilst they slept, there should
have been 9 parts carbonic acid. Hence, 2' 4 cubic feet of air per
minute had been given.
    In another sleeping room, with 52 soldiers, the capacity of the
room would have given 0-6 cubic foot per minute, per man,
3 parts carbonic acid per 1000 were found ; if perfectly closed, there
would have been 10 parts. Hence, about 2 cubic feet per minute
had been given to each man.
    In a much smaller and worse ventilated room, with 1 1 soldiers
and of capacity about 0' 5 cubic foot per minute jier man, nearly
9 parts of carbonic acid were found in 1000 air. If closed, there
would have been 14 parts. Hence only 0'8 cubic foot of air per
minute was given to each man.
    The method followed by M. Leblanc for determining the car
bonic acid was the following :—an aspirator which held about
43 pints of water had tubes fitted to it, for absorbing water and
carbonic acid. In the course of one hour about 1456 cubic inches,
or ' 844 cubic foot of air was drawn through the tubes by the escape
of the water ; on weighing the tube which absorbed the carbonic
acid in the second experiment mentioned above,"there was a gain of
2 '62 grs. corresponding to 5'2 cubic inches of carbonic acid.
    In his previous experiments on confined air, M. Leblanc used
two large globes, holding each about 32 pints, which were ex
hausted and then filled with the air to be examined ; this was drawn
through the absorbing tubes by two other exhausted globes.
    For my experiments on the close air in St. Pancras workhouse,
I obtained a long tube, which, through the kindness of Mr.
De la Rue, was accurately graduated ; this I filled myself with air in
the rooms ; the tube was then closed and brought to the laboratory
of the College- of Chemistry, placed over mercury, and potass bulbs
were introduced by Mr. Witt, and the height of the mercury noted.
After 12 hours, the height was again noted, and by corrections for

244                   Dr. Bence Jones on Ventilation,            [April 18,
the temperature and pressure, the absorption of the carbonic acid
was determined. Thus,
       In one room there was 1-14 per cent, in volume of carbonic acid.
         In. another     „     2-75 and 2-02      „        „
         In another      ,,1*8                    „       „
         In another      „     1-6                „       „
     The absorption is so small, and the corrections so considerable,
that it would be far more desirable, instead of measuring the result,
to determine the carbonic acid by weight, if a convenient apparatus
could be constructed. Through the kindness of Mr. Defries, I am
enabled to show you a gas meter, which, by the action of a falling
weight, draws the air through an absorbing apparatus, and registers
the amount of air which has passed through. By weighing the
absorbing apparatus before and after the passage of the air, the
amount of carbonic acid may be determined ; and by noting the
index of the register, the amount of air in which this carbonic acid
was present can be known.
     If another gas meter were placed before the absorbing apparatus ;
that is, if an absorbing apparatus were placed between two gas
meters, when the air was passed through both meters, the difference
in the two registers would give the measure of the amount of car
bonic acid, whilst the weight of the carbonic acid might also be
determined by weighing the absorbing apparatus.
     It must be remembered that carbonic acid may not be the sole
poison in expired air ; and an accurate investigation is yet wanting
to show what other substances are injurious, and how they may be
best determined quantitatively. When this is done, but not till then,
as in our supply of water, so in our supply of air, we shall cease to
trust to a physiological or physical method of enquiring what we
want or what we have got, but we shall rely on chemistry to deter
mine the purity of the air we breathe, just as much as we now trust
to it for determining the quality of the water which we drink.
     I might in conclusion point to this statement, given to me by a
 physician to a lying-in-hospital—
                             Mortality of Mothers.                      Dotiu
   During 4J years, before systematic ventilation                     .60
   During 7 years, with Dr. Reed's system of ventilation    ....           9
   During 4 years again, without it                                   . 24
                             Mortality of Children.
   During r>{ years, with the ventilation                                  6
   During 4 years, without it                                            36
     But some "other causes might be thought to produce this result.
 I will therefore pass on to the question—
     Why do we want ventilation ? Why do we want fresh air ?

1856.]         and the Means of Determining its Amount.            245
Why do we want to take in oxygen ? and why do we want to get
rid of carbonic acid ?
     Shortly, we want oxygen, because of its chemical energy. It is
the main spring of our life. On it the production of animal heat
depends, and the vital powers—sensation and motion, no less than
nutrition and secretion, are directly influenced by its action.
     Why do we want to get rid of surrounding carbonic acid ?
Literally, because the carbonic acid stops the way, and prevents the
escape of newly formed carbonic acid from within. If we were
placed in an atmosphere containing as much carbonic acid as exists
in the lungs, the carbonic acid of the atmosphere would not pass
from the lungs to the blood and act as a poison, but that carbonic
acid which was passing out from the blood would stop in the lungs
and prevent more from escaping out of the blood, and that carbonic
acid which was formed in the body would act as a narcotic poison.
From experiments on animals it appears, that the air must contain
20 per cent, of carbonic acid before absorption of that gas by the
blood is observed. Moreover the escape of gases from the blood
affects the circulation of the blood. In sudden death from suffoca
tion, the side of the heart which throws the blood to the lungs is
found distended, whilst the side which throws the blood from the
heart is empty, there has been an obstruction to the flow. By stop
ping respiration and causing pressure we can stop the pulse and
the heart's sounds and impulse when we please. This experiment is
easy tb make. There can be no doubt that this is more the result of
pressure than of any arrest of escape of carbonic acid. I mention it
only as a striking evidence how suddenly the action of the heart
may be influenced by the respiration. When the escape of carbonic
acid from the blood is retarded or prevented, the want of ventilation
of the blood causes more or less stoppage of the blood in the vessels,
and makes the blood a narcotic poison to all the tissues with which
it is in contact.
     We may consider oxygen as our most necessary food, and car
bonic acid as the refuse which passes into our sewers. We have all
probably come to the full belief that a house badly drained causes
disease and death ; but we hardly yet fully admit to ourselves that
a house or body without good means of ventilation is a house or
body badly drained. At present our chimneys are our chief aerial
drains, which almost cease to act as soon as the temperature outside
and inside the house is the same ; and even when these drains are in
action, we are unwilling to think that that tire which so cheer
fully ministers to our warmth, like most human contrivances for
doing two things at once, does neither well.
                                                          [H. B. J.]

  246                     Dr. Sanduith on the               [April 21,
                 EXTRA EVENING MEETING,
                           Monday, April 21.
      TUB DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
                      HUMPHRY SANDWITH, M.D.
                  CHIEF OF THE MEDICAL STAFF AT KARS.
                         On the Siege of Kars.
  ON the breaking out of the war in 1854, Dr. Sandwith, residing at
  Constantinople, left that city for the Danube, and went through a
  campaign. In the autumn of the same year he was appointed to
  the staff of General Williams, and shortly after joined him at
. Erzeroom. In June, 1855, he accompanied him to Kars. They
  found the defences of the city much strengthened by the exertions
  of Colonel Lake, aided by Captains Thompson and Teesdale. On
  June 18, General Mouravieff, with an army of 40,000 infantry and
  10,000 cavalry, came in sight of the city. The army of the
  besieged consisted of 15,000 men, with only three months' food, and
  three days' ammunition ; nevertheless in a short time, by the
  energy, skill, firmness, and kindness of General Williams and his
  staff, the enthusiasm of the defenders of Kars was so thoroughly
  roused as to enable them to endure, with patient heroism, the
  sufferings of this protracted siege, so greatly aggravated by disease
  and deficient resources.
       The first skirmish with the enemy took place on June 14.
  On July 15, Kars was thoroughly blockaded ; and the Russian
  camp drew nearer and nearer. Mouravieff reconnoitred Erze
  room, but returned to Kars early in August. In his absence the
  Russians attacked the place, but were repulsed with severe loss
  (August 7). On the 8th of September the sufferings of the besieged
  were greatly relieved by the discovery of a quantity of secreted
  corn ; but on the 25th the cholera broke out.
       The grand assault on the place by the Russian army took place
  just before break of day, on the 29th of September. The western
  extremity of the works named Tahmasp was attacked simultaneously
  with the line of forts in the rear of the town called the English
  batteries. These last being entrusted chiefly to irregular troops
  were carried, and the Russians commenced shelling the town from
  this position. In. about three hours, however, the enemy being

1856.]                      Siege of Kars.                        247
attacked in both flanks, and menaced in front, was obliged to retire,
having suffered severely ; but he still persisted in his attacks on
Tahmasp, which continued almost without intermission for seven
hours. This position was defended by General Kmety and Major
Teesdale ; and the troops were mainly riflemen, armed with the
carobia d tige. About noon the enemy retired, leaving upwards of
6000 dead under the breastworks and batteries of Kars. General
Williams, from the centre of the camp, directed each grand move
ment during the day.
    Dr. Sandwith stated his belief, that if General Williams had
had 2000 cavalry, the enemy would have been totally defeated and
dispersed.
     The Russian cavalry, 10,000 strong, having scarcely suffered
during the assault, was enabled to keep up the blockade ; so that
the state of the garrison, suffering from cholera and famine, became
hopeless. In the later days about 100 of the troops alone died of
famine, while the condition of the townspeople was desperate in the
extreme ; the carcasses of dead animals were torn from their graves
and devoured by the men, women, and children, while the grass in
all the open spaces was torn up to be eaten. When human nature
could endure no longer, it was resolved to capitulate.
     On November 25, General Williams and his aide-de-camp
Teesdale, rode over, under a flag of truce, to the Russian camp.
They were well received by Mouravieff. General Williams told
his chivalrous enemy that he had no wish to rob him of his laurels ;
the fortress contained a large train of artillery, with numerous
standards, and a variety of arms : but the army had not yet sur
rendered, nor would it without certain articles of capitulation.
     " If you grant not these," added the General, " every gun shall
 be burst, every standard burnt, every trophy destroyed, and you
 may then work your will on a famished crowd." " I have no
 wish," answered Mouravieff, " to wreak an unworthy vengeance on
 a gallant and long-suffering army, which has covered itself with
 glory, and only yields to famine. Look here," he exclaimed,
 pointing to a lump of bread, and a handful of roots, " what splen
 did troops must these be, who can stand to their arms in this severe
 climate on food such as this ! General Williams, you have made
 yourself a name in history ; and posterity will stand amazed at the
 endurance, the courage, and the discipline which this siege has
 called forth in the remains of an army. Let us arrange a capitula
 tion that will satisfy the demands of war, without outraging
 humanity."
     The terms of capitulation were briefly as follows :—" The
 officers and soldiers of the regular army were to pile arms in camp,
 and march out with their music and colours, and surrender them
 selves prisoners of war to the Russian army, retaining their swords.
 All private property, the castle, mosques, and other public build
 ings, are to be respected, and the inhabitants protected from pillage

248                      Mr. W. B. Dotme                   [April 25,
or insult. The militia, the Bashi-Bozooks, are allowed to depart
unarmed to their homes. The medical corps, and other non-
combatants, are to be released and be free to serve again in any other
army. A certain number of foreign officers, and the subjects of
states not at war with Russia, are to be allowed to depart, on
condition of not serving again during the continuance of the war."
On the 27th, General Williams and his staff dined with I he Russian
general. Even in their desperate circumstances, the capitulation
was received by the army with great lamentation.
    Dr. Sandwith left Kars on November 30, and arrived in
London on the 9th of January, 1856.
                                                            [H. S-]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 25.
      SIK BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                    Vice-President, in the Chair.
                        W. B. DONNE, ESQ.
 On the Works of Chaucer, considered as Historical Illustrations
                  of England in the 14th Century.
 MR. DONNE commenced his discourse with some remarks on the
 changes which the language and literature of England had under
 gone since the age of Edward III.
     In the period of time which elapsed between Chaucer's birth
 and death, 1328— 1400, occurred some of the most striking and
 stirring events in English history. It includes the reigns of
 Edward III. and Richard II., and the opening scenes of the usur
 pation of the House of Lancaster. It comprises Edward's French
 and Scottish wars—his league with Jaques van Artevelde and the
 men of Ghent—so important at the time and in its consequences
 to English commerce and manufactures,—the battle of Crecy,
 where the Black Prince won his spurs, the battle of Poictiers,
 where he approved himself a soldier fit to stand by Caesar and give
 direction. Chaucer may possibly have been among the crowd that
 welcomed that prince when he rode beside John of France through
 the streets of London to the palace of Westminster ; he may have
 been among the spectators of the banquet at which Edward enter
 tained the three captive majesties of France. Scotland, and Cyprus.

1856.]               on Chaucer, hit Age and Workt.               249
Perhaps to Chaucer not the least interesting result of these wars
was the presence of those Provencal minstrels, who came in the
train of the Black Prince. Nor was the reign of Richard II. un-
propitious to men of letters. The court was gay, but refined ; the
monarch, though unwise, was not unlettered. He patronised
Gower, and was not unmindful of Gower's pupil and friend. There
was a rising, too, of the commonalty in this reign, not unmarked
by Chaucer, who employs it as an image of rural confusion. There
was banding of the country-party against the courtiers : schisms in
the country-party itself. Harry of Lancaster's banishment and re
turn, afterwards chronicled by Shakspeare in scenes
             " Sad, high, and working full of state and woe
               Such noble scenes as draw the eye to flow."
A king discrowned and swiftly or lingeringly murdered, and the
seeds sown of the great barons' war, which, before another halfcentury
had passed away, convulsed England from the Exe to the Tweed. It
was a change not much noted at the time, yet fraught with conse
quences more durable than the humiliation of France, that in
Edward's reign the laws began to speak in the English tongue, and
the power of the minor barons, afterwards the Commons of England,
to be felt in Parliament. It was a movement much noticed at the
time, yet without perception of its full results, that Wickliffe was
not merely permitted to assail the doctrine and discipline of the
church, but was also encouraged in his assault by the first prince
of the blood, and by some of the foremost men in the realm.
     Of this period Chaucer was for at least sixty years an attentive
observer, and latterly an accurate chronicler. In its movements he
took 'part to a degree unusual with poets : and when not taking part
was taking notes of this brave, bustling, and youthful people of
 England. And his opportunities for observation were most favour
able. Were we to seek for a capable historian of an age we should
be inclined to repeat Agur's prayer—" Give him neither poverty
nor riches." Too highly placed, the observer is captived by the
 prejudices of his rank: too lowly, his field of contemplation is
narrowed. Chaucer occupied a middle position. He was connected
by birth with the middle order ; by marriage with the higher ;
his employments brought him into contact with the people ; his
gifts and his learning rendered him an acceptable companion to the
most cultivated persons of his age. His occupations, at different
periods of his life, were well adapted to his functions as the chroni
cler of manners. As Commissioner of Customs, he was enabled to
study the commercial classes ; as Clerk of the Works and Ranger
of the Royal Forests, he was familiar with artisans and husbandmen.
His military service acquainted him with camps ; his diplomatic
missions with cabinets. That he was the most observing of all
 observers is plain from the Prologue to his " Canterbury Tales."

 250                      Mr. W. B. Donne                   [April 2.5,
      The speaker next observed it was not surprising that the bio
 graphy of Chaucer was scanty and doubtful. Little is known of
 Shakspeare and his contemporaries ; although, when they flourished
 printing was common, and the great writers of the age were either,
 like Raleigh and Sidney, the most distinguished of public men, or
 like Heywood, Shakspeare, and Jonson, constantly before the public
 either as actors or authors. Whereas Chaucer, and his contempora
 ries, wrote sixty years before Caxton set up the first printing-press
at Westminster, and there was no theatre to diffuse and perpetuate
their fame, and few readers to take an interest in their writings.
 Enough, however, is ascertained of Chaucer's history to warrant us
 in describing him as a " courtier, soldier, and scholar."
     A courtier.—If Edward III. were not a very zealous patron
of literature, he was a favourable and fostering friend to Chaucer
himself. Perhaps he owed his promotion, in some degree, to a
fortunate marriage. John of Gaunt and Chaucer espoused two
 sisters, the daughters of Sir Payne Roet, a native of Hainault, and
 Guienne King-of-arms. The poet thus came under the immediate
 notice of Queen Philippa of Hainault, and of the Duke of Lan
 caster. The Duke's regard for his wife's sister was manifested by
a pension, by occasional presents, and her husband's advancement.
In 1367 Chaucer was made one of the valets of the king's chamber,
in 1370 he was employed in the king's service abroad, and towards
the end of 1372 he was one of a commission to determine upon an
English port where a Genoese commercial establishment might be
formed. On this occasion he visited Florence and Genoa. In 1374
he was appointed Comptroller of the Customs in the port of Lon
don ; and soon afterwards sent, in association with Sir Thomas
Percy (afterwards Earl of Worcester), on a special mission to
Flanders. In 1386 he sat in Parliament as Knight of the Shire
for Kent, and although he latterly met with reverses, and fell with
the Lancaster party for a time, yet on the accesion of " high-
mounting Bolingbroke " he enjoyed at the last the full sunshine of
royal favour. As he does not appear to have been a very zealous
soldier, so it is probable that he was not a very active partisan.
Though, like the great Florentine, driven by his political enemies
into banishment, he expends on them no withering sarcasms, and
even his occasional allusions to seasons of adversity are steeped in
good humour.
     A soldier. —In Chaucer's age the tonsure of the priest was
almost the only mode of exemption from the bearing of arms, and
both gentleman and churl would have been deemed recreant had
they eluded their term of military suit and service. From Chau
cer's own testimony, it is known that in the autumn of 1359 he
accompanied that gallant and well-appointed army with which
Edward III. invaded France. This was apparently the first and
last of the poet's campaigns. It was ill adapted to stimulate his
military ardour, if, indeed, he possessed any, for the expedition was

 1856.]             on Chaucer, his Aye and Works.                     251
 nearly equally disastrous to the invaders and the invaded ; pestilence
and famine paged the heels of the English host, and no crowning
victory like Crecy compensated for the loss and discredit of the
expedition. Chaucer himself became for a while the inmate of a
 French prison. He was released at the Peace of Eretigny, or
 Chartres, in the following year.
     From the internal evidence of his writings it is probable that
the trade of war was not much to his taste. Neither the Norman-
 French poets, from whom he borrowed so largely in his earlier
writings, nor the romance writers of the 12th and 13th centuries,
imparted to him their Homeric fondness for stricken fields and
blazing towns. Complying, indeed, with the customs of literature
as he found them established, he occasionally describes passages of
arms, and the gests and graces of the tournament. But he does
not dwell with any zest upon such themes, and forsakes them wil
lingly for more peaceful subjects. Like Horace, he left to more
ambitious bards the spirit-stirring drum and the ear-piercing fife.
He was, and doubtless knew himself to be, the poet of nature and
her aspects ; of man and social life ; of the foibles and virtues of
his age. When he compliments his patrons in what may be termed
his laureate productions, he takes for his topics of congratulation or
condolence a courtship or a marriage, the loss of royal favour, or a
death. Their achievements in Poitou and Picardy are uncelebrated
by him.
    Yet that during his brief military career Chaucer was no idle
or incurious observer of the life in camps, appears throughout the
" Knight's Tale," and many passages in his other writings, wherein
both the ardour of battle and its image, the tournament, are aptly
delineated. The description of the preparation for combat in
the lists is worthy to stand very near Shakspeare's better known
description of the eve of battle. Compare Chaucer's " Knighte's
Tale"—
              " And on the morwe whan the day gan spryng
                Of bore and harneis, noyse and clateryng."
with Shakspeare's Henry V. Act iv. Chorus.
    A scholar.—From an allusion in one of his early poems" it has
been inferred that Chaucer was educated at Cambridge. Leland,
who had good sources of information, says that he was of Oxford,
and that he finished his studies at Paris. It is not impossible that
each of these universities may in its turn have enrolled the name of
Chaucer on its boards. At a time when colleges were little more
than grammar-schools it was not unusual for students to migrate
from one university to another, in quest of knowledge or attracted
   • Court of Love.— '' My name, alas ! my herte why makes then straunge,
                          Philogooet I call'd am far and neere
                        Of Cambridge clerk," &c.

252                       Mr. W. D. Donne,                   [April 25,
by the fame of particular professors. Bologna was second to no
school in its day, yet both Dante and Petrarca visited Paris for
the purpose of better instruction than their own country afforded.
Under whatever auspices, however, or in whatever place Chaucer
prosecuted his studies, the extent of his acquirements is testified by
his works and the applause of his contemporaries. Besides the lore
most attractive to him, the chivalrous bards of the 13th century,
and the Provencal minstrels, he was well versed in the theology,
philosophy, and scholastic learning of his age. Such science as
was then known he had acquired ; and it is agreeable to discover
that, like Milton, he contributed to the education of the young,
since he addressed his " Conclusions of the Astrolabie " to his son
" little Lewis." He lived too early, and it was perhaps fortunate
that he did so, to be affected by the discovery of ancient manuscripts
in the 15th century.
     The speaker then briefly surveyed some of the characteristics of
Chaucer's diction : to the effect that—it is the language alone of
Chaucer which renders him antique or obscure, and even then but
partially so : for there still lingers in much of his diction the same
vernal brilliance that irradiates his pictures of life and manners.
     As regards verse absolutely, and prose partially, Chaucer was
the workman who forged the tools with which he wrought. He
took the English language indeed as it was used in his time, and as
every true poet will do in its best estate at that time. But what
was the estate of the English language in the 14th century? What
was the coin ready-minted to Chaucer's hands ? For the learned
and all ecclesiastical purposes the Latin was still a living speech ;
 French was generally employed at court, in noble households, and
epistolary correspondence. It had but recently ceased to be the
language of statute law and legal procedure. With the mass of the
people the Anglo-Saxon remained in use, mutilated indeed of many
of its inflections, and passing rapidly into that tertiary form which
is the characteristic of the English language. From all these
elements Chaucer welded together an idiom which retains a portion
of each of them : its bones and sinews being Anglo-Saxon ; its
integuments and complexion, Latin or romantic.
     The difficulty ofChaucer's language arises not from any affecta
tion of antiquity on his part, nor from the corruptions of his manu
scripts, nor from any total revolution in the English tongue, re
moving his poems into the region of Middle English or Anglo-
Saxon. He is often hard to be understood, simply because his
idiom is nearly as much his own creation as the joyous, pathetic,
and passionate images with which his writings abound. There
is, perhaps in all literature nothing more remarkable than Chau
cer's language. It is, strictly speaking, neither a living nor a
dead language ; it must not be fettered by syntactical rules, nor
tried by common usage. Of these peculiarities the condition of
the English tongue in Edward III.'s time was in some measure

 1856.]              on Chaucer, his Age and Works.                 253
 the cause. In the first place the area of book-language was very
 limited : while the dialectic varieties of speech were very numerous.
 English was then imperfectly understood in the Celtic districts
 of the island : north of the 1 1 umber, and in East Anglia, it was
 encountered by a Danish patois. It was further circumscribed
 by the general employment of French by the nobles, and of Latin
 by ecclesiastics. Political motives, indeed, induced Edward to
 encourage the use of the English tongue in the courts of justice,
 and among his courtiers and attendants ; but there is no evidence
 of his having been, as his grandson Richard really was, a patron
 of literature.
      Chaucer and Langland are the two principal witnesses for the
 silent revolution which our language was undergoing in the 13th
 and 14th centuries. It is curious, that at the time when the author
 of the " Vision of Piers, the Ploughman," was labouring to re-
 invigorate our speech with Saxon forms, the author of the " House
of Fame," was entering upon his task of enriching it with a foreign
vocabulary, and moulding it to a spirit and forms of expression
different from either of its original components. Doubtless a
similar feeling of dissatisfaction with the existing state of the
English language led William Langland to his Saxon archaisms,
and Geoffery Chaucer to his French and Provencal innovations.
The mightier genius proved himself to be the wiser workman of
the two. Langland's poem is studied by philologers alone ;
Chaucer's writings began a new era in English literature, and his
influence has been felt and acknowledged by every successive
generation of English poets.
     It is still an unsettled question whether Chaucer were acquainted
with the literature and learned men of Italy. Sir Harris Nicolas
doubts it without sufficient reason, and in despite of Chaucer's own
assertions. With the writings of Dante, he was evidently well
acquainted, and distinctly quotes from him more than once. The
sentence cited by him in the " Wyf of Bathe's Tale," is almost a
literal translation from the Italian :—
                 " Wei can the wyse poet of Florence
                   That hatte Daunt speke of this sentence ;
                   Lo, in such maner of rym is Dauntes tale :
                   VH I seeld uprisith by his braunchis smale
                   Prowes of man, for God of his prowesse
                   Wot that we claime of him our gentilesse."*
     It is not so certain that Chaucer visited Petrarch at Padua, since
the statements of Speght and Urry rest wholly on surmises ; and it
    • Compare "Purgatorio," vii., 121 :--
                     " Kadc volte risurge per li rami
                        L' humaua probitate ; et questo vuole
                        Quci che la da, perchc da se si chiami."

254                       Annual Meeting.                        [May 1,
\s doubtful whether the following lines from the " Prologe to the
Clerk of Oxenford's Tale," refer to the poet himself, or the original
narrator of the story.
                " I will yow telle a tale, which that I
                  Lerned at Padowe of a worthy clerk
                  As proved by his wordes and his werk
                  Frances Petrark, the laureat poete
                  Highte this clerk, whos rhetorique swete
                  Enlumynd all Ytail of poetrie."
     It would be rash to expect that Chaucer will ever regain his
position as a national favourite. All that we can claim for him is
the recognition of his surpassing worth as an adjunct to the chro
niclers of his age, as standing, both by right of time and right of
power, in a similar relation to English literature with that of the
" all Etruscan three " to Italian, as no less worthy than Petrarch
himself of the laurel crown. His vigour and freshness are, like
nature herself, perennial ; his powers of observation have never
been surpassed ; his vein of humour and portraiture of manners
have been exceeded by Shakspeare alone. He is not only the most
 conspicuous, but also the sole intellectual representative of England
 in the 14th century, and his true and lively pictures of its men and
 manners render the dry bones of its chronicles still capable of
 receiving form, motion, and life. In his own words, slightly mo
 dified—
              " Though he be hoar, he fares as doth a tree
                That blossometh ere the fruit y-waxen be:
                The blossomy tree is neither dry nor dead ;
                He feeleth nowhere hoar but on his head;
                His hearte and all his limbes be as greene
                As laurel through the yeare is for to scene."
                                                            [W. B. D.]
                        ANNUAL MEETING,
                             Thursday, May 1.
   THE DDKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G., F.R.S., President,
                                in the Chair.
      The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors was read, and
 adopted.—It states that the account of Expenditure for 1855 has
 been duly examined, and the several items thereof compared with
 the vouchers ; and that the Receipts continue in a satisfactory
 state, the Annual Contributions being eqnal to those of 1854, and
 superior to any former year ; while the compositions received from
 Members, in lieu of future annual payments, have been above the
 average number. The surplus income beyond the expenditure has

 1856.]                       Annual Meeting.                            255
enabled the Managers to invest £600 in the purchase of stock,
 besides the usual annual additions to the Accumulating Funds of
the Institution ; and the property of the Royal Institution, including
the house and furniture, the library, &c., and the sums invested in
the public funds, now amounts to about Fifty Thousand Pounds.
The presence of His Royal Highness Prince Albert on several
occasions, and of the Prince of Wales and Prince Alfred at the
whole of the juvenile course of 1855-56, was adverted to.
     A List of Books Presented (amounting in number to 300 vol
umes,) accompanies the Report, making a total, with those purchased
by the Managers and Patrons, of 743 volumes (including Periodi
cals) added to the Library in the year.
     Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary,
to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor
Faraday, for their services to the Institution during the past year.
     The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
for the ensuing year :—
      PRESIDENT—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
      TREASURES—William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
      SECRETARY—Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.
                                MANAGERS.
William H. Blaauw, Esq. M.A. F.S.A.    Henry Bence Jones, M.D. F R.S.
Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie, Bart.     George Macihrain, Esq.
   D.C.L. V.P.R.S.                     Sir Roderick I. Murchisoir, G.C.S.
Thomas Davidson, Esq.                     D.C.L. F.R.S.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. Ph.D. F.B.S.    Frederick Pollock, Esq. M.A.
.George Dodd, Esq. F.S.A.              Joseph William Thrupp, Esq.
Sir Charles Fellows.                   Sir James Shaw Willes, Justice of the
W. R. Grove. Esq. M.A. Q.C. F.R.S.        Common Picas.
Lieut.-Col. F. Vernon Harcourt, M.P.   Col. Philip James Yorke, F.R.S.
                                 VISITORS.
Francis Bayley, Esq.                   R. Reginald I. Morley, Esq.
John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.            Thomas N. R Morson, Esq.
John Robert F. Burnett, Esq.           The Viscount Ranelagh.
Hugh W. Diamond, M.D. F.S.A.
Gordon W. J. Gyll, Esq.
                                       Joseph Skey, M.D.
                                       Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S.
                                                                       V
Thomas Henry, Esq.                     Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq. M.A.
John Hicks, Esq.                       Thomas Young, Esq.
John Holdship, Esq. M.A.
    The President nominated the following Vice-Presidents for the
ensuing year :—
W. Pole, Esq., Treasurer.            | W. R. Grove, Esq.
Rev. J. Barlow, Secretary.           I H. Bence Jones, M.D.
Sir B. C. Brodie.                  * ; Sir R. I. Murchison.
Sir Charles Fellows.
   VOL. II.                                                        *

 256     Professor Owen, on the Ruminant Quadrupeds,          [May 2,
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 2.
     THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
                       PROFESSOR OWEN, F.R.S.
     On the Ruminant Quadrupeds and the Aboriginal Cattle of
                                Britain.
 THE speaker introduced the subject of the Ruminant order of
 quadrupeds, and the source of our domesticated species, by some
 general remarks upon the classification of the class Mammalia, and
 on the characters of the great natural group defined by Ray and
 Linnaeus as the Ungulata, or hoofed mammalia.
      These are divisible into two natural and parallel orders, having
respectively the Anoplotherium and Palceotherium as their types,
 which genera, as far as geological researches have yet extended,
 were the first, or amongst the earliest, representatives of the
 Ungulata on this planet.
     The brilliant researches by Baron Cuvier, the founder of^
paleeontological science and the reconstructor of those primeval
hoofed animals, from fragmentary fossil remains in the gypsum
quarries at Montmartre, were alluded to.
     Diagrams of the entire skeletons of the anoplotherium and
palaeotherium were referred to, in illustration of their dental and
 osteological peculiarities.
     The Anoplotherium, with the typical dentition of
  incisors 5^5, canines ,-^-p premolars -r^—, molars —^— = 44,
           3^3            1—1               4—4           o—3
had all its teeth of the same length, and in a continuous unbroken
series : this character is peculiar to man in the existing creation.
The Paltzotherium, with the same dental formula as the Anoplo
therium, had the canines longer than the other teeth, and developed
into sharp-pointed weapons ; necessitating a break in the dental
series to receive their summits in closing the mouth.
     The anoplotherium had 19 vertebrae between the neck and

1856]           and the Aboriginal Cattle of Britain.              257
sacrum, viz., 13 dorsal, and 6 lumbar. The palaeotherium had 16
dorsal, and 7 lumbar vertebrae.
    The anoplotherium had a femur with 2 trochanters, and the
fore-part of the ankle-bone, called "astragalus," divided in 2
equal facets. Its hoofs formed a symmetrical pair on each foot.
Cuvier has very justly inferred that its stomach must have been
complex, and probably, in some respects, like that of the camel or
peccari. The palaeotherium had a femur with 3 trochanters, an
astragalus with its fore-part unequally divided, and hoofs, 3 in
number, on each foot. It most probably had a simple stomach,
like the tapir and rhinoceros, which, amongst existing animals, most
nearly resemble that extinct primitive hoofed quadruped, with
toes in uneven number.
    Every species of ungulate mammal with an uneven number of
hoofs or toes, that has been introduced into this planet since the
eocene tertiary period, whether it have 1 hoof on each foot, as in
the horse, 3 as in the rhinoceros, or 5 as in the elephant, resem
bles the palaeotherium ,in having more than 19 dorso-lumbar ver
tebrae, which vertebrae also differ in number in different genera ;
22, e.g. in the rhinoceros, 23 in the mastodon, 27 in the hyrax. The
typical pachyderms, with an odd number of hoofs, have also three
trochanters on the femur, the fore-part of the astragalus unequally
divided, and the pattern of the grinding surface of the molar teeth
unsymmetrical, and usually crossed by oblique enamel ridges. All
the existing odd-toed or perissodactyle mammals have a simple
stomach, and a vast and complex caecum ; the horned species have
either a single horn, or two odd horns, one behind the other on the
middle line of the head, as, e.g., in the one-horned and two-horned
rhinoceroses.
    Every species of ungulate animal with hoofs in even number,
whether 2 on each foot, as in the giraffe and camel, or 4 on each
foot, as in the hippopotamus, resembles the anoplotherium in having
 19 dorso-lumbar vertebrae, neither more nor less; in having 2
trochanters on the femur, in having the fore-part of the astragalus
equally divided, and in having the pattern of the grinding surface
of the molar teeth more or less symmetrical. The horned species
have the horns in 1 pair, or 2 pairs. All have the stomach more
or less complex, and the caecum small and simple. In the hog the
gastric complexity is least displayed ; but in the peccari the stomach
has 3 compartments ; and in the hippopotamus it is still more com
plex. But the most complex and peculiar form of stomach is that
which enables the animal to " chew the cud," or submit the aliment
to a second mastication, characteristic of the large group of even-
hoofed Ungulata, called " Ruminantia."
    These timid quadrupeds have many natural enemies ; and if
they had been compelled to submit each mouthful of grass to the
full extent of mastication which its digestion requires, before it
was swallowed, the grazing ruminant would have been exposed a
                                                             s2

258        Professor Owen, on the Ruminant Animals,          [May 2,
long time in the open prairie or savannah, before it had filled its
stomach. Its chances of escaping a carnivorous enemy would have
been in a like degree diminished. But by the peculiar structure of
the ruminating stomach, the grass can be swallowed as quickly as
it is cropped, and be stowed away in a large accessory receptacle,
called the " rumen," or first cavity of the stomach ; and this bag
being filled, the ruminant can retreat to the covert, and lie down
in a safe hiding-place to remasticate its food at leisure.
     The modifications of the dentition, aesophagus, and stomach, by
which the digestion in the ruminantia is carried out, were described
and illustrated by diagrams.
     The speaker next treated of the various kinds of horns and
antlers ; the manner of growth, shedding, renewal, and annual modi
fications of the deciduous horns, the peculiarities of the persistent
horns, the mechanism of the cloven foot ; and the provision for
maintaining the hoofs in a healthy condition, were pointed out.
     The following were the chief varieties of the ruminating
stomach. In the small musk-deer ( Tragulus), there are three cavi
ties, with a small intercommunication canal between the second and
last cavity ; the " psalterium," or third cavity, in the normal rumi
nating stomach, being absent. This cavity is likewise absent in
the camel-tribe, which have the cells of the second cavity greatly
enlarged, and have also accessory groups of similar cells developed
from the rumen, or first cavity. These cells can contain several
gallons of water. The relation of this modification, and of the
hump or humps on the back, to the peculiar geographical position
of the camel-tribe, was pointed out.
     The modifications of the ruminating stomach, the discovery of
rudimental teeth in the embryo Ruminantia, which teeth (upper
incisors and canines) have been supposed to characterize the pachy
derms ; the occurrence of another alleged pachydermal character, viz.
the divided metacarpus and metatarsus in the fcetus or young of all
ruminants, and its persistence in the existing Moschus aquatints,
and in a fossil species of antelope ; the absence of cotyledons in
the chorion of the camel-tribe, with the retention of some incisors
as well as canines in the upper jaw of that tribe ; the ascertained
amount of visceral and osteological conformity of the supposed
circumscribed order Ruminantia, with the other artiodactyle (even-
toed) ungulata ; above all, the number of lost links In that inter
esting chain which have now been restored from the ruins of former
habitable surfaces of the earth—all these and other similar facts
have concurred in establishing different views of the nature and
value of the ruminant order from those entertained by Cuvier, and
the majority of systematic naturalists up to 1840. Thus instead of
viewing the Anaploiherium as a pachyderm, the speaker, having
regard to the small size of its upper incisors and canines, to the
retention of the individuality of its two chief metacarpal and
metatarsal bones, and to the non-development of horns at any

1856.]          and the Aboriginal Cattle of Britain.             259
period of life, would regard it rather as resembling an overgrown
embryo-ruminant—of a ruminant in which growth had proceeded
with arrest of development. The ordinal characters of the ano-
plotherium are those of the Artiodactyla. On the other hand,
instead of viewing the horse as being next of kin to the camel, or
as making the transition from the pachyderms to the ruminants, the
speaker had been led by considerations of its third trochauter, its
astragulus, its simple stomach, and enormous sacculated caecum, the
palaeotherian type of the grinding surface of the molars, and the
excessive number of the dorso-lumbar vertebrae, to the conviction
of the essential affinities of the Equidie with other perissodactyles
(odd-toed hoofed beasts).
     The primitive types of both odd-toed and even-toed ungulates
occur in the eocene tertiary deposits : the earliest forms of the
ruminant modification of the Artiodactyla appear in the miocene
strata. The fossil remains of the aboriginal cattle of Britain have
been found in the newer pliocene strata, in drift gravels, in brick-
earth deposits, and in bone-caves. Two of these ancient cattle
(Bovida) were of gigantic size, with immense horns ; one was a
true bison (Bison priscus), the other a true ox (Bos primigenius) ;
contemporary with these was a smaller species of short-horned ox
 (Bos longifrons), and a buffalo, apparently identical in species with
the Arctic musk-buffalo (Bubalus, or Ovibos, moschatus).
     The small ox (Bos longifrons) is that which the aboriginal
natives of Britain would be most likely to succeed in taming. They
possessed domesticated cattle (pecora) when Caesar invaded Britain.
The cattle of the mountain fastnesses to which the Celtic population
retreated before the Romans, viz. the Welsh " runt " and Highland
" kyloe," most resemble in size and cranial characters the pleistocene
Bos longifrons. Prof. Owen, therefore, regards the Bos longifrons,
and not the gigantic Bos primigenius, as the source of part of our
 domestic cattle.
     From the analogy of colonists of the present day he proceeded
to argue that the Romans would import their own tamed cattle to
their colonial settlements in Britain. The domesticated cattle of
the Romans, Greeks, and Egyptians bore the nearest affinity to the
Brahminy variety of cattle in India. As the domestic cattle im
ported by the Spaniards into South America have, in many loca
lities, reverted to a wild state, so the speaker believed that the
half-wild races of white cattle in Chillingham Park, and a few
other preserves in Britain, were descended from introduced domesti
cated cattle. The size of the dew-lap, and an occasional rudiment
 of the hump in these white cattle, as well as the approximation to
 the light grey colour characteristic of the Brahminy race, seemed to
 point to their primitive oriental source. But the speaker could not
 regard the pure White colour as natural to a primitive wild stock
 of oxen. It is now maintained by careful destruction of all piebald
 calves that are produced by the so-preserved half-wild breeds.

260     Prof. Owen, on the Aboriginal Cattle of Britain. [May 2,
    If the blood of any of the aboriginal cattle, contemporary with
the mammoth and hairy rhinoceros, still flowed in the veins of any
of our domesticated races, he thought it would be that of the Bos
longifrons transmitted through the short-horned or hornless varieties
of the oxen of the mountains of Wales and Scotland.
    In conclusion the speaker referred to the subjoined table of the
classification of recent and extinct hoofed quadrupeds, as indicative
of the progressive extinction of those forms of Uitgidata least likely
to be of use to man, and of the substitution of the ruminant forms,
which, from the perfect digestion of their food, elaborate from it
the most sapid and nutritious kinds of flesh.
                               UNGULATA.
                                     Typica.
      ABTIODACTYLA*                               PERISSODACTYLAf
         Anoplotherium                               Palaeotherium
         Chalicotherium                              Paloplotherium
         Dichobune                                   Lophiodon
         Cainotherium                                Coryphodon
         Poebrotherium                               Tapirus\
         Xiphodon                                    Macrauchenia
         Moschus^                                   Hippotherium
         Antilope                                    Equus
         Ovis                                        Elasmotherium
         Bos                                         Hyrax
         Cervus                                      Rhinoceros
          Camelapardalu                              Acerotherium.
         .Cameltu
         Auchenia
         Merycotherium
         Merycopotamus
         Hippopotamus
         Dichodon
         Hyracotherium
         Hyopotamus
         Anthracotherium
         Hippohyus
         Choeropotamus
         Dicotyles
         Phacochoerus
         Srts.
   **Apfios, Pur; $O.KTU\OS, digitus.
   ^ HepnTO'oSfiifruX')!, qui digitos hull: i imparcs numero.
   t Only those genera printed in italics now exist.

 1856.]                  General Monthly Meeting.                        261
                                  Aberrantia.
       ToXODONTIA                             SlRENIA
           Toxodon                               Manatus
           Nesodon.                              Halicore
                                                 Rytina
       PROBOSCIDIA                               Halitherium
           Elephas                               Prorastomus.
           Mastodon
           Dinotherium.
                                                                  [R. 0.]
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                               Monday, May 5.
 WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                     C. W. Dilke, Esq.
                    C. Wentworth Dilke, Esq. and
                     George Hudswell Westerman, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The following Professors were unanimously re-elected :—
    WILLIAM THOMAS BRANDE, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. L. & E., as
Honorary Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution.
    JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. as Professor of Natural
Philosophy in the Royal Institution.
    A special vote of thanks was given to the LORD STANLEY,
M.P. M.R.I, for his present of a Magneto-Electric Machine, by
Watkins and Hill.
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
  FROM—
HER MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT (by Sir R. I. Murchison)—Memoirs of the Geo
     logical Survey of the United Kingdom : British Organic Remains, Decades
    V. & VIII. 4to. 1855-6.
Administration of the Mines in Russia—Compte Rendu Annuel, ponr 1854.
     Par A. T. Kupffer. 4to. 1855.
Arnold, Thomas James, Esq. Life Sub. R.I. —The Law Amendment Journal,
    for April! 856.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XVI. No. 6. 8vo. 1856.
Author—The Great Arctic Mystery. 8vo. 1856.
Bache, Dr. A. D. (the Superintendani)—Annual Report of the United States
    Coast Survey, 1853. 4to.

262                           General Monthly Meeting.                    [May 5,
Bautey, Francis, Esq. M.K.I.—The Book of Common Prayer, with Note* by
       Sir John Bayley, Knt. 8vo. 1824.
    Memoirs of P. H. Bruce : a Military Officer in the Service of Prussia, Russia,
       and Great Britain ; containing his Travels in Germany, Russia, &c. 4to.
        1782.
Sell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.— Pharmaceutical Journal for May 1856. 8vo.
Booseu, Messrs, (the Polishers)—The Musical World for April 1856. 4to.
Bradburv, Henri/, Esq. M.R.I.—The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland. By
        T. Moore, F.L.S. Edited by J.Lindley.Ph.D. F.L.S. PartlS. fol. 1856.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in April 1856. 4to.
British and Foreign Bible Society—The Bible in Chinese. 8vo. 1856.
Calcutta Council of Education—Report on Public Instruction in the Lower
        Provinces of the Bengal Presidency, 1852-55. 8vo.
Chemical Society—Journal, No. 33. 8vo. 1856.
(-ivil Engineers, Institute of— Proceedings in April 1856. 8vo.
Editors—The Medical Circular for April 1856. 8vo.
        The Practical Mechanic's Journal for April 1856. 4 to.
        The Journal of Gas-Lighting for April 1856. 4to.
        The Mechanic's Magazme for April 1856. 8vo.
        The Athenceum for April 1856. 4to.
        The Engineer for April 1856. fol.
Ethnological Society—Journal, Vol. IV. 8vo. 1856.
Faraday, Professor, .D. C.£. .F..K.S.—Monatsberichte der Konigl. Prenss. Aka-
        demie, Feb. 1856. 8vo. Berlin.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXI. No. 4. 8vo. 1856.
 Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General) —Reports of the Registrar-General
        for April 1856. 8vo.
    13th, 14th, 15th, and 16th Annual Reports, for 1850-3. 8vo. 1854-6.
Halswcll, Edmund S. /'-"«/. —Reports of the Visitors of the County Lunatic
        Asylum at Colney Hatch, Middlesex. 12mo. 1852-6.
 Jackson, C/mi-li", T. M.D.—Congressional Report on the Ether Discovery.
        8vo. 1852.
 Law, Wm. John, Esq. (the Author)—Reply to Mr. Ellis's Defence of his
        Theory on the Route of Hannibal. 8vo. 1856.
 Lcwiu, Malcolm, Esq. M.K.I.—Speech of the Earl of Albemarle on Torture in
        the Madras Presidency. 8vo. 1856.
 Mitchell, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Crusades : a Lecture, by Viscount Cran-
        borne. 8vo. 1856.
 Murray, Hon. Henry A. M.K.I, (the Author)—Lands of the Slave and the
        Free : or Cuba, the United States, and Canada, it vols. 16mo. 1855.
Aetcton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), May 1856. 8vo.
 Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for April 1856. 4to.
 I 'fit i mi in a. A. Esq. (the A ></AorJ—-Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
        Geographic. 1856: Heft 2. 4to. Gotha, 1856.
 Photographic Society—Journal, No. 41. 8vo. 1856.
 Pollock, W. Frederick, Esq M.K.I.—The Works of Abp. Grindal, Abp. Sandys,
         Bp. Pilkington, Bp. Ridley, Bp. Hooper, Archdeacon Philpot, R. Hutch-
         inson, and W. Fulke. (Published by the Parker Society.) 8 vols. 8vo.
         1842-3.
 Prosser, John, Esq Life-Sub. K.I.—Observations on a General Iron Railway,
         •with Plates and Map. 8vo. 1823.
     Thirteen Letters from Sir I. Newton to John Covel, D.D. 8vo. 1848.
    The Suppressed Letter to G. Canning. 8vo. 1818.
 Quintan, J. R. Esq. (the Author)—Pamless Tooth Extraction by Congelation.
         16mo. 1856.
 RedjHith, J^of.old, Fsti. M.K.I.— Paradise Ix>st. A Poem, in Ten Books. The
         Author, John Milton. London, Printed by S. Simmons. 4to. 1669.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings. No. 20. 8vo. 1856.
 Society of Arts—Journal for April 1850. 8vo.

  1856.]          Mr. Bradbury on Security of Bank Notes.                    263
 South, Sir James, F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author}—Letter to the Fellows of the
        Royal and Koyal Astronomical Societies. 8vo. 1856.
 University College, London—Annual Report, 1856. 8vo.
  Vereins zur Bej'Srderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Jan.
        nnd Feb. 1856. 4to.
  Vincent, B. Asst.-Sec. R.I.—Dr. H. Winter, Litergeschichte der Deutschen
        Sprach Dicht nnd Rede-Kunst. 8vo. Leipzig, 1829.
    Dr. J. W. Schsfer, Grundriss der Geschicbte der Deutschen Literatur. 8vo.
        Bremen, 1850.
  Webster, J., M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Reports of Bridewell and Bothlem Hos
        pitals, &c. 8vo. 1855.
  Williams, Thomas, M.I), (the Author)—On the Mechanism of Aquatic Respira
       tion, and on the Structure of the Organs of Breathing in Invertebrate
        Animals. 8vo. 1853.
 Yorkshire Philosophical Society— Proceedings.      Vol. I. 8vo.   1855.
Stanley, The Lord, M.P. M.R.I.—A Magneto-Electric Machine, by Watkius
       and Hill.
 I 'nin.(ill, Mr. T. —Cast of a Shell in Limestone, from Million, Yorkshire.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                   Friday, May 9.
     THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
                       UENRY BRADDURY, ESQ. M.R.I.
               On ilie Security and Manufacture of Bank Notes.
THE many processes connected with the manufacture of Bank
Notes invest the subject with deeper interest than the mere
importance attached to them as symbols of commercial confidence.
To enter into the consideration of these processes would require
a lengthened work. The object is rather to direct attention to the
consideration of that which is the most important feature in their
manufacture, namely the engraving, because upon it their security
in the eyes of the public mainly depends. It may perhaps be
asked, —What occasion is there for discussing this question? It
is replied : that forgery is on the increase ; that difference of
opinion exists as to the soundest method to be employed for
obviating it ; that facilities are growing up to assist forgery ; and
that, further, there is a tendency to employ that method which, in
reality, is most exposed to the operations of the forget. If, indeed,

 264                      Mr. Henry Bradbury                    [May 9,
 we could be sure that the advance of genuine Art must ever
 distance that of the spurious—if the success of the forger were to
 stand in an inverse ratio to the genius of the artist—and if we were
 to ignore the wonderful skill and ability of the so-called uneducated
 classes—then indeed this subject would lose a considerable portion
 of its interest, and its technicality would be deprived of its moral
 importance.
    Had, however, the Report of the Committee * (though sitting
 upon this question so far back as 1819) been acted upon, it appears
 that this state of things could never have arisen ; for they
 arrived at those sound conclusions which are perfectly applicable at
 the present day. This Committee was organised in consequence of
 the rapid increase of convictions for the circulation of Bank of
 England Note forgeries. Juries began at last to feel a reluctance
 to visit with capital punishment a crime, for the prevention of which
 no proper precautions seemed to have been taken. The fact, also,
 that forged notes had passed undetected the scrutiny of the Bank
 Inspectors—determined the Council of the Society of Arts to take
 this step. The point for their especial consideration was to determine
 the means withm the compass of Art, not so much totally to prevent
 the forgery of Bank of England Notes, (for that was obviously
impossible,) as to elicit means of detection by increasing difficulty of
imitation.
    This Eeport was one of great value, and is in these days still
further capable of extension, with the aid of a nice judgment,
joined to artistic advantages which can now be commanded, to
 obviate many of the difficulties which originally beset this subject.
    The main feature, then, of the note, the Engraving, and its
security, has been proved in practice as well as deposed to by
artists of eminence, to depend upon the Vignette. . The higher
the quality of the artistic impress, therefore, which the vignette
carries—the purer and severer the tone conferred upon its execu
tion—the greater the security of the note. This artistic impress
might be still further extended to the whole face of the production.
    The great value of the vignette consists in this, that it is the
uncounterfeitable seal of the note; —uncounterfeitable—because,
though it may be imitated, its individuality cauuot. This is
illustrated by comparison with a picture ; it always conveys the
style of the artist : his composition is known— his colour—his
chiaroscuro—which the component parts of all works of Art
have—a special individuality, not to be obliterated from memory
and which no copy can possess.
    However similar, there is a difference in the human countenance ; —
however similar, there is a difference in handwriting. If then any
   • Report of the Committee of the Society of Arts, on the Mode of Pre
venting the Forgery of Bank Notes, &c. London, 1819.

 1856.]   on the Security and Manufacture of Bank Notes.          265
number of the most eminent engravers were to endeavour to copy
each other,—there would be sufficient evidence on casual examination
to detect it. In a rivalship between them they might produce a
work of similar beauty and general effect, but the difference of
manner would be obvious to the commonest observer, and not only
would the forgery be discovered, but the hand that had executed it
would be identified. The eye of the Banking clerk, or the man of
business, would soon become expert at this kind of Fine-Art reading.
This was proved in the case of the Plymouth Bank half a century
ago; their bills were forged,—their notes were not, simply on account
of the vignette. When the vignette was added to the bills, the
forgeries ceased.
    Of the various methods of engraving, the choice more especially
lies between that of intaglio and surface-engraving, between steel
and copper-plate, or letter-press and wood-engraving ; of the two,
the first ranks pre-eminent, both for its beauty and adaptability to
the production of Bank Notes. Years ago, objections might have
been validly urged against this method. When the cost consequent
upon the engraving of plates as they wore out counterbalanced the
advantages gamed, and moreover, the often changing the indi
viduality expressed upon the production, negatived its highest
quality, the plan presented obstacles not easily surmounted in
extensive practice ; but now Science enables us to overcome the
impediment, and the Electrotype gives from one original an infinity
of reproduction, with little more than nominal outlay.
   With regard to letter-press or surface-engraving, its power is too
limited in its effects to realise a high standard of artistic finish;
while even cheapness, combiued with rapidity of production, is not
sufficient to counterbalance the absence of that continuous and
unalterable individuality which should be sought for as the distin
guishing feature of the Bank Note. In stating this opinion, weight
of contrary evidence has to be contended against, inasmuch as the
Notes of the Bank of England, as also those of the Bank of France,
Bank of Belgium, and Bank of Russia, are printed from surface-
engraved plates : for the reasons assigned, such evidence cannot
countervail the immeasurable superiority of intaglio engraving
for the main object desired,—namely, security. There is, however,
one application—and that of considerable magnitude—to which this
mode of printing has become of kite more immediately applicable.
It is used in the case of receipt-stamps in this country, and in that
of postage-stamps in France. The main proposition on this subject
is, that the union of Art, in which this country has been deficient,
with Manufacture in which she is unrivalled (the vision of which is
dawning in the distance), would place England in advance of every
other nation.
   In the engraving of the Bank Note two principles are involved

266                       Mr. Henry Bradbury                   [May 9,
for consideration: first, the simplicity of its design, the purity of
which is the gauge of its perfection ; secondly, the combination of
vignette-work with intricate engine-work: both these principles
possess high claims to the attention of Banking authorities as
security against forgery—the one on account of the difficulty of
mechanical imitation—the other on the principle of the certainty of
a first-sight recognition. Simplicity of design, when it amounts to
the character of high-class Art, is much the best with regard to the
issue of National Notes. Anything which addresses the mind is
more clearly distinguishable than that which addresses the eye—
and where variety of pattern" and freaks of ornament distract the
attention, it is put more within the field of the imitator than when
he has to contend with an ideality—for which neither his education
nor his pursuits are likely to fit him.
    By way of illustrating this principle an imaginary Note of the
Bank of England is here submitted, because that establishment
stands proudly and preeminently at the head of the monetary
transactions of the whole world, and because its Notes are more
familiar.
    The Note is as simple as a National Note can safely be. Its
attributes are individual unity, if not beauty; simple and salient
features, with due prominency of numerical value. The general
character has a sort of medieval cast—it has been chosen, partly
because it is totally different from the cursive style in common use,
and is also in accordance with the revival of that style in the
present day.
    The national characteristics are boldly expressed and displayed:
attempt has been made to extend the artistic ideality of the Vignette
—which is emblematic of the Nation—to the whole production.
Breadth of design and unity of purpose have been sought for. Care
has been taken in the introduction of the ornamentation, that it
 should not assume a position so prominent as to weaken the artistic
effect, but rather serve as an auxiliary to Art. An additional and
novel feature is thus conferred upon the writing, and all the points
 (and this should be borne in mind) subserving their particular
purposes, contribute to the general harmony of the whole.
 Objections may be raised, that it is too architecturally bold—too
florid in display—but it appears self-evident, that the nobler the
character of a Note, the less it would enter into the comprehension
of the forger—and even if some were not sensible of the difference
between a fine original and a bad copy, that is no reason why others
 of better judgment should be precluded.
    The Bank of England Note has always been characterised by
 simplicity, but carried to an extreme in the opposite direction, the
same general design having been preserved from the issue of their
 first note. The objection is, that its simplicity is too simple,—not
bearing upon the face of it those features which characterise the


-

;..;;/; '^
1856.]     on the Security and Manufacture of Bank Notes.             267
true Art-point. The vignette is a specimen the reverse of that
which has been advocated; it is alike deficient in conception and
execution. Surface-printing having been chosen as the medium,
the Bank authorities were restricted in the application of their Art.
The great aim of the Bank has been to secure simple identity
and ready recognition through the excellence of the paper, known
by its peculiar colour, by its thinness and transparency, as well as
by its feel, crisp and tough, patent to the sense of touch alone.
The basis of its security to the public rests upon its paper. It is
supposed to be unmatchable. As successful imitations of this
paper, however, have been made abroad, and passed in this country,
too much reliance ought not to be placed upon this superiority of the
paper. Again, the fallacy of its security consists in the extreme
facility it affords for reproduction by hand, apart from reproduction
afforded either by the Anastatic or Photographic processes. From
 1837 to 1854, these notes were printed from steel plates, reproduced
by the Siderographic or Transfer process; at the commencement of
 1855, a change took place in the production of the notes by the
substitution of surface-printing from electrotypes for steel-plate
 printing. A variation was then made in the form of the old note,
by adopting an engraved signature instead of a manual one—the
object being still further to strengthen the identity of recognition.
    The note of the Bank of France for 1 00 francs is a fair specimen
of surface-printing : but its inferiority of design indicates that it has
been adapted to its limited capabilities, and in this case is liable
to those objections which are assignable to our own. The note
however for 1000 francs is less exposed to the objections raised
against the note for 100 francs, the difficulties of copying by hand
being very great. These notes are printed upon both sides at the
same time, effected by pulling an impression on the tympan
itself before pulling each impression of the note : the reason for so
doing is, that when the impression is pulled upon the face of the
 note, the paper receives two impressions at the same time,—the one,
 on the face of the note from the printing plate, —the other, on the
reverse of the note, transferred from each impression on the tympan
pulled previous to the genuine impression. The two impressions
must necessarily register. This course has been pursued with
the idea that perfect register of the two printings is a good gauge
for detecting imitations. There is some reason in this, as it is a
most difficult and tedious operation, requiring consummate skill on
the part of the workman. It is said that not more than three
hundred impressions are printed daily at one press—this does not
speak much for economical production.
    Simplicity of design, however, is not to be advocated as solely
 applicable to a note in all instances. It is more especially suited
 for national notes, because immediate recognition should be one of
 their essential features ; but for provincial or local notes, not having

268                       Mr. Henry Bradbury                    [May 9,
 so wide a commercial circulating range, the complex note has
 peculiar advantages; the display of national emblems—ideal impress
—and intuitive recognition being here unnecessary ; one merit in
particular which it possesses, is that it is more available to represent
small amounts, and for circulation among the humbler classes ; for
 an obvious reason, — the repetition of the amount represented,
 affording to the holder a more continued appreciation of its value.
    Art being the principle of a simple note ; Mechanics, or engraving
by machinery, is that of a complex. This is performed in two
 ways ; relief and medallion-work, guilloche or rose-engine-work.
The one represents models on flat surfaces : the other, lines, straight,
waved or curved, circles, ellipses, parallel or intersecting, resulting
in a particular effect. Different results are sought in the combi
nations produced from such machines : some prefer figures to
appear white on black ; others prefer the reverse, the natural one,
black on white. The latter is free from the confusion presented in
the former ; its effect is more beautiful, and affords a much greater
degree of detection.
    In the instruments used for the execution of these designs, (being
 the laboriously-perfected construction of F. J. Wagner, K.-H.
 Mechanicus, of Berlin), the adjustment admits such variety, that
even allowing the forger to be possessed of a similar instrument, the
chances against hitting on the several requisites to produce any
particular pattern are infinite. It may admit of a doubt, whether
their very intricacy, and the want of any prominent part to impress
the attention, would not allow even a general resemblance to pass in
the hurry of business. It is possible, however, to combine even
within this intricacy of pattern and ornament an idea of that simplicity
and singleness of recognition above mentioned.
   This Note, for consecutiveness of argument, is also dignified with
the name of the Bank of England. Even in this, Art may be made
to hold an important place ; for idea in design can be seen in
its impress, and thus almost the same, if not greater, from its
mechanical construction, amount of security may be guaranteed,
previously stated to have been the object of simplicity. It possesses
unity of parts and purposes in design which tell much against the
imitator. It is organised, as combining beauty with a business
appearance. This small and convenient note can be divided into
four parts for postal security.
   Its principle is essentially the same as that in the simple note—
having its own individuality. Too much ornamentation is apt to
bewilder, nay, misguide—too little is apt to abuse : but a proper
combination of a certain amount of elaborate mechanical work,
properly balanced to meet the effect of the design, will also combine
beauty with security, with hardly less facility of recognition.
   The feasibility of this has been lost sight of—in fact, it was not
formerly attainable—nor was it practicable until the Electrotype

1856.]     on the Security and Manufacture of Bank Notes.          269
became a recognised agent in practical reproduction. By this
power, surfaces of any given dimensions can be multiplied without
reference to the quantity or delicacy of the work : not so by the
mode of reproduction known as the Siderographic process for
transferring objects engraved on steel to steel. This latter is
certainly capable of reproducing to infinity, but with this important
difference, that the smaller the subject the greater success in the
transfer. While the fact of requiring retouching is an additional
objection not at all applying to the Electrotype. It will be thus
understood that so long as a process of reproduction was adhered
to, only capable of transferring small subjects or fragments of
designs, and in every case requiring to be retouched by the graver,
so long must such kind of note be built up as it were piece by
piece, and thereby perpetuate the barrier between the Art-ideal and
the Art-mechanical.
    Since the discovery of the Electrotype, efforts have been made
in several cases to apply its perpetuating power to the reproduction
of copper engravings generally,—with no better result, however, in
every case than signal failure. The average number of impressions
from one plate rarely reached 500—the electro-copper, too, spread
from the pressure of the printing-press—and, in addition, from its
softness, even curled round the cylinders. Too little attention was
paid to the science of electro-deposition ; and failure arose from
a want of confidence in its power, and want of energy in investi
gation. At the present time, partly owing to the perfection at
which the process has arrived, and partly owing to an additional
new agency brought into co-operation, an experiment was made a
few months ago, under every possible disadvantage, to re-establish
in this country (for it has long been in successful operation at
Vienna) its practical, as well as its economical, adaptability. This
experiment was made upon the Bank Note of the National Bank of
Brazil amounting to 1,200,000 notes, of very elaborate work, which
have been printed from Electrotype plates : at the completion of
 this work, the means for future production existed for printing as
many million notes more as thousands have already been printed—
and, with this certainty, that the last note printed shall be identical
 with the first. The electro-plates in this instance, partly owing to
the increased hardness in the copper deposited, and partly owing
to a particular method of treatment, have yielded on an average
 1600 perfect impressions—and experiments are in course of opera
tion for increasing this to between 3000 and 4000. The establish
ment of this fact renders it almost imperative that greater attention
 should be given to the character of a note. If at the time that
Art was more or less in its infancy, every endeavour was made to
elevate the character of the Bank Note, and reports of scientific and
practical men were sought for, and their suggestions attended to ;
 A fortiori, now that Science has done so much, and is capable of

 270                     Mr. Henry Bradbury                    [May 9,
 doing more, the Art-question of this suhject ought to hold an
important place in its consideration. The peculiar advantage of the
 Electro over the Siderographic process will be apparent, seeing that
 the Electro copies the whole surface— and furthermore, it copies
 the exact state of the plates, without requiring the aid of scraper or
 hurnisher, or that careful retouching and deepening of lines so
indispensable to the success of Siderography.
    The term Siderographic has been made use of in connection with
 Bank Note printing. This is a process for transferring figures
from steel to steel, and thus multiplying the number of plates to be
printed from. It is one of exceeding simplicity ; but, as in most
 cases of the kind, however simple it may appear, it requires more
 than ordinary skill to effect successfully that little of which it is
capable. It consists iu taking up an engraved plate upon a roller
of softened steel, a combination of rolling and pressure. The
engraved subject thus stands in relief upon the roller. Identical
plates are thus said to be produced. The objections are threefold,
—First, every subject so transferred must be subsequently retouched
by the graver. Secondly, its transferring properties are limited to
very small subjects. Thirdly, and as a consequence, it is inapplicable
to the manufacture of complex notes.
   Siderography has been in use for thirty years or more in
America ; in fact, it was the invention of an American : but the
Notes of the United States Government are not, and never have
been—beautiful as their execution is— carried out after the principles
advocated above. Referring to the American Notes, it is a curious
fact that America being divided into so many States, and each State
being represented by a different note, forgers did not think it worth
their while to imitate, and therefore concocted notes of their own.
   It may prove interesting to supply some information concerning
the Bank Notes of other countries. They carry on the face of them
the absence of all those qualities which have been insisted upon,
and actually in many instances appear to offer a premium to forgery.
The aim would appear to have been to make them as ugly as
possible, without affording them any counterbalancing security.
Individual figures may be well executed—mechanical workmanship
may also seem to be well done—but they are utterly destitute of
leading ideas and harmonious properties—the true attributes of a
Note.
   The Notes of the United States present engraved specimens of
the highest order, but the subjects selected seem irrespective of
their purpose, and the multiplicity of the figures distracts the
attention. Again, there are the Austrian Notes. These fall con
siderably below the standard of American excellence. Vague in
design, coarse in execution, the broken character of their design
and the inconvenience of their shape render them unfitted for their
purpose. Prussian Notes too partake of the same objections—

.'•

e
ORNIA.
1856.]     on the Security and Manufacture of Bank Notes.           271
preserving, in many instances, the appearance of fancy stationery.
The Russian Notes might well be adopted for merchandise labels.
To particularise the characteristics of all the different foreign notes
would only become tedious, while placing them in the same category.
   If, however, the Notes of these States, betraying such defects,
have in themselves upon the face of them an endeavour to per
petuate something of National Art, it must be plain that this
country ought to be willing and able to effectuate a prototype of
superiority. Great reliance for security is placed upon a combination
of processes, and the greater the number employed in their con
struction,—the more different the effect resulting from each,— the
more difficult it is supposed for the power of a single forger to em
brace the exercise of the whole. This, however, is a fallacious
dependence, for the confusion created tends to less particularity of
observance upon the part of the public.
   Thus much said upon the Manufacture of the Bank Note, the
question of Security arises, a question most difficult of solution. For
two reasons : on the one hand, because it is so generally admitted
that what has been executed by one individual may be copied by
another ; on the other, because it is not in the nature of things that a
person who cannot read, should be protected from imposition by the
most clumsy forgery. Another reason might be added, the general
facility afforded by Science, not merely for the reproduction of one
special object, but of almost everything. It is not logical to suppose
that while Science helps the producer, she withholds her help from
the imitator, and this point is the main one to be considered in the
security of the Note. The first reason cannot be substantiated ;
while the second is disposed of, on the grounds of the general spread
of education. What is to be considered is, what is the nature
of the so-called scientific facilities, and what are the steps to be
adopted in the shape of counter-foils ; for while Science does help the
imitator, she also comes again to the aid of the producer.
   It might be questioned whether any person coming forward to
explain how many reproductive processes existed, and to what
extent they could be carried, was exercising a privilege consistent
with discretion. Such a method of proceeding, though new, is
certainly capable of more good than evil ; for the more light there
is thrown upon the subject, and the more imitators perceive and
understand that the eye of genuine Science is upon them, the more
fearful they will be of venturing on spurious manufacture that will
certainly eventually be detected.
   The Anastatic process has been on several occasions brought
prominently forward, with such promises, that its powers appeared
of a dangerous character, competent to effect an unprincipled
object. It professes that copper-plate mid other engraving, old or
new, ancient or fresh, can be transferred to plates of metal, and
reprinted as fac-similes without re-engraving. In such a manner it
     VOL. II.                                                  T

272                       Mr. Henry Bradbui-y                  [May 9,
is supposed to be able to copy Bank Notes. The process certainly
has great claims to utility, if confined to its legitimate sphere ; for
instance, when within the short spare of ten days, 200 sets of
fac-similes of the great Austrian Map of Russia and Turkey, for
the use of the generals and officers of our armies in the East, were
reproduced from 21 original copper-plate engravings, printed in
Vienna in 1829. The difference however between the nature of the
engraving that characterises a map, and that which characterises (or
which ought to characterise) a Bank Note, should be considered.
The work in the one (the Note), whether it be complex or simple,
ought to be sharp and clear, whereas in the case of the Map (and
especially in the use for which it was required in the instance
specified) it mattered little whether the lines transferred possessed
great nicety of sharpness or not. The operation of effecting a
transfer requires immense pressure, producing a flattening or spread
ing of the lines. In copper-plate printing, the ink lies upon the
surface of the paper, not a transparent film as in surface-printing,
but as a body ; the body naturally having a greater tendency to
spread, the film a less. Therefore the best and simplest way to
meet the supposed danger of the Anastatic is to adopt copper
plate and very fine work—as surface-printing with open-work only
favours the transfer.
    If the Anastatic process thus lays claim to the ingenuity of an
exhausted art, Photography appears as an infant science. When
Photography made its first appearance, experiments were insti
tuted in order to ascertain how far it might be made subservient to
forgery. Copies of Bank Notes were certainly produced by one
or other of the branches of this art—but not to an extent to be
considered dangerous. The copies were imperfect—there was a
loss of sharpness ; an absence of reality ; a want of printed effect.
The colour, too, instead of being black as in printing, was a sort of
brown sepia. Another failure was in the representation of the
 water-mark, which appeared indeed as if it were really existing, but
 it was found impossible to give the peculiar effect of the water-mark
 produced by reflection and transmission. Up to this point then
 there was little to fear. Since that time Photography has made
 great advances ; and there exists a process which is capable of
 producing a more serious result than that previously obtained ;
 namely, a printing-plate.
    In cases where the engraving on a Note by reason of coarseness
 of character (such being exemplified more in letter-press than in
 copper-plate) is exposed to the reproductive powers of the Anastatic
 or the Photographic processes, and such mode of engraving (viz., the
 letter-press) must be from economical or other motives followed, then
 the antidote (at least, that in common use) consists in the adoption
 of printing in different colours. For instance: —Suppose some
 words or design elaborately engraved to be first printed in red on

  1856.]    on lite Security and Manufacture of Sank Notes.           273
 the white paper ; and then the Note itself to be printed over this in
 black—we should have a mixture of black print over red. In
 attempting to take an Anastatic or Photographic copy of this
 compound note, we shall have one printing-plate as the result : that
 is to say, that which was printed first in red, and that which was
 printed afterwards in black upon that red, is produced intermixed
 upon one plate, and whatever printing colour you apply to that
 plate for the purpose of producing an impression, you have the
 result of the two impressions in one colour ; and the point, wherein
 lies the difficulty, is that the separation of the two printings first
 referred to, in different colours, cannot be effected without destroying
 the combined transfer. The more elaborate and artistic the second
 working hi colour is rendered, the more the difficulty of dissection
 is increased. Again, another reason for employing artistic and
 elaborate work, is to thwart the efforts of the forger, supposing him
 to make use of the transfer for the purpose of engraving by hand,
 instead of using the chemical transfer. Also : if instead of taking
 those colours that are copyable by the agency of light, colours
 are selected that are not copyable, we shall have a result, which,
 though not precisely the same, presents difficulties equally insu
 perable ; provided the work be of that character which is produced
 by the rose-engine-work : for, if these colours are not copyable by
 this agency, and those colours represent work which cannot be copied
 on the score of mechanical imitation, the forger stands in the same
 difficult predicament as before. To these points the attention of
 Banking authorities has been already awakened, as the adoption
of it, in whole or in part, has become a prominent feature in
 commercial securities.
    With regard to these processes, admitting that they are, as they
really are, —the latter especially,—dangerous where the execution is
 indifferent in character ; or, on the other hand, that they are not,
or that they are merely put forward to subserve a business purpose,
—in either case they should not be disregarded. If no notice be
taken of them by bankers, if forgers perceive that increased facilities
for copying are not met by increased efforts to defeat them, such
indifference only gives encouragement for cultivating forgery as
a science.
    Casual mention only has been made of the water-mark, not
regarding it as unimportant, but secondary to the main consideration;
for a successful copy of a good engraving upon a spurious water
mark is more likely to impose upon the ignorant, than an inferior
engraving upon the genuine water-mark. If then the water-mark
were backed by the excellence of Art and engraving, it might
safely be asserted that the Bank Note was unforgcable. But it may be
said, the paper thus alone furnishes an absolute security, why make
so great a parade of Art, design, engraving, &c., in its manufacture?—
Because, whatever internal security exists in the paper, tends rather
                                                              Ti!

274                        Dr. Hofmann on                    [May 16,
to the security of the Bank.—There should also be a primd facie
security for the Public ; and if both are applied, they re-act upon
each other, and the Note is perfect. Some foreign Banks adopt
the plan of having different coloured papers for the notes of
different denominations of value ; how far this is an advisable
plan admits of question, for in addition to the fading of colour,
the circumstance of receiving a piece of coloured paper is apt to
induce a false security, assuming without inspection that the
document is of a certain supposed value.
   Having shown that production and reproduction react upon each
other, the question is, according to what plan the Bank Note should
be manufactured ? Let Art be impressed on the Note.—Let
ingenuity of design, executed by a hand whose genius would at
once indicate its authority, be adopted so far as is consistent with
a commercial purpose. — Let that mode of printing be employed
which alone can render the delicacy and force of an Art-subject. If
this course be followed, the greatest possible amount of difficulty
would be placed in the way of reproduction by hand; the two
scientific processes referred to cannot be brought to bear against it—
and further, which should be another grand object, this Art-education
of the people would eventually teach them prudence in distinguishing
the genuine from the false. Lastly, if this should eventually be
found insufficient to secure the desired result of unforgeability,
then it should be imperative on the Government to resolve this
question, and offer a reward, as has been done in other great public
questions, for its solution.
                                                             [II. B.]
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 16.
       SIR CHAKLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                    DR. A. W. HOFMANN, F.R.S.
                 On the Chemical Type.: Ammonia.
 THE great laws which govern chemical combination, have been
 mostly recognized and elaborated by the study of mineral compounds,
 the examination of which at a very early period attracted the atten

1856.]             the Chemical Type : Ammonia.                      275
tion of inquirers. It was only much later : —in fact, at a comparatively
recent epoch, that the vegetable and the animal world were drawn
into the circle of chemical observation. The progress made in the
study of vegetable and animal substances was based, in the com
mencement at least, entirely and exclusively upon the knowledge
which chemists possessed of mineral bodies. The experience, the
ideas, gained in the examination of mineral substances, reflected
themselves, if I may use this expression, in whatever views were
brought forward regarding the nature of vegetable and animal
compounds. Organic Chemistry was but a reproduction, in another
form, of Mineral^ or Inorganic Chemistry.
     This aspect, however, of the relative position of the two depart
ments of the science is rapidly changing. The amount of material
accumulated by the indomitable perseverance of so many cultivators
of Organic Chemistry, (a chaotic and almost inaccessible labyrinth,
but a few years ago.) is rapidly assuming shape and order. The
study of organic bodies has led to the observation of general laws,
which could have never been discovered by the examination of
mineral substances alone, but which begin to react in a most
powerful manner upon our ideas regarding the constitution of these
very mineral substances. The progress of our knowledge of
organic bodies has opened new points of view, from which the con
stitution of mineral substances appears to us in a brighter light, in
a simpler and more intelligible form. In one word, Organic
Chemistry is beginning to repay, and I venture to say, with in
 terest, the debt of gratitude which it. owes to her elder sister,
 Mineral Chemistry.
      It is my task, this evening, to bring under your notice some
especial examples in elucidation of the idea which I have
endeavoured to delineate to you. Illustrations of this kind might
be taken from widely different departments of the science. In
consequence of special studies and predilections of my own. I have
selected as material of illustration a class of substances of which
the well-known compound Ammonia is the type.
      The four elements—Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Antimony, and
Arsenic, although essentially differing in many of their physical
properties, exhibit nevertheless an extraordinary similarity in their
chemical character, and especially in their combining tendencies.
 With oxygen these four bodies produce teroxides and pentoxides
which, in combination with water, have all decidedly acid proper
 ties.
    Nitrous Acid . . . NO3             Nitric Acid .... NO,
    Phosphorous Acid . PO,             Phosphoric Acid . . PO5
     A mimon ions Acid . SbOa         Antimonic Acid , . SbO,
    Arsenious Acid . . AsO3           Arsenic Acid . . . AsO,
      The latter acids, moreover, appear to be all tribasic ; in phos

 276                          Dr. Hofmann on                        [May 16,
 phoric and arsenic ixcids the tribasic character is well marked ;
 with nntiinonic acid it is less pronounced ; and nitric acid is generally
 considered as a monobasic acid : but the progress of science will, I
 have no doubt, confirm our suspicion that the nitrogen-acid is
 likewise of a tribasic character. The chlorides and bromides, cor
 responding to the oxides of nitrogen, phosphorus, antimony,
 and arsenic, also exhibit, within certain limits, similar analogies.*
     Again, these four elements unite with hydrogen, and the com
 pounds thus produced have a similar composition ; they are all
 terhydrides.
               Ammonia                                      NH,
               Phosphoretted Hydrogen . . . PHa
               Antimonetted Hydrogen . . . SbII8
               Arsenetted Hydrogen .... AsHs
     So far the analogy appears to be complete. Extraordinary dis
 crepancies, however, are observed in the properties of these hydro
 gen-compounds, for although they are all gases at the common
temperature, although they all possess a marked odour, and arc
 more or less inflammable, we find that ammonia is soluble in water,
imparting a strongly alkaline character to this solution ; while the
three other compounds, phosphoretted, antimonetted, and arsenetted
hydrogens are insoluble in water, and without the slightest alkaline
reaction. Again, ammonia when coming in contact with acids,
absorbs these bodies with the greatest avidity, producing a series of
well marked, mostly crystalline, compounds, which are called salts of
ammonia, or ammoniacal salts, and of which sal ammoniac and sul
phate of ammonia are familiar illustrations. Antimonetted and
arsenetted hydrogen, on the other hand, have never been combined
with acids ; and in the case of phosphoretted hydrogen, only one
salt-like compound, the hydriodate of phosphoretted hydrogen is
known, which latter certainly presents considerable analogies with
the salts of ammonia.
       Sulphate of Ammonia                                 NHa, HS04
       Hydriodate of Ammonia                               N H3, HI
       Hydriodate of Phosphoretted Hydrogen .              PH8, HI
     The want of similarity observed in the general characters of
ammonia and the hydrogen-compounds of phosphorus, antimony, and
arsenic, has always been an obstacle in the way of considering the
four elements in question as members of the same natural iiuui 1y.j
    * For the purpose of illustration specimens of Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Anti
mony, and Arsenic, and of their oxides, chlorides, and bromides were upon the
table.
    t The preparation and the principal properties of ammonia, jihoujthoreltcd,
anlimonetled, and arsenelted hydrogen were experimentally exhibited. The

1856.]                the Clii'iiiii-nl Type: Ammonia.                       277
     The modern progress of Organic Chemistry has removed those
difficulties.
     Organic Chemistry deals with compound molecules, consisting
of carbon and hydrogen, occasionally associated with nitrogen
and oxygen. These compound molecules, often called compound
radicals, simulate the deportment and exercise the functions of
elementary substances. One of the most familiar illustrations of
organic radicals is the radical Ethyl, consisting of four equivalents
of carbon, and five of hydrogen, C4II5 = E, and which chemists
assume to exist in alcohol and ether, the derivation of which from
water becomes obvious by a glance at the following formulae :—
                        Water      .    .  .    .   {gg
                        Alcohol .
                        Ether      .
     Alcohol may be regarded as water, in which one equivalent of
hydrogen is replaced by ethyl, ether, as water, for the two hydro
gen-equivalents of which ethyl has been substituted. The general
characters of these three compounds greatly differ from one
another ; but some of the fundamental properties of water, its
neutral character for instance, are retained in the two substitution-
products.*
     Recent researches have proved that in ammonia likewise the
hydrogen-equivalents are replaceable by ethyl. Three new com
pounds are thus produced, which have received the names cthyla-
mannfacture ofammoniacal salts was, moreover, illustrated by a series of painted
diagrams, and a set of large and beautiful specimens furnished by Messrs. Simp
son, Maule, and Nicholson, Kensington. Ammonia was evolved by the action of
lime upon sal-ammoniae, phosphoretted hydrogen by that of hydrochloric acid
upon phosphide of calcium, antimonetted and arsenetted hydrogen lastly, by
introducing antimony- and arsenic-solutions into flasks from which hydrogen was
being evolved. Cylinders were filled with the four gases over mercury. The
phosphoretted hydrogen evolved proved to be spontaneously inflammable.
Antimonetted and arsenetted hydrogen were inflamed by a taper, and am
monia was shown to be capable of combustion by directing the current of the
gas through a gas-flame. It was demonstrated that phosphoretted, antimonetted,
and arsenetted hydrogens are not absorbed by water or even acids, and that
they exhibit no alkaline reaction with vegetable colours ; whilst ammonia is
absorbed by water and acids, and possesses the character of a strong alkali.
    * Specimens of water, alcohol, and ether placed iu juxta-position. Ethyl-
gas, obtained by the action of zinc upon the iodide of ethyl in a strong copper
digester, exhibited and burnt.

278                            Dr. Hofmaitn on                      [May 16,
mine, dielhylamirtc, and trielhylamine : and the composition of
which is illustrated by the following formulae : —
                                                     |H
                        Ammonia        .   .     N <H
                                                     (H
                                                     IE
                        Ethylamine .       .     N {H
                                                     IH
                                                     IE
                        Diethylamine .           N -{E
                                                     IH
                                                     [E
                        Triethylamine .          N <E
                                                      IE
     The three ethylated derivatives fully retain the fundamental
character of ammonia ; they are powerful bases, capable of uniting
with the acids, and of forming very definite, well-crystallizing salts.
Owing to the diminution of volatility with the progress of ethyla-
tion, the ethylated bases appear to be even more powerfully basic
than the type itself. This development of basic power, as will be
presently seen, deserves especial consideration. The substitution
of ethyl for hydrogen presents no difficulty, it may be effected by .
several methods, one of the commonest processes consisting in
the action of iodide of ethyl upon the body to be ethylated.
Thus ammonia and iodide of ethyl produce ethylamine and
hydriodic acid, which unite and give rise to the formation of
hydriodate of ethylamine.*
                           H                     El
                           H + El = N m HI,
                           H                     HJ
      In consequence of the ethylated derivatives of ammonia retain
ing the basic character of the type, and exhibiting it, under certain
 conditions, even in a higher degree, the question naturally suggested
 itself, What would be the effect of introducing ethyl into phospho-
retted, antimonetted, and arsenetted hydrogen ?
      The ethylation of these hydrogen-compounds presents difficulties
 not experienced with the nitrogen-series, and has been accomplished
 only by roundabout processes. Nor have all the terms, the exist-
     * Ammonia, ethylamine, diethylamine, and triethylamine placed side by
 side ; the alkaline properties of these four substances experimentally demon
 strated. Iodide of ethyl, and its action on ammonia exhibited.

1856.]                  the Chemical Type: Ammonia.                                279
ence of which theory suggests, as yet been obtained : compounds
corresponding to ethylamine and to diethylamine are wanting at
present, but the substances which correspond to triethylamine are
known.
     The following table exhibits the compounds belonging to this
group which are known.
   Jiitrogen-Scria,     Photphorut-Serict.    Antimony-Series.        Anmic-Striet.
                   |H  Phosphorated p I 5   Antimonotted ^(5        Arscncttcd   .UJS
\mmonia . . . N\ H       Hydrogen ' |g        Hydrogen        \u    Hydrogen     Ab| {}
                   IH
                    IE
Ethylaminc . . S<H           Unknown.             Unknown.              Unknown.
                   \n
                    IE                            Unknown.
l>iethylaminc . V E          Uuknown.                                   Unknown.
                    IE Triethylphos-   p(^
                                                               (E
                                            Tricthylstiblnc Sbt E
                                                                                    I E
                                                                  Trlcthylaretoo As< K
Triethylamine . N{ E     phinc ....      |£
                    IE                                         1E                   IE
     Now triethylphosphine,* triethylstibine, and triethylarsine are
substances exhibiting, although in a less prominent degree, all the
fundamental characters of triethylamine, and consequently of am
monia itself. They are well defined and powerful bases, capable of
uniting with the acids and of producing a series of remarkable,
mostly crystalline salts, in which we find all the properties of the
ammoniacal salts. Chemists have thus succeeded in rendering
visible to the mental eye, if I may say so, the true nature of phos-
phoretted, antimonetted, and arsenetted hydrogen. By the conver
sion of these mineral substances into organic compounds, by the
simple process of ethylation, their alkaline disposition, not to use
the term character, has been unmistakeably brought to light. The
formation of alkaline bodies similar to ammonia by the substitution
of ethyl for the hydrogen in phosphoretted, antimonetted, and arse-
netted hydrogen, leaves no doubt regarding the analogy of these
substances with ammonia, and thus we see that researches carried
out exclusively in the field of ORGANIC CHEMISTRY have lent most
valuable assistance in deciding a question of considerable importance
regarding the classification of MINERAL SUBSTANCES. These re
searches have furnished the last argument which was wanting 'to
prove that nitrogen, phosphorus, antimony, and arsenic form a
natural group of elements, the chemical history of which presents
    * Specimens of triethylphosphine exhibited, and its alkaline characters
demonstrated. A small quantity of triethylphosphine was poured into a test-
tube filled with oxygen, and placed in hot water, when the phosphorus-compound
exploded with great violence. Another portion introduced into chlorine gas,
gave rise to a brilliant flash of light, the carbon of the substance being set free.
To show the combining power of triethylphosphine, the substance was mixed
with iodide of methyl, when a white crystalline compound was immediately
formed, with evolution of much heat.

 280                            Dr. Hofmann on                        [May 16,
 analogies not less prominent than those which are observed with
 the elements chlorine, bromine, and iodine.
       The type Ammonia offers another interesting illustration of the
 influence which the progress of Organic Chemistry exerts upon the
 Mineral Department of the science, and of the unexpected support
 which some of the mineral theories have received from the deve
 lopment of our ideas regarding the constitution of organic sub
 stances.
       Soon after Sir Humphry Davy's immortal discoveries of the
 alkali-metals, chemists were led by the extraordinary analogy of the
 salts of these metals with those of ammonia, to assume in the latter
 a metallic substance similar to potassium and sodium.* Numerous
 experiments were made to isolate this metallic principle from the
 ammoniacal salts ; and the resources of electricity, which had ex
 hibited such wonderful powers in the hands of Sir H. Davy, were
 not appealed to without result. The metal itself, it is true, was not
 isolated ; but a compound or alloy was obtained, containing nitrogen
 and hydrogen, and the metallic character of which was indisputable.
 If the electric current be passed into a solution of ammonia floating
 upon a layer of mercury in such a manner, that the positive pole of
 the battery merely dips into the ammonia, while the negative pole
 is immersed in the mercury, a very remarkable phenomenon is
observed ; the mercury begins to swell up and is gradually converted
into a mass of buttery consistence, but retaining a perfect metallic
lustre, while pure nitrogen gas arising from the oxidation of am
monia makes its appearance at the positive pole.f Removed from
the influence of the battery, the altered mercury soon resumes its
original appearance, losing at the same time hydrogen and ammonia
in the proportion of one equivalent of the former (H) to one of
the latter (N H8). It was therefore argued that the mercury owed
the alteration of its properties to its being associated with hydrogen
and ammonia, that is with N H4 ; and since mercury in its combina
tions never.retains any metallic appearance, except in its alloys called
amalgams, that is in its combination with metallic substances, che
mists considered themselves entitled to attribute metallic characters
also to the hypothetical association of nitrogen and hydrogen,
represented by the formula N H4 = Am, for which, forthwith, the
name of Ammonium was proposed.
      * The analogy of the salts of ammonia and those of the fixed alkalies, and
especially the isomorphism of the salts of ammonia and potassa, was illustrated
by numerous specimens upon the Lecture-table. Ammonia-alum and potassa-
1i linn, sulphate of ammonia and sulphate of potassa, chloride of ammonium and
chloride of potassium, &c. &c.
      t The ammonium-amalgam was produced on a small scale by the action
of the electric current.

1856.]            the Chemical Type: Ammonia.                       281
    By assuming the existence of this hypothetical metal in the salts
of ammonia, the nature of these substances, their analogy with the
salts of the fixed alkalies, and especially the isomorphism of the
salts of ammonia and potassa, became at once intelligible. The
following table exhibits the ammoniacal salts (represented firstly,
as combinations of ammonia, with hydrated acids ; and secondly,
as a;»/n0»i«»z-compounds ;) in juxtaposition with the corresponding
terms of the potassium-series.
                                                                          >
                 Ammonia-       A mmonium- Compounds.      Potassium-   \''/
                Compounds.                                Comj>ouxdx.
                                                                  .
 Oxide .     NH3, HO         NH4 O       or Am 0          K 0
 Chloride NH., HC1           NII4 Cl      or Am Cl        K Cl
                                                                    Vx
 Sulphate NH8, HS04 NH. SO, or Am SO4                     K SO4         \.
  Nitrate . NH,, HNO, N H, NO, or Am NO,                  K NO.
    The analogy of chloride, sulphate, and nitrate of ammonium,
with the corresponding potassium-compounds, is complete, but the
analogy begins to fail when we compare the oxides of ammonium and
potassium. Oxide of potassium, potash, is a perfectly definite body,
the properties of which, especially in its hydrated condition, are
well known. On the other hand all attempts to isolate the oxide of
ammonium or its hydrate have been hitherto abortive. Liberated
from one of the ammonium-compounds it splits at once into ammonia-
gas and water, even at the common temperature. The impossibility
of producing the oxide of ammonium has been always adduced as an
argument against the ammonium-theory.
    This difficulty disappears entirely if we examine the deportment
of some of the compounds briefly described in the preceding part
of this discourse. By again submitting triethylamine, that is am
monia containing three equivalents of ethyl in the place of three
of hydrogen, to the action of iodide of ethyl, a beautiful crystalline
compound is obtained, the composition of which is represented by
the formula—
                             N
that is iodide of ammonium, in which the four hydrogen-equivalents
are replaced by a corresponding number of equivalents of ethyl, or
iodide of telrtthylammonium. If this compound be treated with
freshly precipitated oxide of silver, a decomposition takes place,

282      Dr. Hofmunn on the Chemical Type : Ammonia. [May 16,
which gives rise to the formation of iodide of silver, separating as
a precipitate and of the hydrated ammonium-oxide, corresponding
to the above-mentioned iodide or hydrated oxide of tetrethylam
monium,* which remains in solution. The following equation
elucidates this change—
                                                              E
         N %\I + AgO + 110 = Agl +N                              0,HO
                                                              E
                                                      Hydrated oxide of
                                                     tetrethylammonium.
    The solution of this compound oxide of ammonium may be
evaporated to dryness without decomposition ; a crystalline sub
stance is thus obtained of a most powerfully alkaline character,
resembling in every respect hydrated potassa itself. A concentrated
solution of this substance not only burns the tongue, but acts upon
the epidermis which it destroys like potassa or soda. On rubbing
the solution between the fingers, the well-known soapy sensation
produced by the fixed alkalies under the same circumstances is felt.
Moreover the same peculiar odour is perceived. Oxide of tetre
thylammonium saponifies the fats without difficulty ; beautiful soft
soaps are thus obtained, possessing all the properties of ordinary
potassa-soap. All the chemical effects produced by potassa or
soda, are likewise produced by oxide of tetrethylammonium ; and in
its deportment with the salts of the metals especially, the compound
oxide of ammonium can scarcely be distinguished from the fixed
caustic alkalies.
     The formation of oxide of tetrethylammonium is certainly one
of the most powerful props which the ammonium-theory could have
received, and since this support has been entirely and exclusively
furnished by researches performed within the domain of Organic
 Chemistry, it must be admitted that the researches made in this de
partment of the science, and especially the elaboration of the com
pound derivatives of the type ammonia, begin to react most power
fully and beneficially upon the progress of Mineral Chemistry.^
                                                                [A. W. H.]
    * In three beakers, boiling solutions of iodide of tetrethylammonium (1),
of iodide of ammonium (2), and of iodide of potassium (3), were mixed with
freshly precipitated oxide of silver. The beakers were then covered with
reddened litmus paper and glass plates ; after a few moments the paper covering
solution (2), was found to have become intensely blue, in consequence of the
volatilized ammonia-gas ; whilst the papers covering solutions (1 ) and (2)did not
exhibit the slightest alteration, the liberated oxides of tetrethylammonium and
of potassium not being volatile. On dipping, however, reddened litmus paper
into these two solutions, they were found to be powerfully alkaline.
    t At the conclusion of the discourse, the ammonium-amalgam was prepared
on a large scale by the action of potassium-amalgam upon a solution of chloride
of ammonium.

1856.]      Mr. Abel OH Chemistry for Military Purposes.                283
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, May 23.
      SIR BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                              F. A. ABEL, ESQ.
         DIMCTOR OF THE nil Mir M. ESTARLISHMENT OF THE WAR DEPARTMENT,
On tome of the Apjilications of Chemistry to Military Purposes.
THE numerous and important improvements effected in the general
nature, as well as in the methods of manufacture, of the various
implements and materials of warfare, since the energies of military
men have been recalled into active operation, have arisen in great
measure out of the rapid progress made of late years in the applica
tion of physical and mechanical sciences to practical purposes. The
liberal application of the great facilities now existing for the manu
facture of almost every implement of warfare, by ingenious machi
nery, with great rapidity, and of such perfect uniformity as could
not before be attained by the time-consuming efforts of skilled
artizans, has been productive of many highly important improve
ments in military science, of which some opinion may be formed by
a very cursory inspection of the military manufactories which have
but recently either started into existence, or expanded from com
paratively insignificant to most extensive establishments.
     The valuable assistance which chemical science has afforded in
 the perfection of the implements and materials of warfare, is neces
 sarily less apparent at first sight. It was the object of Mr. Abel
 to exhibit the intimate connection of chemical science with every
 branch of military manufacture, by examining briefly, from a
 chemical point of view, the most important materials and products
 of the Government establishments for the preparation of war-
 material.
     In a sketch of the applications of the principal metals, allusion
 was first made to the great attention bestowed by practical men to
 the question of the manufacture of heavy iron ordnance, from the
 commencement of the late war, but more particularly since the
 experience recently gained by the use of iron guns, from various
 sources of manufacture, had demonstrated the impossibility of
 placing confidence in guns cast of the description of iron, or by the
 method, employed of late years by the founders of iron ordnance.

   284        Mr. F. A. Abel on some ofthe applications                 [May 23,
       The question as to the material best adapted for heavy guns, or
  as to the best method of preparing or casting the metal, was still
  undecided. The most interesting and valuable results had, how
  ever, already been obtained by Fairbairn, Whitworth, Nasmyth,
  arid other eminent engineers and metallurgists, and by trials already
  instituted by the Government, with cannon constructed of various
  descriptions of iron, and on different principles. The serious atten
  tion now directed to the subject by scientific men, added to the
  excellent opportunities that would be afforded by the extensive
  Government cannon foundries in course of construction, of prac
  tically comparing the value of the most important propositions
 made with reference to the construction of strong and durable
 ordnance, promised to place England speedily on a footing with
 those continental states which have for many years devoted especial
 attention, and with the greatest success, to this important subject.
      In adverting to the extensive application of galvanized iron to
 the erection of light and durable structures, required at a brief
 notice, reference was also made by the speaker to some ingenious
 metallurgic applications of zinc to the production of compound
 projectiles for rifled cannon. The property possessed by the so-
 called zinc-white (finely divided oxide of zinc), of retaining its
 pure white colour on prolonged exposure to atmospheric influence,
 had led to the almost entire substitution of that colour for white
 lead, in some important manufacturing departments. The oxy-
 chloride of lead had also been found to possess advantages over
 white lead, particularly with respect to its covering properties (or
 body). Experiments were being made with a view to determine
 fully its comparative merits.*
      Lead was the metal employed in the purest condition for mili
 tary purposes. Ordinary pig-lead was used for the manufacture of
shot (alloyed with a small quantity of arsenic) and of musquet-
 bullets, the latter being produced by submitting the lead, cast in
rods, to successive compressing operations until the form of the
bullet was attained. For the manufacture of the rifle-bullets on
the Minit system, the lead was required to possess a great degree
of softness, so that it might be susceptible of instantaneous expan
sion in the barrel of the rifle, by the force of the exploding powder.
Refined lead, as obtained by Pnttinson's recrystallizing process,
was the only quality found to possess the requisite softness. This
lead was formed into rods of great length, and converted by Mr.
Anderson's ingenious compressing machine, into bullets, in one
operation, a single die furnishing 13,000 bullets in ten hours.
    * The great liability to adulteration of most descriptions of colours, as also
of oils, and a variety of other materials employed in the manufacturing esta
blishments of the War Department, has led to the recent introduction of a rigid
system of inspection, to which all articles supplied to these manufactories,
which are susceptible of chemical examination, are submitted before they are
accepted for use in the service.

1856.]           of Chemistry to Military Purposes.                  285
     The bullets used in the shrapnel shell, of which Captain Boxer's
improved form was exhibited, were made of an alloy of lead and
antimony. At the present prices of the metals, the value of the
alloy would be about £34 per ton ; an alloy of these metals,
obtained direct from an antimonial lead ore, and sufficiently rich
in antimony, was imported in considerable quantities from Hungary,
and purchased at a price of about £19 per ton. An antimonial
alloy was also used for coating a coarse canvas, forming with it a
durable covering for roofs of light buildings, and for the manufac
ture of screw-plugs, which, being fitted into the fuse-openings of
shells charged with powder, rendered the transport of the latter in
that state a matter of perfect safety.
     The ease and certainty with which charges of powder, in cannon,
 were ignited by the explosion of a mixture of the native sulphide of
 antimony with chlorate of potassa and a little glass, either by fric
 tion or a blow, was pointed out, and the mode of applying this
 mixture experimentally demonstrated. In connection with the
 various ingenious contrivances used for firing guns and mortars by
 this means, an outline was given of the method lately introduced by
 Colonel Eardley-Wilmot, of firing guns heavily charged, for proof,
 by galvanic agency, whereby this hitherto hazardous operation was
 placed completely under the control of the person conducting the
 proof.
      Tin was employed for the manufacture of protective capsules
 for the time-fuses invented by Captain Boxer, and, in admixture
 with a small quantity of copper, or as a coating upon that metal,
 for the manufacture of large powder-canisters. The most important
 application of tin was to the formation of the alloy with copper,
 known as gun-metal. In speaking of this alloy, Mr. Abel pointed
 out some important difficulties with which the bronze gun-founders
  had to contend, and which were mainly due, on the one hand, to
 the volatilization of some of the tin, at the temperature to which
  the metal had to be raised ; and on the other, to a tendency to the
  separation, in the mass of metal, during the cooling of a casting, of
  small quantities of a very hard white alloy, which, in assuming a
 crystalline form, frequently gave rise to small cavities in the casting.
  The first difficulty was to some extent overcome by the addition of
  the tin to the melted copper and old gun-metal, in-the form of an
  alloy of one of tin to two of copper (known as hard metal), at as
  brief an interval before the metal was cast as was consistent with
  the formation of a homogeneous alloy ; the second difficulty alluded
  to was the more formidable one, and had hitherto baffled the efforts
  of metallurgists to overcome it. A searching investigation into the
  causes, and the possible means of preventing this partial separation
  of the metals, was at the present time being carried on.
      Allusion was made to other alloys of copper, such as Stirling's
 and Muntz's metal, and to the employment of sheet copper in the
  manufacture of percussion caps. Mr. Abel demonstrated experi

286         Mr. F. A. Abel on some of the applications                [May 23,
mentally the advantages possessed by the fulminate of mercury
over other fulminates, and over detonating mixtures, as a means of
firing small-arms ; and the necessity of rendering the decomposition
of the fulminate of mercury more gradual, and the resulting Heat
more intense, by employing in admixture with it chlorate of potassa
or saltpetre.* The cost of fulminate of mercury had been con
siderably reduced by the beneficial measure lately introduced by
Government, with reference to spirits of wine ; a result of the im
portant suggestion of Professors Graham, Hofmann, and Redwood,
to mix the. spirits of wine required for the arts and scientific pur
poses with a small quantity of wood-spirits, insufficient to interfere
with its applications, but sufficient to preclude the possibility of its
being rendered palatable. Alcohol was employed in large quantities
for moistening explosive or highly combustible compositions which
were subjected to successive blows, as in the preparation of fuses.
The introduction of methylated spirits for these purposes had proved
a matter of great economy, not only in consequence of its compara
tively low price, but also because it was no longer impossible, as
formerly, to ensure the exclusive application by the workmen of the
alcohol to its legitimate use.
     Mr. Abel next directed attention to some points of interest in
connection with the manufacture of gunpowder. The analysis of
a number of different specimens of powder, obtained during the
war from various English and continental sources, had shown that
no important difference, as regards composition, existed between
powders varying very much in their most important properties. A
comparison was instituted between the methods of manufacture
adopted in England, France, Prussia, and Belgium, and between
the general properties of the powders of these countries. It was
found that the very powerful pressure to which the powder made at
Waltham Abbey was submitted, rendered it superior to any other
powder, in its uniformity and its power of resisting the effects of trans
port, and of exposure to the atmosphere ; while, on the other hand,
it was inferior to continental powders in its inflammability. In the
employment of Waltham Abbey-powder in large charges, a con
siderable proportion always escaped ignition, while the combustion
of the softer continental powder, under the same circumstances, was
always, comparatively speaking, perfect. The rapidity with which
the grain of a soft powder was destroyed by transport, and the
injurious influence of moisture upon it, led to the conclusion that,
with respect to durability, the advantages were in favour of the
hard pressed powder, but that the softer powder was superior from
    * In France the preference was given to nitre, as the vapours resulting from
the decomposition of chlorate of potassa were liable to excite a corrosive action
on the nipple of the gun. In England, nitre had been abandoned in favour of
chlorate of potassa, since percussion caps, the priming of which contained the
former salt, had been found, after having been in store for some time, to have
become so much corroded as to be unserviceable.

 1856.]             of Chemistry to Military Purposes.                      287
an economic point of view, provided it were required for rapid
consumption.
      Some preliminary experiments lately instituted by the speaker,
with the view to examine into the nature of the decomposition of
a variety of powders, had shown that the residue left on the ignition
of some of the best prepared specimens (composed of the ingre
dients in the proportions indicated by theory) contained appreciable
quantities of nitric acid; and that the amount of charcoal remaining
after the decomposition of such powders formed, in many instances,
an important proportion of the total quantity contained in the powder.
These circumstances indicated that the manufacture of powder
was still susceptible of some improvements,'which should tend to
 render the mingling of the ingredients more perfect. Some patented
 modifications of the so-called incorporating process were alluded
 to, which appeared, from trials made with them, to be steps in the
right direction.
     Mr. Abel stated that, after an extensive series of experiments,
it had been determined to substitute for the tedious process of
refining saltpetre, hitherto adopted at Waltham Abbey, by repeated
 recrystallizations, the more expeditious and economical and equally
efficient method in use upon the Continent, which consists in causing
the saltpetre to be rapidly deposited in minute crystals from a hot
solution, by maintaining the latter in constant motion till cool ; in
 draining thoroughly the so-called saltpetre-flour, and in removing
 the adherent impurities by two or three successive washings, first with
 the wash-water from former operations, and finally with pure water.
      In conclusion, reference was made to the employment of other
explosive and inflammable mixtures, differing in their composition
more or less widely from gunpowder. These might be classed
under three heads : Firstly, those consisting of the ingredients of
gunpowder in varied proportions, examples of which were the
compositions for fuses and rockets ; secondly, those employed as
incendiary or smoke-producing agents, in the preparation of which
such materials as resin, bituminous coal, pitch, boiled oil, Venice
turpentine, zinc, and antimony, were employed, in addition to the
gunpowder-constituents ;* and thirdly, those which contained metals
or metallic compounds capable of imparting to flame various tints,
and which were employed as signal-lights, or for pyrotechnic com
positions.
     * It is very generally known that numerous propositions have been sub
mitted to Government, during the war, for the employment of coal-tar naphtha
as an incendiary material, and for applying, as agents of destruction, not only
some of the most inflammable, but also many of the most poisonous substances
known to chemists. None of these have, however, met with application ;
partly from the difficulties encountered in contriving means for the safe trans
port and application of the most effective of such agents; ami partly from the
natural hesitation of military men to have recourse to such novel weapons of
destruction.
     VOL. II.                                                        „

288      Mr. Abel on Chemistryfor Military Purposes.          [May 23,
    The most important of these materials for producing coloured
fires were stated to be the oxide and sulphide of copper, and the
chlorate of copper and potassa ; the nitrate of lead, the sulphide of
arsenic (orpiment); the sulphide of mercury (Elhiops mineral), and
the sub-chloride (calomel) ; zinc, antimony, and iron, as metals, in
the state of filings, &c. ; the carbonate, nitrate, and chlorate of
baryta ; and the carbonate and nitrate of strontia. Chlorate of
potassa was largely employed to increase the vehemence of the
combustion of many compositions containing colouring substances,
whereby the brilliancy of the resulting tints is much heightened.
The chlorate of baryta had lately been prepared on a very large
scale for pyrotechnic compositions, and large specimens of this very
beautiful salt were exhibited. In endeavouring to prepare a com
pound of the chlorate of copper with ammonia (similar to the
so-called ammonio-nitrate of copper), as a material for a brilliant
purple fire, Mr. Nicholson had obtained a beautifully crystalline
compound, of so powerfully explosive a character, that even its
syrupy solution detonated sharply when struck with a hammer upon
an anvil. The substance in question was more dangerous to ma
nipulate with than fulminate of mercury, but it underwent gradual .
decomposition on exposure to air, accompanied by a diminution
of its explosive properties. Some experiments in connection with
this compound had led to the observation that the ammonio-nitrate
of copper, when thoroughly dry, also possessed slight detonating
properties.
    Mr. Abel concluded his discourse by expressing the hope that
he had succeeded in laying before his audience some interesting
proofs of the intimate connection of chemical with military science,
and of the successful practical applications of the results of scientific
research to purposes, which have proved so recently, to possess the
highest national importance.
                                                         [F. A. A.]

1 856.]      Dr. Playfair on Agricultural Experiments.               289
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 30.
   SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON, G.C.S. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                  DR. LTON PLAYFAIR, C.B. F.R.S.
 On the Chemical Principles involved in Agricultural Experiments.
DR. PIAYFAIR commenced by pointing out the modern views in
regard to the food of plants. This may be divided into Air Food
and Earth Food. The air food contains carbonic acid, water,
ammonia, and nitric acid. Humus, to which great value was
formerly attached by vegetable physiologists, is now known to act
by its decay as an earth-provider of these substances. Although
the soil and plants have the power of absorbing ammonia directly
from the atmosphere, still the largest portion must be supplied to
them in solution, either in the form of rain or dew. Our know
ledge on this subject is still imperfect. The average fall of rain
on an acre may be taken in this country at 2270 tons. Taking
the largest results for the ammonia found in rain water, only 30 lbs.
of nitrogen would thus be supplied to crops, while a fair crop of
cereals, growing in a few weeks only, contains 50 lbs. of nitrogen ;
a crop of turnips contains 100 Ibs., and one of mangold and clover,
150 lbs. No doubt nitric acid furnishes a considerable quantity of
the nitrogen brought down by rain, but probably the dew is the
more active agent, and this falls in proportion as diligence applied
to the cultivation of land increases its radiating surface.
    With regard to the earth food, attention was drawn to the
essential ingredients in all plants, and to the characteristic quantities
of each in crops of different kinds. This was shown by curves,
representing the abstracted ingredients of the soil in the usual
crops.
    Within certain limits the air food may be viewed as of a con
stant composition and quantity, the diffusion of air equalising it
over all districts. But the earth food is constantly varying, both in
quality and quantity. Both air food and earth food being necessary
conditions of fertility, the sterility or diminished fertility of a field
must depend upon that condition of growth which is variable, and
not upon that which is constant. The soil (the variable condition)
                                                               f3

290         Dr. Plat/fair on the Chemical Principles        [May 30,
contains its ingredients either free or imprisoned, that is, either
soluble or insoluble. The action of air, rain, and frost, liberates
the imprisoned substances, rendering them available to plants.
The mechanical operations of the farm, ploughing, harrowing, clod
crushing, draining, &c., have this end in view. Jethro Tull ascrib
ed all success to such operations, and we find as long ago as the
time of Cato, that the weathering effects on the soil were well
known. But sooner or later the fertile ingredients of a soil must
be removed by crops ; and to prevent sterility we supply, by manure,
what we take away by cultivation. The primary action of manure
must be to render to the soil that which is taken away ; or in other
words, to produce a constant condition of growth in that which
would otherwise be variable : but its secondary action often is, like
humus, to supply an excess of air food in order to gain time in
cultivation. Nutrition of plants must be directly proportional to
the quantity of the necessary ingredients, and inversely proportional
to the obstacles to their assimilation.
     The quantity of ingredients of earth food is constant for the
same crop, within certain limits, arising from the greater or less
development of particular organic substances in them. It is with
plants as with animals. Formerly experiments used to be made
with the latter by confining them to certain substances present in
food. Dogs were fed separately on starch, or gelatine, or sugar,
and they died, because all the conditions of nutrition were not
satisfied. So it is with plants. If a single necessary ingredient be
omitted, the plant cannot grow. A child could not be expected to
thrive, if bone earth were carefully kept out of its food ; it might
have flesh in abundance, enough to grow a little Hercules, or fat
enough for a cherub, but without phosphate of lime it would refuse
to grow. Exactly the same law rules vegetable growth. This,
expressed as a law of fertility, means THAT THE BODY in minima
RULES TUB CROP. If, for instance, bone earth be the body pre
sent in least quantity, and potash, soda, lime. &c. be present in
excess, the extent of the crop will depend only upon the amount of
bone earth, and the amounts of the other substances taken up will
be exactly proportional to the limit of the former. All the bone
earth being removed, the excess of the other substances is of no use,
for the crop will refuse to grow. Add, however, an excess of bone
earth, the crop will grow to the extent of the next substance, in
minima, which may be sulphuric acid, or any other necessary
ingredient.
     After explaining these general laws of fertility, the establish
ment of which are entirely due to Liebig, Dr. Playfair proceeded
to apply them to the recent experiments made b)' farmers, and
which were supposed by them to be irreconcileablo with the pervail-
ing notions of agricultural chemistry. He drew attention to the
experiments of Mr. Lawes, who, aided by Dr. Gilbert, has carried
on conscientiously, and with a full desire to arrive at just conclu

1856.]           involved in Agricultural Experiments.              291
sions, a series of trials on a scale rather befitting a public body
than a private individual. As a general result of these it was found
that mineral manures alone did not suffice for full crops of cereals,
but that ammonia was required to be added to them for proper
success. The air then did not supply enough of the latter substance.
As regards root crops, such as turnips, the result was different,
mineral bodies, especially phosphates and sulphates, being found to
be highly beneficial, while ammonia did not appear to be required
as an addition tto the manure. Alkalies were found favourable to
the leguminous crops. When the different habits of the plants are
considered, the results appear to be more comprehensible. Cereals
have a small expanse of leaf, and 'a short period of life. In the
 17 weeks of their growth at liothamstead. they receive 800 or 900
tons of water as rain, of which about 500 tons are evaporated by
passing through the crop. But in reality they make half their dry
substance in four or five weeks, liven admitting that they re
ceived all the ammonia of the rain, only about 12 lbs. of nitrogen
would be thus received by the crops, instead of the 50 lbs. which
they require. In the case of the short-lived cereals, to which a
gain of time is everything, it would be natural to expect that an
augmentation of ammonia would be favourable to their growth.
     The turnip, on the other hand, grows steadily over 21 weeks,
making dry substance all the time, and with its broad leaves can
take in more air food. Then, as regards earth food. The wheat
has long greedy roots, which it throws out in all directions in search
of food ; the turnip, with its small delicate fibres, is dependant on
the food in its immediate vicinity. The wheat is an accomplished
forager, like the light Zouave, and if food be in the soil it will pro
cure it. The turnip is like the bulky English soldier who, unless
food is brought up to his tent door, is likely to fare badly. These
habits of the plants determine why an artificial supply of an ingre
dient of air food is more necessary to one, and of eurth food to the
other ; but this result, though a valuable accession to our know
ledge, in no way shakes the original laws of nutrition.
    It is not, however, quite clear that even cereals with high cul
tivation may not get ammonia enough for themselves out of the
air, without an artificial supply being given. At Lois Wecdon, a
soil frequently stirred and well worked has, without any manure,
grown for ten years full crops of wheat of 34 bushels, on half an
acre placed under growth, the other half being kept under fallow.
In this instance, the absorption and radiating power of the soil
being much increased by the frequent stirring, more ammonia is
absorbed, and more dew containing ammonia is deposited, while
the weathering of the soil has hitherto liberated sufficient mineral
ingredients for full crops.
     If no other conclusion had been drawn by farmers from the
Rothamstead experiments than that, in soils of an ordinary condition,
an artificial supply of ammonia must be furnished to cereals, a

292        Dr. Playfair on Agricultural Experiments.        [May 30,
practical result of importance would have been arrived at ; but
they have laid down as an agricultural dogma, that " nitrogen is
the manure for wheat, and phosphorus and sulphates for turnip,"
thus re-introducing the notion of specifics into the laws of manure.
What, in the present stage of physiology, would be thought of a
similar dogma in regard to animals? Because a horse contains
more muscle, though less fat than a cow, it would not be permitted
as a law of nutrition, to say that " Carbon is the food for a cow,
and nitrogen for a horse ;" or because the sinewy Arab contains
less bone earth than the large-boned Highlander, " Nitrogen is the
food for an Arab, and phosphorus for a Highlander."
    This introduction of the idea of specifics into agriculture is
dropping the veil of Isis over the whole subject. The sum of
nutrition is made up of two factors, air food and earth food. Both
factors are of equal importance. To discuss whether air food or
earth food does most for particular crops is like discussing which
side of a pair of scissors is most useful in cutting, or whether the
upper or lower jaw is of most use in chewing. Dr. Playfair
discussed at length the conditions of durable fertility of a soil,
showing that the earth food was the capital of the farmer, and that
any diminution in his capital should only be made by a deliberate
and intelligent decision. For example, on a limestone soil it would
be legitimate to draw upon lime without replacement, or in heavy
clay soils upon alkalies. But as no soil is equally rich in all ingre
dients, an unintelligent draught on the soil will soon destroy it, for
when one ingredient of earth food becomes in minima the fertility
is reduced to its proportion, and is destroyed when it is used up. '
    Dr. Playfair then proceeded to show how the chief recent
experiments in manures, which were rendered graphically in dia
grams, bore out these views. Among others a series of experiments
made in Saxony to show the duration of the action of manures led
to conclusive results. Thus, in one case, an addition of 1 1 lbs.
of phosphoric acid produced an augmentation of a half more crop
of clover containing 158 Ibs. more of earth food and nitrogen, thus
showing, not that phosphoric acid was a specific, but that it was the
body in minima, and this being supplied, the crop was enabled to
thrive and appropriate from the air and the soil the large quantities
of other ingredients necessary for its development, but which were
of no use when one ingredient was deficient in its necessary pro
portional quantity.
    All the variations of district or local agriculture, instead of
representing specifies, which varying in them, would by contradictory
experience destroy one another, represent only immediate require
ments of particular soils having different bodies in minima.
    The only "specific" that should be admitted into farming is a
knowledge of the laws upon which nutrition depends. As long as
farming is carried on without an acquaintance with these laws
on the part of its cultivators, great progress cannot be expected,

 185ti.]                General Monthly Meeting.                      293
and uncertain counsels will always prevail. It is not the duty of
such philosophers as Liebig to make the direct applications of the
laws of nature which they discover to the actual practice of the
field. It is, however, the duty of the practical man thoroughly to
 understand these laws, and to find their technical applications for
 himself, for this is his art, as the other is the science of the philoso
 pher. The recent review of the agricultural experiments which
 are supposed to be so antagonistic to Liebig's views of the science,
 Dr. Playfair had endeavoured to show were, when properly discus
 sed, strongly confirmatory of them, and the antagonism was due
 not to any inherent contradiction between the philosopher and the
 farmer, but to a want of understanding as to their relative positions
 and duties to each other.
                                                               [L. P.]
              GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, June 2.
WIIJJAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                 James C. C. Bell, Esq. Consul for the Grand
                           Duchy of Tuscany.
                 Charles Oliver Frederick Cator, Esq.
                 William Crawford, Esq.
                 Frederick William Irby, Esq.
                 William Gibbs, Esq.
                 John Smith, Esq. and
                 Theodore Talbot, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                 George Hudswell Westerman, Esq.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   FROM
Airey, G. B.Esq. F.R.S. Astronomer-Royal—Discussion of the Deviations of
     'the Compass in Wood-built and Iron-built Ships. (Phil. Trans.) 4to.
      1856.

294                        General Monthly Meeting.                  [June 2,
Allies, T. W. Esq. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—The See of St. Peter, the
       Rock of the Church, the Source of Jurisdiction, and the Centre of Unity.
        16mo. 1855.
Astronomical Society, Royal —Monthly Notices. Vol. XVI. No. 7. 8vo. 1856.
    Memoirs, Vol. XXIV. 4to. 1856.
    Monthly Notices, Vol. XV. 8vo. 1854-5.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. MM. I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1856. 8vo.
Booseu, Messrs, (the Publisher*)—The Musical World for May, 1856. 4to.
Bradbury, Henry, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—On the Security and Manufacture
       of Bank-Notes ; a Lecture. 4to. 1856.
    The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland. By T. Moore, F.L.S. Edited by
       J. Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.S. Part 14. fol. 1856.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in May 1856. 4to.
British Museum, Trustees of the—List of Birds. Part 4. 12mo. 1856.
    List of Lepidopterous Insects. Part 7. 12mo. 1856.
Civil Engineers, Institute </—Proceedings in May 1856. 8vo.
Commixsionersfor the Exhibition of 1851—Third Report. 8vo. 1856.
Domville, Sir W., Bart. M.R.I, (the Author}—The Sabbath : or an Inquiry into
       the Supposed Obligation of the Sabbaths of the Old Testament. 2 vols.
       8vo. 1849-55.
Dublin Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. I. Part 1. 8vo. 1856.
East India Company, the Hon.—Magnetical and Meteorological Observations
       at Bombay m 1852. 4to. 1855.
Editors—The Medical Circular for May 1856. 8vo.
       The Practical Mechanic's Journal for May 1856. 4to.
       The Journal of Gas-Lighting for May 1856. 4to.
       The Mechanic's Magazme for May 1856. 8vo.
       The Athenffium for May 1856. 4to.
       The Engineer for May 1856. fol.
       The Literarium for May 1856. fol.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S. (the Author)—Experimental Researches
       in Electricity. Thirtieth Series. (Phil. Trans.) 4to. 1856.
    Monatsberichte der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie, Marz und April 1656.
       8vo. Berlin.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Nos. 1 and 2. 8vo. 1855-6.
Geological Society of Dublin—Journal, Vol. VII. Parts 1 and 2. 8vo. 1856.
Geological Society—Journal, No. 46. 8vo. 1656.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General)—Report of the Registrar-General
       for May 1856. 8vo.
Grove, W.R. Esq. Q.C. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Lecture on the Progress
       of Physical Science. 8vo. 1842.
Kniglu, Mr. G. (the Publisher)—R. F. Barnes on the Dry Collodion Process.
        16mo. 1856.
 /.i-iriu, Malcolm, Esq. M.R.I.—Address to the Citizens of London on the
       Pending Corporation Bill. 8vo. 1856.
Linnean Society—Journal, Vol. I. No. 2. 8vo. 1856.
Londesborough, the Lord, K.H. M.R.I.—Miscellanea Graphics, No. 9. 4to.
        1856.
Macrory, Edmund, Esq. M.R.I, (the Editor)—The Private Diane of Elizabeth
       Viscountess Mordaunt (from the M.S.) (Portraits.) Privately printed.
        16mo. 1856.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), June 1856. 8vo.
Nooello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for May 1856. 4to.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 42. 8vo. 1856.
Radclijfe Trustees, Oxford—Radclifle Observations for 1854. 8vo. 1856.
Shariatt, Mr. Edwin (the Author)—Popular Treatise on Light. 16mo. 1856.
Society of Arts.—Journal for May 1856. 8vo.
Tyndall, 1'rnfaaor, I'.R.S. (the Author)—Further Researches on the Polarity
       of the Diamagnetic Force. (Phil. Trans.) 4to. 1856.

1856.]              Prof. Tyndull on Cleavage of Crystals.
1 1 cale, John, A's</. (the Publisher)—Rudimentary Treatises :—
    liticent and Fossil Shells ; Part 3. 12mo. 1856.
    Use of Field Artillery ; by Taubert. 12mo. 1856.
    Key to the Elements of Algebra. 12mo. 1856.
    Ships' Anchors. 12mo. 1856.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                   Friday, June 6.
   SIR UOUEKKK I. MUKCHISON, G.C.S. F.R.S. V icc-President,
                                     in the Chair.
                         JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. F.R.S.
               PROFESSOR OF NATURAL PIIILOSOPHV IN THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
Comparative View of tfie Cleavage of Crystals and Slate Rocks.
             the student of physical science has to investigate the
character of any natural force, his first care must be to purify it
from the mixture of other forces, and thus study its simple action.
If, for example, he wishes to know how a mass of water would
shape itself, supposing it to be at liberty to follow the bent of its
own molecular forces, he must see that these forces have free and
undisturbed exercise. We might perhaps refer him to the dew-
drop for a solution of the question ; but here we have to do, not
only with the action of the molecules of the liquid upon each other,
but also with the action of gravity upon the mass, which pulls the
drop downwards and elongates it. If he would examine the
problem in its purity, he must do as Plateau has done, withdraw
the liquid mass from the action of gravity, and he would then find
the shape of the mass to be perfectly spherical . Natural processes
come to us in a mixed manner, and to the uninstructed mind are a
mass of unintelligible confusion. Suppose half-a-dozen of the best
musical performers to be placed in the same room, each playing his
own instrument to perfection : though each individual instrument
migh be a wellspring of melody, still the mixture of all would
produce mere noise. Thus it is with the processes of nature. In
nature mechanical and molecular laws mingle and create apparent
confusion. Their mixture constitutes what may be called the
noise of natural laws ; and it is the vocation of the man of science to
resolve this noise into its components, and thus to detect the
" music " in which the foundations of nature are laid.
      The necessity of this detachment of one force from all other

 296          Prof. Tyndall, on t/te Comparative View of        [June 6,
forces is nowhere more strikingly exhibited than in the phaeno-
 mena of crystallization. I have here a solution of sulphate of
soda. Prolonging the mental vision beyond the boundaries of
sense, we see the atoms of that liquid, like squadrons under the
eye of an experienced general, arranging themselves into battalions,
gathering round a central standard, and forming themselves into
solid masses, which after a time assume the visible shape of the
crystal which I here hold in my hand. I may, like an ignorant
meddler wishing to hasten matters, introduce confusion into this
order. I do so by plunging this glass rod into the vessel ; the
consequent action is not the pure expression of the crystalline
forces ; the atoms rush together with the confusion of an unor
ganized mob, and not with the steady accuracy of a disciplined
host. Here also in this mass of bismuth we have an example of
this confused crystallization ; but in the crucible behind me a slower
process is going on : here there is an architect at work " who makes
no chips, no din," and who is now building the particles into
crystals, similar in shape and structure to those beautiful masses
which we see upon the table. By permitting alum to crystal
lize in this slow way, we obtain these perfect octahedrons ; by
allowing carbonate of lime to crystallize, nature produces these
beautiful rhomboids ; when silica crystallizes, we have formed
these hexagonal prisms capped at the ends by pyramids ; by
allowing saltpetre to crystallize we have these prismatic masses,
and when carbon crystallizes, we have the diamond. If we wish
to obtain a perfect crystal, we must allow the molecular forces
free play : if the crystallizing mass be permitted to rest upon a
surface it will be flattened, and to prevent this a small crystal
must be so suspended as to be surrounded on all sides by the
liquid, or, if it rest upon the surface, it must be turned daily so
as to present all its faces in succession to the working builder.
In this way the scientific man nurses these children of his intel
lect, watches over them with a care worthy of imitation, keeps all
influences away which might possibly invade the strict morality
of crystalline laws, and finally sees them developed into forms of
symmetry and beauty which richly reward the care bestowed upon
them.*
     In building up crystals, these little atomic bricks often ar
range themselves into layers which are perfectly parallel to each
other, and which can be separated by mechanical means ; this is
called the cleavage of the crystal. I have here a crystallized mass
which has thus far escaped the abrading and disintegrating forces
which sooner or later determine the fate of sugar-candy. If I
am skilful enough I shall discover that this crystal of sugar cleaves
   * To Mr. Pattinson, of the Felling Chemical Works, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne, I am indebted for some fine specimens of crystallized alum and car
bonate of soda.

 1856.]        the Cleavage of Crystals and Slate Rocks.                     297
with peculiar facility in one direction. Here again I have a mass
of rock-salt : I lay my knife upon it, and with a blow cleave it in
this direction ; but I find on further examining this substance
that it cleaves in more directions than one. Laying my knife at
right angles to its former position, the crystal cleaves again ; and
finally placing the knife at right angles to the two former positions,
the mass cleaves again. Thus rock-salt cleaves in three direc
tions, and the resulting solid is this perfect cube, which may be
broken up into any number of smaller cubes. Here is a mass of
Iceland spar, which also cleaves in three directions, not at right
 angles, but oblique to each other, the resulting solid being a
rhomboid. In each of these cases the mass cleaves with equal
 facility in all three directions. For the sake of completeness I
may say that many substances cleave with unequal facility in
 different directions, and the heavy spar I hold in my hand presents
 an example of this kind of cleavage.
     Turn we now to the consideration of some other phaenomena
to which the term cleavage may be applied. This piece of beech-
wood cleaves with facility parallel to the fibre, and if our ex
periments were fine enough we should discover that the cleavage
is most perfect when the edge of the axe is laid across the rings
which mark the growth of the tree. The fibres of the wood lie
side by side, and a comparatively small force is sufficient to
separate them. If you look at this mass of hay severed from a
rick, you will see a sort of cleavage developed in it also ; the
stalks lie in parallel planes, and only a small force is required
to separate them laterally. But we cannot regard the cleavage of
the tree as the same in character as the cleavage of the hayrick.
In the one case it is the atoms arranging themselves according to
organic laws which produce a cleavable structure.; in the other
case the easy separation in a certain direction is due to the me
chanical arrangement of the coarse sensible masses of the stalks of
hay.
     In like manner I find that this piece of sandstone cleaves
parallel to the planes of bedding. This rock was once a powder,
more or less coarse, held in mechanical suspension by water.
The powder was composed of two distinct parts, fine grains of
sand and small plates of mica. Imagine a wide strand covered
by a tide which holds such powder in suspension :* how will it
sink ? The rounded grains of sand will reach the bottom first, the
mica afterwards, and when the tide recedes, we have the little
plates shining like spangles upon the surface of the sand. Each
successive tide brings its charge of mixed powder, deposits its
duplex layer day after day, and finally masses of immense thick-
    * I merely use this as an illustration ; the deposition may have really been
due to sediment carried down by rivers. But the action must have been
periodie, and the powder duplex.

298           Prof. Tyndall, on the Comparative View of            [June 6,
ness are thus piled up, which by preserving the alternations of
sand and mica tell the tale of their formation. I do not wish you
to accept this without proof. Take the sand and mica, mix them
together in water, and allow them to subside, they will arrange
themselves in the manner I have indicated ; and by repeating the
process you can actually build up a sandstone mass which shall be
the exact counterpart of that presented by nature, as I have done
in this glass jar. Now this structure cleaves with readiness along
the planes in which the particles of mica are strewn. Here is a
mass of such a rock sent to me from Halifax : here are other
masses from the quarries of Over Darwen, in Lancashire.* With
a hammer and chisel you see I can cleave them into flags ; in
deed these flags are made use of for roofing purposes in the dis
tricts from which the specimens have come, and receive the name of
" slatestone." But you will discern without a word from me, that
this cleavage is not a crystalline cleavage any more than that of a
hayrick is. It is not an arrangement produced by molecular forces ;
indeed it would be just as reasonable to suppose that on this jar of
sand and mica the particles arranged themselves into layers by the
forces of crystallizalion, instead of by the simple force of gravity,
as to imagine that such a cleavage as this could be the product of
crystallization.
      This, so far as I am aware of, has never been imagined ; and it
has been agreed among geologists not to call such splitting as this
cleavage at all, but to restrict the term to a class of phaenomena
 which I shall now proceed to consider.
      Those who have visited the slate quarries of Cumberland and
 North Wales will have witnessed the phaenomena to which I refer.
 We have long drawn our supply of roofing-slates from such
quarries ; schoolboys ciphered on these slates, they were used for
tombstones in churchyards, and for billiard-tables in the metropolis ;
but not until a comparatively late period did men begin to inquire
how their wonderful structure was produced. What is the agency
 which enables us to split Honister Crag, or the cliffs of Snowdon,
 into laminae from crown to base ? This question is at the present
 moment one of the greatest difficulties of geologists, and occupies
 their attention perhaps more than any other. You may wonder at
 this. Looking into the quarry of Penrhyn, you may be disposed to
explain the question, as I heard it explained two years ago.
 " These planes of cleavage," said a friend who stood beside me on
 the quarry's edge, "are the planes of stratification which have
 been lifted by some convulsion into an almost vertical position."
 But this was a great mistake, and indeed here lies the grand
 difficulty of the problem. These planes of cleavage stand in most
 cases at a high angle to the bedding. Thanks to Sir Roderick
     * For the specimens from Halifax I have to thank Mr. Richard Carter, and
 for those from Darwen I am indebted to Mr. J. Singleton.

1856.]          the Cleavage of Crystals and Slate Rocks.                    299
Murchison, who has kindly permitted me the use of specimens
from the Museum of Practical Geology (and here I may be per
mitted to express my acknowledgments to the distinguished staff of
that noble establishment, who, instead of considering me an in
truder, have welcomed me as a brother), I am able to place the
proof of this before you. Here is a mass of slate in which the
planes of bedding are distinctly marked ; here are the planes of
cleavage, and you see that one of them makes a large angle with
the other. The cleavage of slates is therefore not a question of
stratification, and the problem which we have now to consider is,
" By what cause has this cleavage been produced ? "
     In an able and elaborate essay on this subject in 1 835, Professor
Sedgwick proposed the theory that cleavage is produced by the
action of crystalline or polar forces after the mass has been con
solidated. " We may affirm," he says, " that no retreat of the
parts, no contraction of dimensions in passing to a solid state, can
explain such phaenomena. They appear to me only resolvable on
the supposition that crystalline or polar forces acted upon the whole
mass simultaneously in one direction and with adequate force."
And again, in another place : " Crystalline forces have rearranged
whole mountain masses, producing a beautiful crystalline cleavage,
passing alike through all the strata."* The utterance of such a
man struck deep, as was natural, into the minds of geologists, and at
the present day there are few who do not entertain this view either
in whole or in part.f The magnificence of the theory, indeed, has,
in some cases, caused speculation to run riot, and we have books
published, aye and largely sold, on the action of polar forces and
geologic magnetism, which rather astonish those who know some
thing about the subject. According to the theory referred to,
miles and miles of the districts of North Wales and Cumberland,
comprising huge mountain masses, are neither more nor less than
the parts of a gigantic crystal. These masses of slate were
originally fine mud ; this mud is composed of the broken and
abraded particles of older rocks. It contains silica, alumina,
iron, potash, soda, and mica mixed in sensible masses mechani
cally together. In the course of ages the mass became consoli
dated, and the theory before us assumes that afterwards a pro
cess of crystallization rearranged the particles and developed in
    * Transactions of the Geological Society, ser. ii. vol. iii. p. 477.
    t In a letter from Sir Charles Lyell, dated from the Cape of Good Hope,
February 20, 1836, Sir John Herschel writes as follows:—" If rocks have been
so heated as to allow of a commencement of crystallization, that is to say, if
they have been heated to a point at which the particles can begin to move
amongst themselves, or at least on their own axes, some general law must then
determine the position in which these particles will rest on cooling. Probably
that position will have some relation to the direction in which the heat escapes.
Now when all or a majority of particles of the same nature have a general ten
dency to one position, that must of course determine a cleavage plane."

300         Prof. Tyndall, on the Comparative View of           [June 6,
the mass a single plane of crystalline cleavage. With reference to
this hypothesis, I will only say that it is a bold stretch of analogies :
but still it has done good service ; it has drawn attention to the
question ; right or wrong a theory thus thoughtfully uttered has its
value ; it is a dynamic power which operates against intellectual
stagnation ; and even by provoking opposition is eventually of ser
vice to the cause of truth. It would however have been remarkable
if, among the ranks of geologists themselves, men were not found
to seek an explanation of the phaeoomena in question, which
involved a less hardy spring on the part of the speculative faculty
than the view to which I have just referred.
     The first step in an inquiry of this kind is to put oneself into
contact with nature, to seek facts. This has been done, and the
labours of Sharpe (the late President of the Geological Society, who,
to the loss of science and the sorrow of all who knew him, has so
suddenly been taken away from us), Sorby, and others, have fur
nished us with a body of evidence which reveals to us certain
important physical phaeuomena, associated with the appearance of
slaty cleavage, if they have not produced it : the nature of this
evidence we will now proceed to consider.
     Fossil shells are found in these slate-rocks. I have here
several specimens of such shells, occupying various positions with
regard to the cleavage planes. They are squeezed, distorted, and
crushed. In some cases a flattening of the convex shell occurs, in
others the valves are pressed by a force which acted in the plane of
their junction ; but in all cases the distortion is such as leads to
the inference that the rock which contains these shells has been
subjected to enormous pressure in a direction at right angles to the
planes of cleavage ; the shells are all flattened and spread out
upon these planes. I hold in my hand a fossil trilobite of normal
proportions. Here is a series of fossils of the same creature which
have suffered distortion. Some have lain across, some along, and
some oblique to the cleavage of the slate in which they are found ;
in all cases the nature of the distortion is such as required for its
production a compressing force acting at right angles to the planes
of cleavage. As the creatures lay in the mud in the manner in
dicated, the jaws of a gigantic vice appear to have closed upon
them and squeezed them into the shape you see. As further
evidence of the exertion of pressure, let me introduce to your
notice a case of contortion which has been adduced by Mr. Sorby.
The bedding of the rock shown in this figure was once horizontal ;
at A we have a deep layer of mud, and at m n a layer of compara
tively unyielding gritty material ; below that again, at B, we
have another layer of the fine mud of which slates are formed.
This mass cleaves along the shading lines of the diagram : but
look at the shape of the intermediate bed : it is contorted into a
serpentine form, and leads irresistibly to the conclusion that the
mass has been pressed together at right angles to the planes of

1856.]        the Cleavage of Crystals and Slate Rocks.          301
cleavage. This action can be experimentally imitated, and I
have here a piece of clay in which this is done and the same
result produced on a small scale.
The amount of compression, in         C
deed, might be roughly estimated
by supposing this contorted bed
in n to be stretched out, its
length measured and compared
with the distance cd; we find in
this way that the yielding of the
mass has been considerable.
     Let me now direct your at
tention to another proof of pres
sure ; you see the varying colours
which indicate the bedding on
this mass of slate. The dark
portion, as I have stated, is gritty,
and composed of comparatively
coarse particles, which, owing to
their size, shape and gravity, sink
first and constitute the bottom
of each layer. Gradually, from
bottom to top the coarseness di
minishes, and near the upper sur
face of each layer we have a mass
of comparatively fine clean mud.
Sometimes this fine mud forms
distinct layers in a mass of slate-
rock, and it is the mud thus con
solidated from which are derived
 the German razor-stones, so much prized for the sharpening of sur
 gical instruments. I have here an example of such a stone ; when
a bed is thin, the clean white mud is permitted to rest, as in this
 case, upon a slab of the coarser slate in contact with it : when the
 bed is thick, it is cut into slices which are cemented to pieces of
 ordinary slate, and thus rendered stronger. The mud thus deposit
ed sometimes in layers is, as might be expected, often rolled up
 into nodular masses, carried forward, and deposited by the rivers
from which the slate-mud has subsided. Here, indeed, are such
 nodules enclosed in sand-stone. Everybody who has ciphered upon
a school-slate must remember the whitish-green spots which some
times dotted the surface of the slate ; he will remember how his
 slate-pencil usually slid over such spots as if they were greasy ;
 now these spots are composed of the finer mud, and they could not,
 on account of their fineness, bite the pencil like the surrounding
gritty portions of the slate. Here is a beautiful example of the
 spots : you observe them on the cleavage surface in broad patches ;
 but if this mass has been compressed at right angles to the planes

302            Pr0f- Tyndall, on the Comparative View of           [June fi,
of cleavage, ought we to expect the same marks when we look at
the edge of the slab ? The nodules will be flattened by such pres
sure, and we ought to see evidence of this flattening when we turn
the slate edgeways. Here it is. The section of a nodule is a
sharp ellipse with its major axis parallel to the cleavage. There
are other examples of the same nature on the table ; I have made
excursions to the quarries of Wales and Cumberland, and to many
of the slate-yards of London, but the same fact invariably appears,
and thus we elevate a common experience of our boyhood into
evidence of the highest significance as regards one of the most
important problems of geology. In examining the magnetism of
these slates, I was led to infer that these spots would contain a less
amount of iron than the surrounding dark slate. The analysis was
made for me by Mr. Hambly, in the laboratory of Dr. Percy, at the
School of Mines. The result which is stated iu this Table, justifies
the conclusion to which I have referred.
                              Analysis of Slate.
                        Purple Slate, two analyses.
      •_         1. Per-centage of iron . . . 5 '85
      H-^ 2                !)       >J       .  .   .   6-n
                                                        O IO
                                        Mean .      .   5'99
                                Greenish Slate.
                  1. Per-centage of iron .
                 2.        ,,
                                        Mean    .   .   3'18
The quantity of iron in the dark slate immediately adjacent to the
greenish spot is, according to these analyses, nearly double of the
quantity contained in the spot itself. This is about the proportion
which the magnetic experiments suggested.
     Let me now remind you that the facts which I have brought
before you are typical facts—each is the representative of a class.
We have seen shells crushed ; the unhappy trilobites squeezed, beds
contorted, nodules of greenish marl flattened ; and all these sources
of independent testimony point to one and the same conclusion,
namely, that slate-rocks have been subjected to enormous pressure
in a direction at right angles to the planes of cleavage.*
    * While to my mind the evidence in proof of pressure seems perfectly
irresistible, I by no means assert that the manner in which I have stated it
is incapable of modification. All that I deem important is the fact that
pressure has been exerted ; and provided this remain firm, the fate of any
minor portion of the evidence by which it is here established is of compara
tively little moment.

1856.]       the Cleavage of Crystals and Slate Rocks.             303
     In reference to Mr. Sorby's contorted bed, I have said that by
supposing it to be stretched out and its length measured, it would
give us an idea of the amount of yielding of the uiass above and
below the bed. Such a measurement, however, would not quite
give the amount of yielding ; and here- 1 would beg your attention
to a point, the significance of which has, so far as I am aware of,
hitherto escaped attention. I hold in my hand a specimen of slate
with its bedding marked upon it ; the lower portions of each bed
are composed of a comparatively coarse gritty material something
like what you may suppose this contorted bed to be composed of.
Well, I find that the cleavage takes a bend in crossing these gritty
portions, and that the tendency of these portions is to cleave more
at right angles to the bedding. Look to this diagram : when the
forces commenced to act, this intermediate bed, which though com
paratively unyielding is not entirely so, suffered longitudinal pres
sure ; as it bent, the pressure became gradually more lateral, and
the direction of its cleavage is exactly such as you would infer from
a force of this kind—it is neither quite across the bed, nor yet in
the same direction as the cleavage of the slate above and below it,
but intermediate between both. Supposing the cleavage to be at
right angles to the pressure, this is the direction which it ought to
take across these more unyielding strata.
     Thus we have established the concurrence of the phaenomena
of cleavage and pressure—that they accompany each other ; but
the question still remains, Is this pressure of itself sufficient to
account for the cleavage ? A single geologist, as far as I am aware,
answers boldly in the affirmative. This geologist is Sorby, who
has attacked the question in the true spirit of a physical investi
gator. You remember the cleavage of the flags of Halifax and
Over Darwen, which is caused by the interposition of plates of
mica between the layers. Mr. Sorby examines the structure of
slate-rock, and finds plates of mica to be a constituent. He asks
himself, what will be the effect of pressure upon a mass containing
such plates confusedly mixed up in it ? It will be, he argues, and
he argues rightly, to place the plates with their flat surfaces more or
less perpendicular to the direction in which the pressure is exerted.
He takes scales of the oxide of iron, mixes them with a fine powder,
and on squeezing the mass finds that the tendency of the scales is to
set themselves at right angles to the line of pressure. Now the
planes in which these plates arrange themselves will, he contends,
be those along which the mass cleaves.
    I could show you by tests of a totally different character from
those applied by Mr. Sorby, how true his conclusion is, that the
effect of pressure on elongated particles, or plates, will be such as
he describes it. Nevertheless, while knowing this fact, and admi
ring the ability with which Mr. Sorby has treated this question, I
cannot accept his explanation of slate- cleavage. I believe that
    VOL. II.                                                x

304           Prof. Tyndall, on the Comparative View of                [June 6,
even if these plates of mica were wholly absent the cleavage of
slate rocks would be much the same as it is at present.
     I will not dwell here upon minor facts,—I will not urge that
the perfection of the cleavage bears no relation to the quantity of
mica present ; but I will come at once to a case which to my mind
completely upsets the notion that such plates are a necessary element
in the production of cleavage.
     Here is a mass of pure white wax : there are no mica particles
here ; there are no scales of iron, or anything analogous mixed
up with the mass. Here is the self-same substance submitted to
pressure. I would invite the attention of the eminent geologists
whom I see before me to the structure of this mass. No slate ever
exhibited so clean a cleavage ; it splits into laminae of surpassing
tenuity, and proves at a single stroke that pressure is sufficient to
produce cleavage, and that this cleavage is independent of the
intermixed plates of mica assumed in Mr. Sorby's theory. I have
purposely mixed this wax with elongated particles, and am unable
to say at the present moment that the cleavage is sensibly affected
by their presence, —if anything, I should say they rather impair its
fineness and clearness than promote it.
     The finer the slate the more perfect will be the resemblance of
its cleavage to that of the wax. Compare the surface of the wax
with the surface of this slate from Borrodale in Cumberland. You
have precisely the same features in both : you see flakes clinging to
the surfaces of each, which have been partially torn away by the
cleavage of the mass : I entertain the conviction that if any close
observer compares these two effects, he will be led to the conclusion
that they are the product of a common cause.*
     But you will ask me how, according to my view, does pressure
produce this remarkable result ? This may be stated in a very few
words.
     Nature is everywhere imperfect ! The eye is not perfectly
achromatic, the colours of the rose and tulip are not pure colours,
and the freshest air of our hills has a bit of poison in it. In like
manner there is no such thing in nature as a body of perfectly
homogeneous structure. I break this clay which seems so inti
mately mixed, and find that the fracture presents to my eyes in
numerable surfaces along which it has given way, and it has yielded
along these surfaces because in them the cohesion of the mass is
less than elsewhere. I break this marble, and even this wax, and
observe the same result : look at the mud at the bottom of a dried
pond ; look to some of the ungravelled walks in Kensington Gar-
    * I have usually softened the wax by wanning it, kneaded it with the
fingers, and pressed it between thick plates of glass previously wetted. At the
ordinary summer temperature the wax is soft, and tears rather than cleaves ;
on this account I cool my compressed specimens in a mixture of pounded ice
agd salt, and when thus cooled they split beautifully.

1856.]         the Cleavage of Crystals and Slate Rocks.                  303
dens on drying after rain,—they are cracked and split, and other
circumstances being equal, they crack and split where the cohesion
of the mass is least. Take then a mass of partially consolidated
mud. Assuredly such a mass is divided and subdivided by surfaces
along which the cohesion is comparatively small. Penetrate the
mass, and you will see it composed of numberless irregular nodules
bounded by surfaces of weak cohesion. Figure to your mind's eye
such a mass subjected to pressure,—the mass yields and spreads out
in the direction of least resistance ;* the little nodules become con
verted into laminae, separated from each other by surfaces of weak
cohesion, and the infallible result will be that such a mass will cleave
at right angles to the line in which the pressure is exerted.
      Further, a mass of dried mud is full of cavities and fissures.
If you break dried pipe-clay you see them in great numbers, and
there are multitudes of them so small that you cannot see them. I
have here a piece of glass in which a bubble was enclosed ; by the
 compression of the glass the bubble is flattened, and the sides of
 the bubble approach each other so closely as to exhibit the colours
of thin plates. A similar flattening of the cavities must take place
in squeezed mud, and this must materially facilitate the cleavage of
 the mass in the direction already indicated.
      Although the time at my disposal has not permitted me to
 develope this thought as far as I could wish, yet for the last twelve
 months the subject has presented itself to me almost daily under
 one aspect or another. I have never eaten a biscuit during this
 period in which an intellectual joy has not been superadded to
 the more sensual pleasure ; for I have remarked in all such cases
 cleavage developed in the mass by the rolling-pin of the pastrycook
 or confectioner. I have only to break these cakes, and to look at
 the fracture, to see the laminated structure of the mass. Nay, I
 have the means of pushing the analogy further ; I have here some
 slate which was subjected to a high temperature during the confla
 gration of Mr. Scott Russell's premises. I invite you to compare
  this structure with that of a biscuit : air or vapour within the mass
  has caused it to swell, and the mechanical structure it reveals is
  precisely that of a biscuit. I have gone a little into the mysteries
  of baking while conducting my inquiries on this subject, and have
 received much instruction from a lady friend in the manufacture of
 puff-paste. Here is some such paste baked in this house under my
 own superintendence. The cleavage of our hills is accidental
 cleavage, but this is cleavage with intention. The volition of the
  pastrycook has entered into the formation of the mass, and it has
 been his aim to preserve a series of surfaces of structural weakness,
     * It is scarcely necessary to say that if the mass were squeezed equally in
 all directions no laminated structure could be produced ; it must have room to
 yield in a lateral direction.

  306         Prof. Tyndall, on the Comparative View of                 [June G,
  along which the dough divides into layers. Puff-paste must not
  be handled too much, for then the continuity of the surfaces is
  broken ; it ought to be rolled on a cold slab, to prevent the butter
  from melting, and diffusing itself through the mass, thus rendering
  it more homogeneous and less liable to split. This ,is the whole
 philosophy of puff-paste ; it is a grossly exaggerated case of slaty
 cleavage.*
       As time passed on cases multiplied, illustrating the influence of
  pressure in producing lamination. Mr. Warren De la Rue informs
  me that he once wished to obtain white-lead in a fine granular
 state, and to accomplish this he first compressed the mass : the
 mould was conical, and permitted the mass to spread a little late
 rally under the pressure. The lamination was as perfect as that
 of slate, and quite defeated him in his effort to obtain a granular
 powder. Mr. Brodie, as you are aware, has recently discovered a
 new kind of graphite : here is the substance in powder, of exquisite
 fineness. This powder has the peculiarity of clinging together in
 little confederacies ; it cannot be shaken asunder like lycopodium ;
 and when the mass is squeezed, these groups of particles flatten,
 and a perfect cleavage is produced. Mr. Brodie himself has
 been kind enough to furnish me with specimens for this evening's
 discourse. I will cleave them before you : you see they split up into
 plates which are perpendicular to the line in which the pressure
 was exerted. This testimony is all the more valuable, as the
facts were obtained without any reference whatever to the question
of cleavage.
      I have here a mass of that singular substance Boghead cannel.t
 This was once a mass of mud, more or less resembling this one,
 which I have obtained from a bog in Lancashire. I feel some
 hesitation in bringing this substance before you, for, as .in other
cases, so in regard to Boghead cannel, science—not science, let me
not libel it, but the quibbling, litigious, money-loving portion of
human nature speaking through the mask of science —has so con
trived to split hairs as to render the qualities of the substance
somewhat mythical. I shall therefore content myself with showing
you how it cleaves, and with expressing my conviction that pressure
had a great share in the production of this cleavage.
      The principle which I have enunciated is so simple as to be
almost trivial ; nevertheless, it embraces not only the cases I have
mentioned : but, if time permitted, I think I could show you that it
takes a much wider range. When iron is taken from the puddling
     * Cream cheese, at least such as I have tried, when torn asunder by the
fingers, shows a very perfect cleavage in planes perpendicular to the direction
in which the mass has been squeezed. In an ordinary loaf of household bread,
the portion near the under crust may also be torn into lamince : this is perhaps
best seen when the bread is fresh.
     t For which 1 have to thank Mr. George Edmondson.

 1856.]       the Cleavage of Crystals and Slate Rocks.                    307
 furnace it is a more or less spongy mass : it is at a welding heat,
 and at this temperature is submitted to the process of rolling :
 bright smooth bars such as this are the result of this rolling. But
 I have said that the mass is more or less spongy or nodular, and,
 notwithstanding the high heat, these nodules do not perfectly in
 corporate with their neighbours : what then ? You would say that
 the process of rolling must draw the nodules into fibres—it does
 so ; and here is a mass acted upon by dilute sulphuric acid, which
 exhibits in a striking manner this fibrous structure. The experi
 ment was made by my friend Dr. Percy, without any reference to
 the question of cleavage.
     Here are other cases of fibrous iron. This fibrous structure is
the result of mechanical treatment. Break a mass of ordinary iron
 and you have a granular fracture ; beat the mass, you elongate
 these granules, and finally render the mass fibrous. Here are
pieces of rails along which the wheels of locomotives have slided ;*
 the granules have yielded and become plates. They exfoliate or
 come off in leaves ; all these effects belong, I believe, to the great
 class of phaenomena of which slaty cleavage forms the most promi
nent example.f
     Thus, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the termination
of our task. I commenced by exhibiting to you some of the
phaenomena of crystallization. I have placed before you the facts
which are found to be associated with the cleavage of slate rocks.
These facts, as finely expressed by Helmholtz, are so many tele
scopes to our spiritual vision, by which we can see backward through
the night of antiquity, and discern the forces which have been in
operation upon the earth's surface
                           " Ere the lion roared,
                             Or the eagle soared."
     From evidence of the most independent and trustworthy cha
racter, we come to the conclusion that these slaty masses have been
subjected to enormous pressure, and by the sure method of experi
ment we have shown — and this is the only really new point which
has been brought before you—how the pressure is sufficient to
produce the cleavage. Expanding our field of view, we find the
self-same law, whose footsteps we trace amid the crags of Wales
and Cumberland, stretching its ubiquitous fingers into the domain
of the pastrycook and ironfounder ; nay, a wheel cannot roll over
    * For these specimens and other valuable assistance I am indebted to Mr.
Williams.
    t An eminent authority informs me that he believes these surfaces of weak
cohesion to be due to the interposition of films of graphite, and not to any
tendency of the iron itself to become fibrous ; this of course does not in any
way militate against the theory which I have ventured to propose. All that
the theory requires is surfaces of weak cohesion, however produced, and a
change of shape of such surfaces consequent on pressure or rolling.

308 Mr. Faraday on M. Petiljearis Silvering Procett, [June 13,
the half-dried mud of our streets without revealing to us more or
less of the features of this law. I would say, in conclusion, that
the spirit in which this problem has been attacked by geologists,
indicates the dawning of a new day for their science. The great
intellects who have laboured at geology, and who have raised it to
its present pitch of grandeur, were compelled to deal with the
subject in mass ; they had no time to look after details. But the
desire for more exact knowledge is increasing ; facts are flowing in,
which, while they leave untouched the intrinsic wonders of geology,
are gradually supplanting by solid truths the uncertain speculations
which beset the subject in its infancy. Geologists now aim to
imitate, as far as possible, the conditions of nature, and to produce
her results ; they are approaching more and more to the domain of
physics ; and I trust the day will soon come when we shall interlace
our friendly arms across the common boundary of our sciences,
and pursue our respective tasks in a spirit of mutual helpfulness,
encouragement, and goodwill.
                                                            [J. T.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, June 13.
  SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON, G.C.S. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                PROFESSOR FARADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S.
 On M. Petitjean's processfor Silvering Glass : some Observations
                            on divided Gold.
M. PETITJEAN'S process consists essentially in the preparation of
a solution containing oxide of silver, ammonia, nitric, and tartaric
acids, able to deposit metallic silver either at common or somewhat
elevated temperatures ; and in the right application of this solution
to glass, either in the form of plates or vessels. 1540 grains of
nitrate of silver being treated with 955 grains of strong solution
of ammonia, and afterwards with 7700 grains of water, yields a
solution, to which when clear 170 grains of tartaric acid dissolved
in 680 grains of water is to be added, and then 1 52 cubic inches
more of water, with good agitation. When the liquid has settled,
the clear part is to be poured off"; 152 cubic inches of water to be

1856.]                  and on Divided Gold.                        309
added to the remaining solid matter, that as much may be dissolved
as possible ; and the clear fluids to be put together and increased by
the further addition of 61 cubic inches of water. This is the silver
ing solution, No. 1 ; a second fluid, No. 2, is to be prepared in like
manner, with this difference, that the tartaric acid is to be doubled
in quantity. The apparatus employed for the silvering of glass
plate consists of a cast-iron table box, containing water within, and
a set of gas-burners beneath to heat it : the upper surface of the
table is planed and set truly horizontal by a level, and covered by
a varnished cloth : heat is applied until the temperature is 1 403 Fah.
The glass is well cleaned, first with a cloth ; after which a plug of
cotton, dipped in the silvering fluid and a little polishing powder,
is carefully passed over the surface to be silvered, and when this
application is dry it is removed by another plug of cotton, and
the plate obtained perfectly clean. The glass is then laid on the
table, a portion of the silvering fluid poured on to the surface, and
this spread carefully over every part by a cylinder of india-rubber
stretched upon wood which has previously been cleaned and wetted
with the solution ; in this manner a perfect wetting of the surface
is obtained, and all air bubbles, &c. are removed. Then more
fluid is poured on to the glass until it is covered with a layer
about the ,',,th of an inch in depth, which easily stands upon it ;
and in that state its temperature is allowed to rise. In about 10
minutes or more silver begins to deposit on the glass, and in 15 or
20 minutes a uniform opaque coat, having a greyish tint on the
upper surface, is deposited. After a certain time the glass em
ployed in the illustration was pushed to the edge of the table, was
tilted that the fluid might be poured off, was washed with water,
and then was examined. The under surface presented a perfectly
brilliant metallic plate of high reflective power, as high as any that
silver can attain to ; and the coat of silver, though thin, was so
strong as to sustain handling, and so firm as to bear polishing on
the back to any degree, by rubbing with the hand and polishing
powder. The usual course in practice, however, is, when the first
stratum of fluid is exhausted, to remove it, and apply a layer of
No. 2 solution ; and when that has been removed and the glass
washed and dried, to cover the back surface with a protective coat
of black varnish. When the form of the glass varies, simple
expedients are employed ; and by their means either concave or
convex, or corrugated surfaces are silvered, and bottles and vases
are coated internally. It is easy to mend an injury in the silvering
of a plate, and two or three cases of repair were performed on the
table.
    The proposed advantages of the process are,—the production
of a perfect reflecting surface ; the ability to repair ; the mercantile
economy of the process (the silver in a square yard of surface
is worth Is. 8d.) ; the certainty, simplicity, and quickness of the
operation ; and, above all, the dismissal of the use of mercury. In

  310                            Mr. Faraday                        [June 13,
  theory the principles of the process justify the expectations, and in
  practice nothing as yet has occurred which is counter to them.
      With regard to the secoud part of the evening's discourse, the
  speaker said he had been led by certain considerations to seek
  experimentally for some effect on the rays of light, by bodies
 which when in small quantities had strong peculiar action upon it,
 and which also could be divided into plates and particles so thin
 and minute as to come far within the dimensions of an undula
 tion of light, whilst they still retained more or less of the power
 they had in mass ; and though he had as yet obtained but little new
 information, he considered it his duty, in some degree, to report
 progress to the Members of the Royal Institution. The vibrations
 of light are, for the violet ray 59,570 in an inch, and for the red
 ray 37,640 in an inch ; it is the lateral portion of the vibration of
 the ether* which is by hypothesis supposed to affect the eye, but
 the relation of number remains the same. Now a leaf of gold as
 supplied by the mechanician is only •jTo',7ro^ °f an 'ncn *n thickness,
 so that 74- of these leaves might be placed in the space occupied by
 a single undulation of the red ray, and 5 in the space occupied by
 a violet undulation. Gold of this thickness and in this state is
 transparent, transmitting green light, whilst yellow light is reflected ;
there is every reason to believe also that some is absorbed, as hap
pens with all ordinary bodies. When gold leaf is laid upon a layer
of water on glass, the water may easily be removed, and solutions
be substituted for it ; in this way a solution of chlorine, or of cya
nide of potassium, may be employed to thin the film of gold ; and
as the latter dissolves the other metals present in the gold, (silver,
for instance, which chlorine leaves as a chloride,) it gives a pure
result ; and by washing away the cyanide, and draining and drying
the last remains of water, the film is left attached to the glass : it
may be experimented with, though in a state of extreme tenuity.
Examined either by the electric lamp, or the solar spectrum, or the
microscope, this film was apparently continuous in many parts where
its thickness could not be a tenth or twentieth part of the original
gold leaf. In these parts gold appeared as a very transparent thing,
reflecting yellow light and transmitting green and other rays ; it
was so thin that it probably did not occupy more than a hundredth
part of a vibration of light, and yet there was no peculiar effect
produced. The rays of the spectrum were in succession sent through
it ; a part of all of them was either stopped or turned back, but
that which passed through was unchanged in its character, whether
     * Analogous transverse vibration may easily be obtained on the surface of
water or other fluids, by the process described in the Philosophical Transac
tions for 1831, p. 336, &c.

1856.]                     on Divided Gold.                             311
the gold plate was under ordinary circumstances, or in a very in
tense magnetic field of force.
     When a solution of gold is placed in an atmosphere containing
phosphorus vapour the gold is reduced, forming films that may be
washed and placed on glass without destroying their state or condi
tion : these vary from extreme thinness to the thickness of gold
leaf or more, and have various degrees of reflective and transmissive
power ; they are of great variety of colour, from grey to green, but
they are like the gold leaves in that they do not change the rays of
light.
     When gold wires are deflagrated by the Leyden discharge upon
glass plates, extreme division into particles is effected, and deposits
are produced, appearing, by transmitted light, of many varieties of
colour, amongst which are ruby, violet, purple, green, and grey
tints. By heat many of these are changed so as to transmit chiefly
 ruby tints, retaining always the reflective character of gold. None
of them affect any particular ray selected from the solar spectrum,
 so as to change its character, otherwise than by reflection and
absorption ; what is transmitted still remains the same ray. When
gold leaf is heated on glass the heat causes its retraction and run
ning together. To common observation the gold leaf disappears,
and but little light is then reflected or stopped : but if pressure
by a polished agate convex surface be applied to the gold in such
places, reflective power reappears to a greater or smaller degree,
and green light is again transmitted. When the gold films by phos
 phorus have been properly heated, pressure has the same effect
 with them.
      If a piece of clean phosphorus be placed beneath a weak gold
 solution, and especially if the phosphorus be a clear thick film,
 obtained by the evaporation of a solution of that substance in sul
 phide of carbon, in the course of a few hours the solution becomes
 coloured of a ruby tint ; and the effect goes on increasing, sometimes
 for two or three days. At times the liquid appears clear, at other
 times turbid. As far as Mr. Faraday has proceeded, he believes this
 fluid to be a mixture of a colourless transparent liquid, with fine par
 ticles of gold. By transmitted light, it is ofa fine ruby tint ; by reflect
 ed light, it has more or less of a brown yellow colour. That it is
 merely a diffusion of fine particles is shown by two results ; the first
 is, that the fluid being left long enough the particles settle to the
 bottom : the second is, that whilst it is coloured or turbid, if a cone
 of the sun's rays (or that from a lamp or candle in a dark room) be
 thrown across the fluid by a lens, the particles are illuminated,
 reflect yellow light, and become visible, npt as independent particles,
  but as a cloud. Sometimes a liquid which has deposited much of its
 gold, remains of a faint ruby tint, and to the ordinary observation,
  transparent ; but when illuminated by a cone of rays the suspended
  particles show their presence by the opalescence, which is the result
 of their united action. The settling particles, if in a flask, appear
      VOL. II.                                                   r

 312               Mr. Faraday on Divided Gold.               [June 13,
at the bottom, like a lens of deep coloured fluid, opaque at the mid
dle, but deep ruby at the edges ; when agitated they may be again
diffused through the liquid. These particles tend to aggregate into
larger particles, and produce other effects of colour. It is found
that boiling gives a certain degree of permanence to the ruby state.
Many saline and other substances affect this ruby fluid : thus, a few
drops of solution of common salt being added, the whole gradually
becomes of a violet colour ; still the particles are only in suspension,
and when illuminated by a lens are a golden yellow by reflected
light : they separate now much more rapidly and perfectly by
deposition from the fluid than before. Some specimens, however,
of the fluid, of a weak purple or violet colour, remain for months
without any appearance of settling, so that the particles must be
exceedingly divided ; still the rays of the sun or even of a candle
in a dark room, when collected by a lens, will manifest their
presence. The highest powers of the microscope have not as yet
rendered visible either the ruby or the violet particles in any of
these fluids.
    Glass is occasionally coloured of a ruby tint by gold ; such
glass, when examined by a ray of light and a lens, gives the opalescent
effect described above, which indicates the existence of separate par
ticles ; at least such has been the case with all the specimens Mr.
Faraday has examined. It becomes a question whether the con
stitution of the glass and the ruby fluids described is not, as regards
colour, alike. At present, he believes they are ; but whether the
gold is in the state of pure metal, or of a compound, he has yet to
decide. It would be a point of considerable optical importance if
they should prove to be metallic gold ; from the effects presented
when gold wires are deflagrated by the Leyden discharge over glass,
quartz, mica, and vellum, and the deposits subjected to heat, pres
sure, &c., he inclines to believe they are pure metal.
                                                             [M. R]

1856.]                  General Monthly Meeting.                         313
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, July 7.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
               The Right Hon. Edward Cardwell, M.P.
               Frederick Ducane Godman, Esq. and
               George Knight Erskine Fairholme, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
               Frederick Wm. Irby, Esq.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   FROM
Acland, Thomas Dyke, Esq.—A Word in Season : or, How to grow Wheat
     with Profit. 15th Edition. 8To. 1856.
Ashmolean Society, Oxford—Transactions, Vols. I. and II. 8vo. 1835-52.
  Proceedings, Nos. 1-3. 8vo. 1832-55.
  Report on the Mortality and Public Health of Oxford, in 1849-50. 8vo. 1854.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 252. 8vo. 1855.
Asiatic Society, Royal—3aa.ma\, Vol. XVI. Part 2. 8vo. 1856.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XVI. No. 7. 8vo. 1856.
Author—Remarks on the Decimal System of Coinage. 8vo. 1856.
Bath and West of England Society—Journal, Parts 1, 2, and 4. STo. 1853-6.
Bayley, Francis, Esq. M.R.I.— Fifty-one Miscellaneous Tracts, 1648-1721. 4to.
  Fifty Sermons, Charges, &c. 1678-1794. 4to.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for July, 1856. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)— The Musical World for June, 1856. 4to.
Bombay Geographical Sociely—Transactions, Vol. XII. 8vo. 1856.
Bombay Medical Board—Deaths in Bombay in 1854.— Correspondence respect
     ing Burials in Bombay. 4to. 1855.
Bradbury, Henry, Esq. M.R.I.—The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland. By
     T. Moore, F.L.S. Edited by J. Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.S. Part 15. fol. 1856.
Brewer, Thomas, Esq (the A ullior~) — Memoir of John Carpenter, Town-Clerk
     of London in the reigns of Henry V. and Henry VI. 8vo. 1856.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in June, 1856. 4to.
Carpenter, W. B. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Researches on the Forameni-
     fera. (Phil. Trans.; 4to. 1856.
Crichton, Alexander, Esq. M.R.I.—(Euyres de M. De Pradt. 24 vols. STo.
     Paris, 1817-28.
Commissioners in Lunacy—Ninth Eeport. 8vo. 1856.
Dublin Geological Society—Journal, Vols. I.-VI. 8vo. 1834-55.
East India Company, the Hon.—Magnetical and Meteorological Observations
      at Bombay in 1853. 4to. 1855.

314                      General Monthly Meeting.              [July 7, 1856.
Editors— The Medical Circular for June 1856. 8vo.
     The Practical Mechanic's Journal for June 1856. 4to.
     The Journal of Gas-Lighting for June 1856. 4to.
     The Mechanic's Magazine for June 1856. 8vo.
     The Athenaeum for June 1856. 4to.
     The Engineer for June 1856. fol.
     The Literarium for June 1856. fol.
Falconer, H. M.D. (the Author)—OD Prof. Huxley's Attempted Refutation of
     Cuvier. 8vo. 1856.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Monatsberichte dcr Konigl. Preuss.
     Akademie, Mai, 1856. 8vo. Berlin.
  Memorie della Reale Accademia della Scienze di Torino. Serie Seconda.
     Tomo XV. 4to. 1855.
  Almanach fiir 1855. I6mo.
  Feste-Rede und Denkrede. 4to. 1855.
  Annalen der Koniglichen Sternwarte bei Miinchen : von Dr. J. Lament.
     Band VII. and VIII. 8vo. 1854-5.
  Baverische Akademie—Abhandlungen der Math. Phys. Classe. Band VII.
     Abth. 3. 4to. 1855.
Geneve, Sociftfae Physique— Me"moires. Tome XIV. Partie 1. 4to. 1855.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 3. 8vo. 1856.
  Journal, Vol. XXV. 8vo. 1855.
Graham, George, Esq. Registrar-General— Report of the Registrar-General
     for June 1856. 8vo.
Jennmgs, Richard, Esq. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—Social Delusions concern
     ing Wealth and Want. 16mo. 1856.
Knight, Mr. G. (the Publisher)—Tracts on Photographic Manipulation, by
    'J. How, G. Le Gray, and T. Hennah. 12mo. 1855.
Law, W. J. Esq. A.M. (the Author)—Reply to Mr. Ellis's Defence of his
     Theory on the Route of Hannibal. STo. 1856.
Macloughlin, D. M.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—On Cholera. 8vo. 1856.
Macrory, E. Esq. M.R.I.—Lucani Pharsalia cum J. Sulpitii Verulani et
     Omniboni Vicentini Commentariis. fol. [Ven. 1493.]
Mendicity Society — Reports. 8vo. 1846-55.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), July 1856. 8vo.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for June 1856. 4to.
Northumberland, the Duke of, K.G. F.R.S. President R.I.—Descriptive
     Catalogue of a Cabinet of Roman Family Coins, belonging to the Duke of
     Northumberland, K.G. by Rear-Admira1 W. H. Smyth. 4to. 1856.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographic. 1856. Heft 3, 4, 5. 4to. Gotha, 1856.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 43. 8vo. 1856.
Royal Society of London— Proceedings, No. 21. 8vo. 1856.
   Report of the Committee of Physics and Meteorology. 8vo. 1840.
   Catalogue of the Library of the Royal Society. 4to. 1825.
   Catalogues of Miscellaneous Literature and MS3. 2 vols. 8vo. 1840-1.
   Astronomical Observations, by Rev. T. Catton. 4to. 1853.
Sharp, Hercules, Esq. M.R.I.—Archivio Centrale di Stato in Firenze. 8vo.
     1855.
Society of Arts—Journal for June 1856. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XIX. Part 2. 8vo. 1856.
Tennont, Professor, and Rev. W. Mitchell (the Authors)—Mineralogy and
     Crystallography. 12mo. 1856.
 Vereinszur Beforderung desGeuterbfteisses in Preussen—Mitrz und April 1856. 4to.
 Vincent, B. Assist.-Sec. R.I.—'The Anglo-Saxon Church. By II. Soames.
      8vo. 1835.

        idogal Institution of Creat Britain.
              GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, November 3.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.B.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
               Sir Charles Henry Rouse Boughton, Bart.
               George Burdon, Esq. and
               William Frederick Robinson, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The special thanks of the Members were returned to the
Right Hon. SIR BENJAMIN HALL, Bart. M.P. for his present of
a copy of " Architectural Antiquities of the Collegiate Church
of St. Stephen's Chapel, Westminster. By F. Mackenzie." fol.
1844.
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
  FBOM—
Actuaries, Institute of—Assurance Magazine. Nos. 24, 25. 8vo. 1856.
Agricultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XVII. Part 1. 8vo. 1856.
Asiatic Society nf Bengal—Journal, Nos. 253-255. 8vo. 1855.
Astronomical Society, Royal— Monthly Notices. Vol. XVI. No. 8. 8vo. 1856.
Barclay, A. W. M.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Progress of Preventive
     Medicme and Sanitary Measures. 8vo. 1356.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for Aug. to Nov. 1856. 8vo.
Boosev, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The MusicalWorld for July to Oct. 1856. 4to.
Bradliury, Henri/, Esq. M.R.I.—The Ferns of Great Britain and Ireland. By
     T. Moore, F.L.S. Edited by J. Lindley, Ph.D. F.L.S. Parts 16, 17. fol. 1856.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in Session 1855-6. 4to.
British Association—Report of the Meeting at Glasgow in 1855. 8vo. 1856.
British Museum, Trustees of the—Catalogues of the Natural History Collections.
     8 Parts. 12mo. 1856.
Brockhurst, Rev. Joseph S. (the Author)—The Wife: or Love and Madness.
     A Tragedy. 8vo. 1856.
Brodhartt, Bernard E. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—On the Nature and Treat-
     ment of Club Foot. 8vo. 1S5C.
Chemical Society—Journal, Nos. 34, 35. 8vo. 1856.
   VOL. II.—(No. 24.)                                                  z

  316                        General Monthly Meeting.                    [Nov. 3,
  Coutts, Miss Angela Burdelt, M.R.I,—Summary Account "of Prizes for Com
         mon Things, offered and awarded by Miss Burdett Coutts, at the White-
         lands Training Institution, 1855-6. 8vo. 1856.
  Crichton, Alex., Esq. M.K.I.—Comie J. Potocki, Histoire Ancienne des Pro
         vinces de I'Empire de Knssie. 3 Parties. 4to. St. Pitersbourg, 1804-5.
     Dynasties du Second Livre de Manuthon. 12mo. Florence. 1803.
     Chronologic de Mane"thon. 4to. St. Petersbourg, 1 805.
     Principes de Chronologie pour les temps anterieurs aux Olympiadcs. 4to.
         St. Petersbourg, 1810.
  De la Rue, Warren, Etq. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Engraving of Satnm, as seen with a
         Newtonian Equatoreal of 13 inches aperture. March 27, 28. 1856.
  Dilke, C. Wentworth, Esq. M.R. I.— Publications of the JElfric Society.
         15 Parts. 1843-56.
    Traite Elementaire de Geometric Descriptive. Par H. Tresca. 8vo. 1852.
    Historical Account of the Origin and Progress of Astronomy. By John
         Nan-Sen. 8vo. 1833.
 Dublin Geological Society—Journal, Vol. VII. Parts 1,2. 8vo. 1856.
 Dublin Society, Royal—Journal, Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1856.
 .Editors—The Medical Circular for July to October, 1856. 8vo.
        The Practical Mechanic's Journal for July to October, 1856. 4to.
        The Journal of Gas-Lighting for July to October, 1856. 4to.
        The Mechanic's Magazine for July to October, 1856. 8vo.
        The Athenaeum for July to October, 1856. 4to.
        The Engineer for July to October, 1856. fol.
        The Literarium for July to October, 1856.
        St. James's Medley. No. 7. 8vo. 1856.
 Ellis, Alcx. J. Esq. (the Author)—Universal Writing and Printing for the Use
        of Missionaries, Linguists, &c. Ito. 1856.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Monatsberichte der -Konigl. Preuss. Aka-
        demie, Juni. 1856. 8vo. Berlin.
    Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise. 8vo. Lausanne, 1854-6.
    Oversigt over det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Forhand-
        linger. 8vo. Kjobenhavn, 1855.
    Abhandlungen der Ktfniglichen Akademie zn Berlin. Erster Supplement
        Band. fol. 1856.
    Kaiserliche Akademie, Wien :—Almanach fiir 1856. 16mo.
    Maihcmatisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Classe:—Denkschriften, Band X. XI.
       4to. 1855-6.
   Sitzungsberichte. Band XVIII. XIX. und XX. Heft 1. STo. 1855-6.
   Jahrbiicher der K. K. Central Anstalt fUr Meteorologie und Erdmagnetismus.
      Band IV. Jahrgang 1852. Wien, 1856.
Franklin Institute </ Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXI. No. 6. 8vo. 1856.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1856.
Geological Society—Journal, No. 47. 8vo. 1856.
Geological and Polytechnic Society of the West Riding of Yorkshire— Proceed
       ings, 1842-55. 8vo.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General)—Report of the Registrar-General
       for July to October, 1856. 8vo.
Hall, Rt. Hon. Sir Benjamin, Bart. First Commissioner of H.M.'s Works—
       Architectural Antiquities of the Collegiate Chapel of St. Stephen's, West
       minster, the late House of Commons. By F. Mackenzie, fol. 1844.
Hop/tinx, Evan, Esq. (the Author)—On the Vertical Structure of Primary
       Rocks. 8vo. 1856.
Ingall, G. H., Esq. M.R.I. —Campanalogia improved. 18mo. 1733.
Leeds Philosophical Society—Annual Reports for 1854-6. 8vo.
Linnean Society— Journal, Vol. I. No. 3. 8vo. 1856.
Londesboroughj The Lord, K.H. M.R.I.—Miscellanea Graphics, No. 10. 4to.
       1856.
London Library—Supplement to Catalogue, Vol. II. 8vo. 1856.

 1856.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                            317
Marcet, W., M.D. (the Author) Life-Sub. R.I.—Ou the Composition of Food,
        and how it is Adulterated. 8vo. 1856.
Morgan, Octamus, Esq. M.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—Excavations within
        Caerwent in 1855. It... 1856.
Aettrton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), Aug. to Nov. 1856. 8vo.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for July to Oct. 1856. 4to.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen anf dem Gesammtgebiete der
       Geographie, 1856: Hefte 6, 7, 8. 4to. Gotha, 1856.
Philological Society—Journal, 1856. Part 1. 8vo. 1856.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 44 to 47. 8vo. 1856.
Prosser, John, Esq. Life Sub. R.I.—The Complete Angler. By Is. Walton
       and C. Cotton. With Lives of the Authors, and Notes by Sir John Haw
       kins. 7th Edition. With Etchings, by Howitt. S. Bagster. -Ho. 1808.
Remie, James, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.—3. J. Berzelius —The'orie des Proportions
       Chimiques et Table des Poids, &c. 2" Ed. 8vo. Paris, 1835.
    Jahres-Bericht liber die Fortschritte dcr Physischen Wissenschaften, iibersetzt
       von F. Wdhler. 8vo, Tubingen, 1836, 1837, 1839-41.
    Rapport A 1 1 mid sur le ProgrSs de la Chimie, &c. 8vo. 1842-8.
 Royal Academy of Sciences, Amsterdam—Verhandelingen, Derde Deel. -Ito.
        1856.
    Verslagen : Natuurkunde, 3° Deel, Stuk 3 ; 4« Deel ; 5e Deel, Stuk 1.
       Letterkunde, 1« Deel; 2« Deel, Sink 1. 8vo. 1855-6.
    Lycidas, Ecloga, et Musce Invocatio, Cannina. 8vo. 1856.
Royal Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXIII. Part 1. 4to. 1856.
    Proceedings, Vol. VI. Parts. 8vo. 1855-6.
 lii-ijnl Observatory, Greenwich—Observations iu 1854. 4to. 1856.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXI. Part 3. 4to. 1856.
    Proceedings, No. 46. 8vo. 1855-6.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings. No. 22. 8vo. 1856.
St. Petersburg Imperial Academy of Sciences—Bulletin de la Classe Physico-
       Mathe"matique. Tome XIV. 4to. 1855-6.
Salenave, Dr. L. (the Author)—Maladies Chroniques dues a 1'Epnisement.
       8vo. Paris, 1855.
Smith, Mr. J. Russell—T. Halbertsma, Prosopographice Aristophanes;. 8vo.
       1855.
Xtuitli, W. H., Esq. (the Author)—" Was Lord Bacon the Author of Shak-
       speare's Plays?" 8vo. 1856.
Society of Arts—Journal for July to October 1856. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XIX. Part 3. 8vo. 1856.
Staunton, Sir George T., D.C.L. M.P. F.R.S. (the Author)—Memoirs of his
       Public Life. (For Private Circulation.) 8vo. 1856.
University College, London—Calendar for 1856-7. 12mo. 1856.
 Vereins zur aefSrderung des Gewerbfleisscs in Preussen — Mai zu Juni
       1856. 4to.
Zoological Society—Proceedings, Nos. 299-309. 8vo. 1855-6.
                                                                  z2

318                     General Monthly Meeting.                   [Dec. 1,
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, December 1.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                     Charles Freshfield, Esq.
                     James Morgan, Esq. and
                     James Plaisted Wilde, Esq. M.A. Q.C.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Secretary reported that the following Arrangements had
been made for the Lectures before Easter, 1857 :—
     Six Lectures on ATTRACTION (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory),
by MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. &c. Fullerian Pro
fessor of Chemistry, R.I.
     Twelve Lectures on PHYSIOLOGY AND COMPARATIVE ANATOMY
—viz. Eigltt Lectures on SENSATION AND MOTION, and Four Lec
tures on TUB PRINCIPLES OF NATURAL HISTORY, by THOMAS
HENRY HUXLEY, Esq. F.R.S. Fullerian Professor of Physiology, R.I.
     Eleven Lectures on SOUND, by JOH\ TYNDALL, Esq. F.R.S.
Professor of Natural Philosophy, R.I.
     Ten Lectures on LEADING QUESTIONS IN GEOLOGY, by JOHN
PHILLIPS, Esq. F.R.S.
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   FllOM —
Aclati'l, H. M.D. F.B.S. (the d«<Aor)-Memoir of the Cholera at Oxford in
      1854. 4to. 1856.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Memoirs. New Series. Vol. V.
     Part 2 4to. 1855.
   D. Treadwell, on Constructing Cannon. 8vo. 1856.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VI. Nos. 52, 53. 8vo. 1855.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 256. 8vo. 1855.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices., Vol. XVI. No. 9. 8vo. 1856.
Bache, Prof. A. D. (the SuperintendanC)—Report of the United States Coast
     Survey, for 1853. 4to. 1854.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for Dec. 1856. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for Nov. 1856. 4to.
Boston Natural History Society, U.S.—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 12-21. 8vo.
      1854-5.
British Architects, Royal TiutUute of—Proceedings in Nov. 1856. 4to.

1856.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                        319
Collier, Charles, M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—An Essay on the Principles of
     Education Physiologically considered. 16to. 1856.
Cornwall Polytechnic Society—Reports, 1854-5. 8vo.
Denison, Edmund Beckett, Esq. ty.C. M.R.I. (the Author)—Lectures on Church-
     Building, with some Practical Remarks on Bells and Clocks. 2nd Ed.
      16to. 1856.
Dub/in Geological Society—Journal, Vol. VII. Part 3. 8vo. 1856.
Editors—The Medical Circular for November 1856. 8vo.
     The Practical Mechanic's Journal for November 1856. 4to.
     The Journal of Gas-Lighting for November 1856. 4to.
     The Mechanic's Magazine for November 1856. 8vo.
     The Athenaeum for November 1856. 4to.
     The Engineer for November 1856. fol.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania —Journal, Vol. XXXII. Nos.1,2. 8vo. 1856.
Geological Society—Journal, No. 48. 8vo. 1856.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar- General)—Report of the Registrar-General
     for November, 1856. 8vo.
   Seventeenth Report (for 1854). 8vo. 1856.
Grinfield, Rev. E. W. (the Author)—The Christian Cosmos. 16to. 1857.
Lankester, Edwin, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author}—The Aquavivarium :
      Fresh and Marine. 16to. 1856.
Linnean Society—Transactions, Vol. XXII. Part I. 4to. 1856.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society— Memoirs. New Series. Vols.
      XI, XII, XIII. 8vo. 1854-6.
Newton, Messrs — London Journal ("New Series), November 1856. 8vo.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for November 1856. 4to.
Pelermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographic. 1856. Heft 9. 4to. Gotha, 1856.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 48. 8vo. 1856.
Qaaritch, Mr. B. (the Publisher)—An English and Turkish, and Turkish
     and English Dictionary. By J. W. Redhouse. 8vo. 1856.
Rennie, James, Esq. F.R.S. MR. I.—Principij di una Scienza Nuova di Giov.
      B. Vicp. 8vo. Napoli, 1826.
Royal Medicaland Chirurgical Society—Transactions, Vol. XXXIX. 8vo. 1856.
Royal Society of Van Diemen's Land—Papers and Proceedings. Vol. III.
      No. 1. 8vo. 1855.
Russell Institution— Catalogue of the Library. 4to. and 8vo. 1849-54.
Sfclisische Gesellschaft der \rissenschaften,KSnigliche—Abhandlungen, Band III.
      1 Heft. Band V. 4 Hefte. 8vo. 1855.
   Berichte, 6 Hefte. 8vo. 1854-6.
Smithsonian Institution—Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. VIII. 4to. 1856.
Society of Arts—Journal for November 1856. 8vo.
Stroud, William, M.D. (the Author)—Greek Harmony of the Gospels. 4 to.
   1853.
Taylor, Alfred S. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—On Poisoning by Strychnia.
     8vo. 1856.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S. M.R.I,—The Athanasian Creed Vindicated, by Rev.
     J. Richardson. 8vo. 1823.
   Der Anecdotenjager. 8vo. 1856.
   Rev. T. Myers on Christ's Prophecies. 12mo. 1856.
   Paddington, Past and Present, by W. Robins. 16to. 1853.
   History of York Dispensary, by O. Allen. 8vo. 1845.
   Account of Sheriff-Hutton Castle. 8vo. 1824.
   Vega's Logarithmetisch-Handbnch. 39te Auflage. s-, ... Berlin, 1855.
Vcreins tur BefSrderung det Gewerbfleisses in Preussen —Juli, Aug. 1856. 4to.
 Yates, James, Esq. M.R.I.—Decimal Coinage : Should it be International?
     By T. C. Meekins. 8vo. 1856.

320                    Professor J. Tyndall,                  [Jan. 23,
                                   1857.
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, January 23.
       SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 PROFESSOR JOHN TYNDAIX, F.R.S.
                       Observations on Glaciers.
THE speaker commenced, by stating the circumstances in which
the discourse of the evening originated. On the 6th of June, 1856,
he had given a lecture upon slaty cleavage, at which Mr. Huxley
was present. A short time afterwards his attention was drawn
to the observations of Professor J. D. Forbes on the veined
structure of glacial ice, by Mr. Huxley, who surmised that the
theory of slate cleavage might also apply to the ice structure.
On consulting the observations referred to, the probability of the
surmise was immediately perceived, and an arrangement was
made for a joint visit to the glaciers of Grindelwald, the Aar, and
the Rhone. This arrangement was carried out, and the subject
being a physical one, it fell to the lot of the speaker to follow it
up after his return to England. By reading, reflection, and
experiment, the boundaries of the investigation were extended,
until finally it embraced the main divisions of the problem of
glacier structure and motion. The results of the enquiry con
stituted the subject of the evening's discourse.
     Certain phenomena connected with the motion of glaciers were
first passed under review. The power of a glacier to accommodate
itself to the sinuosities of its bed, the motion of the mass through a
valley of variable width, and a number of similar facts had been
adduced as evidence of the ductility of glaciers by M. Rendu
and others. To these evidences Professor J. D. Forbes added, in
1842, the important observation that the centre of a glacier moved
more quickly than its sides ; and he was led finally to a definite
expression of his views in the well-known Viscous Theory of glacial
motion. Numerous appearances, indeed, seem to favour this idea
of viscosity. The aspect of many glaciers, as a whole,—their power
of closing up crevasses, and of reconstructing themselves after
having been precipitated down glacial gorges,—the bending and

 1857.]                Observations on Glaciers.                   321
 contortions of the ice, the quicker movement of the centre where
the ice is uninfluenced by the retardation of the banks, are all cir
cumstances which have been urged with such constancy and ability,
as to leave the viscous theory without any formidable competitor at
 present. To these may also be added, the support which the theory
derived from its apparent competency to explain the laminar struc
ture of the ice—a structure regarded by eminent authorities as a
crucial test in favour of the viscous theory, and which was affirmed
to be impossible of explanation on any other hypothesis.
     Nevertheless, this theory is so directly opposed to our ordinary
experience of the nature of ice, as to leave a lingering doubt of its
truth upon the mind. To remove this doubt, it is urged, that the
true nature of ice is to be inferred from experiments upon large
masses, and that such experiments place the viscosity of ice in the
 position of a fact, rather than in that of a theory. It has never
been imagined that the bendings and contortions, and other
evidences of apparent viscosity exhibited by glaciers, could be made
manifest on hand specimens of ice. But this was shown by
the speaker to be experimentally possible. Moulds of various
forms were hollowed out in boxwood, and pieces of ice were placed
in these moulds and subjected to pressure. In this way spheres of
ice were flattened into cakes, and cakes formed into transparent
lenses. A straight bar of ice, six inches long, was passed through
a series of moulds augmenting in curvature, and was finally
placed before the audience, bent into a semi-ring. A small block
of ice was placed in a hemispherical cavity, and was pressed upon
by a hemispherical protuberance not large enough to fill the cavity ;
the ice yielded and filled the space between both, thus forming
itself into a transparent cup. In short, it was shown that every
observation made upon glaciers, and adduced by writers on the
subject in proof of the viscosity of ice, is capable of perfect imita
tion with hand specimens of the substance.
     These experiments then demonstrate a capacity on the part of
small masses of ice, which has hitherto been denied to them. They
prove, to all appearance, that the substance is even much more
plastic than it was ever imagined to be by the founders of the
viscous theory. But the real germ from which these results have
sprung, was to be found in a lecture given at the Royal Institution,
in June 1850, and reported in theAthen&um and Literary Gazette
for that year. Mr. Faraday then showed, that when two pieces of
ice, at a temperature of 32° Fahr., are placed in contact with each
other, they freeze together, by the conversion of the film of moisture
between them into ice. The case of a snowball was referred to as
a familiar illustration of the principle. When the snow is below
32°, and therefore dry, it will not cohere, whereas, when it is in
a thawing condition, it can be squeezed into a hard mass. During
one of the hottest days of last July, when the thermometer was
upwards of 100° Fahr. in the sun, and more than 80° in the shade,

   322                        Professor J. TyndaU,                      [Jan. 23,
   the speaker observed a number of blocks of ice, which had been
   placed loosely in a heap, frozen together at their places of con
   tact ; and he afterwards caused them to freeze together under
  water as hot as the hand could bear. Facts like these suggested
   the thought, that if a piece of ice—a straight prism, for example
  —were placed in a bent mould and subjected to pressure it would
  break, but that the force would also bring its ruptured surfaces into
  contact, and thus the continuity of the mass might be re-established.
  Experiment, as we have seen, completely confirmed this surmise :
  the ice passed from a continuous straight bar to a continuous bent
  one, the transition being effected, not by a viscous movement of the
  particles, but through Jracture and regelation.
       All the phenomena of motion, on which the idea of viscosity
  has been based, are brought by such experiments as the above into
  harmony with the demonstrable properties of ice. In virtue of this
  property, the glacier accommodates itself to its bed while preserving
  its general continuity, crevasses are closed up, and the broken ice
  of a cascade, such as that of the Talefre, or the Khone, is recom-
  pacted to a solid continuous mass. But if the glacier accomplish
  its movement in virtue of the incessant fracture and regelation of
  its parts, such a process will be accompanied by a crackling noise,
  corresponding in intensity to the nature of the motion, and which
  would be absent if the motion were that of a viscous body. It is
 well known that such noises are heard, from the rudest crashing
 and quaking, up to the lowest decrepitation, and they thus receive
  a satisfactory explanation.*
      * It is manifest that the continuity of the fractured ice cannot be com
 pletely and immediately restored after rupture. It is not the same surfaces that
 are regelated, and hence the coincidence of the surfaces cannot be perfect.
 They will enclose for a time capillary fissures, and thus the above theory
 accounts satisfactorily for the known structure of glacier ice. I have
 recently made the following experiments bearing upon this point. A piece of
 ordinary ice was taken, and a cavity hollowed in it was filled with a strong
 infusion of cochineal; the ice was perfectly impervious to the liquid, which
remained in it for half an hour without penetrating it in the slightest degree.
A piece of the same ice was subjected to a gradually increasmg pressure.
Flashes of light were seen to issue from it at intervals, mdicating the rupture
of optical continuity, while a low, and in some instances, almost musical
crackling was, at the same time heard. Relieved from the pressure, the ice
remained continuous ; but a cavity being formed and the infusion placed within
it, the coloured liquid immediately diffused itself through the capillary
fissures, producing an appearance accurately resembling the drawings illustra
tive of the infiltration experiments of M. Agassiz upon the glacier of the Aar.
This fissured structure, which is inconsistent with the idea of viscosity, is thus
shown to be the natural result of the pressures exerted upon the non-viscous and
brittle mass of the glacier.
     To account for a " bruit de crepitation " heard upon the Aar glacier, M.
Agassiz refers to an observation which might be made on a fine day in sum
mer, and which would show the air within the glacier ice escaping from its
surface. M. Apassiz supposes the ice to be diathermanous ; that the sun
beams therefore get through it and heat the air bubbles it encloses, which

 1857.]                    Observations on Glaciers.                         323
     The veined or laminar structure of glacier ice was next consi
dered, which Professor J. D. Forbes in his earlier writings compared
to slaty cleavage. His theory of the structure is, perhaps, the only
one which has made any profound impression, and it may be briefly
stated as follows :—Owing to the quicker flow of the centre of a
glacier, a sliding of the particles of ice past each other takes place ;
in consequence of this sliding, fissures are produced, which, when
filled with water, and frozen in winter, produce the blue veins of
the glacier. To account for the obliquity of the veins to the sides
of the glacier, a drag towards the centre is supposed to take place,
producing a differential motion in this direction, which results in
the formation of fissures. But at the centre of the glacier this drag
towards it cannot be supposed to exist ; and to account for the
veins, or laminated structure of the centre, which under normal
conditions is transverse to the axis of the glacier, it is supposed
that the thrust from behind, meeting an enormous resistance in
front produces a differential motion of the particles in a direction
approximating to the vertical ; and that in consequence of this
motion fissures are produced, which, when filled and frozen, produce,
as in the other cases, the blue veins. Now, the only/etc* here is
that of differential motion parallel to thelength of the glacier. It ia
not established that the colds of winter reach to a depth sufficient to
produce the blue veins, which it is affirmed form a part of " the in
most structure " of a glacier. Again, the lamination in some cases
presents itself in the form of transparent lenticular masses imbedded
in the general white ice ; and the differential motion referred to
would be mechanically inadequate to produce detached cavities
corresponding to these masses, which vary greatly in size, and in
some cases accurately resemble the greenish spots in slate rock,
when a section perpendicular to the cleavage of the rock is exposed.
Further, as the motion of the glacier takes place both in summer
and winter, it is to be inferred that the fissures are formed at both
seasons of the year. If formed in winter, they cannot be filled
and frozen that season for want of water ; and if formed in summer
they cannot, while summer continues, be frozen, for want of cold.
Hence, at the end of each summer, if the above theory be correct,
by their expansion rupture the ice, and produce the crepitation referred to.
The observation is an interesting one, whatever difficulty we may find in
accepting the explanation. An experiment made on the 3 1st of January,
appears to me to account for the observation in a satisfactory manner. Snow
having fallen, I was early at work compressing it; and on removing a plate of
the compacted mass from the press, I noticed, as the ice melted, a sparkling
motion of the surface. To imitate the action of the sun, an iron spatula was
heated, and on bringing it near to the compressed snow, the jumping of the sur
face caused by the issue of the air through the film of water which covered it,
was greatly augmented. On removing the spatula, the motion subsided. To a
similar action on the part of the sun, which melts the surface of the glacier,
and thus liberates the air bubbles with which it is filled, the observation of M.
Agassiz is in all probability to be referred.

  324                      Professor J. Tyndall,                [Jan. 23,
 there ought to be a whole year's unfrozen fissures in the ice.
 Such fissures surely would not require the act of freezing to render
 them visible ; they would be seen when filled with blue water just
 as well as when filled with blue ice. But they never have been
 observed ; and it is therefore to be inferred that they have no
 existence. With regard to the drag towards the centre, which is
 supposed to arise from the viscosity, and in which direction it is
 stated that " filaments slide past each other," it is by no means
 clear on mechanical grounds that such a drag exists. For the
 transfer of matter from the sides to the centre, in consequence of
such a drag, must finally absorb the former, unless to make good the
 loss a motion in some other portion of the glacier from the centre to
 the sides, that is in a direction opposed to the theory, be established.
 Let the line AB, (Fig. 1) represent the centre of a glacier; C D
its side, and a a point between both. Draw mn, op, making
                                                               Fig 1.
 equal angles with the centre and side. In consequence of the
 quicker flow of the centre the line m n tends to shorten itself,
causing a thrust on the point a, which urges it towards the side
 C D ; the line op for the same reason tends to elongate itself,
which produces a drag of the point a towards the centre. The
point a is here solicited by two equal forces, and the resultant
motion will be along the line A B, parallel to the length of the
glacier. This result receives the most complete confirmation from
observation, so that the drag towards the centre expresses only half
the conditions of the problem.
     To test the question on a small scale, the following experiment
                                   Fig. 2.
    O
was made, A B C D, (Fig. 2) is a wooden trough, six feet long, and
one foot wide. The end. A C, of the trough is elevated. O is a

1857.]                  Observations on Glaciert.                  325
box, with a sluice front, containing fine mud, formed of a mixture of
pipeclay and water. The mud was permitted to flow slowly through
the trough. Two highly coloured straight lines a b, cd, were
stamped on the mud transverse to the length of the trough, and
two others m n, op, were drawn parallel to its length. Now, if
filaments move past each other towards the centre, such a motion
must be observed by its effect upon the longitudinal lines m n, op.
On permitting the mud to flow, the lines lower down presented the
appearance shown in the figure ; m n and o p moved parallel to the
sides, and at the same distance from them from top to bottom ;
there was no evidence whatever of the supposed drag : the differ
ential motion which existed was parallel to the length of the
trough, as is proved by the distortion of the lines a b, cd, while
every point in each of the longitudinal lines moved exactly as the
theoretical deduction from Fig 1 would lead us to expect. If
then the cleaved structure were due to differential motion, we
ought to expect it parallel to the sides, instead of oblique to them,
as it actually exists in a glacier of the form typified by our wooden
trough.
     Finally, with regard to the transverse lamination of the centre
of the glacier, the theory now under consideration assumes, that in
a mass supposed to be viscous, with an enormous thrust behind, and
an enormous resistance in front, fissures varying from a fraction of
an inch to several inches in width are formed at right angles to the
direction in which the thrust is exerted. Surely, so far from pro
ducing such fissures, the direct effect of such a force would be to
close them up if they existed.
     The speaker next attempted to apply the theory of slaty clea
vage, already referred to, to the laminated structure of the ice.
The lamination, like that of slate rock, is always approximately at .
right angles to the direction of maximum pressure ; this fact is
established by the testimony of independent observers, and was
first, it was believed, recognised by Professor Forbes himself.
Local circumstances, which give rise to a violent thrust, produce
at the same time a highly developed lamination. When two con
fluent glaciers unite to form a single trunk, as in the case of the
Finsteraar and Lauteraar glaciers, the effect of their mutual
thrust is to develop the veined structure in a striking degree along
their line of junction. The mechanical condition of such a
glacier was illustrated by experiments with mud, flowing through
two branches, which afterwards were united in a single trunk.
Small red circles were stamped all over the surface of the mud in
the two branches ; and as these descended they were squeezed
along the centre of the trunk into ellipses so elongated that the
conjugate axis in many cases disappeared wholly, and the figure
became a straight line. In nature it is exactly at the places where
this squeezing takes place, that the cleavage of the ice is most highly
developed; a fine example of this is the structure under the central

 326                        Professor J. Tynda.ll,                       [Jan. 23,
 moraine of the Aar glacier. In fact, the association of pressure
 and lamination is far more distinct in the case of a glacier than in
 the case of slate rock. We know that in the latter case pressure
is the sufficient cause of the lamination ; are we not justified in
 concluding that it is also the cause in the former? The oblique
 position of the veins near the sides, the transverse lamination of
 the centre, the lenticular structure, the relation of the veins to the
crevasses, are all in harmony with this compression theory of the
veined structure of glacier ice. Unless, indeed, we suppose the
compacted mountain snow to be perfectly homogeneous in a me
 chanical point of view,—a supposition plainly opposed to common
sense—some portions of it will when under violent pressure, be
rendered more compact than others, and the blue veins are the
natural consequence.*
     In the investigation, the well-known " dirt bands," to which so
much theoretic importance is attached, were finally considered, and
an explanation of these bands, as they are seen upon the glaciers of
 Grindelwald and of the Rhone, was attempted. On the former
glacier the bands were particularly well developed, and a portion
of the glacier where they did not exist was presented simultaneously
with the bands upon another portion. Their proximate origin and
final completion were thus observed at once ; and to account for
them the following explanation is proposed : these bands, wherever
they have been observed, are, it is believed, first developed at the base
of an ice cascade. The dirt, scattered by winds and avalanches over
the upper regions of a glacier, is redistributed by the passage of
the glacier through a precipitous gorge, where the ice is shattered
and the dirt broken up into detached patches. On reaching the
bottom, where the force becomes one of longitudinal compression,
    * I have recently tried to reproduce the blue veins on a small scale by
compressing snow. In Bome coses the section of the mass perpendicular to the
surface, on which the pressure was exerted, exhibited in a feeble, but distinct
manuer, an appearance the same in kind as that of the veined structure of
glacier ice. Stripes more transparent than the surrounding ice were observed
at right angles to the direction of pressure. It is well known that the ice
structure sometimes exhibits a true cleavage, and since the above discourse was
given 1 have succeeded in impressing npon a perfectly transparent prism of ice
a cleavage, the perfection of which surprised me. As in the case of the glacier
and of slate rocks, the cleavage is perpendicular to the direction of pressure.
On placing a specimen of the squeezed ice before a friend, he at first sight
imagined it to be a bit of gypsum. The case then, as regards slaty cleavage
and the structure of glacier ice, stands thus :—the testimony of independent
observers proves that both ice and slate are laminated at right angles to the
direction of pressure ; and the question occurs, Is this pressure sufficient to pro
duce the lamination ? Experiment replies in the affirmative. I have reduced
slate rock to an almost impalpable powder, and reproduced from it the
lamination by pressure. The experiments above referred to prove the
sufficiency of the pressure to produce the cleaved structure of the glacier ice.
By combining the conditions of nature we have produced her results.

1857.]                Observations on Glaciers.                    327
the patches of dirt are squeezed longitudinally and drawn out
laterally, being thus converted into stripes of discoloration, which,
owing to the speedier motion of the centre, are convex towards the
lower extremity of the glacier. On consulting Professor Forbes's
map of the Mer de Glace, it will be seen that the " bands " com
mence at the base of the icefall of the Talefre, while none exist
above the fall. Those shown on the Glacier du Geant, we are led
to infer, commence at the base of the cascade of La Noire, which,
 however is not sketched on the map. The theory of Professor
Forbes is, that a glacier throughout its entire length is composed of
alternate segments of hard and porous ice, that the dirt is washed
from the former, but finds a " lodgment " in the latter. The expe
riments on which this important conclusion is founded were un
known to the speaker, who finds observation and experiment in
harmony with the explanation given above.
     It may be urged that, after all, the foregoing experiments on the
yielding of ice do not prove the viscous theory to be wrong. The
mere fact of bending a prism of ice by fracture and regelatiou
does not prove that it is non-viscous. This is perfectly true, nor •
was it conceived that the onus rested on the speaker to prove the
negative here. All that was claimed for the experiments is the
referring of certain observed phenomena to true causes, instead
of to imaginary ones. An illustration may help to place this
 question in its true light. By Newton's calculation the velocity
 of sound was found to be one-sixth less than observation made it,
 and to account for this discrepancy he supposed that the sound
 passed instantaneously through the particles of air themselves, time
 being required only to accomplish the passage from particle to
particle. He supposed the diameter of each air particle to be
 ^i^ths of the distance between two particles ; and nobody ever
 proved him wrong. Still, when Laplace assigned a vera causa for
 the discrepancy, the hypothesis of Newton, and other ingenious
 suppositions, were at once relinquished. The proof, indeed, in
 such cases consists in the substitution of facts for conjectures, and
 whether this has been done in the case now under consideration the
 intelligent reader must himself consider.
     In the foregoing remarks, Mr. Tyndall has expressed his dissent
 from some of the theoretic views of Professor Forbes ; but he feels
 great pleasure in recording the high value which he attaches to
 the experimental labours and observations of this philosopher.
 Indeed it is the fact of Professor Forbes having done so much
 that rendered such frequent reference to him necessary. To the
 same frank and friendly criticism the views propounded this evening
 were submitted ; and a hope was entertained that the discussion of
 the question would result in a more exact acquaintance with the
 structure and motion of glaciers.
                                                             [J. T.]

   328                     Rev. F. D. Maurice,                  [Jan. 30,
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, January 30.
  WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M. A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-president,
                                in the Chair.
                 REV. F. D. MAURICE, M.A. M.R.I.
                  Milton considered as a Schoolmaster.
  MILTON was an actual schoolmaster : his letter to Mr. Hartlib,
• explains his idea of education. In the year 1639, after his return
  from Italy, he took a house in St. Bride's Churchyard ; after
  wards one in Aldersgate Street, for the instruction, first, of his two
  nephews, and then of the children of some of his friends. Accord
  ing to Dr. Johnson, several of Milton's biographers have shown a
  desire to shrink from this passage of his life altogether, and have
  wished to represent his teaching as gratuitous. Johnson himself,
  while he ridicules this folly, sneers at Milton for returning to Eng
  land, because his countrymen were engaged (as he thought) in a
  struggle for liberty, and then vapouring away his patriotism in a
  private boarding-school.
      The earliest biographer of Milton, Edward Phillips, his nephew
  and pupil, is not open to the charge of regarding this occupation of
  Milton as a disgrace, or of hinting that he undertook it without
 remuneration. The others had probably had a notion that Alders-
 gate Street was not the place for a poet to dwell in, and that his
 work ought to be of a specially etherial kind. But Chaucer was
 Comptroller of Petty Customs, in the port of London ; Spenser
 was born in East Smithfield, and died, it is to be feared, " for lack
 of bread," in King Street, Westminster ; Shakespeare was busy at
 the Globe Theatre during the most important years of his life ;
 and Milton himself was not only born at the Spread Eagle, in
 Bread Street, not only received his education at St. Paul's School,
 but had evidently a lingering love for London, whenever for a short
 time he was separated from it. There is clear evidence that he
 preferred the Thames to the Cam. Even in the genial years that
 he passed at his father's house in Horton, when he was writing
 " L'Allegro," " II Penseroso," " Comus," " Lycidas," he was still
 paying frequent visits to London, that he might perfect himself in
 his father's favourite study of music, and in the mathematics. And

 1857.]           Miltoti considered as a Schoolmaster.          329
finally, he left Italy, where he had "passed so many months of
exquisite delight, and where he had received homage so unusual for
any dweller on this side of the Alps, as soon as he heard of the
probable meeting of the new (the Long) Parliament.
     Johnson's complaint is refuted by his own sensible opinion that
Milton taught for money, and not for amusement. Since he had
determined that he ought to oppose the measures of the Court, was
it not the duty of an honourable and prudent man to secure himself
against the bribes of the Court ? The patronage of Charles I. was
bestowed with liberality and discernment. The report that a young
man had come to London, who had received panegyrics from the
academies and from the most eminent men of letters in Italy, was
likely enough to reach the queen or the archbishop. There was
nothing in Milton's previous career to render it improbable that he
might be induced to use his pen in their favour. Instead of de
nouncing court entertainments, he had written a mask ; he could
be favourably spoken of by the family at Ludlow Castle. Money
was important to him, for he had tastes that were expensive. No
one would have felt more the charms of cultivated and refined
society. Might not his scheme of the private boarding-school then
be a very reasonable means of preventing him from vapouring
away his patriotism, first by making him independent of his pen ;
secondly, by making him a less creditable associate for those who
would have been glad to amuse themselves with his learning and
eloquence ?
     We learn from Howell's " Londinopolis," printed in 1657, that
Aldersgate Street " resembled an Italian street more than any other
in London." Phillips speaks of it as " freer from noise than any
other." Mr. Cunningham shows, in his Handbook, that it was the
residence of distinguished noblemen. Milton must have strained a
point to hire a house in such a situation. That he did so, is one
sign of the earnestness with which he entered upon his task. We
know, from his letter to Mr. Hartlib, that he regarded the building
in which the education was conducted as a part of the education
itself.
     It is useless to speculate whether any of the friends to whom
his letters or his sonnets are addressed committed their sons or
kinsmen to his care. The names of John and Edward Phillips are
all that have come down to us. Of these men, through the labours
of Mr. Godwin, we have more information than it is generally
possible to obtain respecting persons of their calibre. They were
the younger brethren of that " fair infant whose death by a cough "
is immortalised in one of Milton's early poems. When his sister
married a second time, he took the boys into his house. Both
became industrious literateurs. Both, even before the Restoration,
became Royalists. Both for a time fell into the licentiousness
which so commonly accompanied that reaction. John Phillips
began with answering an anonymous reply to his uncle's defence ;

  330                     Rev. F. D. Maurice,                 [Jan. 30,
  then wrote a vulgar satire upon Presbyterians ; became a travestier
  of Virgil ; a dishonest translator of Don Quixote ; a hack of the
  booksellers ; in one discreditable passage, a reviler of Milton.
  No doubt the elevation of his uncle's character may have ex
  asperated the grovelling tendencies in him. If he had been under
  the direction of a high-minded Royalist, he would probably
  have become a self-willed Puritan. The flogging of Busby would
  have been the most useful discipline for him. But he nowhere
  attributes his disgust at Puritanism to Milton's austerity. Edward
  Phillips, who shared that disgust, proves such a notion to be impos
  sible. Nearly the last of his long series of books was the biography
  of his uncle. In it he recurs with affectionate reverence to the
  education he had received in Aldersgate Street, gives an account
  of that education, which shows that it embraced, as we might exi>ect
  it would, every kind of study ; that the tone of the teaching
  was noble, and that Milton knew when to unbend the bow as well as
  to nerve it. Edward Phillips speaks with warmth, and something
  of remorse, of the blessings which his school years might have been
- to him if he-had passed them aright.
      Johnson, who knew nothing concerning the Phillipses, except
  that one of them had written the " Theatrum Poetarum." speaks of
  the small fruit which proceeded from the " wonder-working
  academy " in Aldersgate Street. The fruits may have been unripe
  and unsatisfactory. Milton may have been disappointed in this as
  in his other hopes ; other noble men have been so before and since.
  No one ever doubted that his own Samson was the image of him
  self; that the strong warrior became the blind and despised
  sufferer. But Samson was victorious in his death. There was a
  " Paradise Regained " as well as a " Paradise Lost " in Milton's
  history. His book on Education tells us what he learnt, and what
  we may learn by his school experiments. He never pretended that
  these worked any wonders ; he does not even allude to them in his
  writings. His scheme of education certainly resembles in its prin
  ciples that which Edward Phillips speaks of. It was not, there
  fore, a mere paper scheme ; it referred to actual living boys, whom
  he had seen and tried to form. But the scale of it is one which he
  could never have attempted ; and for aught that appears in the
  letter, he may have been led to it as much by a sense of his
  failures as by pride in his success.
       In England we have grammar schools, and what are called
  commercial schools. In Germany there are gymnasia and real
  schools. The idea of the letter to Mr. Hartlib is, that this division
  is unnecessary and artificial, that the knowledge of words is best
  obtained in union with the knowledge of things ; that each is helpful
  and necessary to the other. His maxim that " language is but the
  instrument conveying to us things useful to be known," might lead
  us to think that he did not regard language as a direct means of
  culture. This would be a hasty inference. He looked upon the

  1857.]         Milton considered as a Schoolmaster.              331
 reading of good books as the best and only means of obtaining a
 knowledge of language. He protests, therefore, against " the pre
 posterous exaction of forcing the empty wits of children to compose
 themes, verses, and orations," as a way to obtain a knowledge of
 the language. But the author of a host of Latin elegiacs, the Latin
 correspondent of foreign courts, is not so inconsistent with himself
 as to despise such exercises. He regards them as " the acts of ripest
judgment, and the final work of a head filled by long reading and
 observing, with elegant maxims, and copious invention." 'Ihis is
not the language of a rebel against scholarship, but of a severe and
fastidious scholar. His compassion for boys is combined with horror
for their solecisms.
      Milton's idea of education is strictly Baconian : not in this
 sense, that he had Bacon's preference for physical studies to humane
 or moral studies ; but in this, that he protests against that method
 which starts from abstractions and conclusions of the intellect, and
 maintains that all true method must begin from the objects of sense.
 He may not have been well read in the " Novum Orgauum ; "
 but he could not have applied its maxims more strictly in a new
 direction than he has done. Possibly his protests against making
 logic and metaphysics the introduction to knowledge in the Univer
 sities, when they ought to be the climax of knowledge, were more
 suitable to his own day, when boys went to Cambridge or Oxford
at fifteen or twelve, than to ours. But if it be so, we ought to be
very careful that our youths do acquire the early experimental
training that he recommends, before they venture upon the higher
and more abstract lore : otherwise we may have to complain, as he
 had, that " they grow into a hatred and contempt of learning," and
that when " poverty or youthful years call them importunately their
several ways, they hasten to an ambitious and mercenary, or igno-
rantly zealous divinity," or to the mere " trade of law," or to " state
affairs, with souls so unprincipled in virtue and generous breeding,
that court shifts and tyrannous aphorisms appear to them the highest
points of wisdom," while " some of a more airy spirit live out their
 days in feasts and jollity."
      Passing from his principles to his application of them, we may
find abundant excuses for criticism, and, if we covet the reputation
of wits, for ridicule. He wished his college to be both school and
university ; the studies therefore proceed in an ascending scale,
from the elements of grammar to the highest science, as well as to
the most practical pursuits. The younger boys are to be especially
trained to a clear and distinct pronunciation, " as like as may be to
the Italian." Books are to be given them like Cebes or Plutarch,
which will "win them early to the love of virtue and true labour."
In some hour of the day they are to be taught the rules of arith
metic and the elements of geometry. The evenings are to he fciken
up " with the easy grounds of religion, and the story of scripture."
In the next stage they begin to study books on agriculture, Cato,
   VOL. II.                                                2A

 332             Milton considered as a Schoolmaster.        [Jan. 30,
 Varro, and Columella. These books will make them in time
 masters of any ordinary Latin prose, and will be at the same time
 *- occasions of inciting and enabling them hereafter to improve the
 •tillage of their country." The use of maps and globes is to be
 learnt from modern authors; but Greek is to be studied, as soon
 as the grammar is learnt, in the " historical physiology of Aristotle
 and Theophrastus." Latin and Greek authors together are to teach
 the principles of arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, and geography.
 Instruction in architecture, fortification, and engineering, follows.
 In natural philosophy we ascend through the history of meteors,
 minerals, plants, and living creatures to anatomy. Anatomy leads
  on to the study of medicine.
      The objections to some of these plans are too obvious to need
any notice. No one will suppose that natural philosophy is to be
learnt from Seneca, or agriculture from Columella. Every one
 will admit readily that his own amazing powers of acquisition led
 Milton to overrate the powers of ordinary boys. But it would
seem a poor reason for not availing ourselves of the hints that he
gives us, that we have means of following them out which he had
not : a poorer reason still for not profiting by the warnings which
he gives us against filling our pupils' heads with a mere multitude
of words, that he perhaps asked them to take in more both of words
and things than they would be able comfortably to carry. If he is
an idealist, he is certainly also a stern realist. He would have us
always conversant with facts rather than with names. He aims at
the useful as directly as the most professed utilitarian. The pupils
are to have " the helpful experiences of hunters, fowlers, fishermen,
shepherds, gardeners, and apothecaries," to assist them in their
natural studies. These studies are to increase their interest in
Ilesiod, in Lucretius, and in the Georgics of Virgil. The incentive
for studying medicine is, that they may perhaps " save armies by
frugal and expenseless means, and not let the healthy and stout
bodies of young men under them rot away for want of this (medi
cal) discipline."
      Two other objections have been raised by Dr. Johnson against
this scheme of education. The first will, probably, not have great
weight with the members of the Royal Institution, for it turns upon
the comparative worthlessness of the physical sciences. The other
is expressed in some very elegant sentences, maintaining that the
formation of a noble and useful character is the true end of educa
tion. One cannot help deploring that maxims so good and well-
delivered should be so utterly thrown away. They are absurdly
inapplicable to Milton's letter. It is throughout a complaint that
the existing education was not sufficiently directed to the purpose of
forming brave men and good citizens. It is throughout an assertion
that that is the only purpose which any education ought to aim at.
The classics are not resorted to for the purpose of forming a style,
but of instilling manly thoughts, which a higher wisdom may purify

  1857.]               General Monthly Meeting.                   333
 and make divine. Because the Englishman is a poor creature when
 he is busy with abstractions, and the strongest of all when he is
 dealing with realities, Milton would have him trained in these.
 All exercises and all recreations are to contribute to the same end.
 The pupils are to learn " the exact use of their weapon," both
 as " a good means of making them healthy, nimble, and well in
 breath, and of inspiring them with a gallant and fearless courage,
 which being tempered with seasonable precepts of true fortitude
 and patience, shall turn into a native and heroic valour, and make
 them hate the cowardice of doing wrong." In their very sports
 they are to learn the rudiments of soldiership.
     Music is not recommended as a graceful recreation to a few,
 but as an instrument of making all the pupils " gentle from rustic
 passions and distempered passions."
     Certainly, whatever the errors of Milton's system may have
 been, its ends were as noble and as practical as those of any that
 was ever conceived. An institution trained, as this is, to profit by
 the experiments of honest seekers in natural science, even if those
 experiments prove failures, will not despise the experiments of a
 moralist and a patriot who may have committed mistakes which the
most ignorant may detect, who had a righteousness of purpose
which the wisest will be most ready to admire and most eager to
possess.
                                                        [F. D. M.]
             GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                        Monday, February 2.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
                         John Lister, Esq. and
                         Joseph Wood, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    Thanks were voted to Dr. TVNDALL and Rev. F. D. MAURICE,
for their Discourses on January 23 and 30.
    The special thanks of the Members were returned to Miss
A. SAVAGE for a handsomely bound copy of her father Mr. W.
                                                         2A2

334                        General Monthly Meeting.                     [Fib. 2,
Savage's work " On the Art of Decorative Painting," published in
 1822, with additional Illustrations.
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same : —
   FROM
Her Majesty's Government—Catalogue of Stars near the Ecliptie, observed at
      Markree, 1854-6. 8vo. 1856.
East India Company, the Hon.— Kg Veda Sanhita. Edited by Dr. Max Muller.
      Vol. III. 4to. 1856.
Lords of the Admiralty—The Nautical Almanac for 1857-60. 8vo.
Aaiili'mie. des Sciences de f fnstilul Imperial de France—M<?moires prcsentc's par
      Divers Savans. Tome XIV. 4to. 1856.
   Me'moires. Tome XXVII. Partie 1. 4to. 1856.
   Supplement aux Comptes Rendus. Tome I. 4to. 1856.
Actuaries, Institute of—Assurance Magazine. No. 26. 8vo. 1857.
Art-Union of London— Report for 1856. 8vo.
   Almanacs for 1857. 8vo.*
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 257. 8vo. 1855.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XVII. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
      1856.
Babbage, Charles, Esq. F.R.S. (the Author)—Analysis of the Statistics of the
     Clearing-house during 1839. 8vo. 1856.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. Af.fi. I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for Jan. 1857. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishert)—The Musical World for Jan. 1857. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in Jan. 1857. 4to.
British and Foreign Bible Society—Catalogue of their Library, by G. Bullen.
     8vo. 1857.
Carpenter, If. B. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Researches on the Foraminifera.
     Part 2. 4to. (Phil. Trans.) 1856.
Copland, James, M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—On the Drainage and Sewage of
     London. I2mo. 1857.
De la Rue, Warren, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Engraving of Jupiter, as seen with
     a Newtonian Equatoreal of 13 inches aperture, Oct. 25, 1856.
Editors—The Medical Circular for Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857. 8vo.
     The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857. 4to.
     The Journal of Gas- Lighting for Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857. 4to.
     The Mechanic's Magazme for Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857. 8vo.
     The Athenaeum for Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857. -I to.
     The Engineer for Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857. fol.
     The Literarium for Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.It.S.—Monatsbcrichtc der Kiinigl. Preuss.
     Akademie, Sept. und Okt. 1856. 8vo. Berlin.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXI. No. 5 ; and Vol.
     XXXII. Nos 3, 4, 5, 6. 8vo. 1856.
Gamgee, Joseph S., Esq. (the Author)— Researches in Pathological Anatomy
     and Climcal Surgery. 8vo. 1856.
  On the Advantages of the Use of the Starched Apparatus in the Treatment
     of Fractures, &c. 8vo. 1853.
  Inflections on Petit's Operation. 8vo 1855.
  Osservazioni sul Regime Dietetico. 8vo. 1853-4.
Geographical Society, Iioyal—Proceedings, No. 6. 8vo. 1857.
Gladstone, Dr. J. H. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Papers on Chemical
     Affinity, &c. I In. and 8vo.
GlBsener, M. (the Author) —Recherches sur la Tele"graphe Electrique. 8vo.
     Lie"ge, 1855.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General)—Report of the Registrar-General
     for Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857. 8vo.

 1857.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                      335
Hamilton, Sir Chalet J. J. Bart. C.B. M.R.I.—Panli Jovii Opera, fol
      157S.
Landois, H. (the Author)—Causes de la Coloration des Corps, &c. 8vo. 1857.
Lewin, Malcolm, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author). —On the Government of Oude.
      8vo. 1857.
Locke, Mr. W. (the Hon. Sec.)—Reports of the Ragged School Union, 1855-6.
      8vo.
   Ragged School Union Magazine. 8vo. 1856.
Londcsborough, The Lord, K.H. M.R.I.—Miscellanea Graphica, No. 11. 4to.
      1857.
Macilicain, George, Esq. M.R.I. (the Author)—Memoir of John Abernethy.
      3rd. Ed. 8vo. 1856.
Madiid, Real Academia de Cienciat--Memorias. Tom. III. & IV. 4to.
      1856.
National Life-Boat Institution—The Life-Boat Journal for 1852-56. 8vo.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857.
      8vo.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857.
      4to.
Pepys, John, Esq. M.R.I.—"Shall " and " Will," or Two Chapters on Future
     Auxiliary Verbs. By Sir E. W. Head, Bart. I6to. 1856.
Poey, M. Andre~ (the Author)—Several Tracts on the Meteorology, Earth
     quakes, &c., of Cuba. 1855-56.
Pliotographic Society—Journal, Nos. 49, 50. 8vo. 1856.
Rennie, George, Esq. F.R.S.—Report from the Mersey Inquiry Committee.
     8vo. 1856. •
Roxburgh, W. M.D. Af..R./.—The Confession of Faith, &c., of the Church of
     Scotland, &c. 16to. 1845.
Savage, Miss Anne—Practical Hints on Decorative Printing, with Illustrations
     engraved on Wood, and printed in Colours at the Type Press. By Wm.
      Savage, fol. 1822.
Scoffern, John, M. B. (the A uthor)—Philosophy of Common Life. 16to. 1857.
Society of Arts.—Journal for Dec. 1856, and Jan. 1857. 8vo.
Statistical Society -Journal, Vol. XIX. Part 4. 8vo. 1856.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Das Leben Jesu. (Embossed) 4to. Wien.
      1850.
   Selection of Scotch Songsl(Embossed). 4to. 1844.
VereinszurBefSrderungdes Gewerbfleissesin Preussen—Sept. nnd Okt. 1856. 4to.
 Yaten, James, Esq F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—On the Versification of
     Homer. 8vo. 1857.

336     Dr. J. H. Gladstone on Chromativ Phenomena           [Feb. 6,
                                  '
                                                        7 y
                                       •*«         •i t
                                           ~*• . "
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 6.
      SIR BENJAMIN COLLINS BKODIE, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                     Vice-President, in the Chair.
          JOHN HAM, GLADSTONE, Ph.D. F.E.S. M.R.I.
   On Chromatic Phenomena exhibited by Transmitted Liyht.
THE origin of colour was first illustrated by some elementary
remarks and experiments. It was laid down as a fundamental
principle, that the colour of an object depends on its reflecting or
transmitting those rays of light which are capable of producing the
sensation of the said colour. The objection that a rose is red not
only when viewed by red light, but when seen in colourless day
light, was answered by showing that a beam of colourless light from
the electric lamp really consisted of very many coloured rays, and
was resolvable by a prism into a red, orange, yellow, green, blue,
indigo, and violet light. This, when received on a white screen,
showed a brilliantly coloured spectrum, and brightly tinted objects
appeared of their ordinary hue only when illuminated by the ray
of the same colour. It was explained that the electric light closely
resembles that of the sun, but that the light of the great luminary
is deficient in certain rays, so that a prismatic spectrum formed by
daylight is traversed by very thin dark lines, which have been
mapped and designated A, B, C, D, &c. Most artificial lights
contain certain coloured rays in excess, hence objects illuminated
by them exhibit that colour more prominently than by daylight.
The soda flame, for instance, consists almost wholly of certain
yellow rays which are wanting in the sun's light, coinciding in
refrangibility (as Mr. Crookes has shown) with the dark line D ;
hence red or blue objects illuminated by it appear black, and
nothing is reflected from those which do appear luminous excepting
a ghastly yellow.
    Leaving reflected, and turning to transmitted light, it was seen
that pieces of coloured glass, interposed in the beam of light from
the electric lamp, stopped certain rays, while they allowed others
to pass through ; thus a red glass cut off all the blue end of the
spectrum, while a smalt-blue glass divided the red end into several

 1857.]              exhibited by Transmitted Light*                 337
 luminous bands alternating with dark spaces. The same was true
of coloured liquids, a solution of sulphate of indigo absorbing the
orange and yellow rays, and giving a spectrum consisting of a red
ray separated by a broad black space from the green, blue, and
violet. An oxy-hydrogen limejight, covered successively by red,
yellow, and blue bell-glasses, produced the same effect on the
coloured diagrams and other objects around, as if the source of light
had been alternately red, yellow, and blue ; and the opacity of
these glasses to certain rays, and their transparency to others, was
further illustrated by burning spirit lamps, the wicks of which
had been previously sprinkled with salt, under yellow and blue
bell-glasses. The yellow glass appeared perfectly transparent to
the light which it covered, but the blue did not suffer the least
yellow to pass ; indeed, the soda-flame under it seemed of a pale
violet tipped with green. It was explained that cobalt (to which
the cdlour of the blue glass is owing) absorbs all those rays which
are about the dark line D of the spectrum, although it suffers those
a little less or a little more refrangible to pass freely ; hence a con
siderable portion of the yellow light of the sun will penetrate such
blue glass, but the yellow of the soda-flame is absolutely stopped.
As a converse experiment, sulphuret of carbon lamps were ignited
under the yellow and blue glasses ; when the blue cover appeared
almost transparent and colourless, while the yellow was opaque to
the blue light, transmitting only some greenish rays.
    If white light be transmitted through two or more media suc
cessively, each of which has a different absorbing effect upon it,
very unexpected results may be frequently obtained. This is true
of combinations of coloured glasses, or of coloured liquids. A red
solution of meconate of iron, for instance, appears black when seen
through the blue solution of an ammoniacal copper salt. If a vessel,
filled with the blue alcoholic solution of a cobalt salt, be immersed
in a pale yellow solution of chromic acid, it appears to contain a
deep red liquid. Green nitrate of chromium also becomes red,
when looked at through the same yellow solution. Similarly when
two coloured compounds are mixed together, which are incapable
of entering into chemical combination, an unexpected colour will
frequently result ; thus, on adding a little blue sulphindigotate of
potash to a solution of yellow chromate of potash, the result was
green, but on adding a larger amount of the blue salt it changed to
red. There was here no chemical change ; yet how naturally might
a chemist have received, the unlooked-for colour as evidence of a
new compound !
    This experiment introduced the subject of dichromatism. A
thin stratum of even a highly coloured liquid is almost destitute of
colour ; thus the bubbles formed on shaking acetate of iron, or
more familiarly, port-wine, or porter, appear white. That the
colour of a solution changes in intensity, becoming paler when
diluted, and deeper when concentrated, is known to all. This is

838      Dr. J. H, Gladstone OH Chromatic Phenomena           [Feb. 6,
the general rule ; yet a solution of yellow chromate of potash
appeared scarcely any paler when diluted with perhaps twenty times
its bulk of water. Sometimes also a complete change of colour
takes place ; thus acetate of chromium, which was red, became
green wheu considerably diluted with pure water : a few drops of
cochineal, stirred up in a tall champagne glass filled with water,
imparted a red tint to the upper wide portion, and a lavender tint
to the lower and narrow portion. A neutral solution of litmus it
blue, alkalies render this (as is well known) still more blue, boracic
or carbonic acid changes it to a wine red, and other acids to a
bright red : yet slightly acid litmus was exhibited of a pale purple
hue, aud alkaline litmus of a deep red colour. All these phenomena
were stated to be dependent, not on any chemical action exerted by
the water, but on the quantity of the colouring substance traversed
by the light in its passage to the eye ; the same solution appearing
of different colours according to the thickness seen through, and a
deep stratum of a dilute liquid having the same tint as a shallow
stratum of the same liquid when strong. The speaker added, that
this phenomenon had been fully described aud explained by Sir John
llei'schel, who termed it Dichromatism, but that fresh instances of
it were being constantly observed ; indeed, after investigating some
cases of it last summer, he had, during a tour on the continent,
noticed a fruit sauce which constantly appeared at the hotel dinners
in Bavaria and other parts of Germany, and was beautifully di
chromatic, red and blue, with every intervening shade of purple.
 15y this character he had traced its composition, and found the
c-.'lour was due to the deep red cherries which were very abundant
 at that season. He had noticed the phenomenon likewise in some
 specimens of the ordinary wine, in essence of lavender, in the syrup
of green-gage tart, as well as in some pure chemical substances,
such as red prussiate of potash, meconate of iron, purple comena-
mate of iron, citrate of iron, sulphindigotic acid, and permanganate
 of potash.
     The prism reVeals the origin of all these chromatic phenomena.
It shows that the different rays of the spectrum are capable of
penetrating different distances into a coloured medium. Thus, if
port wine be placed in a wedge-shaped glass vessel, and this inter
 posed in the refracted rays in such a position that each coloured
 ray can fall upon the different thicknesses of the liquid, it will be
 found that all the rays of the spectrum can penetrate a thin
 stratum, but that as the liquid increases in depth all are absorbed
 except the least refrangible red. Hence the thin film of a bubble
of port is colourless. If yellow chromate of potash be examined in
a similar manner, it is found to cut off the blue and violet rays at
once, and to transmit the less refrangible half of the spectrum with
equal freeness whether the stratum be thin or thick. Hence it is
that dilution scarcely diminishes the colour of this dissolved salt.
If a wedge of cobalt-blue glass (which is dichromatic) be inter-

1857.]            exhibited by Transmitted Light.                   339
posed across the spectrum, either of the sun, or of the electric light,
a remarkable configuration is observed, which shows that the
luminous bands of orange-red, of pale green, of orange, of yellow,
of blue, and of violet, are absorbed at different distances in the
order above given, while the extreme red penetrates any thickness
with almost undiminished brightness. Acetate of chromium, placed
in a hollow glass wedge, was seen to transmit the red, orange, green,
blue, and violet rays through a thin stratum ; yellow was absorbed
at once, violet very quickly, while the
maxima of luminosity were in the extreme
red, and about the junction of green and
blue, which in the solar spectrum is mark
ed by the dark line F. These blue and
green rays, however, which are transmitted
in such quantity at first that the solution
appears green to the unaided eye, are
gradually absorbed, while the red ray con
tinues to penetrate the dense solution,
which of course assumes a red colour. A
solution of litmus was seen to transmit the
red, green, and blue rays freely, the maxi
mum of absorption taking place between            Salt of Chromium.
the fixed lines C and D of the solar
spectrum : the addition of an alkali made little alteration bevond
facilitating the transmission of the blue ray ; while an acid dimi
nished though it did not entirely retard it, causing the admission at
the same time of the orange ray, and shifting the maximum of
absorption to between b and F. As the red ray passes apparently
 unchanged through a great thickness of any of these solutions,
neutral, alkaline, and acid litmus, all appear red if seen in .sufficient
quantity ; indeed, paradoxical as it may sound, alkaline litmus is
then of a purer red than acid litmus, since
the latter transmits some orange light as
well. The various appearances of the pris
matic spectrum, as seen through these
liquids in wedge-shaped vessels may be
p;isily copied by a draughtsman ; and, in
 fact, coloured diagrams were displayed,
representing the prismatic images given by
 most of the above-mentioned substances.
 Some of these presented very characteristic
forms : thus, cochineal showed two maxima
of transmissibility, about B and G, pene
trating far into the liquid, and two others
in the green space, which, however, were               Cochineal.
 speedily absorbed. Tincture of lavender,
too, gave a spectrum marked by absorption bands, which seemed
 to coincide with the lines b, F, and G of the solar spectrum, though

340 Dr. J. II. Gladstone on Chromatic Phenomena.                  [Feb. 6,
broader than these : the violet and green were more quickly ab
sorbed than the blue rays, and these more quickly than the orange
and red. The speaker observed, that all
the solutions of chromium salts which he
had examined, whether green, blue, or red,
gave a prismatic image of the same form,
—that described above,—the only percepti
ble difference being in the relative lumin
osity of the different colours : thus, on ex
amining the green and blue modifications
of nitrate of chromium in solutions of the
same strength, the green in the first case
appeared brighter than the blue, and pene
trated to a somewhat greater distance, while
in the second case it was the blue that had
the advantage in luminosity ; but the general             La render.
configuration of the prismatic image was
identical in the two modifications so different in appearance to the
unaided eye. This was not the only instance in which the prism had
revealed a wider application to the general rule, that a particular base
or acid has the same, or very nearly the same effect, upon the rays of
light, with whatever it may be combined. When two colouring sub
stances combine, each continues to exert its proper influence on the
various rays ; thus, acid chromate of copper is yellowish green,
because the chromic acid absorbs the blue and violet rays, and the
copper the red ray, and thus orange, yellow, and green are alone
transmitted. The diagrams also explained the production of first
green, and afterwards red, on the admixture of sulphindigotate and
         Sulphiudigotate of Potatti.        Chromate of Potash.
chromate of potash. Sulphindigotic acid and its salts admit the
extreme red freely, but absorb the orange at once, the yellow very
speedily, the green not so soon, and admit the blue and violet to
a considerable distance : these last, however, are completely absorbed
by chromic acid and the ehmmates ; thus, a little red and much

1857.]             exhibited by Transmitted Light.                  841
green pass through a thin stratum of the mixed salts, while red alone
is transmitted by a thick stratum.
    Sir David Brewster observed that some coloured media caused
a ray of a certain angle of refraction to appear of a different colour
to that which it exhibited in the normal spectrum ; and, mainly on
these observations, he founded his remarkable theory that the pris
matic spectrum consists of three superimposed spectra of the same
length, one red, another yellow, and the third blue, which are
coincident in position, but have their maxima of luminosity at
different places. Some eminent philosophers of our own and other
lands have denied not merely the conclusions, but even the obser
vations of Brewster. Dr. Gladstone, however, could add his fullest
testimony to the truth of the statement, that absorbent media fre
quently produce an apparent change of colour in a transmitted ray ;
and that not merely when a slit in the window-shutter is viewed by
a prism through the interposed medium, but also when the altered
prismatic spectrum is thrown upon a white screen, lie had tried
the latter experiment by means of light derived from the sun, from
the electric lamp of the Royal Institution, and from the oxy-gas
lime lamp of Mr. Highley, with the kind assistance of that gentle
man, and always with a similar result. The large bell-glasses used
during this discourse had been originally employed by Dr. Gladstone
for experiments on the growth of plants, and he had then carefully
examined the light transmitted through them. Through the blue
glass he saw first a band of pure red light, then a dark space, then
another luminous band which appeared to him like no colour of the
spectrum, rather russet perhaps ; his assistant called it " dirty
chocolate ; " a lady, who happened to come into the laboratory,
unhesitatingly pronounced it " orange ; " he was struck with this,
as it certainly corresponded in position with the orange ray,
though he did not know at that time, what has been frequently
observed, that women are generally far more accurate in their
appreciation of colours than men are. Accordingly he described
the luminous band in his note-book as " orange, very bright, but
unlike normal colour." Subsequently, he had found that Brewster
called this second red ray in smalt blue glass " orange red ; " but
Ilerschel pronounced it "pure red;" while Helmholtz, isolating
it from surrounding light, resolved it into its proper orange.
Quite recently, on examining the prismatic spectrum thrown on a
screen after traversing the same kind of glass, one scientific friend
had called the second luminous ray "green," and another had
designated it " brown," though on reconsideration each indepen
dently thought it had rather a reddish tint.
    Thus Brewster's observation that a ray after transmission through
certain absorbent media appears of a different colour to what it did
before, is a truth. Yet the very fact that this colour seems so dif
ferent to different eyes, and indeed to the same eye at different times,
 indicates that the phenomenon has a subjective rather than an ob

342           Dr. Gladstone on Transmitted Light.             [Feb. 6,
jective origin. Difficulties of another character have also been
urged against Brewster's deduction, by Helmholtz and others, and
may be drawn from Maxwell's experiments. It is certain that
changes in the apparent colour of a particular ray may arise from
other causes than the absorption of one kind of light, while another
kind having the same angle of refraction is transmitted. Of these
may be enumerated :—First, an actual change of refrangibility, as
in the cases of " fluorescence," so fully investigated by Professor
Stokes. Secondly, a difference in the impression on the sense, arising
from change of intensity. Thus blue, if very luminous, inclines to
white, if faintly luminous to violet ; and so the fore-mentioned note
book designates the faint rays about F that were transmitted by the
red bell-glass, " lilac," and the speaker had observed the blue in the
prismatic spectra given by ammonio-sulphate of nickel, and by
tincture of lavender, gradually shading off into violet as the light
passed through deeper strata of liquid. The yellow of the solar
spectrum appears to occupy a considerable space, if the sun be
bright, but if diffuse daylight be examined, that space appears
orange and green, while the yellow is perhaps confined to a very
luminous line a little beyond D. It is not to be wondered at there
fore that the green in the spectra of port wine and of citrate of
iron, appears to invade the space usually occupied by the yellow,
and the orange yellow. Yet in such wises the impression on differ
ent eyes may be very different ; thus, in rehearsing the experiments
with the electric light at the Royal Institution, Dr. Gladstone had
 seen the bright space beyond D transmitted by blue glass of a
 decidedly green tint ; but Mr. Anderson had unhesitatingly called
 it yellow, its proper colour. This difference of sensation, arising
 from difference of intensity, was illustrated by the " Cercles chro-
 matiques " of M. Chevreul, the first of which represents the bright
 colours of the spectrum, in which that called " Jaune. " is certainly
 a beautiful yellow ; but the succeeding circles represent the same,
 reduced by the admixture of various percentages of black, and
 in them the "Jaune" becomes green, and so likewise does the
 " Orange," where a very large proportion of black has been added.
 A revolving disk, coloured black, on which had been fastened a
 segment of bright yellow paper, appeared uniformly green when
set in rapid motion. Again, on one of Maxwell's colour tops was
 fixed an outer circle of red, and an inner one, partly black and
 partly orange ; when the top was spun the inner circle appeared
 green. Thirdly, contrast will frequently change the apparent
 colour of a particular ray. The result in the last experiment
 was partially due to this cause, the outer circle of bright red
 facilitating the sensation of its complementary colour green. Thus
 the dim light between D and E in the spectrum of ammonio-
sulphate of nickel, with bright orange on one side and green on
the other, assumes a very indefinite tint. The very remarkable
prismatic image given by a solution of permanganate of potash in

 1857.]        Mr. Malone on Photographic Engraving.                     343
 the wedge-shaped vessel was exhibited, and it was seen that the
 orange band became very faint when the solution was deep, and in
 contrast with the neighbouring brilliant red appeared sometimes
green, but more generally violet. Much, in this case also, was
 found to depend on the eye of the observer ; but that a violet
sensation might be produced from orange under such circumstances
 had been proved by the speaker, who in repeating one of Dr.
Tyndall's experiments—that of looking at the daylight through a
red glass on which a vermilion wafer was fastened—had frequently
seen the wafer assume a violet tint. He believed that these three
causes were sufficient to account for all the apparent changes of
colour produced in a ray by absorbent media.
                                                                [J. H. G.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, February 13.
    SIB BENJAMIN COLLINS BKODIE, BART., D.C.L. F.E.S.
                               in the Chair.
                     THOMAS A. MALONE, F.C.S.
             DIIECIOR or THE UBOIUIORY is THI LONDON msrrrtiTiojr.
 On the Application of Light and Electricity to the production
                of Engravings —Photogalvanography.
THE subject of this discourse is one with which the speaker has been
for some years practically acquainted. In 1844, he experimented
for many months upon the engraving process of M. Fizeau of Paris,
in conjunction with M. Claudet and M. Fizeau. Since that time he
has closely watched all the steps of improvement that have been
taken, down to the latest investigations of Talbot, Niepce de St.
Victor, Pretsch, and Poitevin. lfe ventured thus to think himself
fairly entitled to lay before the auditory the numerous remarkable
and beautiful specimens he had gathered, or kindly been furnished
with, accompanied by such commentaries and notices of processes
as the time admitted.
    The various methods hitherto devised for the accomplishment of
that important problem the certain perpetuation and cheap mul
tiplication —by means of printer's ink and the ordinary printing
presses—of the images of natural objects, as obtained in the camera
obscura by the processes of ordinary photography, may be arranged
under three great divisions.

 344      Mr. T. A. Malone, on the Application of Light [Feb. 13,
     Thefirst method, in which light was used to aid the engraver's art
 was almost coeval with the first attempts made to produce sun-drawn
 pictures. Indeed it had been asserted that photography and photo
 graphic engraving were invented between the years 1813 and 1827,
 by one man, Nicephore Niepce, of Chalon on the Saune. A
 reference, however, to the Journal of the Koyal Institution* would
 show that photography really sprang from the labours of Thomas
 Wedgwood and Humphry Davy, as far back as the year 1802.
      Although we cannot accord to Nicephore Niepce the merit of
 originating photography, we must give him the undivided title of
  founder of the art of photographic engraving, and, moreover,
 acknowledge that he was the first to fix not only a direct positive
 photograph, but also to secure on metal and glass plates the images
 of the camera, and this long before Daguerre produced his won
 derful plates. Of this there can remain no doubt, after a study of
 the remarkable specimens which Dr. Robert Brown has so kindly
 enabled photographers now for the first time publicly to examine.
 It was not generally known that Kiepce's images of 1827 had so
 much that is beautiful, in common with the daguerreotype of a later
 date. Daguerre's pictures may be said to be only exalted examples
 of the same phenomenon : yet the processes are widely different.
 Niepce's method was beautifully simple, and as it gives us the
 ground-work of his etching process, must be briefly described. He
took a bituminous substance called Jew's pitch or asphaltum ; upon
 this he poured oil of lavender to resolve the bitumen into a varnish
 with which he could coat plates of metal or glass. He used chiefly
 pewter and copper plated with silver. A plate coated and dried
was exposed to the light with an engraving superimposed, or it was
placed in the field of the camera obscura just as Wedgwood and
Davy placed their prepared papers ; and with a certain similarity of
result, inasmuch as a photographic image was obtained on the var
nished plate. This image, however, unlike that of Wedgwood and
Davy, was not visible. The plate had to be submitted to the solvent
action of a mixed liquid, composed of one part of oil of lavender
and ten parts by measure of white oil of petroleum, or mineral
naphtha. On immersion in this fluid the remarkable fact revealed
itself, that wherever the light had acted the varnish had become
insoluble, and in a certain degree proportionately so to the intensity
of the light. There were not only lights and shadows but half
tints. The picture, as soon as developed by the solvent, was re
moved, drained, and washed with water to check all further action.
The shadows of the picture were now represented by the parts of
the white metal, or glass plate laid bare ; the lights were given by
the film of varnish which the light had hardened, and the solvent
had left untouched. The plate now finished was capable of being
etched by simply pouring engraver's acid upon its surface. The
              * Journal of the Koyal Institution, Vol. I. p. 170.

1857.]       and Electricity to the production of Engravings.        345
varnish would protect the metal from the acid over the lights of the
picture ; while the shadows, represented by the bare metal, would
be bitten in the manner common to all etching processes. On now
removing the protecting varnish, the plate could be inked and
printed from by the common copper-plate printing press. Such
are the essential details of the first of the photographic engraving
processes. The specimens on the table were presented in 1827 to
Mr. Bauer, late of Kew, by Nictfphore Niepce, who for a short
time resided at Kew, on a visit to a brother in infirm health.
Niepce prepared a statement regarding his invention, for present
 ation to the Royal Society ; but as he at that time kept his process
secret, his manuscript was not published. Niepce appears to have
 returned to France, disappointed at his ill-fortune.
      Niepce's bitumen process was improved by his nephew,
 M. Niepce de St. Victor, who has published a treatise* on it,
giving the necessary minute instructions. The main features do
not differ from those above given, though greater sensitiveness and
perfection have been obtained. MM. Mante, Belloc, and Negre,
MM. Barreswil Davanne, Lerebours, and Lemercier have also
advanced the bitumen process : the latter gentlemen having applied
it to lithographic purposes. The process is still under trial ; but
the difficulties of obtaining a constantly uniform result at present
stand in the way of its general adoption. It still deserves a thorough
 investigation.
     The second method of producing photographic engravings is
founded upon certain properties possessed by the Uaguerrean
image. It is found that a daguerreotype unfixed by gold is acted
 upon by nitric acid in its shadows, while the lights long resist
 the biting action of the acid. This is explained by assuming that
the shadows are of pure silver, and that the lights consist of mercury
 —the acid attacking the silver by preference. The fact is, that an
 etching is obtained by merely leavng idiluted nitric acid in contact
 with the plate. The etched plate is then inked and printed from
 as in Niepce's case. Dr. Donne, of Paris, appears to have been
 the first to devise this method. Dr. Berres, of Vienna, also used
 nitric acid for this purpose ; but the action is not easily controlled,
 and this form of the process has fallen into disuse. In 1842,
 Mr. Grove published in the Philosophical Magazine a method by
which Daguerre's images can be engraved by the chlorine evolved
 by voltaic action, when the daguerreotype plate is made the positive
 terminal of the battery, and immersed in diluted hydrochloric acid ;
  the negative wire being terminated by a plate of platinum, which
 was placed opposite and parallel to the photographic image. This
 process is much more under control than the last. [Prints from
 plates so engraved in 1842 were on the table.] This process is also
     * Traitc" Pratique de Gravure Heliographique, par M. Niepce de Saint-
 Victor. Paris, Juin 1856.

346       Mr. T. A. Malone, on the Application of Light [Feb. 13,
 worthy of further investigation. Here the image is truly drawn by
light and engraved by electricity.
     M. Fizeau, about the year 1844, also patented in this country,
in conjunction with M. Claudet, a process for engraving the da
guerreotype image. The speaker was instructed in this process by
 M. Fizeau, and worked for many months at its perfection. Kesulfs
obtained both in France and England were upon the table, and
showed that in cases where great delicacy of delineation was re
quired, as in certain anatomical subjects, this process had not been
surpassed. It quite justified the formation of a second division of
the available photographic engraving processes.
    M. Fizeau, like Mr. Grove, availed himself of the affinity of
chlorine for silver, but relied on chemical action for its application.
He (M. Fizeau) made a solution of common salt and nitrite of
potash in water, to which he added nitric acid. This mixed acid
acted immediately when aided by warmth, upon the silver of Da-
guerre's plate, and left untouched the parts supposed to be com
pletely covered by mercury. Chloride of silver was thus at once
formed in the shadows of the images, and after some time in the
half tints also. A very faint etching was thus produced. A pro
longed application of the acid would not further deepen the etching,
since the insoluble chloride of silver at first formed protected the
faintly etched parts from a further deepening corrosion. It was
therefore necessary to remove the chloride of silver by washing
with a solution of ammonia. This effected, the plate was ready for
a second application of the acid, when chloride of silver would be
again formed, to be once more removed by ammonia ; and this
alternation of solutions could be repeated a certain number of times,
the etching increasing in depth at each operation. But in practice
it was found that after a few applications of the acid the lights of
the image also gave way, and thus the engraving came to un untimely
end. To remedy this circumstance was M. Fizeau's great aim ; and
he succeeded in a marked degree by heating the etched plate in a
strong and boiling solution of e:uistic potash, after which treatment
the lights resisted well the injurious action they had before suffered
from. It is not clear how the potash acts. M. Fizeau has sup
posed, and the speaker was inclined to support the view, that the
potash acts mi-rely as a hot bath, possessing a proper and a regular
temperature which might restore the continuity of the amalgamated
surface of mercury and silver as often as it was weakened to the
point of breaking by the under-biling of the acid liquid. The
heating in potash is an important feature in M. Fizeau's process.
As soon as the etching has been carried as far as possible by the
acid mixture, the plate is dried and inked with fine printer's ink,
and an impression may be immediately taken ; but M. Fizeau
prefers that the ink should be allowed to dry in the hollows of the
plate, the unetched parts being wiped clean, so that gold may be
deposited only upon the bright parts by the electrotype process.

1857.]     and Electricity to the production of Engravings.      347
On now removing the ink, ordinary diluted nitric acid may be safely
applied to the plate, to deepen still more the shadows without any
danger of destroying the lights of the picture. This last step causes
M. Fizeau's etchings to possess greater vigour than those obtained
by Donne's or Grove's processes. The danger is, that under-biting
may remove the half tints. However, some beautiful results ob
tained by the late Mr. Hurliman, a skilful engraver of Paris, attest
the worth of this method. M. Fizeau, foreseeing that the wear and
tear of the silver plates might be considerable, thought to use the
electrotype process to produce fac-similes of the engraved plates,
reserving the original plate unworn to supply any further demands,
thus allowing any number of impressions to be struck off. Plates
so electrotyped by the speaker twelve years ago, some of which were
afterwards worked upon by an engraver, were placed upon the
table. The patent right in this process will soon expire.
     The processes of the third and last division were, it must be
confessed, very desirable, notwithstanding the numerous satisfactory
specimens obtained, and still to be obtained, by the processes pre
viously described. The truth seemed to be that none of the pro
cesses gave uniformly satisfactory results : hence the necessity of
being acquainted with the capabilities of all the chief known
methods, and of impartially comparing them with a view to pro
duce any special required result.
     Mr. Henry Fox Talbot opens the third division by his method,
known as the gelatine and bichromate of potash process, in which a
steel plate is covered with a liquified jelly, containing bichromate
of potash in solution. This jelly was allowed to dry upon the plate
after the manner of Niepce's varnish; and the gelatined plate
might be used in a similar way to reproduce engravings or the
images of the camera ; the light, as in Niepce's case, doing its
work by altering and hardening the gelatine whenever it fell with
sufficient intensity. On removing the plate from the light, and
immersing it in water, it was found t hat the gelatine had become
comparatively insoluble where the light had acted, but it retained
its usual solubility over those parts which were in shadow. Thus
the metal could be partially laid bare, as we have seen was the case
in the bitumen process ; the lights now would consist of the altered
gelatine, and the shades be represented by the bare metal ; it is
evident we have only to pour an acid upon the plate to obtain an
etching : but here some care and ingenuity will be required. Nitric
acid acts so energetically and so uncertainly on the steel plate,
that but little success would attend its employment. Accordingly,
Mr. Talbot was led to seek a better engraving liquid. This was
found in a solution of bichloride of platinum, which appeared to act
in the desired manner. The advantage of any process on steel
plates would be obvious, from the great number of impressions that
so hard a body would yield under the wearing action of the printing
press. It might here be observed that the bitumen process had
    VOL. II.                                               2s

348       Mr. T. A. Malone, on the Application of Light      [Feb. 13.
also been applied to steel plates by M. Mante, in a series of natural
history plates, published in Paris, and also by M. Niepce de St.
Victor, in the frontispiece to his treatise.
    In 1854, Heir Paul Pretsch, of the Imperial printing office of
Vienna, patented in this country, and subsequently in France, a
process which he has called Photogalvanography. He uses Mr.
Talbot's materials, but with certain additions, and avails himself of
a property of the gelatine which allows of his dispensing with the
acid etching altogether. We are unable to speak with certainty of
the exact comparative merits and capabilities of the two processes.
Mr. Talbot's results are on steel ; Herr Pretsch's on copper. If
other things be equal, the steel would possess the advantage of
greater durability. Herr Pretsch takes one part of dear gelatine
or glue, and about ten parts of water to form a jelly, which he
mixes with a strong solution of bichromate of potash ; to this mix
ture he adds a fresh portion of jelly, containing nitrate of silver in
solution ; the whole being warmed and thoroughly mixed for about
ten minutes. He next adds a third portion of jelly, containing a
comparatively small quantity of iodide of potassium ; then the whole
mixture is strained, and • is ready to coat the glass plates which arc
at first used in this process. A plate being coated and dried, is
applicable to all the purposes enumerated in the early bitumen
process. It can be used to copy engravings by superposition, or
be made to receive the images of the camera. However, it is found
that the most practical way to make use of the bitumen and gela
tine processes, is to copy from a positive photograph which has
resulted from a collodion or a Talbotype negative. We have only
to place the positive print upon the dried orange-coloured jelly,
press it in contact by a plate of glass, and expose the whole to the
light for some time, when we shall find upon removal that we have
obtained upon the dried jelly a photographic representation of the
positive print. Wherever the light has acted strongly the plate
will have changed from its bright orange-red colour to a more
tawny hue, this latter shade of colour gradually passing in the half
tints into the unaltered red of the parts completely shielded from
the light. The parts acted upon by the light -have now become,
as in Mr. Talbot's case, comparatively insoluble in water. So
far, Herr Pretsch's process has much in common with Mr. Tal
bot's, but the two experimenters now diverge widely. Herr
Pretsch, instead of dissolving away the unaltered jelly, merely
soaks the plate in water long enough to cause the unaltered gelatine
to swell, and so to rise above the surface in such a way that we
obtain a picture in relief resembling the condition of an ordinary
cut wood-block. The tawny coloured parts do not swell, and so
they remain depressed, representing the sunken portions of the
wood-block. If the swelled gelatine were hard enough, we might
at once ink the raised parts by a roller, and print in the usual way.
This, however, is impracticable ; and, moreover, surface printing is

1857.]      emd Electricity to the production of Engravings.       349
not in this art deemed to be the best mode of procedure. A device,
analogous to one used in type printing, is therefore adopted ; a sort
of stereotype process is gone through. A mould in softened gutta
percha, or other suitable moulding material,—possibly a compo
sition of wax or stearine, is made ; this mould will of course have
the raised lines or dots of the original gelatine, represented by
grooves and cavities, apparently graven in the surface ; and here,
again, if the mould were firm enough, we might ink it as if it were
an engraved copper-plate, and print by the copper-plate printing
press. From these considerations, it will be evident that we have
only to seek to convert these yielding surfaces into enduring ones,
and we shall end our labours successfully. This the electrotype
art enables us to do. We have simply to render the mould a con
ductor of electricity, by black lead, or finely divided metal, and we
can deposit in it copper to any amount. "We 'shall thus get in
copper a fac-simile of the original swelled gelatine plate. But
since this requires surface printing, and that is not to be preferred,
we must once more apply our electrotyping process, using this first
obtained and raised copper-plate as a matrix, to produce as many
engraved or sunken plates, ready to be printed from, as we may
desire. The original matrix remains, as in Fizeau's case, unworn.
     The above is an outline of the more important features of Ilerr
Pretsch's invention. There is one more point that deserves atten
tion. In all the engraving processes hitherto described, there is a
difficulty in obtaining a granular surface over the etched parts
necessary to hold the amount of ink required by the printer. In
Pretsch's process this difficulty remarkably enough does not present
itself; the swelled surface breaks up in a direction vertical to its
surface into little masses which are just what is desired ; this result
is quite characteristic. It has been attributed to the presence of
particles of chromate of silver, or of iodide of silver. Would it be
too far-fetched to suppose that it is another beautiful instance of the
slaty cleavage action demonstrated by Dr. Tyndall ? However this
may be, the fact is very important for the success of the invention.
The chemistry of the processes of the first and third divisions of this
subject is but little advanced. M. Niepce de St. Victor has found,
what M. Chevreul had anticipated, that the oxygen of the atmo
sphere is essential in the bitumen process. In an illuminated
vacuum the result could not be obtained, although ordinary photo
graphic action went on quite as well as in air. With reference to
the gelatine processes, it might be observed that Mr. Ponton, who
first used bichromate of potash as a photographic agent, and M.
 Edmund Becquerel, who extended its use on paper, both found
that the sizing materials became more insoluble by the photographic
action. It was believed that chromic acid was liberated by the .
sun's rays, since simple mono-chromate of potash produced no effect.
 On mentioning these facts to a friend (Dr. Hugo Muller), the
 speaker learnt that solutions of chromium had been employed in
                                                          2n2

 350                       Mr. C. Dresser, on the                [Feb. 20,
 Germany, in experiments on tanning skins ; and it therefore sug
 gested itself that the chromic acid set free might, in re-acting on
 part of the gelatine, liberate an oxide of chromium, which, when
 combined with the rest of the gelatine, would form a species of arti
 ficial leather ; thus rationally accounting for the comparative inso
 lubility of the altered and tawny coloured portions of the jelly.
 The subject, however, requires and deserves a more thorough in
 vestigation.
       M. Poitevin, of Paris, has applied the gelatine and bichromate
of potash process to lithographic stone, and his results, placed on
 the table, would well bear a comparison with those obtained by the
 other methods described in this division.
       The speaker, in conclusion, expressed his opinion that these
engraving processes would greatly advance the art of photography
itself, particularly in its applications to the delineation of coloured
objects, in which it is still very imperfect, although some progress
has been made.
                                                           [T. A. M.]
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
   ' j-                     Friday, February 20.
SKV. JOHN BARLOW, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President and Secretary,
                                in the Chair.
                       CHRISTOPHER DRESSER, Esq.
           On the Relation of Science and Ornamental Art.
THE subject was introduced by a brief reference to the fact, that
ornamental art is a necessity of man's nature ; after which, one
or two instances were brought forward in which science has directly
aided ornamental art.
      Chemistry was referred to as supplying many pigments ; pho
tography, as furnishing fac-similes of the choicest works of art of
all ages ; and " Nature Printing," as presenting the ornamentist
with the flora of the entire world, which may be remodelled by
him into aesthetic ornaments.*
      After advancing these instances in which science has aided
ornamental art, the object of the following remarks was set forth
     * A new process of " Nature-Printing" was here brought forward, and its
supposed merits pointed out.

1857.]        Relation of Science and Ornamental Art.                 351
by one or two figures. The manner in which science has revealed
the composition of light, and with this the laws of harmonious
colouring was alluded to, with the power thus offered of imparting
to the student the rules necessary to be attended to in order to
produce agreeable effects by juxtaposing colours. It was then
hinted that the object of the future remarks would be in a humble
way to throw out a few suggestions relative to the laws which
govern the aggregation of forms.
    In continuation, it was observed that ornamental art consists of
two elements, viz. design and manipulation. The former, which is
chief, embracing construction and decoration.*
    A few remarks were then offered upon construction, tending to
show that a true principle of construction gives satisfaction, in the
absence of which beauty cannot exist.
    What is necessary, in order to produce beauty in construction,
was then considered ; but before proceeding to solve this question,
the import of the term " beauty " was discussed. To the speaker's
mind it conveyed some such idea as the following : that beauty is
that quality in an object which causes a thrill of delight to pass
through the soul of its beholder.
     It was then observed, that in taking this view of beauty, all
natural objects could not be considered as beautiful ; as some strike
the beholder as grotesque, and others as repugnant to all emotions
of delight.
     The term, beauty, having been thus considered, the subject was
again recurred to, by calling attention to an idea that forms in
architecture which certain members assume are the result of
natural forces, as attraction, &c., and the more beautiful the object
the more powerfully it appears to reveal the fact that it is the
result of natural laws. The Greek vases were next alluded to, as
presenting the appearance of being formed of a plastic material
acted upon by the combined influences of the attraction of the
earth and the centrifugal force ; and the speaker considered that
these combined influences appeared to a considerable extent to
modify, or give rise to their forms. In these instances it was
also endeavoured to show that where the laws of attraction have
free room to act, or where nature herself modifies the form, beauty
is gained. The character of the curves given to the boundary
lines of bodies by the influences just alluded to was then noticed ;
and it was inferred, that from the very nature of the curves thus
produced beauty must be gained.
     Construction having been thus considered, decoration was
noticed, and reference was made to a plant (the Dielytra specta-
bilis), in which it was pointed out that for the grace and flow of the
larger members of the structure we are indebted to attraction, and
that the operation of this influence upon arms, which would other-
        * See Redgrave's Report on Design for the Exhibition of 1851.

352                          Mr. Faraday                      [Feb. 27,
wise be straight, made them graceful and beautiful. This principle
was pointed out as apparently existing in favourite Greek orna
ments.
     Other principles were alluded to as existing in certain orna
ments, as the "wave," "surface attraction," &c., which tended to
show, that in order to gain beauty the decorating ornament must be
intimately connected with the body decorated.
     In conclusion, one or two other points were touched on, from
which there was no endeavour made to extract broad principles.
                                                             [C. D.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 27.
   II.R.H. Pumas ALBERT, K.G. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-Patron,
        '
                             in the Chair.
                PHOFESSOK FARADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                     On the Conservation of Force.
 VARIOUS circumstances induce me at the present moment, to put
  forth a consideration regarding the conservation of force. I do not
 suppose that I can utter any truth respecting it, that has not
 already presented itself to the high and piercing intellects which
 move within the exalted regions of science ; but the course of my
 own investigations and views makes me think, that the consider
 ation may be of service to those persevering labourers (amongst
 whom I endeavour to class myself), who, occupied in the comparison
 of physical ideas with fundamental principles, and continually sus
 taining and aiding themselves by experiment and observation,
 delight to labour for the advance of natural knowledge, and strive
 to follow it into undiscovered regions.
      There is no question which lies closer to the root of all physical
 knowledge, than that which inquires whether force can be destroyed
 or not. The progress of the strict science of modern times has
 tended more and more to produce the conviction that " force can
 neither be created nor destroyed;" and to render daily more
 manifest the value of the knowledge of that truth in experimental
 research. To admit, indeed, that force may be destructible or can
 altogether disappear, would be to admit that matter could be un
 created ; for we know matter only by its forces : and though one
 of these is most commonly referred to, namely gravity, to prove its
 presence, it is not because gravity has any pretension, or any

 1857.]               on the Contervation of Force.                 353
 exemption, amongst the forms of force as regards the principle
of conservation ; but simply that being, as far as we perceive, incon
 vertible in its nature and unchangeable in its manifestation, it offers
 an unchanging test of the matter which we recognize by it.
     Agreeing with those who admit the conservation of force to be
a principle in physics, as large and sure as that of the indestructi
 bility of matter, or the invariability of gravity, I think that no par
ticular idea of force has a right to unlimited or unqualified
acceptance, that does not include assent to it ; and also, to definite
amount and definite disposition of tJte force, either in one effect or
another, for these are necessary consequences : therefore, I urge,
 that the conservation of force ought to be admitted as a physical
principle in all our hypotheses, whether partial or general, regard
ing the actions of matter. I have had doubts in my own mind
whether the considerations I am about to advance are not rather
metaphysical than physical. I am unable to define what is
metaphysical in physical science ; and am exceedingly adverse to the
easy and unconsidered admission of one supposition upon another,
suggested as they often are by very imperfect induction from a
small number of facts, or by a very imperfect observation of the
facts themselves : but, on the other hand, I think the philosopher
may be bold in his application of principles which have been
developed by close inquiry, have stood through much investiga
tion, and continually increase in force. For instance, time is
growing up daily into importance as an element in the exercise of
force. The earth moves in its orbit in time ; the crust of the
earth moves in time ; light moves in time ; an electro-magnet
requires time for its charge by an electric current : to inquire,
therefore, whether power, acting either at sensible or insensible
distances, always art s in lime, is not to be metaphysical ; if it acts
in time and across space, it must act by physical lines of force ; and
our view of the nature of the force may be affected to the extremest
degree by the conclusions, which experiment and observation on
time may supply : being, perhaps, finally determinable only by them.
To inquire after the possible time in which gravitating, magnetic,
or electric force is exerted, is no more metaphysical than to mark
the times of the hands of a clock in their progress ; or that of the
temple of Serapis in its ascents and descents ; or the periods of the
occultations of Jupiter's satellites ; or that in which the light from
them comes to the earth. Again, in some of the known cases of
action in time, something happens whilst the time is passing which
did not happen before, and does not continue after : it is, there
fore, not metaphysical to expect an effect in every case, or to
endeavour to discover its existence and determine its nature. So
in regard to the principle of the conservation of force ; I do not
think that to admit it, and its consequences, whatever they may be,
is to be metaphysical: on the contrary, if that word have any
application to physics, then I think that any hypothesis, whether of

354                          Mr. Faraday                     [Feb. 27,
heat, or electricity, or gravitation, or any other form of force,
which either wittingly or unwittingly dispenses with the principle
of conservation, is more liable to the charge, than those which, by
including it, become so far more strict and precise.
    Supposing that the truth of the principle of the conserva
tion of force is assented to, I come to its w.vc.v. No hypothesis
should be admitted nor any assertion of a fact credited, that
denies the principle. No view should be inconsistent or incompati
ble with it. Many of our hypotheses in the present state of
science may not comprehend it, and may be unable to suggest its
consequences ; but none should oppose or contradict it.
    If the principle be admitted, we perceive at once, that a theory
or definition, though it may not contradict the principle cannot be
accepted as sufficient or complete unless the former be contained
in it ; that however well or perfectly the definition may include
and represent the state of things commonly considered under it,
that state or result is only partial, and must not be accepted as
exhausting the power or being the full equivalent, and therefore
cannot be considered as representing its whole nature; that,
indeed, it may express only a very small part of the whole, only a
residual phenomenon, and hence give us but little indication of the
full natural truth. Allowing the principle its force, we ought, in
every hypothesis, either to account for its consequences by saying
what the changes are when force of a given kind apparently dis
appears, as when ice thaws, or else should leave space for the idea of
the conversion. If any hypothesis, more or less trustworthy on other
accounts, is insufficient in expressing it or incompatible with it, the
place of deficiency or opposition should be marked as the most
important for examination ; for there lies the hope of a discovery of
new laws or a new condition of force. The deficiency should never
be accepted as satisfactory, but be remembered and used as a
stimulant to further inquiry ; for conversions of force may here be
hoped for. Suppositions may be accepted for the time, provided
they are not in contradiction with the principle. Even an increased
or diminished capacity is better than nothing at all ; because such
a supposition, if made, must be consistent with the nature of the
original hypothesis, and may, therefore, by the application of
experiment, be converted into a further test of probable truth.
The case of a force simply removed or suspended, without a trans
ferred exertion in some other direction, appears to me to be
absolutely impossible.
    If the principle be accepted as true, we have a right to pursue it
to its consequences, no matter what they may be. It is, indeed, a
duty to do so. A theory may be perfection, as far as it goes, but
a consideration going beyona it, is not for that reason to be shut
out. We might as well accept our limited horizon as the limits of
the world. No magnitude, either of the phenomena or of the
results to be dealt with, should stop our exertions to ascertain, by

1857.]                on the Conservation of Force.                     355
the use of the principle, that something remains to be discovered,
and to trace in what direction that discovery may lie.
     I will endeavour to illustrate some of the points which have
been urged, by reference, in the first instance, to a case of power,
which has long had great attractions for me, because of its extreme
simplicity, its promising nature, its universal presence, and its
invariability under like circumstances ; on which, though I have
experimented* and as yet failed, I think experiment would be well
bestowed : I mean the force of gravitation. I believe I represent
the received idea of the gravitating force aright, in saying, that it is
a simple attractive force exerted between any two or all the particles
or masses of matter, at every sensible distance, but with a strength
varying inversely as the square of the distance. The usual idea of
the force implies direct action at a distance ; and such a view
appears to present little difficulty except to Newton, and a few, in
cluding myself, who in that respect, may be of like mind with him.j-
     This idea of gravity appears to me to ignore entirely the princi
ple of the conservation of force ; and by the terms of its definition,
if taken in an absolute sense " varying inversely as the square of
the distance " to be in direct opposition to it ; and it becomes my
duty, now, to point out where this contradiction occurs, and to use
it in illustration of the principle of conservation. Assume two
panicles of matter A and B, in free space, and a force in each or in
both by which they gravitate towards each other, the force being
unalterable for an unchanging distance, but varying inversely as the
square of the distance when the latter varies. Then, at the distance
of 10 the force may be estimated as 1 ; whilst at the distance of 1,
i.e. one-tenth of the former, the force will be 100 : and if we sup
pose an elastic spring to be introduced between the two as a
 measure of the attractive force, the power compressing it will be
 a hundred times as much in the latter case as in the former.
 But from whence can this enormous increase of the power come ?
 If we say that it is the character of this force, and content ourselves
 with that as a sufficient answer, then it appears to me, we admit a
 creation of power, and that to an enormous amount ; yet by a
 change of condition, so small and simple, as to fail in leading the
 least instructed mind to think that it can be a sufficient cause :—we
 should admit a result which would equal the highest act our minds
 can appreciate of the working of infinite power upon matter ; we
 should let loose the highest law in physical science which our
 faculties permit us to perceive, namely, the conservation of force.
 Suppose the two particles A and B removed back to the greater
 distance of 10, then the force of attraction would be only a
 hundredth part of that they previously possessed ; this, according
 to the statement that the force varies inversely as the square of the
 distance would double the strangeness of the above results ; it
      * Philosophical Transactions, 1851, p. 1.     t See Note, p. 358.

356                           Mr. Faraday                      [Feb. 27,
would be an annihilation of force ; an effect equal in its infmity
and its consequences with creation, and only within the power of
Him who has created.
    We have a right to view gravitation under every form that
either its definition or its effects can suggest to the mind ; it is our
privilege to do so with every force in nature ; and it is only by so
doing, that we have succeeded, to a large extent, in relating the
various forms of power, so as to derive one from another, and
thereby obtain confirmatory evidence of the great principle of the
conservation of force. Then let us consider the two particles A and
B as attracting each other by the force of gravitation, under
another view. According to the definition, the force depends upon
both particles, and if the particle A or B were by itself, it could not
gravitate, i.e. it could have no attraction, noforce of gravity. Sup
posing A to exist in that isolated state and without gravitating
force, and then B placed in relation to it, gravitation comes on, as is
supposed, on the part of both. Now, without trying to imagine
how B, which had no gravitating force, can raise up gravitating
force in A ; and how A, equally without force beforehand can
raise up force in B, still, to imagine it as a fact done, is to admit a
creation of force in both particles ; and so to bring ourselves within
the impossible consequences which have already been referred to.
     It may be said we cannot have an idea of one particle by itself,
and so the reasoning fails. For my part I can comprehend a
particle by itself just as easily as many particles ; and though I
cannot conceive the relation of a lone particle to gravitation,
according to the limited view which is at present taken of that
force, I can conceive its relation to something which causes gravi
tation, and with which, whether the particle is alone, or one of a
universe of other particles, it is always related. But the reasoning
upon a lone particle does not fail ; for as the particles can be sepa
rated, we can easily conceive of the particle B being removed to an
infinite distance from A, and then the power in A will be infinitely
diminished. Such removal of B will be as if it were annihilated
in regard to A, and the force in A will be annihilated at the same
time : so that the case of a lone particle and that where different
distances only are considered become one, being identical with each
other in their consequences. And as removal of B to an infinite
distance is as regards A annihilation of B, so removal to the smallest
degree is, in principle, the same thing with displacement through
infinite space : the smallest increase in distance involves annihilation
of power ; the annihilation of the second particle, so as to have A
alone, involves no other consequence in relation to gravity ; there
is difference in degree, but no difference in the character of the
result.
    It seems hardly necessary to observe, that the same line of
thought grows up in the mind if we consider the mutual gravitating
action of one particle and many. The particle A will attract the

1857-3               "" '^* Conservation of Force.                  357
particle B at the distance of a mile with a certain degree of force ;
it will attract a particle C at the same distance of a mile with a
power equal to that by which it attracts B ; if myriads of like
particles be placed at the given distance of a mile, A will attract
each with equal force ; and if other particles be accumulated round
it, within and without the sphere of two miles diameter, it will
attract them all with a force varying inversely with the square of
the distance. How are we to conceive of this force growing up in
A to a million fold or more ? and if the surrounding particles be
then removed, of its diminution in an equal degree ? Or, how are
we to look upon the power raised up in all these outer particles by
the action of A on them, or by their action one on another, without
admitting, according to the limited definition of gravitation, the
facile generation and annihilation of force ?
      The assumption which we make for the time with regard to the
nature of a power (as gravity, heat, &c.)> an(i the form of words in
which we express it, i.e. its definition, should be consistent with the
fundamental principles of force generally. The conservation of
force is a fundamental principle ; hence the assumption with regard
to a particular form of force, ought to imply what becomes of the
force when its action is increased or diminished, or its direction
changed ; or else the assumption should admit that it is deficient on
that point, being only half competent to represent the force; and,
in any case, should not be opposed to the principle of conservation.
The usual definition of gravity as an attractive force between the
particles of matter VARYING inversely as the square of the distance,
whilst it stands as a full definition of the power, is inconsistent
with the principle of the conservation of force. If we accept the
principle, such a definition must be an imperfect account of the
 whole of the force, and is probably only a description of one exer
 cise of that power, whatever the nature of the force itself may be.
 If the definition be accepted as tacitly including the conservation
 of force, then it ought to admit, that consequences must occur
 during the suspended or diminished degree of its power as gravita
 tion, equal in importance to the power suspended or hidden ; being
 in fact equivalent to that diminution. It ought also to admit, that
 it is incompetent to suggest or deal with any of the consequences of
 that changed part or condition of the force, and cannot tell whether
 they depend on, or are related to, conditions external or internal to
 the gravitating particle ; and, as it appears to me, can say neither
 yes nor no to any of the arguments or probabilities belonging to
 the subject.
     If the definition denies the occurrence of such contingent results,
 it seems to me to be unphilosophical ; if it simply ignores them, I
 think it is imperfect and insufficient ; if it admits these things, or
 any part of them, then it prepares the natural philosopher to look
 for effects and conditions as yet unknown, and is open to any degree
 of development of the consequences and relations of power : by

   358                             Mr. Faraday                          [Feb. 27,
   denying, it opposes a dogmatic barrier to improvement ; by ignoring,
   it becomes in many respects an inert thing, often much in the way ;
   by admitting, it rises to the dignity of a stimulus to investigation, a
  pilot to human science.
        The principle of the conservation of force would lead us to
   assume, that when A and B attract each other less because of in
  creasing distance, then some other exertion of power, either within
   or without them, is proportionately growing up ; and again, that
   when their distance is diminished, as from 10 to 1, the power of
  attraction, now increased a hundred-fold, has been produced out of
   some other form of power which has been equivalently reduced.
   This enlarged assumption of the nature of gravity is not more
  metaphysical than the half assumption ; and is, I believe, more
   philosophical, and more in accordance with all physical considera
  tions. The half assumption is, in my view of the matter, more
  dogmatic and irrational than the whole, because it leaves it to be
  understood, that power can be created and destroyed almost at
  pleasure.
        When the equivalents of the various forms of force, as far as
  they are known, are considered, their differences appear very great ;
  thus, a grain of water is known to have electric relations equivalent
  to a very powerful flash of lightning. It may therefore be supposed
  that a very large apparent amount of the force causing the pheno
  mena of gravitation, may be the equivalent of a very small change
  in some unknown condition of the bodies, whose attraction is
  varying by change of distance. For my own part, many consider
  ations urge my mind toward the idea of a cause of gravity, which
  is not resident in the particles of matter merely, but constantly in
  them, and all space. I have already put forth considerations re-
. garding gravity which partake of this idea,* and it seems to have
  been unhesitatingly accepted by Newton.f
       There is one wonderful condition of matter, perhaps its only
  true indication, namely inertia; but in relation to the ordinary
  definition of gravity, it only adds to the difficulty. For if we con
  sider two particles of matter at a certain distance apart, attracting
  each other under the power of gravity and free to approach, they
  will approach ; and when at only half the distance each will have had
  stored up in it, because of its inertia, a certain amount of mechani
  cal force. This must be due to the force exerted, and, if the con
      * Proceedings of the Royal Institntion, 1855, Vol. n., p. 10, &o.
      t " That gravity should be innate, inherent, and essential to matter, so that
  one body may act upon another at a distance, through a vacuum, without the
  mediation of any thing else, by and through which their action and force may
  be conveyed from one to another, is to me so great an absurdity that I believe
  no man who has in philosophical matters a competent faculty of thinking, can
  ever fall into it. Gravity must be caused by an agent, acting constantly accord
  ing to certain laws ; but whether this agent be material or immaterial I have
  left to the consideration of my readers."—See Newton's Third Letter to Bentley.

 1857.]              on the Conservation of-Force.                 359
servation principle be true, must have consumed an equivalent
proportion of the cause of attraction ; and yet, according to the
definition of gravity, the attractive force is not diminished thereby,
but increased four-fold, the force growing up within itself the more
rapidly, the more it is occupied in producing other force. On the
other hand, if mechanical force from without be used to separate
the particles to twice their distance, this force is not stored up in
momentum or by inertia, but disappears ; and three-fourths of the
attractive force at the first distance disappears with it : How can
this be ?
     We know not the physical condition or action from which
 inertia results ; but inertia is always a pure case of the conser
vation of force. It has a strict relation to gravity, as appears by
the proportionate amount of force which gravity can communicate
to the inert body ; but it appears to have the same strict relation
to other forces acting at a distance as those of magnetism or
electricity, when they are so applied by the tangential balance
as to act independent of the gravitating force. It has the like
strict relation to force communicated by impact, pull, or in any
other way. It enables a body to take up and conserve a given
amount of force until that force is transferred to other bodies, or
changed into an equivalent of some other form ; that is all that we
perceive in it : and we cannot find a more striking instance amongst
natural, or possible, phenomena of the necessity of the conservation
of force as a law of nature ; or one more in contrast with the
assumed variable condition of the gravitating force supposed to
reside in the particles of matter.
     Even gravity itself furnishes the strictest proof of the conser
vation of force in this, that its power is unchangeable for the same
distance ; and is by that in striking contrast with the variation
which we assume in regard to the cause of gravity, to account for
the results at different distances.
     It will not be imagined for a moment that I am opposed to
what may be called the law of gravitating action, that is, the law -
by which all the known effects of gravity are governed.; what I am
considering, is the definition of the force of gravitation. That the
result of one exercise of a power may be inversely as the square of
the distance, I believe and admit ; and I know that it is so in the
case of gravity, and has been verified to an extent that could hardly
have been within the conception even of Newton himself when he
gave utterance to the law : but that the totality of a force can be
employed according to that law I do not believe, either in relation
to gravitation, or electricity, or magnetism, or any other supposed
form of power.
    I might have drawn reasons for urging a continual recollection
of, and reference to, the principle of the conservation of force from
other forms of power than that of gravitation ; but I think that
when founded on gravitating phenomena, they appear in their

 360                         Mr. Faraday                         [Feb. 27,
greatest simplicity ; and precisely for this reason, that gravitation
has not yet been connected by any degree of convertibility with the
other forms of force. If I refer for a few minutes to these other
 forms, it is only to point in their variations, to the proofs of the
 value of the principle laid down, the consistency of the known
 phenomena with it, and the suggestions of research and discovery
which arise from it.* Heat, for instance, is a mighty form of
power, and its effects have been greatly developed ; therefore,
assumptions regarding its nature become useful and necessary, and
 philosophers try to define it. The most probable assumption is,
 that it is a motion of the particles of matter ; but a view, at one
time very popular, is, that it consists of a particular fluid of heat.
Whether it be viewed in one way or the other, the principle of
conservation is admitted, I believe, with all its force. When trans
ferred from one portion to another portion of like matter the full
amount of heat appears. When transferred to matter of another
kind an apparent excess or deficiency often results; the word
" capacity " is then introduced, which, whilst it acknowledges the
principle of conservation, leaves space for research. When em
ployed in changing the state of bodies, the appearance and disap
pearance of the heat is provided for consistently by the assumption
of enlarged or diminished motion, or else space is left by the term
" capacity " for the partial views ; which remains to be developed.
When converted into mechanical force, in the steam or air-engine,
and so brought into direct contact with gravity, being then easily
placed in relation to it, still the conservation of force is fully re
spected and wonderfully sustained. The constant amount of heat
developed in the whole of a voltaic current described by M. P. A.
Favre,f and the present state of the knowledge of thermo-electricity,
are again fine partial or subordinate illustrations of the principle of
conservation. Even when rendered radiant, and for the time giving
no trace or signs of ordinary heat action, the assumptions regardmg
its nature have provided for the belief in the conservation of force,
by admitting, either that it throws the ether into an equivalent state,
in sustaining which for the time the power is engaged ; or else, that
the motion of the particles of heat is employed altogether in their
 own transit from place to place.
     It is true that heat often becomes evident or insensible in a
manner unknown to us ; and we have a right to ask what is hap
pening when the heat disappears in one part, as of the thermo-
voltaic current, and appears in another ; or when it enlarges or
changes the state of bodies ; or what would happen, if the heat,
being presented, such changes were purposely opposed. We have
a right to ask these questions, but not to ignore or deny the con-
    * Helmholtz, On the Conservation of Force. Taylor's Scientific Memoirs,
2nd Series, 1853, p. 114.
    t Comptes Rendus, 1854, Vol. xxxix., p. 1212.

 1857.]              on the Conservation of Farce.                     361
 serTation of force ; and one of the highest uses of the principle is
 to suggest such inquiries. Explications of similar points are con
 tinually produced, and will be most abundant from the hands of
 those who, not desiring to ease their labour by forgetting the prin
 ciple, are ready to admit it either tacitly, or better still, effectively,
 being then continually guided by it. Such philosophers believe
 that heat must do its equivalent of work : that if in doing work it
seem to disappear, it is still producing its equivalent effect, though
often in a manner partially or totally unknown ; and that if it give
rise to another form of force (as we imperfectly express it), that
force is equivalent in power to the heat which has disappeared.
      What is called chemical attraction, affords equally instructive
and suggestive considerations in relation to the principle of the
 conservation of force. The indestructibility of individual matter,
is one case, and a most important one, of the conservation of che
mical force. A molecule has been endowed with powers which
 give rise in it to various qualities, and these never change, either
 in their nature or amount. A particle of oxygen is ever a particle
of oxygen—nothing can in the least wear it. If it enters into com
 bination and disappears as oxygen,—if it pass through a thousand
 combinations, animal, vegetable, mineral,—if it lie hid for a thou
 sand years and then be evolved, it is oxygen with its first qualities,
neither more nor less. It has all its original force, and only that ;
the amount of force which it disengaged when hiding itself, has
again to be employed in a reverse direction when it is set at liberty ;
 and if, hereafter, we should decompose oxygen, and find it com
 pounded of other particles, we should only increase the strength of
 the proof of the conservation of force, for we should have a right
to say of these particles, long as they have been hidden, all that we
could say of the oxygen itself.
     Again, the body of facts included in the theory of definite pro
portions, witnesses to the truth of the conservation of force ; and
though we know little of the cause of the change of properties of
the acting and produced bodies, or how the forces of the former
are hid amongst those of the latter, we do not for an instant doubt
the conservation, but are moved to look for the manner in which the
forces are, for the time, disposed, or if they have taken up another
form of force, to search what that form may be.
     Even chemical action at d distance, which is in such antithetical
contrast with the ordinary exftrtion of chemical affinity, since it can
produce effects miles away from the particles on which they depend,
and which are effectual only by forces acting at insensible distances,
still proves the same thing, the conservation of force. Preparations
can be made for a chemical action in the simple voltaic circuit, but
until the circuit be complete that action does not occur ; yet in
completing we can so arrange the circuit, that a distant chemical
action, the perfect equivalent of the dominant chemical action, shall
be produced ; and this result, whilst it establishes the electro

                             Mr. Faraday                     [Feb. 27,
chemical equivalent of power, establishes the principle of the
conservation of force also, and at the same time suggests many
collateral inquiries which have yet to be made and answered,
before all that concerns the conservation in this case can be
understood.
    This and other instances of chemical action at a distance, carry
our inquiring thoughts on from the facts to the physical mode of
the exertion of force ; for the qualities which seem located and fixed
to certain particles of matter appear at a distance in connexion
with particles altogether different. They also lead our thoughts to
the conversion of one form of power into another : as for instance,
in the heat which the elements of a voltaic pile may either show at
the place where they act by their combustion or combination to
gether ; or in the distance, where the electric spark may be ren
dered manifest ; or in the wire or fluids of the different parts of the
circuit.
    When we occupy ourselves with the dual forms of power, elec
tricity and magnetism, we find great latitude of assumption ; and
necessarily so, for the powers become more and more complicated
in their conditions. But still there is no apparent desire to let
loose the force of the principle of conservation, even in those cases
where the appearance and disappearance of force may seem most
evident and striking. Electricity appears when there is consump~
don of no other force than that required for friction ; we do not
know how, but we search to know, not being willing to admit that
the electric force can arise out of nothing. The two electricities
are developed in equal proportions; and having appeared, we may
dispose variously of the influence of one upon successive portions of
the other, causing many changes in relation, yet never able to
make the sum of the force of one kind in the least degree exceed or
come short of the sum of the other. In that necessity of equality,
we see another direct proof of the conservation of force, in the
midst of a thousand changes that require to be developed in their
principles before we can consider this part of science as even mode
rately known to us.
    One assumption with regard to electricity is, that there is an
electric fluid rendered evident by excitement in plus and minus
proportions. Another assumption is, that there are two fluids of
electricity, each particle of each repelling all particles like itself,
and attracting all particles of the other kind always, and with a
force proportionate to the inverse square of the distance, being so
far analogous to the definition of gravity. This hypothesis is
antagonistic to the law of the conservation of force, and open to all
the objections that have been, or may be, made against the ordinary
definition of gravity. Another assumption is, that each particle
of the two electricities has a given amount of power, and can only
attract contrary particles with the sum of that amount, acting upon
each of two with only half the power it could in like circumstances

   1857.]               on the Conservation of Force.                 863
  exert upon one. But various as are the assumptions, the conserva
  tion of force, (though wanting in the second,) is, I think, intended to
  be included in all. I might repeat the same observations nearly in
  regard to magnetism,—whether it be assumed as a fluid, or two
  fluids or electric currents,—whether the external action be supposed
  to be action at a distance, or dependent on an external condition
  and lines of force —still all are intended to admit the conservation
  of power as a principle to which the phenomena are subject.
       The principles of physical knowledge are now so far developed
  as to enable us not merely to define or describe the known, but to
  state reasonable expectations regarding the unknown ; and I think
  the principle of the conservation of force may greatly aid experi
  mental philosophers in that duty to science, which consists in the
  enunciation of problems to be solved. It will lead us, in any case
  where the force remaining unchanged in form is altered in direction
   only, to look for the new disposition of the force ; as in the cases
   of magnetism, static electricity, and perhaps gravity, and to ascer
  tain that as a whole it remains unchanged in amount :—or, if the
  original force disappear, either altogether or in part, it will lead us
  to look for the new condition or form of force which should result,
  and to develope its equivalency to the force that has disappeared.
  Likewise, when force is developed, it will cause us to consider the
  previously existing equivalent to the force so appearing ; and many
  such cases there are in chemical action. When force disappears,
  as in the electric or magnetic induction after more or less discharge,
  or that of gravity with an increasing distance ; it will suggest a
  research as to whether the equivalent change is one within the
  apparently acting bodies, or one external (in part) to them. It
  will also raise up inquiry as to the nature of the internal or external
  state, both before the change and after. If supposed to be external,
  it will suggest the necessity of a physical process, by which the
  power is communicated from body to body ; mnl in the case of
  external action, will lead to the inquiry whether, m any case, there
  can be truly action at a distance, or whether the ether, or some
• other medium, is not necessarily present.
       We are not permitted as yet to see the nature of the source of
  physical power, but we are allowed to see much of the consistency
  existing amongst the various forms in which it is presented to us.
  Thus if, in static electricity, we consider an act of induction, we can
  perceive the consistency of all other like acts of induction with it.
  If we then take an electric current, and compare it with this induc
  tive effect, we see their relation and consistency. In the same
  manner we have arrived at a knowledge of the consistency of mag
  netism with electricity, and also of chemical action and of heat
  with all the former ; and if we see not the consistency between
  gravitation with any of these forms of force, I am strongly of the
  mind that it is because of our ignorance only. How imperfect
  would our idea of an electric current now be, if we were to leave
      VOL. II.                                                 2c

 854                            Mr. Faraday                    [Feb. 27,
 out of sight its origin, its static and dynamic induction, its magnetic
 influence, its chemical and heating effects? or our idea of any one
 of these results, if we left any of the others unregarded ? That
 there should be a power of gravitation existing by itself, having no
 relation to the other natural powers, and no respect to the law of
 the conservation of force, is as little likely as that there should be
 a principle of levity as well as of gravity. Gravity may be only
 the residual part of the other forces of nature, as Mossotti has tried
to show ; but that it should fall out from the law of all other force,
 and should be outside the reach either of further experiment or
 philosophical conclusions, is not probable. So we must strive to
 learn more of this outstanding power, and endeavour to avoid any
 definition of it which is incompatible with the principles of force
generally, for all the phenomena of nature lead us to believe that
the great and governing law is one. I would much rather incline
to believe that bodies affecting each other by gravitation act by
lines of force of definite amount (somewhat in the manner of mag
netic or electric induction, though without polarity), or by an ether
pervading all parts of space, than admit that the conservation of
force could be dispensed with.
     It may be supposed, that one who has little or no mathematical
knowledge should hardly assume a right to judge of the generality
and force of a principle such as that which forms the subject of
these remarks. My apology is this, I do not perceive that a
mathematical mind, simply as such, has any advantage over an
equally acute mind not mathematical, in perceiving the nature and
power of a natural principle of action. It cannot of itself intro
duce the knowledge of any new principle. Dealing with any and
every amount of static electricity, the mathematical mind can, and
has balanced and adjusted them with wonderful advantage, and has
foretold results which the experimentalist can do no more than
verify. But it could not discover dynamic-electricity, nor electro-
magnetism, nor magneto-electricity, or even suggest them ; though
when once discovered by the experimentalist, it can take them up
with extreme facility. So in respect of the force of gravitation, it
has calculated the results of the power in such a wonderful manner
as to trace the known planets through their courses and perturbations,
and in so doing has discovered a planet before unknown ; but there
may be results of the gravitating force of other kinds than attraction
inversely as the square of the distance, of which it knows nothing,
can discover nothing, and can neither assert nor deny their possi
bility or occurrence. Under these circumstances, a principle, which
may be accepted as equally strict with mathematical knowledge,
comprehensible without it, applicable by all in their philosophical
logic whatever form that may take, and above all, suggestive,
encouraging, and instructive to the mind of the experimentalist,
should be the more earnestly employed and the more frequently
resorted to when we are labouring either to discover new regions of

 1857.]             on the Conservation of Force.                  365
science, or to map out and develop those which are known into
one harmonious whole ; and if in such strivings, we, whilst applying
the principle of conservation, see but imperfectly, still we should
endeavour to see, for even an obscure and distorted vision is better
than none. Let us, if we can, discover a new thing in any shape ;
the true appearance and character will be easily developed after
wards.
     Some are much surprised that I should, as they think, venture
to oppose the conclusions of Newton : but here there is a mistake.
I do not oppose Newton on any point ; it is rather those who sus
tain the idea of action at a distance, that contradict him. Doubtful
as I ought to be of myself, I am certainly very glad to feel that
my convictions are in accordance with his conclusions. At the
same time, those who occupy themselves with such matters ought
not to depend altogether upon authority, but should find reason
within themselves, after careful thought and consideration, to use
and abide by their own judgment. Newton himself, whilst referring
to those who were judging his views, speaks of such as are compe
tent to form an opinion in such matters, and makes a strong dis
tinction between them and those who were incompetent for the
case. '
     But after all, the principle of the conservation of force may by
some be denied. "Well, then, if it be unfounded even in its appli
cation to the smallest part of the science of force, the proof must be
within our reach, for all physical science is so. In that case, dis
coveries as large or larger than any yet made, may be anticipated.
I do not resist the search for them, for no one can do harm, but
only good, who works with an earnest and truthful spirit in such a
direction. But let us not admit the destruction or creation of force
without clear and constant proof. Just as the chemist owes all the
perfection of his science to his dependence on the certainty of gra
vitation applied by the balance, so may the physical philosopher
expect to find the greatest security and the utmost aid in the prin
ciple of the conservation of force. All that we have that is good
and safe, as the steam-engine, the electric-telegraph, &c., witness to
that principle,—it would require a perpetual motion, a fire without
heat, heat without a source, action without reaction, cause without
effect, or effect without a cause, to displace it from its rank as a
law of nature.
                                                            [M. F.]
                                                           2(2

366                     General Monthly Meeting.               [March 2,
              GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, March 2.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
               Edward Richards Adams, Esq. M.A.
               Lieut.-Col. F. St. Leger Alcocke.
               Neil Arnott, M.D. F.R.S.
               Major Lewis Burroughs.
               John Clutton, Esq.
               Edward Cotton, Esq.
               Charles Alfred Elliott, Esq.
               Rev. Robert Everest, F.G.S. F.Stat.S.
               Frederick Gray, Esq.
               Thomas Williams Helps, Esq. M.A.
               Miss Elizabeth C. C. Latter.
               George Matthey, Esq.
               John Monk, Esq.
               Dr. Alphonse Normandy.
               Lady Pollock.
               Rev. William Rogers.
               Russell Scott, Esq.
               Alexander Trotter, Esq.
               William Trotter, Esq.
               Mrs. Sarah Tomlinson.
               Edward Vivian, Esq.
               Richard Henry S. Vyvyan, Esq. and
               Edward Orange W. Whitehouse, Esq.
 were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
               John Lister, Esq. and
               Joseph Wood, Esq.
 were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
 Members returned for the same :—
   FROM—
 Agricultural Socitty, Royal—Journal, Vol. XVII. Part 2. 8vo. 1857.
 Astronomical Society, Kowl—Monthly Notices, Vol. XVII. No. 3. 8vo. 1857.
 Bell, Jacob, EIJ. M.K.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb. 1857. 8vo.

1857.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                        367
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for Feb. 1857. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in Feb. 1857. 4to.
British Meteorological Society—Report for 1856. 8vo.
 l>< Brock, M. Ministre des Finances de Rumie—AnnaU-s de 1'ObserTatoire
       Physique Central de Russie, pour 1851-3. 4 to. 1855-6.
Dublin Geological Soctefy—Journal, Vol. VII. Part 3. 8vo. 1857.
Editors—The Medical Circular for Feb. 1857. 8iro.
    The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Feb. 1857. 4to.
    The Journal of Gas-Lighting for Feb. 1857. 4to.
    The Mechanic's Magazine for Feb. 1857. 8vo.
    The Athenaenm for Feb. 1857. -Ho.
    The Engineer for Feb. 1857. fol.
 l',ui:,,l(, Edward, Esq. M.R.I.— R. Fergusson's Illustrated Handbook of Ar
       chitecture. 2 vols. Svo. 1855.
    T. Rickman's Gothic Architecture. 5th Edition. 8vo. 1848.
    G. E. Street's Briok and Marble in the Middle Ages. 8vo. 1855.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylnania—Journal, Vol. XXXIII. No. 1. 8vo. 1856.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General)—Report of the Registrar-General
       for Feb. 1857. Svo.
Johnson, E. M., Esq.—Algeria in 1856. By Viscount Cranborne. 8vo. 1857.
London University—Calendar for 1857. 12mo.
Newton, Messrs.— London Journal (New Series), Feb. 1857. 8To.
Noad, H. M., Esq. FJl.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Manual of Electricity.
       Part 2. 8vo. 1857.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for Feb. 1857. 4to.
Perigal, Henry, Esq. (the Author)—The Moon Controversy—Facts and Defini
       tions. Svo. 1866.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen auf dera Gesammtgebiete der
       Geographic. 1856. Heft 11, 12. 4 to. Gotha, 1856.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 51. Svo. 1856.
Prince, C. Leeson, Esq. (the Author)—Meteorological Journal at Uckfield in
       1856. 4to.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 23, 24. Svo. 1857.
Srnee, Alfred, Esq. (the Author)—The Monogenesis of Physical Forces. A
       Lecture at the London Institution. 8vo. 1857.
Society of Arts—Journal for Feb. 1857. Svo.
 Weale, J., Esq. (the Publisher)— Rudimentary and Educational Series. 15
       Parts. 12mo. 185C.
 Vercins zur BefSrderung det Getoerbfleisses in Preissen- -Nov. und Dec. 1856.
       4to.

368                   Mr. E. Beckett Denison,               [March 6.
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 6.
        SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
     EDMUND BECKETT DEXISON, ESQ. M.A. Q.C. M.K.I.
                 On the Great Bell of Westminster.
I WISH it to be understood that I have nothing that can be called
a scientific theory of bell-founding to propound. I do not even
profess to give the reasons why any particular form of bell is better
than others ; nor have I been able to find any one, among the best
mathematicians of my acquaintance, who knows how to deal with
the question mathematically. I have no doubt that the long-
established form of church bells was arrived at gradually by suc
cessive deviations from some much simpler form, such as the hemi
spherical, or hemispheroidal, or conical ; especially as bells of these
forms, and of uniform thickness, always strike every body at first
 as very superior to the common bell, by reason of their having a
 deeper and more imposing tone at a short distance.
     Neither have I anything to say of the history of bells. The
 only part of their history that I am concerned with is, that in old
 times people knew how to make bells of a full, rich, and sweet
 sound ; and that the art of making such bells has been sinking
 lower and lower, until we have seen no less than three peals in
 succession made by two of the only three makers of large bells in
 England for the Royal Exchange, and the chimes not yet allowed
 to play, because a perfect peal has not yet been produced. At
 the same time, it must not be supposed that all old bells are
 superior to all modern ones. It would be difficult to find a worse
 bell of any age than Great Tom of Oxford, which was cast nearly
 two centuries ago, and might be recast into a more powerful bell,
 with the weight so much reduced as to pay its own expenses ; and
 I have seen much smaller bells of the same age as the Oxford
 bell, as unsoundly cast as the second peal at the Exchange, in
 which some of the bells were full of holes, distinctly visible on the
 surface.
     And further, I wish to observe that we have nothing to do at
 present with any question of musical notes, inasmuch as the subject

1857.]             on the Great Bell of Westminster.                   369
is not the making of a peal of bells, which must of course be in
tune with each other, but a single bell, which would have answered
its purpose just as well with any other note as the E natural, which
it happens to sound. I do not mean to say that it was not ascer-
tainable beforehand that it would be of this note, as soon as the
shape, size, and thickness were determined ; and it is very con
venient that it should be some note exactly, according to the pitch
now accepted among musicians, because a bell is the most per
manent of all musical instruments ; and so long as this bell lives
there will be no room for dispute about what was the accepted
musical standard in England in the middle of the nineteenth cen
tury, assuming some record to be kept that this bell was then E
natural exactly. But the problem we had to solve in making this
first and largest of the five clock bells was, not to produce a bell of
any given note, but to make the best bell that can be made of the
given weight of 14 tons, which had been fixed long ago as the
intended weight. When I say the best bell that can be made, I
mean a combination of the most powerful and most pleasing sound
that can be got—not, observe, the deepest ; for we could get any
depth of note we liked out of the given weight, by merely making
the bell thinner, larger, and worse, as I shall explain further
presently.
     All that I have to do, therefore, is to describe the observations and
experiments which led me to adopt the particular form and com
position which have been used for this the largest bell that has ever
been cast in England. The result is, undoubtedly, a bell which
gives a sound of a different quality and strength from any of the
other great bells in England. Of course it is very easy to say, as
some persons have said, that we have got a clapper so much larger
than usual, in proportion to the bell, that the sound must needs be
different. But the reply to that is equally easy : the bellfounders
always make the clapper at their own discretion ; and in order to
make the most they can of their bells, you may be sure they will
make the clapper either as large as they dare, with regard to the
strength of the bell, or as large as they find it of any use to make
it ; because there is always a limit, beyond which you can get
no more sound of a bell by increasing the clapper. In the West
minster bell we found that we could go on increasing the sound by
increasing the clapper up to 13cwt., or say 12cwt., excluding the
shank or handle of the clapper, or about T'Tth of the weight of the
bell ; which is somewhat higher than the proportion found to hold
in some of the great Continental bells ; but two or three times as
high as the usual English proportion. And if the makers of the
other large bells in England have found it either useless or unsafe
to put clappers into them of more than -a'jjth, -,j'9th, or ^^th of their
weight, it certainly is not surprising that the sound of this bell
should be so different from theirs, as it is observed to be. The
 truth is, that the difference in the size af the clapper is the con

 370                    Mr. E. Beckett Deniscn,              [March 6,
 sequence of the bell having a much greater power both of bearing
 blows and of giving out sound than usual ; and if we knew nothing
 more about the matter than that there is one large bell in England
 which -will advantageously bear a clapper twice as heavy in pro
 portion as any other, it would be enough to show that there must
 be some essential difference between the constitution of that and
 other bells, which is worth investigating.
      The art of bellfounding having sunk so low, as is indicated by
 what has taken place at t IK- Iioyal Exchange, and by the great bell
of York being not used at all, after having cost £2000, except
having the hour struck upon it by hand once a-day, it was obviously
necessary to begin at the beginning, as we may say, and take
nothing for granted as proper to be adopted, merely because we
find it in common use now. Accordingly, when I undertook the
responsibility of determining the size, and shape, and composition of
these five bells, the bellfounders- having refused to take any
responsibility beyond that of sound casting according to orders, the
Chief Commissioner of Works authorised the making of such
experiments as might be required before finally determining the
design and composition of the bells. Those experiments have
only cost about £100, a small sum compared with the value of this
one bell, and quite insignificant compared with the importance of
success or failure in a national work of this kind. I may observe
also, that there is no reason to believe that the art of makmg large
bells is at present in a more flourishing state abroad than here.
Ail the foreign bells in the Great Exhibition of 1851 were bad.
Sir Charles Barry and Professor Wheatstone were requested by
the Board of Works to make inquiries on the subject at the
Paris Exhibition in 1 855 ; and it appears that there is no foreign
bellfounder who has cast any bell above a quarter of the weight of
the Westminster bell ; and the proportions of copper and tin which
were stated to be used by the one who has the highest reputation,
M. Hildebrand, of Paris, differ from those which I am satisfied are
I Sir best, both from the analysis of old bells of great celebrity and
from my own experiments. I am equally convinced, that the
French shape of bells is not only not the best, but is not so good as
what may be regarded as the standard English shape.
      I have said already that you may get any depth of note out of
a bell of any weight by making it thin enough. At first, everybody
who hears a bell, like that which stood at the west end of the Exhi
bition of 1851, sounding with 29 cwt. very nearly the same note as
our 16 ton bell, is ready to pronounce the common form of bell,
with a sound bow of -,iyth or T'Tth of its diameter, a very absurd
waste of metal. But did it ever occur to them to consider, how far
they could hear that 29 cwt. hemispherical bell ? It could not be
heard as far as a common bell of 2 or 3 cwt. ; and before you get
to any great distance from a bell of that kind, the sound becomes
thin aud poor, and what we call in bell-founding language, potty.

1857.]            on tlie Great Bell of Westminster.               371
Up to 7 or 8 inches, these bells do very well for house clocks, to be
heard at a little distance ; but nothing, in my opinion, can be worse
than the bells of this shape, 2 or 3 feet in diameter, which people
seem to be so fond of buying for the new fashioned cemeteries :
whether from ignorance that they will sound very differently on the
top of a chapel and in the bellfounder's shop, or because they
think a melancholy and unpleasant sound appropriate, or because
they want to buy their noise as cheap as possible, I do not pretend
to say. These bells, and thin bells of any shape, bear the same
kind of relation to thick ones, as the spiral striking wires of the
American clocks bear to the common hemispherical clock bells ;
i.e. they have a deeper but a weaker sound, and, are only fit to
be heard very near. A gong is another instrument in which a deep
note, and a very loud noise at a small distance, may be got with a
small weight of metal ; but it is quite unfit for a clock to strike
upon, not merely from the character of its sound, but because it
can only be roused into full vibration by an accumulation of soft
blows. Gongs are made of malleable bell-metal, about 4 of copper
to 1 of tin, which is malleable when cooled suddenly.
     The Chinese bells, some of which are very large, may be con
sidered the next approximation towards the established form ; for
they are (speaking roughly) a prolate hemispheroid, but with the
lip thickened ; whereby the sound is made higher in pitch but
stronger, and better adapted for sounding at a distance when struck
with a heavy enough hammer. But still the shape of the Chinese
bells is very bad for producing sound of a pleasing quality ; and
generally it may be said, at least I have thought so ever since I
began bell-ringing twenty-four years ago, that all bells of which
the slant side is not hollowed out considerably, are deficient in
musical tone. The Chinese bells are not concave but convex in
the slant side. None of the European bells are so bad as that ;
but all the French bells that I have seen, or seen pictures of, and
the great bell of St. Peter's at Rome, of which a.model is exhibited,
are straighter in the side than ours. According to my observa
tion, no bell is likely to be a good one unless you could put a stick
as thick as jiyth of the diameter between the side or waist of the
bell and a straight edge laid against the top and the bottom. There
was a very marked difference between two of our experimental
bells, which were alike in all other respects, except that one
was straighter in the waist than the other, and that was decidedly
the worst. This condition is generally satisfied by the English
bells : indeed I think the fault of their shape is rather the contrary,
and that they open out the mouth too much, as if the bell had been
jumped down on a great anvil while it was soft, and so the mouth
spread suddenly outwards. The shape which we adopted, after
various experiments in both directions, is something between the
shape of the great bell of Notre Dame, at Paris, (of which a
figured section was sent -over last year by the present architect

 372                    Mr. E. Beckett Denison,              [March 6,
of the Cathedral,) and that of the great bell of Bow, which is
probably much the same aa that of St. Paul's, York, and Lincoln,
 as they all came from the same foundry in Whitechapel. Indeed,
 the sound-bow of this bell is fuller outside than the Paris bell,
 because it is thicker ; so much so, that a straight edge laid exter
nally against the top of the bell and the sound-bow would be thrown
out beyond the lip ; whereas generally such a straight line would
 touch the lip, and just clear the sound-bow. Only within the last
 few days I have found one other remarkable exception to this
 general rule of construction, and a remarkable coincidence with the
 external shape, and the proportions of height, breadth, and thick
 ness of our bell, and that is no other than the great bell of Moscow,
of which an exact section is given in Lyall's Russia, with various
 different versions of its weight. The inside shape, however, is not
 the same, and I am satisfied not so good, the curve being discon
 tinuous, and presenting an angle just below where the clapper
 strikes, as in the Paris bell. That bell seems to have had a very
 short life, a large piece having been broken out in a fire the year
after it was cast. Sir Roderick Murchison tells me that the sound
 of the Russian bells is remarkably sweet.
     I cannot find that the exact height of a bell makes much differ
ence. The foreign bells, except the Russian ones, it seems, are
generally higher than ours, being nearly -|th of their diameter high,
whether you measure it vertically inside, or obliquely outside from
the lip to the top corner, as the two measures are generally much
alike on account of the curvature of the top or crown. Ours run
from -|rd to -ith of the diameter, though there are some higher ;
and on the whole my impression is against the high ones. The
vertical height inside of all these bells at Westminster is 1J- of the
diameter. Lower than that, the bell does not look well ; and I
never saw an ugly bell that was a good one ; and it is clear from
all our experiments, that the upper or nearly cylindrical part is
of considerable importance, and though its vibrations are hardly
sensible, it cannot even be reduced in thickness without injury to
the sound, of which we had a curious proof. A bell of the usual
proportions, in which the thickness of the upper or thin part is one-
third of the sound bow or thickest part, sounds a third or a fourth
above the proper note when it is struck in the waist, and the sound
there is generally harsh and unmusical besides. It occurred to both
my colleague, the Rev.W. Taylor, and myself, that it would be better
to make the waist thinner, so as to give the same note as the sound
bow. After two or three trials we succeeded in doing this very
nearly, and without reducing the waist below ith instead of |rd of
the sound bow. The bell sounded very freely with a light blow,
and kept the sound a long time, and a blow on the waist gave a
much better sound than usual. But for all that, when we tried it
at a distance with another bell of. the same size and same thickness
of sound bow, but a thicker waist, the thin one was manifestly the

1857.]             ontK? Great Bell of Westminster.                373
worst, and had a peculiar unsteadiness of tone, and sounded more
of what they call the harmonics along with the fundamental note,
instead of less, as we expected.
     But still we have to ascertain what should be the thickness of
the sound-bow itself (which is often called for shortness the thick
ness of the bell). The large bells of a peal are sometimes made
as thin as ,',-tli of the diameter, and by one of the modern bell-
founders even thinner, and the small ones as thick as ,'nih of the
diameter. It is clear that the most effective proportion is from T^-
to -rV. In casting peals of bells it is necessary to take rather a
wider range, in order to prevent the treble being so small and weak
as to be overpowered by the tenor; though here I am convinced
that the modern bellfounders run into the opposite error, and
always make their large bells too thin. I know several peals in
London in which the large bells are hardly heard when they are all
rung, and are besides very inferior in quality to the others. Again,
if you make the small bells too thick, for the purpose of getting a
larger bell to sound the proper note, you approach the state in
which the bell is a lump of metal too thick to have any musical
vibration. This is a much less common fault than the other, because
tin- nearly universal demand for as deep notes as can be got for the
money is a strong temptation to make the thickest bells, i.e. the
small ones, only just thick enough, and the large ones much too
thin. Nothing can be more absurd than to spend from £300 to
£800 on a peal of bells, which are merely got for the purpose of
giving pleasure to those who hear them, and then insisting on their
being made in a key which they cannot reach without being thin
and bad and disagreeable. People evidently fancy they are getting
more for their money by getting bells in a low key than a high one,
whereas they are really getting less, inasmuch as they only get the
same quantity of metal and have it spent in producing a bad article
instead of a good one. The tenor of the new (third) peal at the
Exchange is only 33 cwt., and sounds the same note, C, as that of
Bow Church, which weighs 53 cwt. It is very evident that one of
them must be wrong : you need only go and hear one strike eleven
and the other twelve, and you will not have much doubt which it
is. It is true that the tenor of the previous (second) peal at the
Exchange, though still worse, was of the same weight, and as the
founders alleged in their own defence, from the same patterns as
Bow ; but the bells must have been of bad metal, and some of them
were certainly bad castings. The thickness of the Westminster
bell was designed to be ,'Tth of the diameter, or 9 inches, which
would have made it 14 tons, the weight which was prescribed for it
twelve or thirteen years ago, long before I had anything to do with
the bells or the clock. By some mistake in setting out the pattern,
or making the mould, which the founders have never been able to
account for, the bell was made 9§ inches thick, which is very nearly
-,'jth of the diameter, 9 ft. oi in., and which increased the weight to

374                         Mr. E. Beckett Denisan,            [March 6,
16 tons, within 1741bs., and raised the note from E flat to E.
Fortunately the same ratio of increase was made throughout, and
the waist is 3J in., or one-third of the sound-bow, as it ought to
be ; and therefore the only effect of the mistake is, that the bell is
heavier and more powerful ; for it being cast the first, the alteration
of the note did not signify, as the four quarter bells can as easily
be made to accord with E natural as with E flat. And as they
will be rather smaller in consequence, the aggregate weight of the
whole five will be about 24 tons, as I originally estimated. I have
only to add, with reference to this part of the subject, that the width
of the bell at the top inside is half the width at the mouth, as it
generally is ; though in some bells, for instance, the great clock
bell at Exeter, it is the outside diameter that is made half the
diameter at the mouth. It is of no use to state here the precise
geometrical rules by which the pattern of a bell of what we now
call the Westminster pattern is drawn, as they are purely empirical.
I mean, that having got a bell, by trial, which we all agreed was
better than any other, I made out some sufficiently simple rules
for drawing the figure of its section by means of a few circles
whose radii are all some definite numbers of 24th parts of the
diameter of the bell : but there is no kind of a priori reason, that
I know of, why a bell whose section or sweep is made of those
particular curves, should be better than any other ; and therefore I
call the rules for tracing the curve merely empirical ; and as they
would be of no use to any one but bellfounders, who know them
already, or easily may, if they like, I shall say no more on this part
of the subject.
    As I have been asked many questions about the mode of
calculating the size of a bell, so as to produce a particular note, and
the answer is very simple, I may as well give it, though it may be
found already, with other information on this subject, in the only
English book I know of which contains such information, I mean
the second edition of my Lectures on Church Building, to which a
chapter on bells is added. If you make eight bells, of any shape
and material, provided they are all of the same, and their sections
exactly similar figures (in the mathematical sense of the word),
they will sound the eight notes of the diatonic scale, if all their
dimensions are in these proportions—60, 53-j, 48, 45, 40, 36, 32, 30 ;
which are merely convenient figures for representing, with only one
fraction, the inverse proportions of the times of vibration belonging
to the eight notes of the scale. And so, if you want to make a
bell, a fifth above a given one—for instance, the B bell to our E, it
must be |rd of the size in every dimension, unless you mean to vary
the proportion of thickness to diameter ; for the same rule then no
longer holds, as a thinner bell will give the same note with a less
diameter. The reason is, that, according to the general law of
vibrating plates or springs, the time of vibration of similar bells
varies as lc PC88              When the bells are also completely similar
           ( < J mht<:i rr)

1857.],            on the Great Bell of Westminster.                375
solids, the thickness itself varies as the diameter, and then the time
of vibration may be said simply to vary inversely as the diameter.
But for a recent letter in the Times from a Doctor of Music, who
seems to have taken this bell under his special protection, it would
have seemed superfluous to add that the size of the " column of air
contained within a bell " has no more to do with its note, than the
quantity of air in an American clock has to do with the note of the
wire on which it strikes. You may have half a dozen bells of
different notes, because of different thicknesses, all enclosing exactly
the same body of air. I certainly agree with the opinion published
by some of the bellfounders on a former occasion, that musicians
are by no means necessarily the best judges of bells, except as to
the single point of their being in tune with each other.
     The weights of bells of similar figures of course vary as the
cubes of their diameters, and may be nearly enough represented
by these numbers—216, 152, 110,91, 64, 46, 33, 27. But as
we are now only concerned with the making of a single bell, I
shall say no more on this point, beyond desiring you to remember
that the exact tune of a set of bells, as they come out of the
 moulds, is quite a secondary consideration to their tone or quality
of sound, because the notes can be altered a little either way by
 cutting, but the quality of the tone will remain the same for ever ;
 except that it gets louder for the first two or three years that the
 bell is used, probably from the particles arranging themselves more
 completely in a crystalline order under the hammering, as is well
 known to take place even in wrought iron.
      We may now consider the composition of bell-metal. It is so
 well known to consist generally of from 5 to 3 of copper to 1 of tin,
 that all the alloys of that kind are technically called bell-metal,
 whatever purpose they may be used for; ju«t as the softer alloys of
 8 or 10 to 1 are called gun-metal ; and the harder and more brittle
 alloy of 2 to 1 is called speculum-metal. But you may wish to
 know whether it has been clearly ascertained that there is no other
 metal or alloy which would answer better, or equally well and
 cheaper. The only ones that have been suggested are aluminium,
 either pure or alloyed with copper ; cast steel, the iron and tin
 alloy, called union-metal ; and perhaps we may add, glass. The
 first is, of course, out of the question at present, as it is about 50
 times as dear as copper, even reckoning by bulk, and much more
 by weight. I have not heard any large steel bells myself, but I
 have met with scarcely anybody who has, and does not condemn
 them as harsh and disagreeable, and having in fact nothing to re
 commend them except their cheapness ; and as I said before,
 nothing can be more absurd than to spend money in buying cheap
 and bad luxuries. Much the same may be said of the iron and tin
 alloy, called union metal, of which there was a large bell in the
  Exhibition of 1851. It was said by Mr. Stirling, the patentee of
 that manufacture (though I understand the same alloy is described

376                  Mr. E. Beckett Denison,                [March 6,
by Rinmann, in 1784), that it did not answer to make bells of it
with the sound-bow thicker than the waist, as usual ; and if such
bells are worse than the thin ones of that composition, I can only
say they must be very bad indeed. I have seen also some cheap
bells, evidently composed chiefly of iron, but I do not know what
else, and they are much worse than the union metal bells. It is
hardly necessary to say much of glass, because its brittleness is
enough to disqualify it for use in bells ; but besides that, the sound
is very weak, compared with a bell-metal bell of the same size, or
 even the same weight, and of course much smaller.
    There is another metal, which you will probably expect me to
notice as a desirable ingredient in bells, that is silver. All that I
have to say of it is, that it is a purely poetical and not a chemical
ingredient of any known bell-metal ; and that there is no founda
tion whatever for the vulgar notion that it was used in old bells,
nor the least reason to believe that it would do any good, I hap
pened to hear of an instance where it had been tried by a gentleman
who had put his own silver into the pot at the bellfoundry, some
years ago. I wrote to him to inquire about it, and he could not
say that he remembered any particular effect. This seemed to me
quite enough to settle that question. You may easily see for your
selves that a silver cup makes a rather worse bell than a cast-iron
saucepan.
    Dr. Percy, who has taken great interest in this subject, has cast
several other small bells, by way of trying the effect of different
alloys, besides the iron and tin just now mentioned. Here is one of
iron 95, and antimony 5. The effect is not very different from
that of iron and tin of the same proportions, and clearly not so
good as copper and tin ; and I should mention that antimony is
generally considered to produce an analogous effect to tin in alloys,
but always to the detriment of the metal in point of tenacity and
strength. Again, here is a bell of a very singular composition,
copper 88 '65, and phosphorus 11 "35. It makes a very hard
compound, and capable of a fine polish, but more brittle than bell-
metal, and inferior in sound even to the iron alloys. Copper
90 '14, and aluminium 9 '86, which makes the aluminium bear
about the same proportion in bulk as the tin usually does, seemed
much more promising. The alloy exceeds any bell-metal in
strength and toughness, and polishes like gold ; and as was
mentioned in the lecture here on aluminium last year, it is
superior to everything except gold and platinum in its resistance
to the tarnishing effects of the air. This alloy would probably
be an excellent material for watch wheels, the reeds of organ
pipes, and a multitude of other things for which brass is now
used—a far weaker and more easily corroded metal, but as yet
much cheaper. But for all this, it will not stand for a moment
against the old copper and tin alloy for bells ; in fact, it is clearly
the worst of all that we have yet tried. Here is also a brass

1857.]           on the Great Bell of Westminster.                 377
model for casting bells, which is of course a brass bell itself, and
that is better than the phosphorus and aluminium alloys, though
inferior to bell-metal. (These were all exhibited.)
     So much for the compound metals that have been tried as a
substitute for bell-metal. But we have now, through the kindness of
M. Ste. Claire Deville, of Paris, who exhibited the mode of making
aluminium here last year, the opportunity of realizing the anticipation
then formed, from the sonorousness of a bar of aluminium hung by a
string, and struck. He has taken great pains in casting a bell of
this metal, from a drawing of our Westminster bell, reduced to six
inches diameter. He has also turned the surface, which improves
the sound of small bells, where the small unevennesses of casting
bear a sensible proportion to the thickness of the metal, and in fact,
has done everything to produce as perfect an aluminium bell as
possible, though at its present price it can hardly be regarded as
more than a curiosity. But now for the great questio'n of its sound.
1 am afraid [ringing it] that it must be pronounced to exceed all
the others in badness, as much as it does in cost. I cannot say I
am much surprised ; indeed you may see in the book I have referred,
to, that I did not expect it to be successful as a bell, any more than
silver, merely because a bar of it will ring. But it was well worth
while to try the experiment and settle it.
     Still the question remains, what are the best proportions for
the copper and tin alloy, which we are now quite sure, in some
proportions, will give the strongest, clearest, and best sound
possible? They have varied from something less than 3 to
something more than 4 of copper to 1 of tin, even disregarding the
bad bells of modern times, some of which contain no more than 10
per cent, of tin instead of from ^th to Jth, and no less than 10 per
cent, of zinc, lead, and iron adulteration, as you may see in Ure's
Dictionary, and other books. Without going through the details of
the various experiments, it will be sufficient to say that we found by
trial, what seemed probable enough before trial, that the best metal
for this purpose is that which has the highest specific gravity of all
the mixtures ofcopper and tin. It is clear, however, that the copper
now smelted will not carry so much tin as the old copper did with
out making the alloy too brittle to b€e safely used. You will see
from the table of analyses, which I shall give presently, that the
Westminster bell contains less tin and antimony together, and
more copper than the old bells of York Minster, and a great deal
less tin in proportion to the copper than the famous bell of Rouen,
which was broken up and melted into cannon in the first French
revolution, and of which it is worth while to mention that it appears
to have been commonly called the silver bell, though the analysis
shows it had not a trace of silver in it. We found that the 3 to 1
alloy, even melted twice over, had a conchoidal fracture like glass,
and was very much more brittle than 22 to 7 twice melted, or 7 to
2 once melted ; and accordingly, the metal used for the Westminster

 378                      Mr. E. Beckett Denison,                      [March 6,
 bells is 22 to 7 twice melted ; or, reducing it for convenience of
 comparison to a percentage, the tin is 24- 1 of the alloy (not of the
 copper), and the copper 75*86, which you see is very nearly the
 same as the result of the analysis of the bell when cast. This may
 seem extraordinary, because it is well known that the tin wastes
 more in melting than the copper ; but no doubt the explanation of
 it is, that the antimony which comes out with the tin in the analysis
 goes in with the copper in the composition, unless special means are
 taken to eliminate it, which is not worth while, as antimony pro
 duces the same kind of effect as the tin, and a little of it does no
 harm ; as we know from intentionally putting some into a small bell,
 though it is an inferior metal to tin both for bells and organ pipes,
 in which I understand it is frequently substituted to stiffen the lead,
 because the English organ builders will not use as much tin as the
 old ones did, and the German ones still do.
      This 22 to 7 mixture, or even 3i to 1, which is probably the
 best proportion to use for bells made at one melting, is a much
 " higher " metal, as they call it, than the modern bellfounders,
either English or French, generally use. As there is no great dif
ference in the price of the two metals, the reason why they prefer
the lower quantity of tin is, that it makes the bells softer, and
therefore easier to cut for tuning, which is obviously a very insuffi
cient reason. I advise everybody who makes a contract for bells,
to stipulate that they shall be rejected if they are found on analysis
to contain less than 22, or at any rate 21 per cent, of tin, or more
than 2 per cent, of anything but copper and tin.
                  ANALYSIS OF SEVERAL, BELL-METALS.
                         Rouen. G lucre.   Tort    Lincoln.    Westminster.
                                         Old Peal.   1810.   Top.     Bottom.
    Copper     . . . 71-        72 4      72-76     74-7    75-31     75-07
    Tin(withAntimony) 26-       24-2      25-39     23-11   24-37     24-7
    Iron . . . .           1-2     ..         •33      .09      •11      •12
    Zinc ....              1-8   .!•         . .   traces.    • •        ..
    Lead ....              ..       •4      1-77     1-16   traces traces
    Nickel     . . .       ••      ••         •85      •58     ••
                                            8-76     8-78    8-847      8-869
    Specific gravity . |                                                8-94
     The founders were afraid that by insisting on so much tin I
should make the bell too brittle. I was satisfied that if they cast it
properly it would not be so ; and I shall now give some proofs of
that. The first is, that the bell has now been rung frequently with
a clapper from two to three times as heavy in proportion to the bell
as all the other large bells in England, and pulled sometimes by as

1857.]            on the Great Bell of Westminster.                 379
many as ten men. Secondly, I have a piece of the bell, or rather
of one of the runners at the top, which is always the least dense and
the weakest part of the casting, about 2 inches square, and '6 inch
thick. I tried to break it in two with a 4 Ibs. hammer on an anvil,
both with and without the intervention of a cold chisel, and I tried
in vain ; whereas a piece of the Doncaster bell-metal, cast in 1835,
which was exactly twice as thick, and therefore ought to have been
four times as strong, broke quite easily under the first blow of the
hammer, although it is at the same time softer, but of less specific
gravity by something like 12 per cent., and visibly porous.
     In fact, the metal of this bell is superior in this very important
point of specific gravity to any bell-metal that I have examined, or
have found any account of, and to the highest specific gravity which
is given in any of the books for the densest alloy of copper and tin.
The only exception to this remark is that, according to my weighing,
the specific gravity of some small clock bells, made by a man of the
name of Drury (who is now either dead or retired from business),
was exactly the same as this, if not a little higher. But I do not
profess to have done it with the same nicety as the bits of metal in
this table (except the two first, which are taken from a book) were
no doubt weighed with by Dr. Percy and Mr. Dick, at the Geo
logical Museum, where also the analysis of this and the old Lincoln
and York bells were made. And it is remarkable that there are
no small clock bells to be got now, equal either in density or
quality, to those of Drury's, who is believed to have had some
secret mode of making them, as they contain nothing but the usual
metals. It ought therefore to be made another co?idition with a
bellfounder, that the specific gravity of his bells should not be less
than 8'7 ; and this, you observe, is sensibly below any of the
specific gravities in the above table, except the very bad metal of
the Doncaster peal of 1835, which was always complained of as
inferior to the old peal which it replaced, though the new peal was
a heavier one. About a year ago, the founders of this bell were
warned that it would not be passed by the referees, if the specific
gravity came below this figure, at least unless we were so perfectly
satisfied with its sound as to render further inquiry unnecessary ;
and I convinced them by a simple experiment, first, that it was easy
enough to test the soundness of the casting without breaking it, and
secondly, that such a thick casting would not be sound, or at any
rate, not of proper density, unless the mould was made so hot as not
to chill and set the outside of the metal too soon. I may add, that
I knew before the weighing of the bits for specific gravity, that it
must be high enough, from the gross weight of the bell, in propor
tion to its size and thickness ; for if the specific gravity had been
 8-7, instead of 8'9, the bell would have weighed 7 cwt. less,—a
 quantity quite large enough for calculation even in a bell of 16 tons.
 I remember that the man who came down from Mears's to examine
 the old Doncaster bells of 1722 for re-casting, underestimated the
     VOL. II.                                                 2D

 380                     Mr. E. Beckett Denison,            [March 6,
weight of the tenor by 2J cwt.-, no doubt judging of its weight
according to what a bell of the same size and thickness would be
when made of such metal as their new peal was.
     This bell is also so elastic, that I can make the clapper of
 13 cwt. strike both ways, pulling it alone, and therefore of course
to one side only ; which I never found the case with any other bell.
     You will probably wish to hear something of the actual casting
of the bell, which is by no means an easy operation, if we may
judge from the much greater rarity of good large bells than of
small ones. There was no bell in England above 3 tons weight,
except perhaps the tenor of the peal at Exeter, equal to many that
exist of half that weight. Sir Christopher Wren condemned and
rejected the great bell of St. Paul's, for which the present was sub
stituted in 1716; and that rejected bell was made by a founder
whose bells, cast the same year as his St. Paul's bell, are still at
St. Alban's, and are very good ones. The present St. Paul's bell
is itself inferior to that of Bow and the old York Minster bells ; and
both the Lincoln and York Minster bells are feeble and unsatis
factory, though the same foundry, until the last 30 or 40 years,
turned out many very good bells of smaller but yet considerable
weight. The metal was twice melted, as it is for making specu-
lums. It was first run into ingots of bell-metal in a common
furnace, and then those ingots were melted and run into the mould
from a reverberatory furnace, in which the fuel does not touch the
metal, but the flame is carried over and reflected down upon it
from the top, or dome over the melting hearth. The ingots were
only in this furnace 2i hours before the metal was ready for run
ning, as the alloy of copper and tin melts, as usual with alloys, at a
much lower heat than the most obstinate of the two metals requires
alone; and the whole 16 tons were run into the mould in five
minutes. I understand that quick casting is essential to the secur
ing of sound casting.
     Messrs. Warner make their moulds in a different way from
usual. First of all a hollow core is built up of bricks, and straw,
and clay, and made to fit the inside of the bell by being swept over
with a wooden pattern or sweep, turning on a vertical axis through
the middle of the core. Fqr bells of moderate size, they keep a
number of different sized cores of cast iron, instead of building
them up of bricks ; and the iron cores are covered with the loam
as before. They are easily lifted into a furnace to be dried and
heated, whereas the brick ones must have the fire lighted within
them. But the great difference is in the outside mould, or cope.
Generally a clay bell is made on the top of the core, the outside
being turned by another sweep turning on the same vertical axis ;
and when this is dry, a third fabric of clay and straw is laid on the
outside of the clay bell, and this is called the cope. When it is
dry it is lifted off, and the clay bell broken away ; the cope is then
put on again, and the metal poured in where the clay bell was.

1857.]            on the Great Bell of Westminster.                3&1
Not only is this a very roundabout process, but without great care
in putting the cope on again, the bell is apt to come out not uniform
in thickness all round. I have seen broken bells twice as thick on
one side as the other. Messrs. Warner's plan is to make the cope
of iron larger than would fit the bell ; that is lined with the casting
loam, which is turned by an inside instead of an outside sweep, and
the junction being between an iron plate at the bottom of the core,
and the flanch at the bottom of the cope, they can be fitted together
more accurately than the clay core and cope can be, and moreover
bolted together, so as to resist the bursting pressure of the melted
metal, instead of having to rely merely on the sand with which the
pit is filled, and such weights as may be laid upon it. The core
and cope were both made very hot before the pit was closed in with
sand ; for that is still necessary to prevent too rapid cooling, which
makes bell-metal soft, and what you may call rotten in texture,
and indeed if it is rapid enough, will make it malleable. This bell
was kept in the pit 12 days before the sand was taken out, and even
then the cope was too hot to touch, and it was left two days more
before it was taken off. It has now changed its colour so much
from the effect of the London damp and air, that you must trust to
my statement, that until it came here it presented that peculiar
mottled appearance which is so much admired in organ pipes, rich
in tin ; in fact, a gentleman who came to look at it immediately
remarked its " fine silvery hue," with that inveterate propensity to
discover silver in bell-metal which seems to defy all chemical refu
tation. Tt is remarkable that the tin does not show itself in this
way, if it is less than about -jV of the copper, i.e., about 23 per
cent, of the alloy.
     I have now told you all that is likely to be interesting about
the construction of this bell, so far as its shape and composition
affect the sound. But the description would be incomplete without
a short notice of another feature in the design, very subordinate
indeed to those which I have yet spoken of, but still not insig
nificant : I mean the construction of that part of the bell by which
it is to be hung. The common, indeed I may say, the universal
method, for no other has been ever used for large bells, is to cast
six ears or loops on the top or crown of the bell, which are techni
cally called canons, and through which certain iron hooks and straps
are put to fasten the bell to the stock. Small bells may be securely
enough hung by a single canon or plug with a hole in it, like the
common house or hand bells, or in any equivalent way. This
method of hanging by canons had long appeared to me unsatis
factory on account of its weakness ; for not only has this metal
no very great tenacity lengthwise, but the canons are always the
weakest part of the casting, from being nearest to the top ; and, I
believe, there are few old peals in the kingdom in which some of
the bells have not had their canons broken, and replaced by iron
bolts put through holes drilled in the crown. Moreover, this

382                 Mr. E. Beckett Denison,                 [March 6,
method of hanging makes it troublesome and expensive to turn
the bell in the stock, to present a new surface to the clapper when
it is worn thin in one place, and many bells have been cracked in
consequence. A Mr. Baker took out a patent a few years ago for
several new modes of hanging, for the purpose of enabling bells
to be turned in the stock. The first is simply making a hole in
the crown and hanging the bell by a single large bolt, which also
spreads out into the staple to carry the clapper. The objection to
this is, that nobody would like to trust the weight of a large swing
ing bell to a single bolt if he could use several instead ; because,
although a single bolt can of course be made large enough to carry
anything, yet if there is any flaw or bad workmanship in it, the result
would be something frightful with a large bell ; at any rate, nobody
who expressed an opinion about it on either of the two occasions
when it was exhibited at the Institute of Architects, nor any one
whom I have consulted about the making or hanging of the West
minster bells, nor indeed anybody anywhere whose opinion is worth
mentioning, so far as I can learn, approves of such a mode of
hanging a large bell like this, even though it does not swing, and
therefore I declined Mr. Baker's invitation to adopt it. His other
method, as described in a recent pamphlet and in his specification,
is to cast a thickish pipe on the top of the bell, which is to go
through the stock and be fastened with a large nut, just as his iron
 bolt was in the other plan : only the clapper bolt is now inde
pendent and goes through this pipe, and is held by another smaller
nut on the top of it. This seems to me to combine the two vices
 of the weakness of canons and the risk of a single bolt in the most
complete manner, with the addition of a thread cut on this bell-
 metal pipe, which is about as weak a construction as possible. I
should think no person in his senses would use such a plan : in fact,
 Mr. Baker himself did not seem to contemplate using it, but only
put it into his patent, as patentees do, with the object of securing
 possession of every possible new method of doing the thing in ques
 tion they can think of : but as patentees also do sometimes, he left
 out at least one method which is better than those which he put in,
 and that is the following.
     On the top of the bell is cast what has been called a button
 and a mushroom ; and either name will do well enough, except that
 a mushroom has not a hole through it, and buttons have more than
 one. It is in fact a very thick short neck, with a strong flanch
round the top, which is fastened to the stock, in moderate sized
 bells, merely by bolts with hooked ends ; and in very large ones, by
 bolts passed through a collar, bolted together in two pieces. The
 clapper (if there is one) is hung by a separate bolt, which goes
 through the hole in the neck and through the stock ; and it has
 nothing to do with carrying the weight of the bell, unless you like
 to make it with a shoulder, so as to help the outside bolts. By this
 method you hang the bell by a lump of its own metal as large as

1857.]            on the Great Bell of Westminster.               383
you choose to make it ; and besides that, when the bell is worn in
one place, it can be turned round to present another after you have
loosened the bolts a little. Clock hammers wear the surface of a
bell so little compared with ringing, that these Westminster bells
are not likely to want turning for 50 or 100 years, and therefore in
this case that advantage is not of so much consequence as usual, or
as obtaining the safest possible mode of hanging ; but as the power
of turning happens to be consistent with hanging the bell in the
strongest way, we all agreed in adopting this, except that the foun
ders rather regretted the loss of the canons as an ornamental finish
to the bell. Anybody who has happened to read the aforesaid
pamphlet, which Mr. Baker has very diligently circulated, will see
his drawings of all the three methods, (I mean his own two patented
methods, and my unpatented one,) and will see also that he has per
suaded himself, after the manner of patentees, that my " mushroom"
(the name which I think he himself gave it), held up under the
stock by four or six bolts, is identical with his pipe going through
the stock, and fastened on the top by a nut, —a point on which I
have heard yet no opinion but one, that his own drawings are the
best answer to his claim.
     I shall conclude by giving you as complete a list as I have
been able to make out, of all the large bells in the world, except
in China, where the bells are of a different and inferior form. It
is substantially the same as that given in the Lectures on Church
 Building before referred to, but with a few additions and correc
tions. 1 do not believe that the recorded weights of several large
bells can be correct, because they are inconsistent with the dimen
sions, which are much more likely to be right. The bells of Sens
and Exeter especially, cannot possibly weigh as much as is stated for
them, viz. 15 tons and 5i tons respectively. Indeed I am so con
vinced of that, that I shall put them in the table at 13 tons and
4$ tons, and I believe that will be above the real weight rather
than below it. The Erfurt bell may, perhaps, be as heavy as is
stated, because I believe it is a thick one ; and from its celebrated
quality, the specific gravity is certain to be high. I doubt whether
the Paris bell is as heavy as that of Montreal, because its diameter
is the same, and its thickness less throughout. To be sure, the
specific gravity of the Montreal bell is probably no better than
 that of the late Doncaster bell-metal, from the same foundry ; and
therefore I have left the reputed weight in the table for the Paris
bell, though from other calculations I still doubt its accuracy. On
the other hand, I am certain that the weight of the two great
Russian bells is very much underrated. There can be no mistake
about the thickness of the large one, because a piece is broken out
 high enough for a man to walk through upright, and as I said before,
 the shape so nearly agrees with that of our bell, that the weight
 cannot be very different from that given by the ratio of the cubes of
 the diameters, and that would make it nearly 250 tons, which I

384      Mr. Denison, on the Great Bell of Westminster. [March 6,
suppose is much the largest casting in the world. And the other
Russian bell, being 18 feet wide, must be 110 tons, according to
the Westminster scale, instead of 64, which is the recorded weight.
I might have added several other Russian bells to the list, from
Lyall's book, all of great weights, but it seemed hardly worth while,
as everybody knows already that the Russians have surpassed all
the world in the magnitude of their scale of bellfounding, and two
or three instances prove as much as twenty. I have stopped the
list at four tons. After these would come the single bells of Can
terbury, Gloucester, and Beverley Minster, and the tenor bells of
the peals of Exeter and York, St. Mary-le-Bow, St. Saviour's, and
Sherbourne, which run from 3i to 2i tons.
                             LIST OF BELLS.
          BFLLS.          Weight.   Diameter.     Thick-              Cltpper or
                                                   ness.   Note.       Hammer.
                        TOM. Cwt.    Ft       In. IncbM.
 Moscow, 1736      . .1 250 ?        22        8    23
    broken, 1737   . .)
 Another, 1817 . . .     110 ?       18        0    • •      • •     & of bell.
 Three others . . . 16to31               • •        • •                   • •
 Novogorod ....            31    0                           • •          • •
 Olmutz                    17 18
 Vienna, 1711 . . .        17 14      9      10
 Westminster, 1856         15 is.l    9        51   '»!     E.         12 c'wt.
 Erfurt, 1497 . . .        13 15      8        7j           F.
 Paris, 1680 ....          12 16      8        7    '5*     • •         4'»
 Sens                      IS ?       8        7
 Montreal, 1847 . . .      12 15      8        7      8*    F.            • •
 Cologne, 1448 . . .       11    3    7      11             G.
 Breslaw, 1507 . . .       11    0
 Gorlitz                   10 17
 York, 1845 ....           10 15      8        4      8  F sharp.       * „
 Bruges, 1680 . . .        10    5      • •                 G.
 St. Peter's, Rome . .      8 0
 Oxford, 1680 . . .         7 12      ?" 0          'k                 so'ibs.
 Lucerne, 1636 . . .        7 11                            G.
 Halsberstadt, 1457 .       7 10                            • •
                            7 3                                           *
                            7    14
 Dantzie, 1453 . . .        6    1
 Lincoln, 1834 . . .        5    8    6"lOj           6     A.       iso' '„
 St. Paul's, 1716 . .       5 4       6        9            A.       180 „
 Ghent                      4 18
 Boulogne, new . . .        4 18                                          '
 Exeter, 1675 ...           4 10?     e" 4            5     A.         « '„
 Old Lincoln, 1610 .        4    8    6        3$   • •   Bflat.
 Fourth quarter-bell, )     4 0
   Westminster, 1857 J
                                      6        0      51    B.
                                                                 [E. B. D.]


X
                   -Jhiswutton of (£rrat iJntain.
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 13, 1857.
  SIR RODERICK I. MURCHISON, G.C.S. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
         PROFESSOR JOHN PHILLIPS, M.A. F.R.S. F.G.S.
                READER IN GEOLOGY IN THE UNIVERSITY Of OXFORD,
                          On the Malvern Hills.
EIGHTEEN hundred years have passed away since one of the greatest
of the Roman soldiers stood on the brow of the Cotteswold hills, and
gazed with longing eyes across the vale of Severn to the distant
mountains which formed the last defence of Britain. Full in front
rose the rocky chain of Malvern, crested with war camps, and
defended by Caractacus. Little thought the contending warriors
that in another age chiefs of a milder mood, wielding very different
weapons, should bring into subjection that unexplored region, and
make the names of Murchison and Sedgwick as famous as ever
were those of Ostorius and Caractacus. And little thought the
philosophic historian, who records the captivity of the Silurian
chief, that the poor province of Britain which struggled so hard for
liberty, should in another day become a kingdom of science, with a
sway extending far beyond the bounds of the Roman Empire, and
archives stretching back beyond the building of Rome and the
origin of nations, to the early days of creation and the beginning
of life upon the globe.
    As plainly as the Annals of Tacitus preserve for us the steps of
the Silurian war, so clearly the Silurian strata mark successive
stages in the construction of the earth. The earth has records,
history, and chronology. When, amidst the broken walls of some
ruined abbey, we judge of the age of its various parts by the form
of the arch and the mouldings of the windows, or examine trees
rooted in Saxon soil before the advent of the Norman conqueror,
and determine their date by counting the rings of annual growth,
the process we employ is like that which is in every day use by the
geologist. Antiquaries 'of a new order, as Cuvier justly describes
himself, we learn to restore by a mental effort the long past events
of nature, to collect and place in their true order the fragments of
   VOL. II.—(No. 25.)                                          2E

386                     Professor J. Phillips,             [March 13,
the early history of the earth, and to compare them with the re
cognized phenomena of the existing world of matter and life.
    The Malvern hills stand nearly on a line of ancient boundary
between different races of people. From the estuary of the Mersey
to the mouth of the Severn, the elevated region on the west has
always sheltered the truly British tribes ; while on the east invaders
of many names have alternately conquered and been dispossessed
of the richer vales and gentler hills. Even more remarkable is
their position in a geological point of view ; they stand between
monuments of two ages of the world : on the west, Palaeozoic—on
the east, Mesozoic deposits ; on the west, an elevated region of
undulated stratification—on the east, these strata thrown down by
a vast fault, and covered by others of later date, lie against the
Malvern hills as against a wall. So they stood between land and
sea at the close of the Palaeozoic period ; between dry land full of
trilobites and other organic monuments of the earliest ages of the
world, and seas swarming with enaliosaurians and ammonites, and
other forms of life never seen before that epoch, and long since
removed from the catalogue of life.
    The rocks which stand in this remarkable relation to physi
cal geography are of igneous origin—that is to say, they have
acquired their present characters as rock by consolidation from a
state of fusion. The epoch when this occurred—the geological
date of the rock—was probably earlier than all but the very oldest
of the Palaeozoic strata of this region ; earlier than any of the
Silurian strata on the west of the chain. The Malvern rock is then
one of the very oldest masses of a granitic or syenitic nature which
can be mentioned in the British Isles, or even in Europe ; for in
the greater number of other cases where granite is found below
Palaeozoic strata, it shows by veins injected, and by great metamor-
phisms adjacent, that it was in fusion after the consolidation of these
strata. The date of the elevation of the Malvern rock is, however,
not of the same antiquity, for it was, with the strata deposited on it,
moved both upward and downward in the Silurian ages, and only
acquired its full relative height by great flexures after the Devo
nian periods, and a great fault after the Permian ages.
    If we now replace in imagination the rocks in the position they
occupied before the occurrence of that great fault, and the still
earlier disturbance indicated by the great anticlinal and synclinal
flexures, we shall have the following vertical section of the strata
of Paleozoic date. (A)
     And, turning our attention to the very earliest effects of which
traces remain, we shall reach a period earlier than the date of the
fluidity of the syenitic rocks of Malvern. The evidence of this
is found in many laminated rocks, with micaceous often twisted
surfaces (a), which lie in the midst of the syenite about Malvern
Wells, and Little Malvern, on the eastern face and near the foot of
the hills. These limited tracts of mica schist, and gneiss, are to

 1857.]                 on the Malvern Hills.                       387
be regarded as metamorphic rocks, whose actual appearance is due
to the heat-influence of the melted syenites in which they are
involved, but of whose earlier stratified state or date there is no
certain evidence.
               Old Red                             Randstoni-.
                Upper
            Aymestiy
                 Lower
             Wenlock
              Wcnlock
            Woolhope
             Hay Hill
         Conglomerate
                  Blade
            Hollj-bnsh
               Syenite                             Gnoissic lip.1,.
     Next in order of date is the flow of syenitic rocks (6), using
this term for a great variety of mineral compounds, in which
felspar, quartz, hornblende, mica, and epidote are the most abun
dant. Some of these compounds may be termed granite, and such
especially occur in veins which ramify among the hornblendic rocks ;
others are a beautiful mixture of felspar and hornblende ; others,
nearly pure felspar ; others, masses of mica or hornblende. The
composition of these rocks varies from hill to hill.
    The upper surface of this flow was uneven. On the southern
 part of the new sea bed thus constituted was deposited a thick
mass of rather greenish sandstone (c), containing impressions of
marine plants, but no other organic remains. This deposit seems
to have happened not long after the flow of the syenite, for it is
indurated and somewhat altered along and near to the surfaces of
contact. This change is best seen at the end of the Raggedstone
                                                            2E2

388                     Professor J. Phillips,            [March 13,
Hill, where a narrow boss of the rocks of fusion is covered by the
sandstone.
    After the formation of this sandstone, the sea bed in the Mal-
vern district probably experienced a great depression ; for the next
deposit, laminated black shale (d), some hundreds of feet thick,
indicates deep sea and tranquil subsidence. In this shale, some
twelve years ago, I found the minute trilobitic crustaceans known
as Olenus humilis, O. bisulcatus and O. spinulosus. Agnostus
pisiformis was afterwards found by Mr. Strickland ; and I have
since seen a graptolithus which was discovered in them by Miss M.
Lowe, and a minute Discina. Thus the Olenus shale of Malvern,
is very analogous to the Alaunschiefer of Norway, one of the
oldest of the Lower Palaeozoic strata, and like that rests on
fucoidal sandstone. Then followed an irruption of igneous rocks
(c), which have burst through the syenite, the sandstone, and
the shale, and now fill fissures in these rocks. The shale is
bleached, and the sandstone is indurated, and otherwise altered by
the dykes. The intrusive rocks of this era are either greenstone,
or of a felspathic character. They are found in several small
mounds, above the black shales, in a little crescent on the west side
of the Malvern chain, and must be regarded as quite distinct in
geological age and mineral constitution from the ordinary and more
ancient plutonic rock of the hills. Such cases of greenstone dykes,
formed at a later period than granitic and syenitic rocks in the
same region, occur elsewhere ; and show that, under a given surface,
fused rocks of different quality have been flowing at different times
—the trisilicated compounds being oldest.
     Conglomerate beds, containing small fragments of syenite,
masses of felspar, and quartz, and sandstones of gray and purple
hues succeed (/), and are traced both at the north and south ends of
the chain, but not in the middle parts ; which perhaps might then
be partially above water, so as to cause local unconformity. These
strata, which are about 600 feet thick, are quite vertical at the
north end of the ridge, and but moderately inclined in the
fouthern part, where they form a bold ridge beyond the crescent of
the bosses of trap. The organic remains found in these strata are
not numerous, except towards the upper part, near the obelisk, in
Eastnor Park. They are on the whole more allied to Upper
 Silurian than to Lower Silurian forms, but include besides some
peculiar species, as Area Eastnori, Lingula crumena, L. attenuata,
and several Nuculae. Trilobites are very rare in this group of
strata. The strata next succeeding, are usually sandstones of
fmer grain, in thinner laminee, alternating with sandy shales, to
which as a really distinct member of the series, I gave the name of
" Upper Carodoc." It is now called Mayhill sandstone (g).
     In the upper part, the hard beds are occasionally subcalcareous,
and thus indicate the passage to the Woolhope limestone series ; in
the lower part, perhaps at the very boundary, is a remarkable very

1857.]                   on the Malvern Hilft.                     389
limited band, containing fragments of the syenite, mixed with many
shells and corals, and some trilobites. This is seen in contact with
the syenite at the western foot of the Worcester Beacon, in vertical
strata, ripple-marked on the surface, and perfectly free from any
metamorphic effect. It is somewhat surprising to find such delicate
encrinites as hypanthocrinus and dimerocrinus, lying with rhyn-
conellae, favosites, petraiae, and patechinus, mixed with masses of
syenite and felspar, mostly angular in shape, and evidently accu
mulated near the places where they had first become detached, the
whole stratified, and the stratification vertical. This remarkable
deposit was discovered by a lady resident at Malvern, in 1842.
    During the deposition of the Mayhill group of laminated sand
stones and shales, a downward movement of the whole sea-bed
must have taken place ; but, towards the close of this period, the
descent must have become very slow, to allow for the almost purely cal
careous, very shelly, and often coralliferous Woolhope limestone(A).
The most interesting locality where this appears at the surface is
in the little glen which descends westward from the north side of
the Worcester Beacon, and passes by the shelly conglomerate
bands above mentioned. In this glen, though now much obscured,
the Woolhope limestone may be seen in two principal bands alter
nately with the Mayhill sandstones, and all the beds overthrown,
 beyond the vertical, so as to appear to dip inwards towards the chain.
 For the first notice of this remarkable fact we are indebted to Mr.
 L. Horner, the first accurate explorer of this region. This phe
 nomenon of inverted strata, as they are called, appears at many
 points to the northward ; and is well exhibited in the west flank
 of the Abberley Hill, in Upper Silurian, and old red formations.
 In the alternating sandstones and limestones under Worcester
 Beacon, the groups of fossils are different. The depression of
 the strata already indicated by the Mayhill shales and sandstones,
 and the retardation in this process, marked by the bands of Wool-
 hope limestone, were repeated in the case of the Wenlock shales (t),
 surmounted by the coralliferous bands of the Wenlock limestone (A) ;
 and again in the Ludlow shales (/, H.) and their included layer of
 Aymestry limestone (m), which in the Malvern district, are of less
 importance than in some other tracts. At the very top of the
 Ludlow series, we have the first positive indication of neighbouring
 land in the portions of plants—small carbonaceous masses, — which
 occur at Stoke Edith, on the borders of Woolhope Forest ; and on
 the same horizon, and for a small depth below, occur the earliest
 traces of fishes. In this upper part of the Silurians, sandy layers
 prevail more than in any other part of the series above the Wen-
 lock limestone. The Downton sandstone, which occurs in this
 situation, offers an easy transition to the old red sandstones and
 marls, rather than shales, with cornstone(o). The depression of
 the sea bed continuing, alternate deposits of sandstone and marls,
 capped by conglomerate, prevailed for several thousand feet.

 390                        Professor J. Phillips,                [March 13,
      At this point of geological time, the surface of the syenite,
 where it is now covered by Hollybush sandstone, may very pro
 bably have been sunk to the depth of at least 8,000 feet.*
      In a tract of country lying not far to the south of Malvern, and
 stretching through the South Wales coalfield, westward to and
 beyond the extremity of Ireland, and eastward through Belgium and
 across the Rhine, the depression of the sea-bed continued ; and the
 whole series of carboniferous deposits, in the sea and at the border
 of the sea, to the depth of three miles, was accumulated. There is
 TIO evidence that this took place on the lines of Mayhill, the Mal
 vern and Abberley hills ; rather, by some want of conformity of
 the coal to the old red at Newent, on the line of boundary between
 old and new red from Newent to Haffield, and again north of Mal
vern, and along the Abberley hills,—it appears that the old red
and Silurian strata on tins tract had been uplifted, folded, and
even wasted by surface action, before the date of the coal strata.
Thus may be explained the absence of mountain limestone, for so
great a space along the tract, of which Malvern is the centre, and
probably the same arguments apply to the very limited exhibition
of coal deposits on this line. Such deposits of limestone and of
coal may have existed farther west, where the depression perhaps
continued, and been removed by surface waste ; and they may still
exist farther east under the vale of the Severn, covered up and
protected by later deposits.
                                              HILLS.
    k, I, m, n, Silurian strata folded and worn away at top by surface action,
prior to deposition of q, coal, and r, Permian conglomerate. At o, Old red and
upper Ludlow are seen overthrown. The fault depresses the strata oo the
eastern side, where triassic beds, (s) occur.
     From this mere sketch of a great subject, it appears that the
upward and downward movements of ground, which in the volcanic
region of Italy, and the Palaeozoic tracts of Scandinavia, affect us
with a lively interest, are the modern differentials, by which to inte
grate the far grander phenomena of the unstable earth-crust of
    * The thickness of the old red sandstone being above 4000 feet in the
country west of Malvern, and that of the Silurians, somewhat less than 4000.

1857.]                    on the Malvern Hills.                         391
earlier periods of time.* Perhaps no geological phenomenon is more
certain or more significant of the true condition of the earth's mass
than this repeated upward and downward movement of the crust in
one region—this contemporaneous rising of one tract, and sinking
of another not far removed—this wasting of one palaeozoic shore,
while another neighbouring palaeozoic basin was receiving addi
tional sediments. Dry and elevated, while to the northward and
southward the sea was rich with the thousands of organic forms
of the carboniferous aera, the ridges of Malvern appear to have
never since beenj covered by the deposits from water, and may
thus claim to be regarded as a tract of the most ancient land in
Britain, composed of some of its oldest strata, resting on one of the
oldest of its pyrogenous formations.
     The very limited beds of coal in the Abberley hills are covered
by a remarkable deposit of the Permian age, full of large and
small masses of rock, derived partly from the neighbouring hills,
and partly from points at a greater distance,—a conglomerate or a
breccia, according as the fragments are rolled, subangular, or
angular. The course taken by these fragments appears to be from
the northward ; under the influence of littoral currents they have
been drifted southward ; the farther to the south (as at Haffield),
the more rolled are the masses, the more conglomeritic the rock.
Examined in the Abberley hills, the masses seem to require the
operation of some moving agency different from the ordinary trans
porting power of water—a cataclysmal action, consequent on violent
movement of the sea bed or shore, or, as suggested by Professor
Ramsay, icebergs, loaded with glacial detritus from primeval hills
like the Longmynd. In support of this last view, fragments with
striated surfaces are produced, resembling those which are usually
accepted as evidence of glacial deposits.
     Thus a somewhat new view of the palaeozoic state of this part
of the north temperate zone arises for consideration, viz., the form
ation of glaciers in lat. 53°, after the growth of the coal plants,
and the formation of the coral reefs of the mountain limestone.
Striation of the surface of stones is, however, an effect not confined
to glacial movements : it occurs often along surfaces of dislocation,
and may frequently, under the name of " slickenside," be detected
running in different directions along very many joint faces where
the movement of the rocks has been impeded, and the parts of the
rock have been readjusted. I found in the great quarry at North
Malvern a good example of this head, on the line of the fault which
there cuts off the Syenite, and cuts through these very Permians.
Following the principal fault lines in this quarry, which are very
conspicuous, we remark the universal scraping of the highly inclined
surfaces in lines parallel to the movement, and observe the crush-
    * Considerations of this kind arc familiar to the readers of the works of
Sir Charles Lyell.

 392                     Professor J. Phillips,          [March 13,
 ings of the feeble parts, and the flutings and "striations of the
 harder masses—a phenomenon also exhibited in the new railway
 tunnel in many examples.
     The great fault to which attention has, thus been called, as the
 last great line of movement traceable in the Malvern district,
 appears to have affected the strata before the Hesozoic age began
 —there is no trace of new red deposits on the west of it. There
 are, however, reasons for thinking that movements on the line of it
 were continued into the period of these deposits. This has lately
 been put in strong evidence by the progress of the railway tunnel
 between Great Malvern and Malvern Wells. Here the line of the
 fault has been crossed, and found to be (as indeed it also appears
 to be at North Malvern) complicated by many fissures, and much
 movement among the displaced masses of hard rock on which
 " slickensides " abound ; the triassic beds being reared against it
 as much as 30° and 40°, a greater angle than my observations in
 1842-4 led me to expect, but leading to the same conclusion : viz.,
that the last great movement on the line of fracture extending from
the district of Tortworth, by Mayhill, Malvern, and Abberley, was
not completed till the Mesozoic ages had begun. Thus, then,
finally, the section across the Malvern Hills Jshows movements
having the \ characters sketched in the diagram C, in which it may
be remarked that the folds of the strata seen on the west of the
Malvern, are broad and gentle at a distance from the hills, but
sharper and steeper, and even reversed in dip, near to the syenite.
This is a local example of a general truth, some time since specially
indicated along the Alleghanies, by Professor Rogers. The curva
ture of the beds in the Malvern district is so great, that the
horizontal extent now occupied by them is less by one-fourth or
one-third of a mile than the extent measured along the curvature—
an indication that in these foldings of the strata much lateral com
pression has occurred. If we suppose a limited basin in which the
strata have descended by continual depressions one, two, or more
miles, to be again elevated, a compression of the strata in the pro
portion of the arc to the chord must be the result—lateral pressure
as an effect of vertical movement—foldings to adjust the length of

 1857.]                    on the Mahern Hillt.                      393
the arc to the length of the chord—these being more violent
towards the sides of the basin. Thus, in the central part of the
great basin of South Wales, the folds are few and very broad ;
but on the north the Vale of Towy, and on the south the Cliffs of
North Devon, are traversed by many very steep and complicated
undulations of the strata, which seem to be axes of violent move
ment, and yet are, perhaps, really the result of gradual lateral
thrusts occasioned by vertical movements on parallel lines at some
distance—movements which it is the business of a general theory
to explain.
    The phenomena of the succession of life in the Malvern district
were also treated of in this discourse, and illustrated by diagrams
representing the increase of variety of specific and generic forms
(not of the number of individuals), in different geological ages ; the
summary being to the effect that a curve of life may be drawn for
the north temperate zone, the ordinates of which are reciprocals of
the abscissae, or in other words, the variety of the forms of life,
beginning from zero in the hypozoic strata augments with the lapse
of time, toward the most recent strata. The curve has, however,
several points of contrary flexure, the most remarkable being two,
viz., first, at the close of the Palaeozoic period ; and secondly, at the
close of the Mesozoic series ; at which times also occurred very
great and general changes of physical geography, accompanied, no
doubt, by the drying of some oceanic basins, and the extinction of
their peculiar forms of life, and the opening of others to seas in
which new races had begun to take their place in the diversified
system of nature.
                                                               [J. P.]

394                         Mr. J. W. Brett,                  [March 20,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 20.
   His GRACE THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S.
                      President R.I. in the Chair.*
                  JOHN WATKINS BRETT, Esq. M.R.I.
                      On the Submarine Telegraph.
1 PURPOSE this 'evening to give you a brief sketch of the part I
have taken in the promotion of submarine telegraphs, and shall
strictly confine myself to a narrative of this enterprise, and some
of the difficulties I have had to encounter at different stages of
their progress.
      It has been stated by some that I had sought, or attempted
to appropriate to myself, the honour of the invention, of the sub
marine telegraph. I will here state, that my first idea of sub
marine telegraphs arose out of a conversation with my brother early
in 1845, when discussing the system of electric telegraphs, as then
recently established between London and Slough ; and, in consider
ing the practicability of an entire underground communication, the
question arose between us, "If possible underground, why not under
water ? " and " Ifunder water, why not along the bed of the ocean ? "
The . possibility of a submarine telegraph then seized upon my
mind with a positive conviction ; and I was ignorant until three or
four years since that a line across the Channel had been previously
projected by that talented philosopher, Professor "WTieatstone,f (who,
it will be remembered, with Mr. Cooke, first introduced the electric
telegraph into this country,) and also of the experiments by fric-
tional electricity during the last century, to send a current across
rivers.
      It is now nearly twelve years since (June 1845) my brother and
I entered, in our joint names, at the Government Registration
Office, a project for uniting America with Europe, by the very
route now adopted ; and in July of the same year submitted to the
Government a proposition for uniting our Colonies with Great
Britain, offering to Sir Geo. Cockburn, First Lord of the Admiralty,
(to whom I had been referred by Sir Robert Peel,) as a first
    * H.R.H. The Prince of Wales was present
     t The original plans of Professor Wheatsone's project of a Sub-marine
Electric Telegraph between Dover and Calais, drawn in 1840, were exhibited
 in the Library.

1857.]                on the Submarine Telegraph.                  395
experiment to place Dublin Castle in instantaneous communica
tion with Downing Street, provided £20,000 was advanced by
the State towards the expense. This offer not being accepted, I
turned my attention to the Continent, which I visited, and spent
large sums of money in endeavouring to promote the electric
telegraph in France, Prussia, and other Continental States. In
1847, I succeeded in obtaining permission from Louis Philippe
to unite England with France by a submarine line, but failed to
obtain the attention of the public, it being considered too hazardous
for their support.
    When the course of events placed Louis Napoleon at the head
of the French nation, I brought the subject under his notice,
soliciting such protection as I thought would induce the public to
support the undertaking, and received an encouraging reply ;
nevertheless, £2000 only was subscribed for the first experiment.
    The first attempt to connect England and France by a sub
marine telegraph was made in 1850, with a copper wire inclosed
in gutta-percha, a material which opportunely came to our aid
about that time. About 27 miles of this wire were conveyed on
board the Goliath steam-tug, and wound round a large iron
cylinder or drum to facilitate the paying it out, and the vessel
started from Dover, exciting little or no curiosity at the time. The
end of the wire attached to land was carried into a horse-box at the
South-Eastern Railway Terminus, and we commenced paying out
the wire, pieces of lead being fastened to it at intervals to facilitate
the sinking. Electric communication from the vessel to the shore
being kept up hourly, during its progress, the only drawback was a
fear lest this frail experimental thread should snap, and involve the
undertaking in ridicule. The trial was, however, successful ; and
the Times of the day justly remarked, " the jest of yesterday has
become the fact of to-day."
    The place chosen on the French coast for landing the wire was
Cape Grinez, under a cliff among rocks ; being purposely selected,
because it afforded no anchorage to vessels, and was difficult of
approach.
    My station at the Dover Railway afforded an elevated position,
from whence, by the aid of a glass, I was able to distinguish the
light-house and cliff at Cape Grinez. A declining sun enabled
me to discern the moving shadow of the steamer's smoke on
the white cliffs, thus indicating her progress. At length the shadow
ceased to move. The vessel had evidently come to an anchor.
We gave them half an hour to convey the end of the wire to shore,
and attach the printing instrument ; and then I sent the first electric
message across the Channel—this was reserved for Louis Napoleon.
I was afterwards informed that some French soldiers who saw the
slip of printed paper running from the little telegraph instrument,
bearing a message from England, enquired, " how it could possibly
have crossed the Channel ?" and when it was explained that it was

396                       Mr. J. W. Brett,                    [March 20,
the electricity which passed along the wire, and performed the print
ing operation, they were still incredulous. After several other
communications, the words " All well," and " Good night," were
printed,* and closed the evening.
    In attempting to resume communication early next morning, no
response could be obtained ; and it soon became evident that the
insulation was destroyed, either by a leakage of the electric current,
or by its having snapped asunder.
    It was conjectured, by the indications of the galvanometer, that
it had parted near the French coast, which fact was ascertained on
the return of our steamer, when we fished up the end.
    Knowing the incredulity expressed as to the success of the
enterprise, and that it was important to establish the fact that tele
graphic communication had taken place, I that night sent a trust
worthy person to Cape Grinez, to procure the attestation of all who
had witnessed the receipt of the messages there ; and the document
was signed by some ten persons, including an engineer of the
French Government, who was present to watch the proceedings ;
this was forwarded to the Emperor of the French, and a year of
grace for another trial was granted.
     Thus encouraged, and aided by the support of friends, including
the late Lord De Mauley, who ever rendered the most willing co
operation to the enterprise, a more permanent cable was submerged
in September 1851, between the South Foreland and Sangate on
the French coast; and the line oftelegraphic communication between
England and France, now exerting so great an influence on the
interests of those countries, was established.
    In May 1853, the Dover and Ostend line was laid down. This
commenced at the South Foreland, and terminated at Middle Kirk,
about five miles from Ostend. Its length was about 70 miles.
Captain Washington, R.N., and Captain Smithett, rendered im
portant service to this operation by directing our route. Up to this
time the depths encountered had been, comparatively speaking,
trifling, the British Channel nowhere exceeding thirty fathoms.
 My next trial was in .the unknown depths of the Mediterranean.
 The same year concessions were granted to me by the French and
 Sardinian Governments, to unite the Islands of Corsica, Sardinia,
 and the colony of Algeria, with their respective capitals.
     The cables were manufactured at Greenwich, and sent out in
 the steamer Persian, in July 1854. On arriving at Genoa, I
 found that the Sardinian government had placed three vessels of
 war at my disposal ; and we set sail at ten at night, for the harbour
 of Spezzia, the place selected for making fast the cable ; H.R.H.
 Prince Cariginan, several ministers, and the Ambassadors of Eng
 land and France, accompanying us.
            * These communications were printed in Roman type.

1857.J              on the Submarine Telegraph.                    397
     The spot I had chosen, by accident, was a cliff under a building
once occupied by the immortal Dante, and wherein he composed a
portion of the Inferno. Here the end of the cable was attached
amid a salute of 60 guns, a scene in striking contrast to our solitary
proceedings at Dover, when the first cord that ever carried instan
taneous intelligence from Continent to Continent was submerged.
     Captain Marquis Ricci, a Sardinian naval officer of reputed
skill, was on board, and advised us not to venture across the Medi
terranean in a direct line, where we should have to encounter un
known soundings, but to make a curve of some miles by the Islands
of Gorgonia and Capraia, where the depth would be little more than
100 fathoms. I replied, as greater depths would have to be en
countered between Sardinia and Africa, it was better at once to
prove the risk ; and, accordingly, we proceeded in a direct line,
accompanied by the frigate Malfatano, commanded by the Marquis
Boyle, who rendered us valuable service, by directing our route,
and by taking soundings as we progressed.
     The cable was laid in coils in the hold of the vessel, and before
paying out was passed four or five times round two large iron drums,
running out over an iron saddle on the stern of the vessel to the
water, the pressure at this point in deep water being very great.
For 14 miles all went on steadily : the pressure now caused some
of the wires of the outer covering to break from tension, and on
entering the great depths, one of those sudden flights of the cable
occurred, which has taken place once on each subsequent occasion
between Sardinia and Africa ; every means were employed to stop
it, and after a few minutes its progress was arrested, and it was
 brought up by a dead stop, when it was found that the insulation
was destroyed in a portion that had passed into the sea, during this
violent flight. Our only chance now was to recover from the sea
the injured portion, cut it out, and make a fresh join,—a difficult
and tedious operation, which occupied upwards of 30 hours, the
 strain upon the cable being excessive, in consequence of the great
 depth, 230 fathoms. When the injured portion came up, it was
 found that the violent twist of the outer wire had cut into the gutta
 percha wire of the inner core, and exposed it to the fatal action of
 the water, which carried off' the current. Ilaving repaired the
 injury, an electric current was sent to Spezzia ; and the soundness
 of the six conducting wires to land proving correct, we proceeded.
 On nearing the coast of Corsica in the evening a fire and flag on
shore indicated the spot where the cable was to be made fast. The
vessel anchored about a mile from the coast, and the remaining
portion of the cable was conveyed ashore in boats. This done, an
electric communication was instantly dispatched through the cable
to Par'.s and Turin, announcing to the French and Sardinian
Governments the telegraphic union of Corsica with France and
Piedmont.
     \Ve then sailed for the Straits of Bonifaccio, and the submerging

 398                         Mr. J. W. Brett,              [March 20,
of the submarine cable between Corsica and Sardinia was success
fully accomplished a few days afterwards ; also the completion of
the land lines, in the aggregate about 500 miles in length, through
the two islands, uniting the different towns. The possibility of
establishing a line of telegraph through these wild and lawless
districts had previously been questioned, a guard of horse being
thought necessary to protect it from injury : but the result proved
that the public in all parts of the world may be trusted ; and it is re
markable that only one instance of wilful injury has ever occurred
throughout these islands ; and the line has been in daily use since
April 1855, and the French and Sardinian Governments have
forwarded several thousand messages annually through it.
    The submarine cable for connecting Sardinia with Algeria was
made the same year. It was 150 miles in length, and weighed
1200 tons, and, allowing for coals, required a steamer of 2000 tons
to carry it. Being unable to procure a steamer of that size in this
country, in consequence of the war with Russia, I applied to the
Emperor of the French for one, and at the same time expressed a
wish that the portion of the Mediterranean I was about to cross
should be sounded. I was directed to call upon the Minister of
Marine, the Emperor adding that he would speak to him on the
subject. On seeing the Minister, however, and naming the size of
the steamer required, I was informed that the Government had not
a vessel of this size at their disposal. But the soundings were made,
and the result proved depths of 3000 metres, or nearly two miles,
being from fifty to sixty times the depth of the English Channel.
     The impossibility of obtaining a vessel of the required size con
tinuing, and my friends becoming impatient of delay, I engaged,
the following year, the Result, a large sailing vessel, and two of
the best steamers I could procure to tow her, and operations were
commenced from Cagliari, in September 1 855. We encountered, on
entering the great depths, one of those alarming flights of the cable
which occurred in the previous year. In this instance about two
miles, weighing sixteen tons, flew out with the greatest violence in
four or five minutes, flying round even when the drums were
brought to a dead stop, creating the utmost alarm for the safety of
the men in the hold, and for the vessel. It was brought up by its
encircling a large timber in the hold. Our means on board proved
ineffectual to raise it, and the capstan broke by its weight, and
rough weather coming on the vessel became unmanageable, and
lost her course ; there was therefore no alternative but to sever it
from the injured portion in the sea, and it being evident that a
sailing vessel would not do, I resolved to cut the cable and save the
eighty-six miles for another attempt.
     I had another and longer cable manufactured for the ensuing
year, and finding opinions strong against taking the deeper direct
line, it was resolved to carry it east of Galita, making a detour
round the island, and thence to La Calle on the African coast.

 ] 857.]            on the Submarine Telegraph.                   399
     \Ve started from Cape Spartivento on the 6th of August, 1856,
and all went on most favourably for about 60 miles, our speed
being 2^ nautical miles an hour, a considerable velocity for a cable,
which, be it understood, has to be handed up by men below decks.
 At the repeated wish of the French authorities on board, who
 had been appointed by the French Government to direct our course,
 it was decided that our steamer should be towed ; this I believe to
 have been a mistake, though, not being a sailor, I am perhaps not
qualified to give an opinion upon the subject.
     My attention on board was chiefly directed to the arrangement
 of the machinery, and the speed of paying out the cable, and
regulating its progress by the log, a duty requiring unremitting
attention. When we .had successfully accomplished this 60 miles,
one of those sudden and alarming flights of the cable occurred,
similar to the one which had happened once in each former year.
Fortunately it was arrested without difficulty in less than three or
four minutes, but it was discovered that, in arresting it, the insula
tion of a portion which had run out some miles in the sea had been
injured. The manner I proposed to the French commander to
recover the injured portion of the cable was to sever it, and attach
the sound end on board to his steamer, and by his endeavouring to
maintain a fixed position while we steamed under it at half power
until we came to the injured part, to repair it ; but this was aban
doned, as he was of opinion that his vessel, being of less power than
ours, would only be dragged after us. I determined therefore to
sever the cable, return to Sardinia, and raise it from that end. We
proceeded to the island accordingly, and when near the shore fished
up the cable, which was clearly discernible in the blue waters at a
depth of ten fathoms, severed it, and passed one end fore and the
other aft, giving each of them a turn round the drums, and then
joined them over the deck of the vessel, and erected another wheel
at the bows. This done, we steered forward under the cable, raising
it from the depths forward and letting it back over the stern. This
plan answered perfectly, and we recovered 18 miles from the sea,
which it was calculated, with the 126 miles* on board, would be
more than enough to reach Galita. When these 18 miles had been
recovered, they were spliced on to the coil on board, then passed five
times round each drum ; and we lay to for the night.
     On the morrow, at the suggestion of the French authorities, it
 was arranged that the speed should never be less than three
nautical miles per hour ; and this speed never was slackened, even
when the log gave an increase to nearly 4 miles, during the whole
time of the paying out of the 126 miles of cables, except on one
occasion when the drums caught fire for a few minutes. With this
exception it was all payed out with the most perfect success.
                               Statute miles.

400                          Mr. J. W. Brett,                [March 20,
    I placed three tried and brave men at the breaks, and had the
result of the log placed before them every quarter of an hour,
timing the revolution of delivery of the cable over the drums by a
minute watch. These experienced hands nobly did their duty,
and we never left our post by day or night.- It was an anxious
moment when at nightfall we were about to enter depths of 1GOO
fathoms, which exceeded by four times those thought to be practi
cable ;* we had also during this part of the operation to change
the continuation of the cable from the fore hold to that of the
midships, or upper hold, and also to remove the mid deck, to enable
the coil to come up from the lower deck, operations involving labour
and great risk ; yet we dared not stop, being warned that a per
pendicular strain on the cable in great depths would be fatal.
    In the morning Galita appeared in sight ; onward we went, but
did not appear to near it ; an observation of the sun at the meridian
proved that we were out of our course. We signalled to the
commander of the French towing vessel, and gave our observation,
which proved to be correct. The French commander attributed
the deviation from his course to the currents, which he stated in his
report took him 20 miles out of his course.
    The distance to land now, according to our reckoning, was 12
or 13 nautical miles, whereas the length of telegraph cable remaining
on board was only 12 statute miles. A consultation was therefore
held with the French commander ; and it was determined, that as it
was impossible to reach land with the cable, and as we were in great
depths to the west of our line of soundings, we should at once steer
due east, to endeavour to recover the line of soundings and buoy
the end of the cable in shallow water. I encouraged the exhausted
men at the breaks, urging them not to give an inch more line than
was necessary, that we might, if possible, reach shallow water. At
length we came to the last mile, without a chance of reaching a
shallow part. It now became necessary to prepare for eventualities,
and it was decided we must endeavour to hold our position, in depths
of 400 to 500 fathoms, for five or six days, while the Tartare went
to Algiers for a barge or lighter, whereon to secure the end of the
cable. We secured the cable along the side of the vessel with
hempen fastenings, as a precaution against snapping, or being injured
by friction, and restored the interior supports, removed from the
vessel to allow the exit of the cable, as we were now left alone to
the risk of rough weather. This, unfortunately, was not long in
coming.
    Two vessels only passed us during the six days. The first was
a Newcastle collier, which we hailed, and as the master seemed
indisposed to come to us, our captain put off to him in a heavy sea,
and enquiring his destination, offered to send a telegraphic message
   * Four hundred fathoms having been said, by experienced engineers, to be
the greatest depth practicable.

1857.]              on the Submarine Telegraph.                  401
to his owners in England ; to which the master replied by an incre
dulous grunt, remarking, " You haven't got a railway terminus
on board." The other vessel gave us a friendly hail, enquiring
our object in staying in such unfrequented waters, and the sight of
a parasol on board cheered us with signs of civilisation. But to re
turn to the cable. The storm continued, and on the third and
fourth day the vessel plunged violently, causing great alarm for the
safety of the cable ; nevertheless, on the morrow, the fifth day
we had hung on in hope, we received a telegraphic message from
London via Paris, announcing the rapid progress of the additional
length required, ordered by us through the telegraph four days pre
viously. I was on the point of replying, when a sudden and violent
 plunge of the vessel caused me to exclaim, " It is gone ;" and on
trying the instrument, it proved there was no communication. We
at once commenced hauling in the cable, and after some hours up
came the end, broken, apparently by friction on the rocks at the
bottom, about 502 fathoms in length from the vessel
     I must now briefly say a few words upon the Atlantic telegraph,
 and the great depths of the ocean. This subject would alone occupy
 an evening. I shall therefore only allude to a few general points
 in connection with it.
    The great depths of the Atlantic have until within these very few
 years remained unknown. It has been stated that Sir John Ross
 sounded in the Pacific with a line of 10,000 fathoms, or about 1 1
 miles, without touching bottom. Scientific men had also come to a
 conclusion that the greatest depths of the ocean did not exceed
 eight or nine miles, and the uncertainty as respects all .former
 attempts at deep sea soundings, appears to have been very great,
 and in some cases it was supposed to be fathomless, eleven miles of
 wire having been cast out without touching bottom. At last it
 was proved that by a common twine thread, for a sounding line,
 and a cannon ball of 60 lbs. weight, for a sinker, attached, the
 line being allowed to run from the reel as fast as the ball would
 take it, (care being had to pay it out from a boat, which could be
 kept stationary to maintain the line as perpendicular as possible,)
 correct soundings could be obtained.
      The essential point was to time each hundred fathom as it ran
 out ; and by always using a line of the same size and a sinker of the
 same weight and shape, a law of descent was established by the
 time of descent, as it was found that 2 minutes and 21 seconds
 became the average descent from 400 to 500 fathoms, and
                3 min. 26 sees. 1000 to 1 100 fathoms
                4 „ 29 „ 1800 to 1900 „
  By this decreased ratio of descent it could be ascertained the
 moment the line touched the bottom, for when this took place the
  currents would sweep the line out, at a uniform rate, whereas the
     VOL. II.                                               2F

 402         Mr. Brett, on the Submarine Telegraph.       [March 20,
 cannon ball, while it continued to descend, would drag it out at
 a decreasing rate.
      A contrivance was also made by which the ball would detach
 itself, quills being inserted at the end which passed through the
 hollow of the ball. Specimens of the bottom were thus brought up
 by the quills, on the ball striking the bottom, which proved to con
 sist of the most minute microscopic shells.
      The greatest depths which have been reached by these means
 in the North Atlantic Ocean have been 25,000 feet.
      It was some two years since, when Mr. Faraday was explaining
 the subject of induction, that a fact was named to him of a current
 being obtained from a length of 300 miles of gutta-percha covered
 wire half an hour after contact with the battery. I remember
 speaking to him on the subject, and enquiring if he did not believe
this difficulty was to be overcome, and I received from him every
encouragement to hope it might ; but it at once became necessary
that this point should be cleared up, or it would be folly to pursue
the subject of the union of America with this country by electricity.
I at once earnestly urged on Mr. Whitehouse to take up this sub
ject, and pursue it independently of every other experiment, and a
successful result was at last arrived at on 1000 miles and upwards
of a continuous line in the submarine wires in the several cables,
when lying in the docks. It did not rest upon one but many
thousand experiments ; it was further proved on 2000 miles of sub
terranean wire in the presence of Professor Morse, while in this
country, and beats from 230 to 270 per minute were recorded, or
equal to twelve to fifteen words per minute.
     In the Atlantic cable the copper or conducting wire is com
posed of seven twisted wires formed into one, thus avoiding the
danger of a flaw, which any single wire might be subject to ;
three separate coats of gutta-percha are then laid one over the
other, the wire being thus perfectly insulated. This gutta-percha
core passes and repasses in the course of its manufacture no less
a length than 40,000 miles. The outer iron wires, of which there
are 126 to each mile, are twisted into strands each containing seven
wires, making an aggregate of 315,000 miles to the 2500 miles of
cable. The construction of the cable is under the control of Messrs.
Bright and Whitehouse.
     The ultimate union of America with Europe by electricity may
now be considered a certainty. Providence has placed this object
within our reach ; there are no practical impossibilities in the way
of its accomplishment ; and those united with us in the undertaking
do not regard the means required in comparison to the good to be
accomplished.
                                                       [J. W. B.]

 1857.]           Mr. Warington, on the Aquarium.                  403
     MB. FARADAY occupied a few minutes at the commencement of
the evening in giving a brief account of Mr. C. V. Walker's mode
of telegraphing electrically from one station on a railway to the
 next on either side ; or from a break-down on the rail to either of
 these stations. Signal bells are arranged at such stations, each
 with its own battery ; and the latter, being connected with the
earth at one of their ends, are connected together at the other ends
through the bells and the telegraph line ; but so that the batteries
are opposed to each other as to the currents they can produce :
hence there are no currents, and the bells do not ring. But when
 the wire between the bells is connected with the rail or the earth,
 then both batteries can send forth their currents and both bells are
 rung. This necessary earth connexion can be made at one station,
and then the bell rings at the next. If a break-down occurs, the
guard connects the telegraph wire where he is with the rail or
earth, and the stations on both sides of the accident are warned.
Provision is made at some of the line posts, about a furlong apart,
where the man, by touching a key, can at once give the notice
required. The method was illustrated by experiments with the
bells and wire arranged by Mr. liichard'Knight.
    Mr. Gassiot's great induction coil was also exhibited and
referred to by Mr. Faraday, who described its particular points as
to insulation, &c., and showed some of its fine results.
                                                            [M. P.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 27.
    THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                             in the Chair.
                     ROBERT WARINGTON, ESQ.
                          On the Aquarium.
THE speaker opened the evening's demonstration, by stating that he
had immediately responded to the invitation of the Managers of
the Royal Institution to deliver this discourse, on what they had been
pleased to call his " own subject," from the feeling, that as the
originator of the aquarium, he was in duty bound to afford, to all
those who had taken up this " new pleasure," every assistance, from
the results of his own experience, that lay in his power, in order to
render the undertaking more easy and pleasurable ; and for this
                                                          2F2

 404                       Mr. S. Warington,                     [March 27,
 purpose, he proposed to lay before his audience, as far as was prac
ticable, a demonstration of the principles on which it was founded,
particularly as very erroneous ideas had been promulgated on the
 subject, and instructions given in several most engaging publica
 tions, which might tend materially to mislead and disappoint those
 inclined to recreate themselves with this interesting subject.
     History.—After a short sketch of the several discoveries in the
 various branches of science embraced in this subject :—as the expe
 riments of Lower, Thurston, Ilooke, and Mayow, on respiration
and animal heat ; the presence of air in water, and its necessity for
 supporting the life of fish, by the Hon. Robert Boyle ; the dis
 covery of fixed air, carbonic acid, by Dr. Black, and its production in
 respiration ; the experiments of Priestley, Ingenhousz, and Sennebier,
 on the action of submersed aquatic vegetation exposed to light,
in removing carbonic acid, and restoring oxygen to the air dissolved
in water,—all of which had been since substantiated by numerous
experimenters. A cursory review was then given of the common
employment of the ordinary fish globe, the cisterns, tanks, pans,
and tubs, with their fish and water plants, to be seen every day in
our conservatories and green-houses, and the glass cylinders, used by
almost every microscopist for preserving chara, nitella, vallisneria,
and other like plants in which the circulation of the sap was visible ;
 as also for propagating rotifers, stentors, and other microscopic
animalcules ; the consideration of which points brought the subject
up to modern times. Mr. Warington then proceeded to give an
account of his own experiments, and the reasons which had led to
their conimencemeut, namely, the statements made for a series of
years in our works on chemistry,* that growing vegetation would
counterbalance the vital functions of fish. To test the truth of this,
and its permanence,I a large twelve gallon receiver was filled
to about two-thirds its capacity with river water, and some clean
washed sand and gravel, with several large fragments of rockwork
placed in it, the latter so arranged as to afford shelter to the fish
from the sun's rays. A good healthy plant of vallisneria spiralis was
then transplanted, and as soon as it had recovered from this opera
tion a pair of gold fish were introduced. The materials being
thus arranged, all appeared to progress healthily for a short time,
until circumstances occurred which indicated that another and very
material agent was required to perfect the adjustment, and render
it at all permanent, and which at the commencement of the experi
ment had not been foreseen. The circumstances alluded to arose
from the natural decay of the leaves of the vallisneria, the increase
of which rendered the water turbid, and caused a rapid growth of
green confervoid mucus on the surface of the water, and upon the
    * Brande's Elements of Chemistry, 1821, and repeated up to the present
time.
    t Quarterly Journal of the Chemical Society, 1850. Vol. iii. p. 52.

 1857.]                    on the Aquarium.                         405
 sides of the receiver ; the fish also assumed a sickly appearance,
 and had this been allowed to progress they must have speedily
 perished. The removal of this decaying vegetation from the water
 as fast as it was formed, became, therefore, a point of paramount
 importance, and to effect this, recourse was had to a very useful
 little scavenger,—whose highly important and beneficial functions
throughout all Nature have been too much overlooked, and its indis
pensable uses in the economy of animal life not well understood,—the
water snail, whose natural food consists of decaying and confervoid
vegetation. Five or six of these little creatures, the limnea stagnalis,
were consequently introduced, and by their extraordinary voracity
 and continued and rapid locomotion, soon removed the cause of
 interference, and restored the whole to a healthy state.
      Thus then was established that wondrous and admirable balance
 between the animal and vegetable kingdoms, and by a link so mean
and insignificant as almost to have escaped observation in its most
 important functions. The principles which are here called into
 action are, that the water, holding atmospheric air in solution,
 is a healthy medium for the respiration of the fish, which thus
 converts the oxygen constituent into carbonic acid. The plant, by
 its vital functions, absorbs the carbonic acid, and appropriating
 and solidifying the carbon of the gaseous compound for the con
 struction of its proper tissues, eliminates the oxygen ready again
 to sustain the health of the fish. While the slimy snail, finding its
 proper nutriment in the decomposing vegetation and confervoid
 mucus, by its voracity, prevents their accumulation, and by its vital
 powers, converts that which would otherwise act as a poisonous
 agent into a rich and fruitful pabulum for the vegetable growth.
 Reasoning from analogy, it was evident that the same balance
 should be capable of being permanently maintained in sea water,
 and thus a vast and unexplored field for investigation opened to
 the research of the naturalist ; and this proved on trial to be the
case.
      Principles of the Aquarium: the Air contained dissolved
 in Water.—The ordinary atmospheric air is found to be composed
 of 79 volumes of nitrogen gas and 21 volumes of oxygen ; and
 water has the power of absorbing gaseous bodies in varying pro
 portions, thus: — 100 volumes of water, at a temperature of 60°
Fahr., and under ordinary barometric pressure, will absorb
                      1-56 volumes of nitrogen gas,
                     3-70      „      oxygen gas,
                   lOO'OO      „      carbonic acid gas,
and hence we find that the air absorbed by water, and existent in
rivers to the extent of from 2 to 3 per cent., consists of about 29 of
oxygen and 71 of nitrogen. In fresh fallen rain and melted snow,
it ranges from 30 to 35 per cent, of oxygen, and in some spring

406                        Mr. E. Waringlon,                 [March 27,
waters it has reached as high as 38 per cent. This oxygen, by the
process of respiration, is converted into carbonic acid gas, or
mephitic air, the choke damp of the coalpit, a gas highly poisonous
to animal life ; but here comes into play that beautiful and won
derful provision which, by the action of growing vegetation under
the influence of the sun's light, converts this baneful agent into
vital oxygen, the " breath of life."
      Water, fresh and marine.—The water used for the aquarium
should be clean, and taken direct from a river, or from a soft
spring, and should not have been purified by means of lime.
     As regards sea water, it should, if possible, be taken at a dis
tance from shore, and at the period of high water. If artificial sea
water is employed, it should be made either from the saline matter
obtained by the evaporation of sea water,* or by the following
formula :—
                 Sulphate of Magnesia . . 7* oz.
                       „       Lime .... -1 ,,
                 Chloride of Sodium . . . 43J „
                       „       Magnesium . . 6 „
                       „       Potassium . .        1J „
                 Bromide of Magnesium . . 21 grains.
                  Carbonate of Lime ... 21 „
  *' ~-'.
These quantities will make ten gallons. The specific gravity of
»ea water averages about 1*025 ; and when from evaporation it
reaches above this, a little rain or distilled should be added, to
restore it to the original density.
      Vegetation. —The plants best fitted for fresh water are the vallis-
neria spiralis, the myriophyllum, ceratophyllum, and the anacharis,
all of them submersed plants, a'nd fulfilling the purposes required
most admirably. From the great supply of food in the aquarium,
the growth of the vallisneria is very rapid, and it requires, there
fore, to be thinned by weeding ; this should never be done until
late in the spring, and on no account in the autumn, as it leaves
the tank with a weakened vegetation at the very time that its
healthy functions are most required.
      The vegetation of the ocean is of a totally different character
and composition, being very rich in nitrogenous constituents. There
are three distinct coloured growths,—the brown or olive, the green,
and the red. For the purposes of the aquarium, where shallow water
subjects are to be kept, the best variety is the green, as the ulvae,
the enteromorpha, vaucheriae, cladophora, &c. These should be in
a healthy state, and attached to rock or shingle when introduced.
     * This is prepared by Messrs. Brew and Schweitzer, of 71, East Street,
 Brighton.

 1857.]                     on the Aquarium.                        407
We shall have occasion to notice the rhodospenns under the head of
light.
     Scavengers.—A most important element in establishing and
maintaining the permanent balance between the animal and vege
table life ; without which no healthy functions can be secured, and
the aquarium must become a continued source of trouble, annoyance,
and expense. The mollusc which was first employed, the limnea
stagnalis, was found to be so voracious, as it increased in size, that
it had to be replaced by smaller varieties of limneae, by planorbis,
and other species of freshwater snail. The number of these should
be adjusted to the quantity of work they are required to perform.
In the marine aquarium, the common perriwinkle fulfils the required
duties most efficiently, and is generally pretty active in his move
ments. The varieties of trochus are also most admirable scaven
gers ; but it must be borne in mind that they are accustomed to
mild temperatures, and will not live long in a tank liable to much
exposure to cold. The nassa reticulata not only feeds on the
decaying matters exposed on the surface of the rockwork and
shingle, but burrows below the sand and pebbles with the long
proboscis erected in a vertical position, like the trunk of the
elephant, when crossing a river. But in the ocean there are
innumerable scavengers of a totally differing class, as the annelids,
chitons, starfish, nudibranch molluscs, &c. ; thus affording a most
beautiful provision for the removal of decaying animal matter, and
converting it into food for both fish and man.
     Light.—It is most probable that the greater amount of failures
 with the aquarium have arisen from the want of a proper adjust
ment of this most important agent ; the tendency being generally to
afford as much sun's light as possible ; but, on consideration, it will
be found that this is an erroneous impression. When the rays of
 light strike the glassy surface of the water, the greater part of them
are reflected, and those which permeate are refracted and twisted
in various directions by the currents of the water ; and where the
depth is considerable it would be few rays which would penetrate
to the bottom : but let the surface become ruffled by the passing
wind, and it is little light that can be transmitted ; and when this
same disturbing causes lashes into waves and foam, not a ray can
pass, and all below must be dark as night. Too much light should
therefore be avoided ; and the direct action of the sun prevented
by means of blinds, stipling, or the like. It is a great desideratum
to preserve the growth of the lovely red algae in all their natural
 beauty, and prevent their becoming covered with a parasitic growth
 of green or brown coloured plants ; this can be effected by modify
ing the light which illuminates the aquarium by the intervention of a
blue medium, either of stained glass, of tinted varnish, coloured
 blinds, &c. The tint should be that of the deep sea, a blue free
 from pink, and having a tendency rather to a green hue. This
 modified light affects also the health of those creatures which are

408             Mr. Warington, on the Aquarium.           [March 27,
confined to shallow waters, so that a selection of the inhabitants
must be made.
     Heat.—The proper control of this agent is also most material
to the well-being of these tanks, for experience has proved that an
increase or diminution of temperature beyond certain limits acts
most fatally on many of the creatures usually kept. These limits
appear to be from 45° to 75° Fahrenheit. The mean temperature
of the ocean is estimated to be about 56° ; and this does not vary
more than 12° throughout the varying seasons of the year, showing
the extreme limits to be from 44° to 68°. Great care should there
fore be taken to afford as much protection as possible, by the
arrangement of the rockwork, both from the sun's rays by day, and
the effects of radiation at night, as from the small volume of water
contained in the aquarium these effects are rapidly produced.
     Food. —As many persons, to whom those interested in these
matters have naturally looked for instruction, have decried the idea
of feeding, it will be necessary to offer a few remarks on that point.
How creatures, so voracious as most of the denizens of the water
are, both fresh and marine, are to thrive without food, is a question
it would be difficult to solve ; common sense would say they must
gradually decrease in size, and ultimately die from starvation.
The food employed should be in accordance with the habits of the
fish, &c. For the vegetable and mud feeders, vermicelli, crushed
small, with now and then a little animal food, as worms, small
shreds of meat, rasped boiled liver, and the like. For the marine
creatures, raw meat dried in the stm and moistened when used,
answers very well. Oyster, mussel, cockle, raw fish, shrimps, and
the like matters may be employed ; these should be cut or pulled into
very small pieces, and never more given than they can at once
appropriate ; and if rejected by one it should be transferred to
another, or removed from the tank. In the case of actinia, they
require, from their fixed position, that the food should be guided to
their tentacles ; and if the animal food, of whatever kind, is soaked
in a little water, and the water thus impregnated with animal fluids
be dropped in moderate quantity into the tank it will afford food for
the small entomostracha and smaller creatures with which the water
abounds, and which constitute the food for many of them.
     A few observations were also made on the construction of a
microscope for the purpose of employment in connection with the
aquarium, and the method in which such an instrument could be
used.
                                                           [R. W.]

1857.]           Rev. J. Barlow, on Woody Fibre.                        409
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 3.
   THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.B.S. President,
                             in the Chair.
    REV. J. BARLOW, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President & Sec. R.I.
 On some Modifications of Woody Fibre and their Application*.
AFTER all the soluble parts of a plant, its gum, its sugar, its ex
tractive matter, and its aromatic oil, as well as its starch and gluten,
have been separated, the residue is a substance to which the names
of " lignine," " cellulose," " sclerogen," have been given. Of this
substance vegetable fibre may be regarded as a natural modification.
Having adverted to this fact, Mr. Barlow noticed the distinctive
physical properties of fibre—its strength, its flexibility, its readiness
(though to a certain extent elastic) to take a permanent set or bend.
He adverted to an ingenious application which has been made of
these qualities, while the fibres yet remain part of the wood in
which they were formed. By powerful pressure, and the use of
metallic bands during the process to support the wood, Mr. Blan-
chard,* of New York, succeeded in giving permanent curvature to
beams and planks without injury to the fibre. The invention
received the first class medal at the Paris Exhibition of 1855, and
it is now adopted by the Timber-Bending Company. Specimens
of wood, thus bent,! were exhibited ; and it was shown that the fibres
evinced no tendency to straighten, unless exposed to the joint
influence of heat and moisture.
     But the principal subject of Mr. Barlow's discourse being the
Parchment-paper invented and patented by Mr. W. E. Gaine, C.E.,
and about to be introduced into commerce by Messrs. Thos. De la
Rue and Co., he confined his remarks principally to the physical
and chemical properties of vegetable fibre when converted into
paper. A sheet of unsized paper is the result of the same forces
which produce the sand flagstones which pave our streets—the forces
which cause particles, when brought together under water, to
    * Rapports du Jury International (de 1'Exposition dc Paris 1855), Vol. i.
p. 273.

410              Rev. J. Barlow, on some Modificationt            [April 3,
remain in close contact after the water has been withdrawn. This
was experimentally exhibited. It was also shown that, when the
vegetable fibres were long and strong (as those of the Daphne
papyraica, from which much of the Indian paper is made), the paper
possesses the requisite strength. In other cases the paper is
strengthened and rendered sufficiently impervious to fluids for all
requisite purposes, by being made to imbibe, during the process of
manufacture, vegetable or animal size. But all paper is liable
to be disintegrated by water, however strongly it may have been
sized.
     The chemical composition and properties of woody fibre were
then considered. The components of this substance are carbon,
hydrogen, and oxygen ; the last-named elements being combined in
the same proportion as they exist in water. In this respect, woody
fibre is identical with starch, dextrine, gum, and sugar. Unlike
these substances, it is insoluble whether in water, ether, alcohol, or
oil, and much more averse than they are to chemical change. Mr.
Barlow called attention to the enormous inconvenience which would
arise if water could dissolve cloth, or if vegetable tissues were
easily decomposed. It is, however, many years since Braconnot*
 discovered that sawdust, linen, and cotton fabrics, &c. could be
made to part with a portion of their constituent hydrogen in
exchange for an oxide of nitrogen obtained from the decomposition
of the nitric acid with which they were treated. Pelouzef after
wards applied this principle in operation on paper ; and to the same
principle must be ascribed the gun-cotton and collodion of Schon-
bein.J Taking what may be called the gun-paper (Pelouze's paper)
as a type of all these substances, Mr. Barlow showed by experiment
that it is inflammable and highly electrical, and that in consequence
of the substitution of a certain number of equivalents (varying from
five to three) of hyponitric acid (N04) for an equal proportion of
hydrogen, it becomes 50 per cent, heavier than the paper out of
which it was converted. Gun-cotton is soluble in ether and potash :
the latter solution has the property of reducing silver, in a bright
metallic mirror, from the nitrate of that metal.
     The surface-action of vegetable fibre in receiving dyes was
•then mentioned, in order to introduce some researches recently
made by M. Kuhlmann, Director of the Mint atLille.§ Led to the
investigation by the general notion that azotized substances, as
wool, silk, &c. are more susceptible of dyes than are vegetable
textures, M. Kuhlmann instituted a series of experiments on gun-
cotton, both woven and in the wool, by which he discovered that
    * Annales de Chimie, Vol. lii. p. 290. (1833.)
    t Comptes Rendus, tome xxiii. p. 809. (1846.)
    t Philosophical Magazine, Vol. x\\i. p. 7 (1847): and Athemeum lor
1847, p. 100.
    § Etudes sor la fixation des couleurs dans la Teintore ; Comptes Rendus,
tome A lii. p. 673. (1856.)

1857.]           of Woody Fibre and their Applicationt.                   411
cotton or flax, thus azotized, will not take dye ; but that if either by
spontaneous, or else by artificially-produced decomposition, the fibre
loses part of its nitrous principles, it then actually combines with
colours much more energetically than it did while in its natural
state. Specimens of the cloth, which M. Kuhlmann had experi
mented upon, and which that gentleman had sent for illustration
of this subject, were exhibited.
     Having reminded the audience that, in all these cases, a change
in chemical constitution accompanied the change in physical pro
perties, Mr. Barlow contrasted with the pyroxylised textures of
Kuhlmann and the gun paper of Pelouze, the woven fabrics sub
jected to Mercer's process, and the Parchment-paper, the inven
tion of Mr. Gaine. By acting on cloth with chloride of zinc, tin,
or calcium, with sulphuric and arsenic acid, and, especially, by the
caustic alkalis in the cold (the temperature sometimes being lowered
to — 10° Fahr.), Mr. Mercer has obtained many important effects
on the fineness and the general appearance of cloth, and its suscepti
bility of dye. This subject was brought before the Royal Institu
tion by Dr. Lyon Playfair, C.B.,* and it has since been closely
investigated by Dr. Gladstone.']' Mr. Mercer also experimented
on the effect of acids on paper. It being known that sulphuric acid,
under certain conditions, modified vegetable fibre, Mr. Gaine insti
tuted a course of experiments to ascertain the exact strength of
acid which would produce that effect on paper which he sought, as
well as the time during which the paper should be subjected to its
action. He succeeded in discovering, that when paper is exposed
to a mixture of two parts of concentrated sulphuric acid (s. g. 1 • 854,
or thereabouts) with one part of water, for no longer time than is
taken up in drawing it through the acid, it is immediately converted
 into a strong, tough, skin-like material. All traces of the sulphuric
acid must be instantly removed by careful washing in water. If
the strength of the acid much exceeds or falls short of these limits,
the paper is either charred, or else converted into dextrine. The
same conversion into dextrine also ensues, if the paper be allowed
to remain for many minutes in the sulphuric acid after the change
 in its texture has been effected.
      In a little more then than a second of time, a piece of porous and
 feeble unsized paper is thus converted into the Parchment-paper,
 a substance so strong, that a ring seven-eighths of an inch in width,
 and weighing no more than 23 grains, sustained 92 Ibs. ; a strip of
 parchment of the same dimensions supporting about 56 lbs. Though,
 like animal parchment, it absorbs water, water does not percolate
 through it. Though paper contracts in dimensions by this process
 of conversion into Parchment-paper, it receives no appreciable
 increase of weight, thus demonstrating that no sulphuric acid is
          * Proceedings of the Royal Institution, Vol. i. p. 134. (1852.)
          t Journal of the Chemical Society, Vol. v. p. 17. (1853.)

412                Rev. J. Barlow, on Woody Fibre.            [April 3,
either mechanically retained by it, or chemically combined with it.
It has also been ascertained by analysis, that no trace of sulphur
exists in the Parchment-paper. The fact of this paper retaining its
chemical identity, constitutes an important distinction between it
and the gun-papers of Pelouze and others. Unlike those substances,
it is neither an electric, nor more combustible than unconverted
paper of equal size and weight, nor soluble in ether or potash.
Unlike common paper, it is not disintegrated by water; unlike
common parchment, it is not decomposed by heat and moisture.
In this remarkable operation, the action of the sulphuric acid may
be classed among the phenomena ascribed to catalysis (or contact
action). It is, however, conceivable that this acid does, at first,
combine with the woody fibre, with or without the elimination of
oxygen and hydrogen, as water ; and that this compound is subse
quently decomposed by the action of water, in mass, during the
washing process, the sulphuric acid being again replaced by an
equivalent of water ; for, as has been before stated, the weight of
the paper remains the same before and after its conversion. Mr.
Warren De la Rue and Dr. Mullet are engaged in researches on
this subject, which will be hereafter published.
    Those who are interested in chemical inquiry, will recal many
instances of physical changes occurring in compound bodies, while
these bodies retain the same elements in the same relative weights.
The red iodide of mercury is readily converted, by heat, into its
yellow modification ; yet, by the mere act of being rubbed, it is
made to resume its former colour. Nothing is added to or taken
from this substance in the course of these changes. The inert and
permanent crystals of cyanuric acid are resolved by heat into cyanic
acid—a volatile liquid, characterised by its pungent and penetrating
odour, and so unstable that, soon after its preparation, it changes
into a substance (cyamelide) which is solid, amorphous, and de
stitute of all acid properties. These substances, as well as fulminic
acid, (which, however, is known in combination only,) contain
carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, and hydrogen, in the same relative pro
portion. But the closest analogy to the production of Parchment-
paper, scientifically considered, is perhaps, afforded by what is
called " the continuous process " in etherification. It will be re
membered that, in this process, sulphuric acid, at a temperature of
284° Fahr. converts an unlimited quantity of alcohol into ether and
water. In the first stage of this process, as explained by William
son, it would appear that the sulphuric acid combines with the ele
ments of ether to form sulphovinic acid ; and that, in the further
progress of the operation, this compound, by coming into contact
with a fresh equivalent of alcohol, is, in its turn, decomposed, and
resolved into ether and sulphuric acid. The ether distils over
together with the water resulting from the decomposition of the
alcohol : the sulphuric acid remains in the retort, ready to act on the
next portion. Here, as in the case of the Parchment-paper, the

1857.]                General Monthly Meeting. "                   413
sulphuiic add does not form a permanent constituent of the result
ing substance, though it takes so important a share in its pro
duction.
    The strength of this new substance, before alluded to, and its
indestructibility by water, indicate many uses to which it may be
applied. It will, probably, replace, to some extent, vellum in book
binding ; it will furnish material for legal documents, such as
policies of insurance, scrip certificates, &c. ; it will take the place
of ordinary paper in school-books, and other books exposed to con
stant wear. Paper, after having been printed either from the sur
face or in intaglio, is still capable of conversion, by Mr. Gaine's
method ; no part of the printed matter being obliterated by the
process. Parchment-paper also promises to be of value for pho
tographic purposes,* and also for artistic uses, in consequence of the
manner in which it bears both oil and water-colour.
                                                              [J.B.]
             GENERAL MONTHLY MEETINfe£ '
                           Monday, April 6.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
               John Alger, Esq.
               William Bowman, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.
               Francis H. Dickinson, Esq.
               Alexander Guthrie, Esq.
               Edmund Packe, Esq.
               Manuel Perez, Esq.
               Jose Maria Perez, Esq. and
               John Webb, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
               M. Henri Ste-Claire Deville, of Paris,
was unanimously elected an Honorary Member of the Royal
Institution.
                * Photographs on this paper were exhibited.

 414                    General Monthly Meeting.                   [April 6,
                  Edward Cotton, Esq.
                  Rev. Robert Everest.
                  Thomas Williams Helps, Esq.
                  Dr. Alphonse Normandy, and
                  Richard Henry S. Vyvyan, Esq.
 were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
      The special thanks of the Members were returned to WILLIAM
  RICHARD HAMILTON, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, formerly Treasurer R.I.
 for his munificent present of a copy of the great work of LEPSIUS,
  Denkmaler aus ^Egypten und JEthiopien.
      The Secretary announced that the following Arrangements had
 been made for the Lectures after Easter : —
      Eight Lectures on ITALIAN LITERATURE, by JAMES PHILIP
 LACAITA, Esq. LL.D.
      Eight Lectures on SOUND, AND SOME ASSOCIATED PHENOMENA,
 by JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. F.R.S. Professor of Natural Philosophy,
 R.I.
     Seven Lectures on the RELATIONS OF CHEMISTRY TO GRAPHIC
 AND PLASTIC ART, by E. FRANKLAND, F.R.S. Professor of
 Chemistry in Owen's College, Manchester.
     The PRESENTS received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same.
   FROM—
 Actuaries, Institute of— Assurance Magazine, No. 27. 8vo. 1857. '
 Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 259. 8vo. 1855.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XVII. No. 4. 8vo. 1857.
 Barlow, Rep. John, M.A. FJt.S. V.P. and Sec. R.I, (the Author)—Christian
      Restraint and Chris! inn Love: Two Sermons preached at Kensington
      Palace Chapel. 8vo. 1857.
 Sett, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for March 1857. 8vo.
 Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for March 1857. 4to.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in March 1857. 4to.
 Daguin, M. P. A. (the Author)—Traite de Physique. 2 vols. 8vo. Paris,
      1855-7.
 East India Company, the Hon.—Astronomical Observations at Madras. 1843-52.
      2 vols. 4to.
   Meteorological Observations at Madras. 1822-43. fol. 1844.
   Mars and Saturn, as seen at Madras with an Equatoreal (March 1854, and
      Nov. 1852). Plates.
 Editors—The Medical Circular for March 1857. Sto.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for March 1857. 4to.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting for March 1857. 4to.
   The Mechanic's Magazme for March 1857. 8vo.
. The Athenaeum for March 1857. 4to.
   The Engineer for March 1857. fol.
   The Artisan for Jan.-March 1857. 4to.

1857.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                       415
Civil Engineers, Institution of—Reports, March 1857. 8vo.
Everest, Rev. R. A.M. MM. I. (the A uthor)—Statistical Details respecting the
     Republic of Labeck. 8vo. 1857.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.I,. F.R.S. frc.—Konigliche Preussischen Akademie.
     De'nkschriften 1855. 4to. Berichte, Dec. 1856.
   Rapports da Jury Mixte International. (Exposition Universelle de Paris,
     1855.) 2vols. 4to. 1856.
Forbes, Sir John, M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Author)—Of Nature and
     Art in the Cure of Disease. 12mo. 1857.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIII. No. 2. 8vo. 1856.
Geological Society—Journal, No. 49. 8vo. 1856.
Graham, George, Esq. (Kegistrar-General)—Report of the Registrar-General
     for March 1857. 8vo.
Hamilton, William R. Esq. F.R.S. F.S.A. M.R.I.—Denkmaler aus .Xgypten
     und TEthiopien, von R. Lepsius. 11 vols. fol. Berlin, 1848-56.
Hutcli>ti, Mn.—Views and Ground-Plans of Lambeth Palace in 1828 and in
     1830.
Lankester, Edwin, M.D. F.K.S. M.R.J. (the Author)—First Annual Report
     of the Medical Officer of Health of St. James's Westminster. 8vo. 1857.
   Report on the Cholera Outbreak in St. James's Westminster, in 1854. 8vo.
     1855.
Lewin, Malcolm, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Government of the East
     India Company, and its Monopolies. Hvo. 1857.
   A Gazetteer of India. By E. Thornton. 8vo. 1857.
Middleton, Mr.—Economical Causes of Slavery in the United States, and Ob
     stacles to Abolition, by a South Carolinian. 8vo. 1857.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal ("New Series), March 1857. 8vo.
Norton, James, Esq. Sen. (the Author}—Australian Essays on subjects Political,
     Moral and Religious. 4 to. 1857.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for March 1857. 4to.
Phillips, Charles, Esq. A.B. (the Author)—Vacation Thoughts on Capital
     Punishments. 8vo. 1857.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 52. 8vo. 1856.
Koyal Scottish Society of Arts—Transactions, Vol. 4. 8vo. 1852-5.
Sachsische Gcsellschaft, Konigliche—Abhandlungen. Band III. and V. (Parts).
     4to. 1856-7.
Society of Arts—Journal for March 1857. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. 20. Part 1. 8vo. 1857.
   First Report of the Committee on Beneficent Institutions. 8vo. 1857.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S. M.R.I.— Addison's Remarks on Italy. 16mo. 1718.
 Webster, John, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Reports on Bethlemand Bridewell Hos
     pitals, Sec. for 1856. 8vo. 1857.
 Wheatstone, Professor, F.K.S.— Letters on the Stereoscope. 8vo. 1856.
 Vincent, B. Assist. Sec. R.I.—The Song of the Bell, and other Poems, trans
     lated from the German : by M. Montagu. 8vo. 1854.


       i&cmal Institution of CPreat Britain.
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 24.
  SIR BENJAMIN C. BRODIE, Bart., M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-
                         President, in the Chair.
                 PROFESSOR A. C. RAMSAY, F.R.S.
     On certain peculiarities of Climate during part of the
                            Permian Epoch.
THE subject was divided into two parts: 1st, The early geological
history of the Longmynd and the neighbouring Lower Silurian
rocks, between the Stiper Stones and Chirbury in Shropshire ;
and 2nd, The nature and glacial origin of the brecciated conglom
erates of Worcestershire and part of South Staffordshire, that lie
near the base of the Permian strata.
    The Longmynd consists of a high tract of barren ground in
Shropshire, formed of the Cambrian grits, conglomerates, and slates
that lie beneath the Lower Silurian strata. They attain a height
of about 1700 feet above the sea. The beds stand nearly on end,
and measured across the strike appear to be about 1 4,000 feet thick.
This appearance may, however, be deceptive, as it is possible they
may be doubled over in large contortions, the tops of the curves
having been removed by denudation. They have heretofore yielded
no fossils except a doubtful trilobite, and the marks of annelides
and fucoids. They are overlaid by an equal amount of Lower
Silurian strata between the Stiper Stones and Chirbury.* These
consist of Lingula flags, and Llandeilo slates and grits full of the
ordinary fossils of the period, and are associated with bosses of
eruptive greenstone and beds of felspathic trap and ashes. The
slates have often a peculiar porcelanic and ribboned character
imparted to them by the igneous rocks, and all the igneous phae-
nomena of the district are of Lower Silurian date.
    Certain strata, known as the Pentamerus beds or Upper
Llandovery and May Hill sandstones, lie at the base of the Wen-
lock shale, quite unconformably on the Cambrian and Lower Silurian
            * First described in the Silurian System.— Aftirchison.
   VOL. II.—(No. 26.)                                               2o

 418     Professor Ramsay, on Peculiarities of Climate      [April 24,
 rocks. These rocks contain a peculiar suite of fossils, among which
 Penlamerus oblongus is conspicuous. They are frequently highly
 calcareous and conglomeratic, and mixed with the fossils contain
 pebbles of green and purple grit and slate, derived from the waste
 of the Longmynd rocks, on the upturned edges of which they rest.
 These Pentamerus beds form an ancient consolidated beach that
 surrounded an island of Cambrian and Lower Silurian rocks, at
 the commencement of the Upper Silurian epoch. Outliers of this
 old beach lie on the flats and slopes at the Bogmine and elsewhere,
 near the summits of the Lower Silurian hills west of the Stiper
 Stones ; and it was shown that during the formation of the beach
 the island slowly sank and was gradually encased in Pentamerus
 beds, and these in their turn were buried beneath the Wenlock
 shale and Ludlow rocks, and probably also the old red sandstone.
 This part of the subject was illustrated by an account of the
 gradual submergence of the coral islands of the Pacific. The
 ancient island was thus not only submerged, but also shrouded
 beneath many thousand feet of newer strata. While the island
 stood high above the water the Pentamerus beach began to be
 formed, but as it slowly sank the beach crept inward and upward at
 least 800 feet, with a gentle slope, so that finally before complete
 submergence only the higher summits stood above the sea, sur
 rounded by a continuation of the beach. The higher prolongation
 of the beach was thus shown to be of later date than the parts
 formed round the earlier margin of the island, and the opposite
 ends of a continuous stratum may thus be of different ages. This
 was illustrated by the fossils that the Pentamerus beds of the
 Longmynd contain. In Wales the Pentamerus beds have been
 divided by Mr. Aveline, of the Geological Survey, into two sets,
the Lower and Upper Llandovery beds, each characterised by its
own group of fossils, or by peculiarities of grouping. It is the
upper part only that surrounds the Longmynd. At the foot of the
Longmynd and Lower Silurian hills the Pentamerus beds among
other fossils contain Penlamerus oblongus in great plenty, and also
P. lens. The first is scarce in the Lower Llandovery rocks, and
common in the Upper. With the second the reverse is usually the
case. It is found in the (geographically) lower part of the beach
above described, but in the higher geographical prolongation at the
Bogmine it does not occur. IStrophomena pecten is common to all
the Silurian rocks in and below the Wenlock strata, but it is espe
cially abundant in the Wenlock rocks, and is common in the Bogmine
outlier. Goniophora cymbeeormis is essentially an Upper Silurian
species. It is not found in the Upper Pentamerus beds of the
ordinary type, but occurs at the Bogmine, and ranges through the
Wenlock and Ludlow rocks up to the tilestone, close below the
base of the old red sandstone. The same is the case with Bellero-
phon trilobatus, also a Bogmine and tilestoue species. A trilobite
Phacops Downingia:, not known in the ordinary Pentamerus beds,

  1857.]                during the Permian Epoch.                    419
  occurs in the Bograine outlier, and low in the Wenlock or Denbigh
  shire grits.* Other instances of the same kind might be cited. An
  undescribed species of Pleurotomaria has been found at the Bog-
  mine, and nowhere else. These facts show that the assemblage of
 fossils in the inland and geographically higher part of the beach is
  more exclusively of an Upper Silurian type than the assemblage
 grouped in the geographically lower part of the same bed. Strali-
 graphically the bed was quite continuous, and yet its opposite ends are
 of somewhat different geological date. This point, though not
 essential to, is intimately connected with, the proofs of a period of
 cold during the deposition of the Permian conglomeratic breccias
  or Rothliegendes, seeing that some of these higher Silurian fossils
  are contained in the fragments that enter into their composition,
  and it is therefore particularly insisted on.
      How long the island of the Longmynd remained buried beneath
 several thousand feet of Upper Silurian rocks and old red sandstone
 is uncertain. It is, however, certain, that this covering was partly
 removed by denudation before the deposition of the upper coal
 measures, for in Shropshire, part of these rocks lie directly on the
 Cambrian strata, although Cambrian pebbles have not yet been
 detected in them. But in the Permian brecciated conglomerates
 of Worcestershire, many fragments, believed to be derived from
 the Longmynd and its neighbourhood, have been found. These
 breccias occur either themselves resting unconformably on the
 coal measures, or on older rocks, or else associated with Permian
 marles and sandstones that occupy like positions. These are found
 near Enville, at Wars Hill, and Stagbury Hill, where they lie on
 the coal measures ; at Woodbury, one of the Abberley Hills, where
 they rest on the Upper Silurian rocks ; on Barrow Hill, on the coal
 measures and old red sandstone ; at Howler's Heath, in the South
 Malvern region, on the Upper Silurian strata ; and on the Clent and
 Lickey Hills, Frankley Beeches, and at Norlhfield the Permian
 rocks below the breccia rest on the South Staffordshire coalfield.
 They also occur at Church Hill, 5i miles north-west of the Abber
 ley Hills, where «n outlier of breccia lies directly on the Coal mea
 sures of the Forest of Wyre. In all these places the brecciated
stones are bedded in a hardened red marly paste. The stones
which it contains are (with very rare exceptions) not formed from
the waste of the neighbouring rocks on which they lie, but of frag
ments, many of them identical in composition and character with
the Cambrian and Silurian beds of the Longmynd, and consist of
pieces of quartz rock, greenstone, felspatbic trap, felspathic ash,
black slate, jasper, grey and purple sandstone, green sandy slate,
ribboned altered slate, quartz conglomerate, and Pentamerus con
glomerate and limestone. These are mixed with other foreign frag
ments ; but those enumerated, always form by far the majority.
                   * Named on the authority of Mr. Salter.
                                                           2o2

420        'Piofessor Ramsay, on the Permian Epoch.         [April 24,
They are of all sizes up to 2$ and 3 feet in diameter. The majo
rity are small, like the stones of the Pleistocene drift. Their
forms are always angular and subangular, their sides usually
smoothed, and sometimes polished, and scratched in a manner
identical with some of the stones of the modern moraines of the
 Alps, or of the glacial drift of the Pleistocene period that spreads
 over the north of Europe and America. The manner in which the
blocks lie rudely bedded in the marly matrix also precisely cor
responds to many of the ice-drifted deposits of the Pleistocene
epoch. In England, judging from their outcrops, they now occupy
an area of at least 500 square miles, chiefly concealed by overlying
deposits. If lithological character be any guide, they have mostly
been derived from the conglomerates of green, grey, and purple
Cambrian grits of the Longmynd and from the Silurian quartz
rocks, slates, felstones, felspathic ashes, greenstones, and Penta-
merus beds between the Stiper stones and Chirbury. Neither the
Malvern nor the Abberley Hills, nor the South Staffordshire country,
nor any of the other districts where the breccias occur contain rocks
at the surface similar to those from whence the breccias have derived
their materials. It has been asserted that they may have been
formed from the waste of rocks concealed beneath the neighbouring
New red sandstone. This is, however, an improbable assumption,
and in the outlier of Church Hill, which is altogether surrourtded
by coal measures, the rocks are of the same far transported charac
ter as in other localities. If other patches were formed from rocks
concealed by the New red sandstone, this outlier, according to the
same reasoning, might be expected to be formed from the waste of
the surrounding coal measures, which is not the case. If then the
blocks of stone that form the breccias were derived from the Cam
brian and Silurian rocks of the Longmynd, it is of importance to
know how far they travelled. From the Longmynd region Church
Hill is from 25 to 30 miles distant ; Howler's Heath, at the south
end of the Malvern Hills, from 40 to 50 miles distant ; and the
places where they occur near the South Staffordshire coalfield, from
35 to 45 miles distant ; and it was shown that so nany angular and
subangular fragments, some of them 3 feet in diameter, and form
ing deposits in places 400 feet in thickness, could only have been
transported by floating ice. At Northfield especially, many angular
slabs of the Pentamerus beds of the Longmynd district were
found, some <jf them 2 feet across, containing fossils of the later age
of that deposit, and in the same Pentamerus rock, are enclosed frag
ments of the Cambrian green slates that were deposited in it when
it formed a Silurian beach, as explained at the beginning of the
lecture. In no other part of England have the Penttimerus beds
this character ; and the evidence is, therefore, in favour of the sup
position that they were transported from the Longmynd. As no
other agent that we know, except ice, transports so many large
angular blocks to a distance, it was shown that the same transport

1857.]                        Annual Meeting.                            421
ing agent must have been at work over large areas of Europe
during the deposition of the Rothliegendes of the Permian period ;
and if we admit this kind of evidence for the Pleistocene drift, it is
contended that the same kind of evidence of transportation from a
distance, size, angularity, smoothing and scratched surfaces, should
he admitted with regard to the stones and boulders of the Permian
breccias.*
     Proofs were also adduced to show that the internal heat of the
earth has exerted no important climatal influence during any of the
geological periods from Silurian times downwards ; and a diagram
exhibited illustrative of the analogies shown by the small develop
ment of molluscous life during the cold of the Permian and Plei
stocene epochs, the last of which, as far as its fossil shells are
concerned, may be considered but as a subdivision of the recent
l>eriod.t
                                                               [A. C. R.]
                         ANNUAL MEETING,
                                Friday, May 1.
 WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
     The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors was read and
 adopted.
      A List of Books Presented accompanies the Report, amounting
 in number to 312 volumes, and making a total, with those purchased
 by the Managers and Patrons, of 1186 volumes (including Periodi
 cals) added to the Library in the year.
      Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary,
 to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor
 Faraday, for their services to the Institution during the past year.
     * The Rothliegendes of Thuringia, in general appearance, closely resemble
 the Penman brecciated rocks of the Clent Hills (for example), and many of
 the blocks of granite in the Thuringian rocks have been derived from parent
 rocks, unknown in the neighbourhood where these conglomerates lie.
     t This subject has, iu some of its details, been treated more fully in the
 Geological Journal 1855, page 185.

422               Capt. J. Grant, on the Application                [May I,
     The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
for the ensuing year :—
       PRESIDENT—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
       TREASURES—William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
       SECRETARY—Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.
                                 MANAGERS.
John George Appold, Esq. F.R.S.         Sir H. Holland, Bt-lM.D. F.E.S. F.G.S.
Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie, Bart.      John Carrick Moore, Esq. M.A. F.B.&.
   D.C.L. F.R.S.                           F.G.S.
Benjamin Bond Cabbell, Esq. F.R.S.      Frederick Pollock, Esq. M.A.
   F.S.A.                               James Rennie, Esq. F.R.S.
 Thomas Davidson, Esq.                  Joseph William Thrupp, Esq.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. PhJJ. F.R.S.     John Webster, M.D. F.R.S.
 George Dodd, Esq. F.S.A.               The Lord Wensleydale.
 Sir Charles Fellows.                   Charles Wheatstone, Esq. F. U.S.
                                  VISITORS.
 BeriahBotfield,Esq.M.P. F.R.S. F.S.A. John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph. I >. F.R.S.
 John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.            John Hicks, Esq.
 John Robert F. Burnett, Esq.            Capt. Robert M. Laffan, R.E.
 Edmund Beckett Denisou, Esq. M.A. Thomas Lee, Esq.
    Q.C.                                 Rev. Frederic D. Maurice, MA.
 Hugh W. Diamond, M.D. F.S.A.            Thomas N. R. Morson, Esq.
 C. Wentworth Dilke, jun. Esq.           Joseph Skey, M.D.
 Edward M. Foxhall, Esq.                 Thomas Young, Esq,
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, May 1.
   REV. J. BABLOW, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President and Secretary,
                                 in the Chair.
                      CAPTAIN JOHN GRANT, late R.A.
     On the Application of Heat to Domestic Purposes and to
                             Military Cookery.'*
  THE science of heat is more studied, and probably better under
  stood in England than in any other country ; but there is a
      * The discourse was illustrated by models and diagrams of the cooking
  apparatus invented and described by Capt. Grant.

1857.]           of Heat to Domestic Purposes, fyc.                423
deficiency in the practical application of heat to domestic and
other useful purposes, which deprives all classes of much comfort
and benefit. For economy in the consumption of fuel is a matter
of great importance to the mass.
     Domestic Fire Places.—The universal practice of fixing grates,
and surrounding them with masonry, is defective in principle ; for
the masonry not only absorbs a large portion of the heat which is
required to warm the room, but throws a still larger portion up the
chimney.
     The heat which is thrown out from grates set in this manner
does not depend so much upon the quantity of fuel they contain, as
upon the amount of radiating and reflecting surfaces with which
that fuel is surrounded. The highly polished steel surfaces which
adorn the grates of those who can afford them reflect and radiate a
very large amount of heat in proportion to the fuel they contain ;
but as the mass of the people can ill afford this costly mode of
obtaining heat, the object should be to secure the maximum of heat
with the minimum of cost.
     The detached or portable grate, similar to the Brussels stove,
will secure these advantages ; and if properly constructed, com
bines all that can be desired for a domestic fireplace. It presents
an open cheerful fire, easy to regulate,—affords a large radiating
surface,—facilitates the operation of sweeping the chimney,—and
is the best security against a smoky one ; consequently dispenses
with those countless varieties of infallible curatives, called chimney
tops, which so disfigure all our houses. It acts also as a hot-air
 stove.
     Domestic Cooking Apparatus.—The objection to casing our
domestic grates with masonry applies still stronger to cooking
ranges, for the wasteful expenditure of fuel is most apparent in all
our cooking arrangements. The remedy here is equally simple, by
the substitution of a detached cooking apparatus placed in the same
recess which receives the ordinary fixed kitchen range ; and a
portable kitchen stove of this construction may be seen in daily
operation at that interesting establishment, the North-West
Reformatory Institution, in the New Road, where they are manu
factured by the inmates. Eighty-two persons are daily cooked for
at a cost of sixpence per day.
     It may not be out of place to suggest to those who take an
interest in the reformatory movement, a visit to that establish
ment, and see what has been accomplished through the exertions of
one man (Mr. Bowyer), one of the most useful self-sacrificing
philanthropists of the day.
     The Cottager's Stove.—There is a large and important class of
persons among the industrious and working classes, and also the
indigent poor, whose domestic wants demand our consideration.
For the purpose of at the same time warming their dwellings
and cooking their food in a simple and economical manner, " Tlie

424                 Capt. J. Grant, on the. Application               [May 1,
 Cottager's Stove " was designed, which has found its way to every
quarter of the globe. It requires no fixing, is extremely simple in
its construction, and all the operations of cooking may be carried
on with any description of fuel. The fact of 100 lbs. of meat and
 115 lbs. of vegetables having been cooked in one of these stoves,
with less than 20 lbs. of coal, will suffice to prove how economically
it may be worked, and it is peculiarly well suited to the rural
districts. These stoves are manufactured by the Messrs. Bailey,
of High Holborn.
     Military Cookery.—The events of the late war have given rise
to a variety of inventions and improvements, and amongst them
that of cooking for large masses of troops, with convenience and
economy, has been under consideration.
     Field Cooking.—A system of field cooking was introduced at
Aldershott, by cutting a trench in the ground and covering it with
thin iron plates having a central hole in each to receive the ordinary
camp kettle. A chimney is formed of sods, piled up to the height
of three feet at one end of the trench, and a fire made at the other,
and by this simple arrangement several regiments cooked for some
mouths.
     Battalion Cooking Apparatus for Troops, adopted at Alder
shott.—This principle of cooking w;is adapted to the requirements
of the troops in the hut barracks at Aldershott, and extended to the
battalion cooking kitchens throughout the whole of that encamp
ment, where it has continued in successful operation for the service
of between 12,000 and 14,000 men, for these last twenty months.
From April to August, in the last year, it was subjected to the
severe test of cooking for 92,000 men, who marched in and out of
the encampment during that period. The consumption of fuel
requisite for this system of cooking is one half-pound of coal per
man per day, and the official report states the cost to be one half
penny per man per week for the three daily meals.
     Battalion Cooking Apparatus for Permanent Barracks, with
 Oven.—The soldier's cooking is confined to the boiling process ;
and as he can only obtain a change by availing himself of a public
bakehouse at his own cost, an oven has been introduced into the
chimney of the apparatus, so constructed that it is surrounded by
the heated products of the two flues : thus profiting by what in
ordinary cases is wasted up the chimney. 560° of heat were ob
tained by i his arrangement in an oven capable of baking 250 Ibs.
of meat, without any additional consumption of fuel.*
    • This principle of military cooking admits of so much variation in its
details that it may be adapted to all the requirements of an army, either in
the field or in permanent barracks, from a single soldier to a battalion of a
thousand strong, for which provision is made.
    The battalion cooking apparatus is constructed for that number of men, who
may be efficiently cooked for by the aid of two small fires of 18 inches square

1857.]                  of Heat to Military Cookery.                       425
     By the introduction of this oven, other improvements are
effected :' the flues are shortened, the fires brought nearer to
gether, and the whole of the kettles boil simultaneously. The
advantages of this system of cooking could only have been obtained
by the application of the principle of horizontal draft ; and the same
principle may be carried out with equal advantage for warming the
dwellings of the working classes. The subject is worthy the con
sideration of those interested in the philanthropic undertaking of
erecting blocks of dwellings for our houseless poor. This principle
will also be found applicable in many cases, where the perpendicular
shaft is adopted in our large factories, pouring out its column of
fire and wasted heat.
     An apparatus, upon the principle of cooking for troops in
permanent barracks, has lately been erected at the North-West
Reformatory Institution, in the New Road, for sthe use of its
inmates, which combines the means of cooking, baking, washing,
drying the linen, and supplying hot water for baths. It might be
extended with advantage to our prisons, unions, and all large esta
blishments requiring such conveniences.
     Public bakehouses might also avail themselves of this principle.
By the aid of two small fires, heating the oven from without, and
lining the interior with brick or tile, the baking might be carried on
with some advantages over the present system.
                                                                  [J. G.]
and 6 inches deep, with any description of l'iu-1, if the principle is properly
carried out.
    A school for the instruction of cooking might be added with advantage to
the many excellent ones already established for the improvement and comfort
of the British soldier.

426                    General Monthly Meeting.                     [May 4,
              GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, May 4.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                  George Edward Dorington, Esq. and
                  Arthur Le Noe Walker, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                  William Bowman, Esq. and
                  Major Lewis Burroughs
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
      The following Professors were unanimously re-elected :—
    WILLIAM THOMAS BRANDE, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. L. & E., as
Honorary Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution.
    JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. as Professor of Natural
Philosophy in the Royal Institution.
    The special thanks of the Members were voted to COL. SIR
CHARLES HAMILTON, BART. M.R.I, for his present of Bouchette's
Map of Lower Canada, in ten sheets.
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
  FBOM—
Hon. East India Company—Report of Public Instruction in Lower Bengal, for
     1855-6.   2 vols. 8vo.   1856.
Ariatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 258. 8vo. 185S.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XVII. No. 5. 8vo. 18.17.
Sell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for April 1857. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)— The Musical World for April 1857. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in April 1857. 4to.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 4. 4to. 1857.
Chemical Society—Journal, No. 37. 8vo. 1857.

1857.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                     427
Editors—The Medical Circular for April 1857. 8vo.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for April 1857. 4to.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting for April 1857. 4 to.
   The Mechanic's Magazme for April 1857. 8To.
   The Athenaeum for April 1857. 4to.
   The Engineer for April 1857. ' fol.
   The Artisan for April 1857.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S. fyc.—Kdnigliche Preussischen Akademie.
      Berichte, 1856, Jan. 1857.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIII. No. 3. STo. 1856.
Geographical Society, Royal—Journal. Vol. XXVI. 8vo. 1857.
Geological Survey of India— Memoirs. Vol.1. Parti. STo. Calcutta, 1856.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar- General)—Report of the Registrar-General
      for April 1857. STo.
Hamilton, Sir Charles, Bart. C.S. MJR.I.—Map of Lower Canada, in 10
      sheets, by Joseph Bouchette.
   Map of the Polar Regions, 1825 ; Chart of Greenland, with the N.W. Voy
      ages of Hudson, Frobisher, and Davis. By A. Arrowsmith, 1825.
   Charts of Islands on the Coast of Africa. 1829.
 Linnean Society—Journal of Proceedings. No. 4. STo. 1857.
 Londesborough, The Lord, K.H. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Miscellanea Graphics, Part
      12. 4 to.   1857.
 Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), April 1857. STo.
 Nonello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for April 1857. 4to.
 ffutt, Mr. D.—Catalogue of Foreign Theological Books. STo. 1857.
 Pearsall, Mr. Thomas—Catalogues des Bibliotheques dn feu Roi Louis Phi
       lippe, de M. Tieck, &c. STo. 1852-5.
 Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen anf dem Gesommtgebiete der
       Geographic. 1857. Heft 1. 4to. Gotha, 1857.
 Photographic Society—Journal, No. 53. STo. 1856.
Sammell, T. W. Esq. C.E. (the Author)—A New Plan for Street Railways.
       STo. 1857.
 Royal Observatory, Greenwich—Astronomical, Magnetical, and Meteorological
       Observations in 1855. 4to. 1857.
 Royal Society of Literature—Transactions, Vol. IV. and V. STo. 1849-56.
 Royal Society of London —Proceedings, No. 25. STo. 1857.
 Society of Arts—Journal for April 1857. STo.
  Thomas, L. Esq. (the Author)—Rifled Ordnance. STo. 1857.
  Williams, C. W. Esq. (through Jonathan Green, M.D. M.R.I.)-;-Prize Essay
       on the PreTention of the Smoke Nuisance, by C. W. Williams. STo.
       1856.

428                         Mr. Grace Culvert on                      [May 8,
             . WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 8.
      THE LORD WENSLEYDALE, Vice-President, in the Chair.
           F. GRACE CALVEUT, ESQ. F.C.S. M.R.A. Turin,
        HONORART I'ROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY, ROTH. INCTmTTION, MASCREBTHR.
                  On M. Chtvreul's Laws of Colour.
 MR. CRACE CALVERT stated that he had three objects in view in
this discourse. The first was to make known the laws of colours, as
discovered by his learned master, M. Chevreul ; secondly, to explain
 their importance in a scientific point of view ; and, thirdly, their
 value to arts and manufactures.
     To understand the laws of colours, it is necessary to know the
composition of light ; Newton was the first person who gave to the
world any statement relative to the components of light, which he
said consisted of seven colours— red, orange, yellow, green, blue,
indigo, and violet. It is now distinctly proved that four of those
seven colours of the spectrum are the result of the combinations
of the three colours now known as the primitive colours, viz., red,
blue, and yellow. Thus blue and red combined produce purple or
indigo ; blue and yellow, green ; while red and yellow, produce
orange : these facts being known, it is easy to prove that there are
not seven, but three primitive, and four secondary, called com
plementary colours.
     Several proofs can be given that light is composed of three
colours only. One of the most simple consists in placing pieces of
blue, red, and yellow papers on a circular disc, and rotating it
rapidly ; the effect to the eye being to produce a disc of white
light. If, therefore, the eye can be deceived so readily while the
disc travels at so slow a rate, what must necessarily be the case
when it is remembered that light proceeds at the rate of 190,000
miles per second ?
     The rapidity with which light travels is such that the eye is not
able to perceive either the blue, red, or yellow, the nerves of the
retina not being sensitive enough to receive and convey successively
to the mind the three or seven colours of which the light is com
posed.
     Before entering into the laws of colour, Mr. Crace Calvert
stated that it might be interesting to know what scientific minds
had devoted attention to the laws of colours.

1857.]             M. CkevreuTt Laws of Colour.                     429
     Buffon followed Newton, and his researches had special reference
to what M. Chevreul had called the "successive contrasts" of
colours.
     Father Scherffer, a monk, also wrote on the laws of colour.
Goethe, the poet, also brought his mind to bear upon the subject,
and studied it to a great extent. Count Rumford, about the end of
the eighteenth century, published several memoirs on the laws of
colours. He explained very satisfactorily the " successive " con
trast, and arrived at some insight into the '^simultaneous" one ;
still he did not lay down its real laws.
     Prieur, Leblanc, Harris, and Field, were also writers of most
interesting works on this subject. The reason that they did not
arrive at the definite laws of colour was because they had not
divided those laws into successive, simultaneous, and mixed con
trasts. These form the basis of the practical laws of colour, and
the honour of their discovery is due to M. Chevreul.
     The reason why a surface appears white or brilliant is, that a
large portion of the light which falls on its surface is reflected on
the retina, and in such a quantity as gives to the surface a brilliant
aspect; whilst in plain white surfaces, the rays of light being diffused
in all directions, and a small portion only arriving to the eye, the
surface does not appear brilliant. The influence of colours on these
two kinds of surfaces is very different, as may be perceived by the
examples round the room, showing the influence of different
colours on gold ornaments. When rays of light, instead of being
reflected, are absorbed by a surface or substance it appears black ;
therefore white and black are not colours, as they are due to the
reflection or absorption of undecomposed light. It is easy to un
derstand why a surface appears blue ; it is due to the property
 which the surface has to reflect only blue rays, whilst it absorbs the
 yellow and red rays ; and if a certain portion of light is reflected
 with one of the coloured rays it will decrease its intensity ; thus red
 rays with white ones produce pink. On the contrary, if a quantity
 of undecomposed light is absorbed, black is produced, which, by
 tarnishing the colour and making it appear darker, generates dark
reds, blues, or yellows. The secondary colours are produced by
one of the primitive colours being absorbed and the two others
reflected ; for example, if red be absorbed, and- blue and yellow
 reflected, the surface appears green. There are two reasons why
a perfect blue, yellow, red, cannot be seen, &c. The first is, that
surfaces cannot entirely absorb one or two rays and reflect the
others. The second is, that when the retina receives the impression
of one colour, immediately its complementary colour is generated ;
thus, if a blue circle is placed on a perfectly grey surface, an orange
hue will be perceived round it ; if an orange circle, round it will
be noticed a bluish tint ; if a red circle, a green ; if a greenish
yellow circle, a violet ; if an orange yellow circle, an indigo ; and
so on.

 430                        Mr. Crace Calvert on                    [May 8,
     The " successive " contrast has long been known ; and it consists
 in the fact that on looking stedfastly for a few minutes on a red
 surface fixed on a white sheet of paper, and then carrying the eye to
 another white sheet, there will be perceived on it not a red, but a
 green one ; if green, red; if purple, yellow; if blue, orange,
     The " simultaneous " contrast is the most interesting and useful
 to be acquainted with. When two coloured surfaces are in juxta
 position, they mutually influence each other,—favourably, if har
 monising colours, or in a contrary manner if discordant ; and in
 such proportion in either case as to be in exact ratio with the
 quantity of complementary colour which is generated in the eye :
 for example, if two half-sheets of plain tinted paper, one dark
 green, the other of a brilliant red, are placed side by side on a grey
piece of cloth, the colours will be mutually improved in consequence
of the green generated by the red surface adding itself to the green
of the juxtaposed surface, thus increasing its intensity, the green in
its turn augmenting the beauty of the red. This effect can easily
be appreciated if two other pieces of paper of the same colours
are placed at a short distance from the corresponding influenced
ones, as below :—
             Red.               Red Green.               Green.
     It is not sufficient merely to place complementary colours side
by side to produce harmony of colour, since the respective inten
sities have a most decided influence: thus pink and light green
agree, red and dark green also ; but light green and dark red, pink
and dark green, do not ; and thus to obtain the maximum of effect
and perfect harmony the following colours must be placed side by
side, taking into account their exact intensity of shade and tint. *
                          HARMONISING COLOURS.
Primitive Colours.      Complementary Colours
                                              {Light blue 1
   Red                    Green ....             Yellow     } White light.
                                                 Red      J
                                               f Red       1
  Blue .    .  .   .• .   Orange .   .   .  . / Yellow      > White light.
                                               I Blue      j
                                              | Blue      1
  Yellow-orange .     .   Indigo ....•( Red                1 White light.
                                              I Yellow     j
                                              I Red       |
  Greenish Yellow     .   Violet .  .   .  . J Blue        } White light.
                                              I Yellow    j
                                              {Yellow     \
                                                 Blue     } White light.
                                                 Red      J

1857.]             M. Chevreufs Laws of Colour.                     431
    If attention is not paid to the arrangement of colours according
to the above diagram, instead of their mutually improving each
other, they will, on the contrary, lose in beauty ; thus if blue and
purple are placed side by side, the blue throwing its complementary
colour, orange, upon the purple, will give it a faded appearance ;
and the blue receiving the orange yellow of the purple will assume
a greenish tinge. The same may be said of yellow and red, if
placed in juxtaposition. The red, by throwing its complementary
colour green, on the yellow, communicates to it a greenish tinge ;
the yellow, by throwing its purple hue, imparts to the red a dis
agreeable purple appearance. The very great importance of these
principles to every one who intends to display or arrange coloured
goods or fabrics was convincingly shown by Mr. Crace Calvert,
from a great variety of embroidered silks (kindly lent by Mr.
Henry Houldsworth), calicos, and paper-hangings, which demon
strated that if these laws are neglected, not only will the labour
and talent expended by the manufacturer to produce on a given
piece of goods the greatest effect possible, be neutralised, but per
haps lost. It was clearly demonstrated that these effects are not
only produced by highly-coloured surfaces, but also by those whose
colours are exceedingly pale, as, for example, light greens, or light
blues with buffs, and that even in gray surfaces, as pencil drawings,
the contrast of tone between two shades was distinctly visible. The
contrast of tone or tint was most marked when two tints of the
same colour were juxtaposed, and it was therefore the interest of
an artist to pay attention to this principle when employing two
tints of the same scale of colour. From the "mixed contrast"
arises the rule that a brilliant colour should never be looked at for
any length of time, if its true tint or brilliancy is to be appreciated ;
for if a piece of red cloth is looked at for a few minutes, green, its
complementary colour, is generated in the eye, and adding itself to
a portion of the red, produces black, which tarnishes the beauty of
 the red. This contrast explains, too, why the tone of a colour is
modified, either favourably or otherwise, according to the colour
which the eye has previously looked at. Favourably, when, for
instance, the eye first looks to a yellow surface, and then to a
purple one ; and unfavourably, when it looks at a blue and then at
a purple.
     Mr. Crace Calvert also showed that black and white surfaces
assume different hues according to the colours placed in juxtaposi
tion with them ; for example, black acquires an orange or purple
tint if the colours placed beside it are blue or orange ; but these
effects can be overcome, in the case of these or any colours, by
giving to the influenced colour a tint similar to that influencing it.
Thus, to prevent black becoming orange by its contact with blue,
it is merely necessary that the black should be blued, and in such
proportion that the amount of blue will neutralize the orange
thrown on it by influence, thus producing black. As an instance,

432     Prof. Huxley, on the present state of Knowledge [May 15,
to prevent a grey design acquiring a pinkish shade through working
it with green, give the grey a greenish hue, which, by neutralising
the pink, will generate white light, and thus preserve the grey.
    Mr. Crace Calvert, after explaining the chromatic table of M.
Chevreul, which enabled any person at a glance to ascertain what
was the complementary colour of any of the 13,480 colours which
M. Chevreul had distinctly classed in his table, stated that it was
of the highest importance to artists to be acquainted with these
laws, in order to know at once the exact colour, shade, and tint,
which would produce the greatest effect when placed beside another
colour, and that they could save the great length of time which no
doubt the great masters lost in ascertaining by experiment those
laws, which they could now learn in a few hours by consulting
M. Chevreul's work.
                                                                    [F. C. C.]
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, May 15.
     THE LORD WENSLEYDALE, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     THOMAS H. HUXLEY, F.R.S.
             FtTLLERIAN rgOFXSsOR Or PRTSIOLOOY K«i u, ntSTITDTIOlC.
   On the present state of Knowledge as to the Structure and
                            Functions of Nerve.
THE speaker commenced by directing the attention of the audience
to an index, connected with a little apparatus upon the bible, and
vibrating backwards and forwards with great regularity. The
cause of this motion was the heart of a frog (deprived of sensa
tion though not of life) which had been carefully exposed by open
ing the pericardium, and into whose apex the point of a needle
connected with the index had been thrust. Under these circum
stances the heart would go on beating, with perfect regularity and
full force, for hours ; and as every pulsation caused the index to
travel through a certain arc, the effect of any influences brought to
bear upon the heart could be made perfectly obvious to every one
present.
    The frog's heart is a great hollow mass of muscle, consisting of
three chambers, a ventricle and two auricles,! he latter being separated
from one another by a partition or septum. By the successive con

 1857.]      a* to the Structure and Functions of Nerve.             433
traction of these chambers the blood is propelled in a certain direc
tion ; the auricles contracting force the blood into the ventricle ;
the ventricle then contracting drives the blood into the aortic bulb ;
and it is essential to the full efficiency of the heart as a circulatory
organ, that all the muscular fibres of the auricles should contract
together ; and that all the muscular fibres of the ventricle should
contract together; but that the latter should follow the former
action after a certain interval.
    The contractions of the muscles of the heart thus occur in a
definite order, and exhibit a combination towards a certain end.
They are rhythmical and purposive ; and it becomes a question of
extreme interest to ascertain, where lies the regulative power which
governs their rhythm.
    If we examine into the various structures of which the heart is
composed, we find that the bulk of the organ is made up of striped
muscular fibres, bound together as it were by connective tissue, and
lined internally and externally by epithelium. Now it is certain that
the regulative power is not to be found in any of these tissues.
The two latter may, for the present purpose ba regarded as unim
portant, as they certainly take no share either in producing or guid
ing the movements of the heart. The muscular tissue, on the
other hand, though the seat of the contractility of the organ, requires
some influence from without, some stimulus, in order to contract at
all, and having once contracted, it remains still until another
stimulus excites it. There is, therefore, nothing in its muscular
substance which can account for the constantly recurring rhythmical
pulsations of the heart.
    Experiments have been made, however, which clearly show that
the regulative power is seated, not only in the heart itself, but in
definite regions of the organ. Remove the heart from the body,
and it still goes on beating ; the source of the rhythm is therefore
to be sought in itself. If the heart be halved by a longitudinal
section, each half goes on beating ; but if it be divided transversely,
between the line of junction of the auricles with the ventricle and
the apex of the latter, the detached apex pulsates no longer, while
the other segment goes on beating as before. If the section be
carried transversely through the auricles, both segments go on beat
ing ; and if the heart be cut into three portions by two transverse
sections, one above the junction of the auricles and ventricle, and
one below it, then the basal and middle segments will go on pul
sating, while the apical segment is still. Clearly then, the source
of the rhythmical action, the regulative power, is to be sought
somewhere about the base of the auricles, and somewhere about the
junction of the auricles and ventricles.
     Now there is in the frog's heart, besides the three tissues which
have been mentioned, a fourth, the nervous tissue. A ganglion is
placed at the base of the heart, where the great veins enter the
auricles—from this two cords can be traced traversing the auricular
     VOL. II.                                                ii ii

 434    Prof. Huxley, on the present state of Knowledge         [May 15,
 septum, and entering two other ganglia placed close to the junction
 of the auricles with the ventricles. From these ganglia nerves are
 distributed to the muscular substance. Now we know, from
 evidence afforded by other striped muscles and nerves, that the
 contraction of the former is the result of the excitement of the
 latter ; in like manner, we know that the ganglia are centres whence
 that excitement originates. We are therefore justified, analogically,
 in seeking for the sources of the contractions of the cardiac muscles,
 in the cardiac ganglia ; and the experiments which have been de
 tailed—by showing that the rhythmical contractions continue in
 any part of the heart which remains connected with these ganglia,
 while it ceases in any part cut off from them—prove that they
 really are the seats of the regulative power.
      The speaker then exhibited another very remarkable experiment
 (first devised by Weber) which leads indirectly to the same conclu
 sion. An electro-magnetic apparatus was so connected with the
 frog upon the table, that a series of shocks could be transmitted
 through the pneumogastric nerves. When this was done, it was
 seen that the index almost instantly stopped, and remained still, so
 long as the shocks were continued ; on breaking contact, the heart
 remained at rest for a little time, then gave a feeble pulsation or
 two, and then resumed its full action. This experiment could be
 repeated at will, with invariably the same results ; and it was most
 important to observe, that during the stoppage of the heart the
 index remained at the lowest point of its arc, a circumstance which,
 taken together with the distended state of the organ, showed that its
 stoppage was the result, not of tetanic contraction but of complete
 relaxation.
      Filaments of the pneumogastric nerve can be traced down to the
 heart, and whenever these fibres are irritated the rhythmical action
 ceases. The pneumogastric nerves must act either directly upon
 the muscles of the heart, or indirectly through the ganglia, into
 which they can be traced. If the former alternative be adopted,
then we must conceive the action of the pneumogastric nerve upon
muscle to be the reverse of that of all other nerves—for irritation
of every other muscular nerve causes activity and not paralysis of
the muscle. Not only is this in the highest degree improbable, but
it can be demonstrated to be untrue ; for on irritating, mechanically,
the surface of the heart brought to a standstill by irritation of the
pneumogastrics, it at once contracts. The paralysing influence
therefore is not exerted on the muscles, and as a consequence, we
can only suppose that this " negative innervation," as it might be
conveniently termed, is the result of the action of the pneumogastric
on the ganglia.
     It results from all these experiments, firstly, that nerve substance
possesses the power of exciting and co-ordinating muscular actions ;
and secondly, that one portion of nervous matter is capable of con
trolling the action of another portion. In the case of the heart it

1857.]        as to the Structure and Functions of Nerve.           435
is perfectly clear that consciousness and volition are entirely
excluded from any influence upon the action of the nervous
matter, which must be regarded as a substance exhibiting certain
phenomena, whose laws are as much a branch of physical inquiry
as those presented by a magnet.
    Now, (still carefully excluding the phenomena of conscious
ness,) we shall find on careful examination, that all the properties
of Nerve are of the same order as those exhibited by the nervous
substance of the heart. Every action is a muscular action, whose
proximate cause is the activity of a nerve, and as the muscles of
the heart are related to its ganglia, so are the muscles of the whole
body related to that great ganglionic mass which constitutes the
spinal marrow, and its continuation the medulla oblongata. This
cranio-spinal nervous centre originates and co-ordinates the con
tractions of all the muscles of the body independently of conscious
ness, and there is every reason to believe that the organ of con
sciousness stands related to it as the pneumogastric is related to the
cardiac ganglia ; that volition whether it originates, or whether it
controls action, exerts its influence not directly on the muscles but
indirectly upon the cranio-spinal ganglia. A volition is a con
scious conception, a desire ; an act is the result of the automatic,
unconscious origination and co-ordination, by the cranio-spinal
ganglia, of the nervous influences required to produce certain mus
cular contractions.
     Whatever may be the ultimate cause of our actions then, the
 proximate cause lies in nerve substance. The nervous system is a
 great piece of mechanism placed between the external world and
 our consciousness ; through it objects affect us ; through it we affect
 them ; and it therefore becomes a matter of the highest interest
 to ascertain how far the properties and laws of action of nerve
 substance have been ascertained by the physiological philosopher.
     Nerve substance has long been known to consist of two ele
 ments, fibres and ganglionic corpuscles. Nerve fibres are either
 sensory or motor, and the activity of any one fibre does not influence
another. But when nerve fibres come into relation with ganglionic
corpuscles, the excitement of a sensory nerve gives rise to that of a
 motor nerve, the ganglionic corpuscles acting in some way as the
 medium -of communication. The "grey matter" which occupies
 the middle of the spinal marrow has long been known to be the
locality in which the posterior roots, or sensory fibres, of the nerves
of the body, and the anterior roots, or motor fibres, come into relation
 with ganglionic corpuscles ; and as the channel by which, in what
are called reflex actions, the activity of the sensory n%rves is con
 verted into excitement of corresponding motor nerves. The precise
modus operandi of the grey matter has been much disputed, but
the recent researches of Wagner,-Bidder, Kupfer, and Owsjannikow,
throw a great light upon, and \astly simplify the whole problem.
 It would appear that all nerve fibres are processes of ganglionic
                                                          2n2

436        Prof. Huxley, on the Structure, S)C. of Net ce.    [May 15,
corpuscles ; that, in the spinal cord, the great mass of the grey
matter is nothing but connective tissue, the true ganglionic corpus
cles being comparatively few, and situated in the anterior horns of
the grey substance ; finally, it would seem that no ganglionic cor
puscle has more than five processes ; one, which becomes a sensory
fibre and enters the posterior roots of the nerves ; one, a motor
fibre which enters the anterior roots ; one, which passes upward to
the brain ; one, which crosses over to a ganglionic corpuscle in the
other half of the cord ; and perhaps one establishing a connexion
with a ganglionic corpuscle on the same side.
     It is impossible to overrate the value of these discoveries ; for if
they are truths, the problem of nervous action is limited to these
inquiries : (a) What are the properties of ganglionic corpuscles?
 (b) What are the properties of their two, or three, commissural
processes? For we are already pretty well acquainted with the
properties of the sensory and motor processes.
    A short account was next given of the physical and physiological
phenomena exhibited by active and inactive nerve ; and the phe
nomena exhibited by active nerve were shown to be so peculiar as
to justify the application of the title of " nerve force " to this form
of material energy.
     It was next pointed out that this force must be regarded as of
the same order with other physical forces. The beautiful methods by
which Helmholtz has determined the velocity (not more than about
80 feet in a second in the frog), with which the nervous force is
propagated were explained. It was shown that nerve force is not
electricity, but two important facts were cited to prove that the
nerve force is a correlate of electricity, in the same sense as heat
and magnetism are said to be correlates of that force. These facts
were, firstly, the " negative deflection " of Du Bois Raymond,
which demonstrates that the activity of nerve affects the electrical
relations of its particles ; and secondly, the remarkable experiments
of Eckhard (some of which the speaker had exhibited in his Ful-
lerian course) which prove that the transmission of a constant
curl-rent along a portion of a motor nerve so alters the molecular
state of that nerve as to render it incapable of exciting contraction
when irritated.
    These facts, even without those equally important though less
thoroughly understood experiments of Ludwig and Bernard, which
appear to indicate a direct relation between nerve force and
chemical change, seem sufficient to prove that nerve force must
henceforward take its place among the other physical forces.
    This theiHis the present state of our knowledge of the structure
and functions of nerve. We have reason to believe in the existence
of a nervous force, which is as much the property of nerve as mag
netism is of certain ores of iron ; the velocity of that force is
measured ; its laws are, to a certain extent, elucidated ; the struc
ture of the apparatus through which it works promises soon to be

 18,37.]              Mr. Vivian, on Meteorology.                              437
unravelled ; the directions for future inquiry are limited and marked
out ; the solution of all problems connected with it is only a ques
tion of time.
     Science may be congratulated on these results. Time was when
the attempt to reduce vital phenomena to law and order, was re
garded as little less than blasphemous : but the mechanician has
proved that the living body obeys the mechanical laws of ordinary
matter ; the chemist has demonstrated that the component atoms of
living beings are governed by affinities, of one nature with those
which obtain in the rest of the universe ; and now the physi-
dogist, aided by the physicist, has attacked the problem of nervous
action—the most especially vital of all vital phenomena—with
what result has been seen. And thus from the region of disorderly
mystery, which is the domain of ignorance, another vast province
has been added to science, the realm of orderly mystery.
                                                                 [T. H. H.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 22.
   THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                             in the Chair.
                EDWARD VIVIAN, ESQ. M.A. M.R.I.
On Meteorology, with Observations and Sketches taken during a
                            Balloon Ascent.
A SERIES of curves, showing the results of daily observations since
1842, and contributed during the last six years to the Meteorological
Reports of the Registrar-General, were exhibited. From these the
following summary of the climate of the south-eastern coast of
Devon, as compared with the averages of England, was deduced—
                                                 _ .     Vapour « Vnpour Mean
            Mean    Max.  Min.   Dally Days Inched in cubic required to humid-
            Temp.  Temp. Temp.  range. of rain. of rain. foot
                                                           air.
                                                               of produce
                                                                  saturation. «y.
Torquay .   50° -3   76°   27°   9°-9    155      27-8     3-4         •9     •72
England .   48° -3   83°   15°  14°- 5 j 170      25-5     3-4          •7    •82

  438                Mr. Vivian, on Meteorology.              [May 22,
       The errors in medical and other works were referred to, es
  pecially in regard to the fall of rain, which is nearly double, both
  in amount and duration, on Dartmoor as compared with the south
  eastern coast, from Exmouth to the Start Point, where the humidity
  of the air is also proportionally less, being, as stated above, the
  same in absolute amount with the average of England, and sensi
  bly less in the proportion of 7 to 9. The climate of that coast was
  shown to be cool and dry in summer, but comparatively humid, as
  well as warm, in winter, owing to the influence of the sea, which
  retains a more uniform temperature, exhaling moisture in dry cold
  weather, but acting as a condenser whenever its temperature is
  below the dew-point of the air.
       A set of instruments were exhibited, which gave, approxi
  mately, the following results from one monthly observation :—The
  maximum and minimum temperature ; the maximum, minimum,
  and mean humidity ; the greatest influence, and the duration of
  sunshine; the amount and duration of rain. The principle of most
  of these was founded upon the atmometer, with a combination of
  the wet and dry bulb and differential thermometers. By curves,
  exhibiting the fluctuations of the barometer, and the character of
  the weather, was shown how important it was to ascertain also the
  hygrometrical condition of the atmosphere, the barometer frequently
  rising before rains from the east. This diagram also proved how
  little influence the moon exerts, and the fallacy of the generally
  received opinion that its changes determine the subsequent character
  of the weather.
       In conclusion, a narrative was given of a balloon ascent, illus
  trated by drawings of aerial phenomena, from sketches taken on
  the spot. The chief peculiarities of these were, the altitude of the
  horizon, which remained practically on a level with the eye at an
  elevation of two miles, causing the surface of the earth to appear
  concave instead of convex, and to recede during the rapid ascent,
  whilst the horizon and the balloon seemed to be stationary : —the
  definite outlines and pure colouring of objects directly beneath,
  although reduced to microscopic proportions, occasioned by the
  absence of refraction and dispersion of the coloured rays when
  passing perpendicularly through media of differing densities, which,
  at an angle, produce aerial perspective: — the rich combination of
  rays bursting through clouds, and having the sun's disc for their
  focus, contrasted with shadows upon the earth which radiate from
  a vanishing point on the horizon, the narrow shadows of clouds and
  eminences, such as Harrow and Richmond, being projected several
  miles, as seen in the lunar mountains : the magnificent Alpine
  scenery of the upper surfaces of cloud, still illumined, at high alti
  tudes, by the cold silvery ray, contrasted with the rich hues of
  clouds at lower levels, and the darkness of the earth after sunset.
       At higher altitudes than could be attained, and above the level
  of perpetual congelation, were the beautiful cirrus clouds, com-
-

 1857.]                General Monthly Meeting.                  439
 posed of snow crystals, in every form and rich developement of the
 original hexagon, affording the materials for a new aera in archi
 tecture, and designs from Nature's hand for a crystal palace.
     In acoustics, several interesting phenomena were noticed. The
 sound of London rolled westward as far as its smoke, but was lost
 above the clouds, where the most intense silence prevailed, as also
 near the surface of the earth, showing that sound ascends.
     The electrical phenomena of lightning, hail, the peculiar forms
 of thunder clouds, and the aurora borealis, were beautifully illus
 trated with the instruments of the Institution ; and photographs of
 natural clouds were exhibited, as also a method of introducing
 them by a second's negative in printing landscapes.
                                                           [E. V.]
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 29.
    SIR HENRY HOLLAND, BART. M.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                        PROFESSOR A. J. SCOTT,
                    (OF OWEN'S COLLEGE, MANCHESTER.)
                     On Physics and Metaphysics.
                          [No Abttract received. \
              GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, June 1.
WILLIAM POLE, ESQ. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
                 Charles Tilston Bright, Esq. and
                 A. Colyar, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                         Edmund Packe, Esq.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.

440                      General Monthly Meeting.                   [June 1 ,
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   FROM—
Accademia dei Geortfifli, Florence - Degli Stndij e delle Vicende Sommario
      Storico. 8vo. Firenze, 1856.
Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei, Roma—Atti, Anno VI. Sessione 1-5.
      4to. 1855-6.
Astronomical Society, Royal— Monthly Notices, Vol. XVII. No. 7. 8vo. 1857.
Hell, Jacob, Esq. MM. I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for May 1857. 8vo.
Blashfield, J. M. Esq. MR.I.—Selection of Vases, Statues, &c. from Terra
      cottas. 4to. 1857.
lioosey, Messrs, (the Publishers}—The Musical World for May 1857. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in May 1857. 4to.
Busk, Mrs. Wm. (the Author)—Mediscval Popes, Emperore, Kings, and Crusa
      ders. 4 vols. 12mo. 1854.
De la Rue, Warren, Esq. Ph.D M.R.I.—Saturn as seen through a Newtonian
      Equatorial, 13 in. aperture, Mar. 27, 1856.
   Jupiter, as seen, Oct. 25, 1856.
Dilettanti, Society gf— Historical Notices of the Society of Dilettanti. 4to.
      1855.
Editors—The Medical Circular for May 185". 8vo.
      The Practical Mechanic's Journal for May 1857. 4to.
      The Journal of Gas-Lighting for May 1857. 4to.
      The Mechanic's Magazme for May 1857. 8vo.
      The Athenaeum for May, 1857. 4to.
      The Engineer for May, 1857. fol.
      The Artisan for May 1857.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S. frc.—Kb'nigliche Preussischen Akademie
      —Berichte, 1856, Feb. 1857.
Forrester, the Baron, M.R.I, (the Author)— Memoria sobre o Curative da Mo-
      lestia nas Videiras [and other Papers]. 8vo. Porto, 1857.
Geographical Society, Royal—Journal. Vol. XXVI. 8vo. 1857.
Geological Survey of India—Memoirs. Vol.1. Parti. 8vo. Calcutta, 1856.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General)—Reports of the Registrar-General
      for May 1857. 8vo.
Holland, Sir Henry, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Army Meteorological Re
      gistry from 1 843 to 1 854. 4to. Washington, U.S., 1855.
   Annals of the Astronomical Observatory of Harvard College, U.S. Vol. I.
      Part 1. 4to. 1856.
Hope, A. J. Beresford, Esq. M.P. (the A uthor)—Public Offices and Metropoli
      tan Improvements. 8vo. 1857.
Kaiserliche Geoloqische Reichsanstalt, Wien, (through M. W. Haidinger)—Ab-
      handlungen, band 1-3. 4to. 1852-6.
   Jahrbuch, 1-7. 8vo. 1852-56. .
   Uebersicht der Resultate Mineralogischer Forachnngen von Dr. G. A. Kenn-
       gott. 3 Bande. 1844-52. 4to. 1852-4.
    Katalog der Bibliothek des K. K. Hof-Mineralien Cabinets in Wien, von P.
       Partsch. 4to. 1851.
    Naturwissenschaftliche Abhandlungen, gesammelt nnd herausgegeben von
       VV. Haidinger. Vol. 1-4. 4to. 1847-51.
    Berichte herausgegeben von W. Haidinger. Bande 1-7. 8vo. 1847-51.
 Kerr, Mrs. Alexander, M.R.I.—La Normandie Souterraine, par l'Abb£ Cochet.
       8vo. Paris, 18.15.
    Sepultures Ganloises, Romaines, Franques, et Nonnandes, par 1'Abbe" Cochet.
       8vo. Paris, 1857.
 Neuiton, Messrs.— London Journal (New Series), May 1857. 8vo.
 Nicholson, Rev. Dr. H. J. (the Author)—The Abbey of St. Alban. 8vo. 1857.

1857.]           Prof. Tyndall on Acoustic Experiments.                 441
Normandy, A. M.D. (the Author}, and Mr. George Knight (the Publisher)—
      The Chemical Atlas or Tables : and a Dictionary of Reagents, fol. and
      16to. 1857.
Novello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for May 1857. 4to.
Petermnnn, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographic. 1857. Heft 2. 4to. Gotha, 1857.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 54. 8vo. 1856.
Rteoes, Charles E. M.D. (the Author)—Diseases of the Stomach and Duode
      num. 12mo. 1856.
Rico y Sinobas, Don Manuel (the Author)—Eesumen de los Trabajos Meteoro-
      logicas. 4to. Madrid, 1857.
Royal Dublin Society—Journal, Nps. 4 and 5. 8vo. 1857.
Royal Society of London— Proceedings, No. 25. 8vo. 1857.
 Society of Arts—Journal for May 1857. 8vo.
 South, John F. Esq. (the Author)—Facts relating to Hospital Nurses. 8vo.
       1857.
  Vincent, B.Assitt. Sec. R.I.—Portuguese Grammar, by A. Vieyra. 8vo. 1768.
  Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleissea in Preussen—Verhandlungen. Jan.
       nnd Feb. 1857. 4to.
  Webtter, John, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Notes on Belgian Lunatic
       Asylums. 8vo. 1857.
  Yates, James, E»q. F.R.S. M.R.I.—'Report of the International Decimal Asso
       ciation. 8vo. 1857.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                   Friday, June 5.
      THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                     in the Chair.
                         JOHN TYNDAIX, ESQ. F.R.S.
                         P&OFEfiSOR OF NATURAL PHIIXWOPHY, R.T.
                 On M. Lissajous' Acoustic Experiments.
   THE speaker briefly noticed the physical cause of musical sound ;
   referring to the bell, the tuning fork, the tended string, &c., as
   sources of vibration. The propagation of impulses through the
   atmosphere to the tympanum was illustrated by causing a brass rod
   to vibrate longitudinally : a disk was fixed to the end of the rod
   perpendicular to its length, and this disk, being held several feet
   above a surface of stretched paper on which sand was strewn,
   communicated its motion through the air to the paper, and pro
   duced a complex nodal figure of great beauty. Optical means
   had been resorted to by Dr. Young, and more especially by Mr.
    Wheatstone, in the study of vibratory movements. M. Lissajous
   had extended and systematised the principle ; and had exhibited

 442              Professor Tyndall, on At. Lissajous'         [June 5.
 his experiments before the Societe d'Encouragement, and more
 recently before the Emperor of the French. When he became
 acquainted with the speaker's intention to introduce these ex
 periments at the Royal Institution, he in the most obliging manner
 offered to come to London and make them himself. This offer was
 accepted, and the speaker also congratulated the audience on the
 presence of M. Duboscq, M'ho took charge of his own electric
 lamp ; this being the source of light made use of on the occasion.
     The experiments proceeded in the following order :—
      1. A sheaf of light was thrown from the lamp upon a mirror
 held in the speaker's hand : on moving the mirror with sufficient
 speed the beam described a luminous ring upon the ceiling. The
 persistance of impressions upon the retina was thus illustrated.
     2. A tuning fork had a pointed bit of copper foil attached to
 one of its prongs : the fork being caused to vibrate by a violin bow
 the metallic point moved to and fro, and being caused to press
 gently upon a surface of glass coated with lamp black, the fork
 being held still, a fine line of a length equal to the amplitude of the
 vibrations was described upon the glass ; but when at the same
 time the whole fork was drawn backwards with sufficient speed, a
 sinuous line was described upon the glass. The experiment was
 made by placing the coated glass before the lamp ; having a lens
 in front of it, and bringing the surface of the glass to a focus on a
 distant screen. On drawing the fork over the surface in the man
 ner described, the figure started forth with great beauty and pre
 cision. By causing a number of forks to pass at the same time
 over the coated glass, the relations of their vibrations were deter
 mined by merely counting the sinuosities. The octave, for example,
 had double the number of its fundamental note.
     3. This was the first of the series of M. Lissajous' experiments.
A tuning fork, with a metallic mirror attached to one of its prongs,
was placed in front of the lamp ; an intense beam of light was
thrown on the mirror, and reflected back by the latter. This
reflected beam was received on a small looking-glass, held in the
hand of the experimenter, from which it was reflected back upon
the screen. A lens being placed between the lamp and tuning fork,
a sharply defined image of the orifice from which the light issued
was obtained. When a violin bow was drawn across the fork,
this image elongated itself to a line. By turning the mirror in the
hand, the image upon the screen was resolved into a bright sinuous
track, many feet in length.
     4. A tuning fork was placed before the lamp, as in the last ex
periment. But instead of receiving the beam reflected from the
mirror of the fork upon a looking-glass, it was received upon the
mirror of a second fork, and reflected by the latter upon the screen.
When one fork was excited by a bow, a straight line described
itself upon the screen, when the other fork was subsequently excited,
the figure described was that due to the combination of the vibra

1857.]                  Acoustic Experiments.                       443
tions of both the forks. This is the principle of the entire series
of experiments now to be referred to.
    When a single fork vibrates, the image which it casts upon the
screen is elongated in a direction parallel to the prong of the fork.
In order to have the vibrations rectangular, one fork stood upright,
the other was fixed horizontally, in a vertical stand, in the following
experiments.
    5. Two forks, in perfect unison with each other, were placed
in the positions described, and caused to vibrate simultaneously.
If both forks passed their position of equilibrium at the same
instant, that is, if there was no difference of phase, the figure
described was a straight line. When the difference of phase
amounted to one-fourth, the figure was a circle : between these
it was an ellipse. The perfect unison of the two forks was proved
by the immobility of the figure upon the screen. On loading one
of them with a little weight, the figure no longer remained fixed
but passed from the straight line through the ellipse to a circle,
thence back through the ellipse to the straight line. So slight is
the departure from unison which may be thus rendered visible, that
M. Lissajous states that it would be possible to make evident to a
deaf person a discrepancy of one vibration in thirty thousand.
    6. Two forks, one of which gave the octave of the other, were
next made use of. When there was no difference of phase, the
figure described upon the screen resembled an 8. If the unison
was perfect, the figure, as in the former case, was fixed ; but when
the unison was disturbed, the figure passed through the changes cor
responding to all possible differences of phase. The loops of the
8 became distorted, formed by superposition a single parabola,
opened out again, became again symmetrical, and so on.
    7. The fifth of the octave, the major third, and other combina
tions succeeded, the figures becoming more and more complex as
the departure from simple relations between the vibrations in
creased.
    8. Finally, two forks which, when sounded together, gave
audible beats, were placed both upright upon the table. The
beam reflected from the mirror of one was received upon that of
the other, and reflected upon the screen. When both forks were
sounded, they sometimes conspired to elongate the image ; some
times they opposed each other, and thus a series of elongations and
shortenings addressed the eye at exactly the same intervals in which
the beats addressed the ear.
    At the conclusion of this beautiful series of experiments, which,
thanks to the skill of those who performed them, were all successful,
on the motion of Mr, Faraday, the thanks of the meeting were
unanimously voted to M.M. Lissajous and Duboscq. and commu
nicated to those gentlemen by his Grace the President.
                                                              [J. T.]

444                   Professor Faraday, on the             [June 12,
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, June 12.
  SIR BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, BART. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-
                       President, in the Chair.
                PROFESSOR FARADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                  On the Relations of Gold to Light.
THIS subject was brought forward on the 13th of June of last year,
and in the account of that evening, at page 310, vol. ii. of the Pro
ceedings of the Royal Institution, will be found a description of
some of the proofs and effects then referred to and illustrated ;
the following additional remarks will complete the account up to
this time. The general relations of gold leaf to light were de
scribed in the former report. Since then, pure gold leaf has been
obtained through the kindness of Mr. Smirke, and the former ob
servations verified. This was the more important in regard to the
effect of heat in taking away the green colour of the transmitted
light, and destroying to a large extent the power of reflexion. The
temperature of boiling oil, if continued long enough, is sufficient for
this effect; but a higher temperature (far short of fusion) pro
duces it more rapidly. Whether it is the result of a mere breaking
up by retraction of a corrugated film, or an allotropic change, is
uncertain. Pressure restores the green colour ; but it also has the
like effect upon films obtained by other processes than beating.
Corresponding results are produced with other metals.
    As before stated, films of gold may be obtained on a weak
solution of the metal, by bringing an atmosphere containing vapours
of phosphorus into contact with it. They are produced also when
small particles of phosphorus are placed floating on such a solu
tion ; and then, as a film differing in thickness is formed, the
concentric rings due to Newton's thin plates are produced. These
films transmit light of various colours. When heated they become
amethystine or ruby ; and then when pressed, become green, just
as heated gold leaf. This effect of pressure is characteristic of
metallic gold, whether it ia in leaf, or film, or dust.
    Gold wire, separated into very fine particles by the electric
deflagration, produces a deposit on glass, which, being examined,
either chemically or physically, proves to be pure metallic gold.

1857.]                Relation of Gold to Light.                   445
This deposit transmits various coloured rays : some parts are grey,
others green or amethystine, or even a bright ruby. In order to
remove any possibility of a compound of gold, as an oxide, being
present, the deflagrations were made upon topaz, mica, and rock
crystal, as well as glass, and also in atmospheres of carbonic acid
and of hydrogen. Still the results were the same, and ruby gold
appeared in one case as much as in another. Being heated, all
parts of the deposit became of an amethystine or ruby colour ;
and by pressure these parts could be changed so as to transmit the
green ray.
    The production of fluids, consisting of very finely divided par
ticles of gold diffused through water, was spoken of before. These
fluids may be of various colours by transmitted light from ruby to
blue ; the effects being produced only by diffused particles of
metallic gold. If a drop of solution of phosphorus in bisulphide
of carbon be put into a bottle containing a quart or more of very
weak solution of gold, and the whole be agitated, the change is
brought about sooner than by the process formerly described ; or if
a solution of phosphorus in ether be employed, very quickly indeed ;
so that a few hours' standing completes the action. All the prepa
rations have the same qualities as those before described. The
differently coloured fluids may have the coloured particles par
tially removed by filtration ; and so long as the particles are kept
by the filter from aggregation, they preserve their ruby or other
colour unchanged, even though salt be present. If fine isinglass
be soaked in water, then warmed to melt it, and one of these rich
fluids be added, with agitation, a ruby jelly fluid will be obtained,
 which, when sufficiently concentrated and cold, supplies a tremu
lous jelly ; and this, when dried, yields a hard ruby gelatine, which
being soaked in water, becomes tremulous again, and by heat and
more water yields a ruby fluid. The dry hard ruby jelly is per
fectly analogous to the well known ruby glass, though often finer in
colour ; and both owe the colour to particles of metallic gold.
Animal membranes may in like manner have ruby particles diffused
through them, and then are perfectly analogous in their action on
light to the gold ruby glass, and from the same cause.
    When a leaf of beaten gold is held obliquely across a ray of
common light, it polarizes a portion of it ; and the light transmitted
is polarized in the same direction as that transmitted by a bundle of
thin plates of glass ; the effect is produced by the heated leaf as
well as by the green leaf, and does not appear to be due to any
condition brought on by the heating or to internal structure. When
a polarized ray is employed, and the inclined leaf held across it, the
ray is affected, and a part passes the analyzer, provided the gold
film is inclined in a plane forming an angle of 45° with the plane
of polarization. Like effects are produced by the films of gold pro
duced from solution and phosphorus, and also by the deposited
dust of gold due to the electric discharge. The same effects are

446                   General Monthly Meeting.                 [July 6,
produced by the other deflagrated metals so long as the dusty
films are in the metallic state. As these finer preparations could
be held in place only on glass or some such substance, and as
glass itself had an effect, it was necessary to find a medium in
which the power of the glass was nothing ; and this was obtained
in the bisulphide of carbon. Here the effect of gold upon a ray
of light which was unaffected by the glass supporting it, was ren
dered very manifest, not only to a single observer, but also to a
large audience.
    The object of these investigations was to ascertain the varied
powers of a substance acting upon light, when its particles were
extremely divided, to the exclusion of every other change of con
stitution. It was hoped that some of the very important differences
in the action upon the rays might in this way be referred to the
relation in size or in number of the vibrations of the light and the
particles of the body, and also to the distance of the latter from each
other : and as many of the effects are novel in this point of view, it
is hoped that they will be of service to the physical philosopher.
                                                             [M.F.]
              GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, July 6.
WILLIAM POLE, ESQ. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                         J. W. Childers, Esq.
 was duly elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
                      Charles Tilston Bright, Esq.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
     A copy of the New Classified Catalogue of the Library, brought
down to July 1857, consisting of 946 pages, (including a Chronolo
gical List of Historical Tracts and Indexes of Authors and Sub
jects,) was laid before the Members. The price of a copy, half-
bound, will be to the Members, 10*. ; to Non-Members, 15s.
     The special thanks of the Members were returned to the
Society of Dilettanti, for their present of three volumes of their
 Publications—Ancient Sculptures, Vol. II. ; Antiquities of Ionia,
Part III. ; and the Bronzes of Siris.

 1857.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                         447
      Tlie following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
 Members returned for the same : —
   FROM
 HER MAJESTY'S GOVERNMENT—Toronto Meteorological and Magnetical Obser
      vations. Vol. III. 4to. 1857.
East India Company, the Hon.—Rig Veda Sanhitti. Translated by Professor
       H. H. Wilson. Vol. III. 8vo. 1857.
Airy, G. B. Esq. Astronomer-Royal—Report on the Royal Observatory, Green
      wich, June 6, 1857.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices Vol. XVII. No. 8. 8vo. 1857.
Bath and West of England Society—Journal, Vol. V. 8vo. 1857.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for June 1857. 8vo.
 Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishert)—The Musical World for June 1857. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in June 1857. 4to.
 Coutts, Miss A. Burdett, M.R.I.—Summary Account of Prizes for Common
      Things. 2nd ed. 8vo. 1857.
 Collier, Dr. C. F.R.S. M.K.I, (the Author)—The History of the Plague of
      Athens, translated from Thucydidcs ; with Remarks. 16to. 18.ri7.
 Dilettanti, Society of—Specimens of Ancient Sculpture. Vol.11, fol. 1835.
   Antiquities of Ionia. Part 3. fol. 1840.
   The Bronzes of Siris now in the British Museum : an Archaeological Essay
      by P. O. Briindsted. fol. 1836.
 Editors—The Medical Circular for June 1857. 8vo.
      The Practical Mechanic's Journal for June 1857. 4lo.
      The Journal of Gas- Lighting for June 1857. 4to.
      The Mechanic's Magazine for June 1857. 8vo.
      The Athenffium for June 1857. 4to.
      The Engineer for June 1857. fol.
      The Artisan for June 1857.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.K.S. Sfc.—Konigliche Preussischen Akademie.
      Berichte, Nov. 1856.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIII. No. 4, 5. 8vo.
      1857.
   Report of the Twenty-fifth Exhibition of American Manufactures in Phila
      delphia. Nov. 1856. 8vo. 1857.
Geological Society—Journal, No. 50. 8vo. 1857.
Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General)—Report of the Registrar-General
      for June 1857. 8vo.
Kupffer, M. A. T. Dirccteur—Compte Rendn Annuel de 1'Observatoire
      Physique Central de Russie. 4to. 1857.
Lawrence, Ferdinand, Esq.—Lives of the British Historians, by Eugene Law
      rence. 2 vols. 12mo. 1855.
Lewin, Malcolm, Esq. M.R.I.— " How to lose India." 8vo. 1857.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 5. 8vo. 1857.
Newton, Messrs.— London Journal (New Series), June 1857. 8vo.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for June 1857. 4to.
Radcliffe Trustees, Oj/<W— Radcliffc Observations for 1855. 8vo. 1856.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographic. 1857. Heff 2. 4to. Gotha, 1852.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 55. 8vo. 1856.
Society of Arts.—Journal for June 1857. 8vo.
Statistical Society— Journal, Vol. XX. Part 2. 8vo. 1857.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Thesaurus Secretorum Curiosorum. 4to.
     Colon. 1 709.
United States Coast Surrey—Charts (in continuation).
Vereins nur Befdrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preutsen—Jan. und Feb. 1857. 4to.

vcr , >, 7,
 ""A-r fr ,.ft

                      Institution of <£reat Britain.
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                        Monday, November 2, 1 857.
 WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                Captain James Drew,
                The Rev. Allen Trevelyan Cooper, M.A. and
                Charles William Lancaster, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   FBOM—
Her Majesty's Government— Report of H.M.S. Commissioners on Lunatic Asylums
      in Scotland. 8vo. 1857.
   Judicial Statistics. Part 1. fol. 1857.
   (Through Sir R. I. Murchison)—Memoirs of the Geological Survey:—
     Mining Records, Mineral Statistics of the United Kingdom, for 1853-56.
     By E. Hunt. 8vo. 1855-7.
   Geology of the Country round Cheltenham. By Edward Hull. 8vo. 1857.
   Tertiary Fluvio-Marine Formation of the Isle of Wight By Edward
     Forbes. 8vo. 1856.
   Descriptive Guide to the Museum of Geology. By R. Hunt. 12uio. 1857.
   Iron Ores of Great Britain. PartI. STo. 1856.
Lord* Commissioners of the Admiralty— Tables de la Lune. Par P. A. Hansen.
     4to. 1857.
Actuariet, Institute of—Assurance Magazine. Nos. 28, 29. 8vo. 1857.
Agricultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XVIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1857.
Amsterdam Koninklijhe Akademie van fPetetischappen— Verslagen: Letterkunde,
     Deel II. ; St. 2, 3, 4 ; Natuurkunde, Deel V. ; St. 2, 3 ; Deel VI. STo.
     1856-7.
  Octaviee Querela, Carmen, auctore J. Van Leenwen. STo. 1857.
Andrew, W. P. Esq. (the Author)— Indus Flotilla. 8vo. 1857.
Antiquaries, Society of—Archaeologia. Vol. XXXVI. Part 2 ; Vol. XXXVII.
     Part 1. 4 to. 1856-7.
   Proceedings, NOB. 43-46. 8vo. 1855-7.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Nos. 159-161. 8vo. 1857.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Memoirs, Vol. XXV. 4to. 1857.
  Monthly Notices, Vol. XVI. STo. 1857.
Author—Procesde 1'Ex-Ministre Helle"nique, Gen. Spiro Milios. 8To. Athcnes,
     1856.
Bell, Jacob, Esq.M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for July to Oct. 1857. STo.
Boosey, Messrs, (the PublishersJ—The Musical World for July to Oct. 1 857. 4to.
   VOL. II.—(No. 27.)                                              2 i

450                      General MonMy Meeting.                       [Nov. 2,
British Architect!, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in July 1857. 4to.
British Association—Report of the Twenty-sixth Meeting, held at Cheltenham,
      1856. 8vo. 1857.
Burel, M. E.— Rapportsur 1'Exposition Universelle de 1855. 8vo. Ronen, 1 S56.
Canada, Government of—Catalogue of the Library of the Parliament of
      Canada. 8vo. 1857.
 Chemical Society—Journal, No. 39. 8vo. 1857.
Daubcay,Charles, M.D. FR.S. (the Author)—Lectures on Roman Husbandry.
      8vo. 1857.
Denison, E. Beckett, Esq. M.A. Q.C. MJt.I. (the Author.)—Clocks and Locks.
      IGto. 1857.
   Two Lectures on Gothic Architecture. By G. G. Scott and E. B. Denisoo.
      12mo. 1857.
Department of State, Washington, U.S.—Track Survey of the Riven Parafia,
      Uruguay, &c. By Capt. Thos. Page. 1855.
Dublin Geological Society—Journal, Vol. VII. No. 4. 8vo. 1857.
Dublin Society, Koiial—journal, No. 6. 8vo. 1857.
Editors—The Medical Circular for July to Oct. 1857. 8vo.
     The Practical Mechanic's Journal for July to Oct. 1857. 4to.
     The Jonrnal of Gas-Lighting for July to Oct. 1857. 4to.
     The Mechanic's Magazine for July to Oct. 1857. 8vo.
     The Athenffium for July to Oct. 1857. 4tb:
     The Engineer for July to Oct. 1857. fol.
     The Artisan for July to Oct. 1857.
Faradrii/, Professor, D.C.L. F.lt.S. Ifc. (the Author}—On the Relations at
     Gold to Light. (Phil. Trans.) 4to. 1857.
   Konigliche Preussischen Akademie, Berichte, Mai—Aug. 18.S7.
   Oversigt over det Kongelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskab, Fordhand-
     linger, 1856. 8vo. 1856.
   Tageblatt der 32te Versammlung Dentscher Naturforscher in Wien in 1856.
     4to. 18S7.
   Memorie della Reale Accademia delle Scienze, Napoli, dal 1852. Vol. I.
      Fasc. 1 & 2. 4to. 1856-7.
   Rendiconto della SpcieU Rcale Borbonica. Anno V. 1856. Bimestre
     Gennaio e Febbraio. 4to.
   Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien: Math. Nat. Classe: Denkschriften,
     Band XII. 4to. ; Sitzungsberichte. Band XX., XXI , XXIJ., und XX11I.
     Heft I., und Register zu Band XI.-XX. 8vo. 1856-7.
        Almanach, 1857. 12to.
   Accademia de Belgiqne : Bulletins de la Classe des Sciences, 1 855-56. Svo.
     Bruxelles, 4to. 1856-57.
   Academic di Torino ; Memorie, Serie Seconda. Tomo XVI. 4to. 1857.
   Societa Italiana in Modena ; Memorie, Tomo XXV. Parte 2. 4to. 1855.
   M. Quetelet: Observations des Phe"nomene9 Piriodiques. 4to. 1857:Surle
     Climat de la Belgiqne. 4tb. Bruxelles, 1857.
   Meteorological Papers, published by Authority of the Board of Trade.
     No. I. 4to. 1857.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIII. No. 6; Vol.
     XXXIV. No. 1. 8vo. 1857.
Gellibrand, W. Esq.—Vocabulary of the Aborigines of Tasmania. By Joseph
     Milligan. fol. 1857.
Geographical Society, Koyal—Proceedings. Nos. 9, 10. 8vo. 1857.
Geological Society—Journal, No. 51. 8vo. 1857.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Constitution of the Society ; and the Catalogue
     of the Library. 8vo. 1850-7.
Graham, George, Esq. (Kegistrar-General)—Reports of the Registrar-General
     for July to Oct. 1857. 8vo.
Graubilndens Naturfonchende Gesellschaft—Jahresberichtc. Neuc Folge I. uud
     II. 8vo. 1854-6.

 1857.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                        451
 Griffith, C. D. Esq. M.P. M.R.I, (the A athor)—Speech on the Euphrates
       Railway and the Suez Canal.    8vo. 1857.
 Hofmann, Ih-. A. W. F.R.S.and H. M.Witt, F.C.S. (the Authors)— Metro
       politan Drainage—Report of Chemical Investigations, fol. 1857.
 Levin, Malcolm, Esq. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Causes of the Hindu Revolt.
       By a Hindu of Bengal. 8vo. 1857.
Lota, Mr. S.—Catalogue of American Books. 8vo. 1856.
 Lubbock, John, Esq. M.R.I.—On reproduction in Daphnia, and on the Ephip-
       pium. (Phil. Trans.) 1857.
 Mvrchison, Sir R. I. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Notices of the Life of
       Dr. Buckland and the Earl of Ellesmere. 8vo. 1857.
   Address to the Royal Geographical Society, May 25, 1857. 8vo.
Newton, Messrs. —London Journal (New Series), July to Oct. 1857. 8vo.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for July to Oct. 1857. 4to.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebicte der
      Geographic. 1857. Heft 3-8. 4to. Gotha, 1857.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 56-59. 8vo. 1857.
Rogers, J. W. C.E.—Facts and Fallacies of the Sewerage System of London,
      &c. 8vo. 1857.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXLV1. Parts 2
      and 3 ; and Vol. CXLVII. Parti. 4to. 1856-57.
   Proceedings, Nos. 25-27. 8vo. 1857.
Society of Arts—Journal for July to Oct. 1857. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XX. Part 3. 8vo. 1857.
St. Pelersbourg, Acadc'mie ImpeTriale de—Mcmoires: Sciences Naturelles,
      Tome VII., Sciences Politiques, Tome VIII. Divers Savans, Tome VII.
      4to. 1854-5.
   Compte Rendu, 1852-5. 8vo.
   Bulletin Math.-Phys. Vol. XV. 4to. 1857.
Taylor, Rev. W., F.R.S. M.K.I.—Weber's Volkskalender fdr 1858. 12mo.
 Vereins zur BefSrderungdesGeiPerbffeisses in Preussen—Marzzu Aug. 1857. 4to.
 Vincent, B. Assist. Sec. R.I. (the Editor)— Haydn's Dictionary of Dates.
      Eighth Edition. 8vo. 1857.
Warburton, Henry, Esq. F.R.S. M.R. /.—Report of the Senate of the University
      of London on the amended Draft Charter. 8vo. 1857.
Ward, F. O. Esq. (the Author)—Discours sur Bienfaisancc Nationale, &c.
      8vo. 1857.
   Sur la Purification de 1'Eau. 8vo. 1857,
fl'rey, J. W. Esq. M.R. I.—Treatise on the Law of Tithes. By T. Cunning
      ham. Fourth Edition. 8vo. 1777.
   Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of England. Edited by E.
      Christian. 4 vpls. 8vo. 1803.
   Pleadings in Parliament in the Reigns of Edward I. and II. By W. Ryley.
      fol. 1661.
   Collection of Cases of Privilege of Parliament from the Earliest Records to
      1628. By J. Hateell. 4to. 1766.
   Sir R. Adair on the Negotiation for the Peace of the Dardanelles 1808-9.
      8vo. 1845.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. IV. Part 4. 4to. 1857.
   Proceedings, Nos. 314-333. 8vo. 1856-57.
                                                                2i 2

452                           General Monthly Meeting.            [Dec. 7,
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                   Monday, December 7.
 WILLIAM FOLK, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President ,
                                      in tin.' Chair.
                            Charles Brooke, Esq. F.R.S.
 was duly elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
                               Neil Arnott, M.D. F.R.S.
 was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
        The Secretary reported that the following Arrangements had
 been made for the Lectures before Easter, 1858 :—
        Six Lectures on STATIC ELECTRICITY (adapted to a Juvenile
 Auditory), by MICHAEL FARADAY, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. &c. Fid-
 lerian Professor of Chemistry, R.I.
        Twelve Lectures on the PRINCIPLES OF BIOLOGY, by THOMAS
 HENRY HUXLEY, Esq. F.R.S. Fullerian Professor of Physiology, R.I.
        Ten Lectures on HEAT, CONSIDERED AS A MODE OF MOTION,
 by JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. F.R.S. Professor of Natural Philosophy,
 R.I.
        Ten Lectures on the CHEMISTRY OF THE ELEMENTS WHICH
 CIRCULATE IN NATURE, by CHARLES L. BLOXAM, Esq. Professor
 of Practical Chemistry, King's College, London.
        The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
 Members returned for the same :—
     FROM—
 Hon. East India Company—Bombay Magnctical and Meteorological Observa
         tions for 1854 and 1855. 4to.
 American Academy of Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. III. Nos. 24-31. 8vo.
         1856.
     Memoirs, New Series, Vol. VI. Parti. 4to. 1857.
 American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 56. 8vo, 1857.
 Astronomical Society, Koyat—Monthly Notices, Vol. XVII. No. 9. 8To. 1857.
  .\i lii-uii am < 'lull—List of Members, &c. 16to. 1857.
 Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for Nov. 1857. 8vo.
 Booseg, Messrs, (the Publishers) -The Musical World for Nov. 1857. 4to.
 Boston Society of Natural History—Proceedings, Vol. V. Nos, 21-26. Vol.
         IV. Nos. 1-10. 8vo. 1856-7.

  1857.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                       453
 liritish Architect!, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in Nov. 1857. 4to.
 l)e hroch, M., Minis!re des Finances de Kussie—Dr. C. H. Pander, Monogra
       ph!™ iiber der Fossilen Fisehe des Silurischen Systems der Russisch-
       Baltischen Gouvernements ; und Uber die Placodennen des Devouischeu
      Systems. 4to. St. Petersburg, 1857.
 Edinburgh Royal Obtervalory—Astronomical Observations. Vol. XI. 4to.
       1857.
 Edinburgh, Royal Society of—Transactions. Vol. XXI. Part 4. 4to. 1857.
    Proceedings, No. 47. 8vo. 1856-7.
 Editort—The Medical Circular for Nov. 1857. 8vo.
      The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Nov. 1857. 4to.
      The Journal of Gas-Lighting for Nov. 1857. 4to.
      The Mechanic's Magazme for Nov. 1857. 8vo.
      The Athenaeum for Nov. 1857. 4to.
      The Engineer for Nov. 1857. fbl.
      The Artisan for NOT. 1857.
      St. James's Medley, No. 12. 8vo. 1857.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S. fcc.—Abhandlungen der Akademie der
      Wissenschaften zu Berlin, 1856. 4to. 1857.
    Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien: Math. Nat. Classe, Denkschriften,
      Band XIII. 4to. Sitzungsberichte, Band XXIII. Heft 2: Band XXIV.
      Heft 1, 2. 8vo. 1857.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIV. Nos. 2-4. 8vo.
      1857.
 Galbraith, Rev. J. A. and Rev. S. Haughton (the Authors)—Manuals of Arith
      metie, Plane Trigonometry, Mechanics, Euclid (Books 1-3), Hydrostatics,
      Optics, and Astronomy. 16to. 1855-7.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 52. 8vo. 1857.
 Giaham, George, /•'.«;. (Registrar- General)—Reports of the Registrar-General
      for Nov. 1857. 8vo.
    Eighteenth Annual Report. 8vo. 1857.
 Huxley, Professor T. H. F.R.S.—On Glaciers : by Professors Tyndall and
      Huxley. (Phil. Trans.) 4to. 1857.
Jones, H. Bence, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Editor)—The Chemistry of Wine.
      By^G. J. Mulder. 16to. 1857.
Lankester, Edwin, M.D. F.R.S. (the TYantlator)—On the Animal and Vege
      table Parasites of the Human Body. By F. Kuchenmeister. Vol. I. 8vo.
      1857.
Levin, Malcolm, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Torture in Madras. 2nd Edition.
      8vo. 1857.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 6. 8vo. 1857.
Lissajma, M, J. (the Author)—Memoire sur 1' Etude Optique des Mouvements
      Vibratoires. 8vo. Paris, 1857.
Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 11. 8vo.
      1857.
Madrid Real Academia de Cieaciaa—Memorias, Tomo IV. Parte 2. 4to
      1857.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs, New Series. Vol.
      XIV. 8vo. 1857.
   Meteorological Observations and Essays. By John Dalton. 2nd Edition.
      8vo. 1834.
   New System of Chemical Philosophy. ,By John Dalton. Part 1. 2nd
      Edition. Parts 2 and 3. 8vo. 1810-27.
   Three Chemical Papers. By John Dalton. 8vo. 1840-2.
Neioton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), Nov. 1857. 8vo.
Noaello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for Nov. 1857. 4to.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 60. 8vo. 1857.
Portlock, Col. J. E. R.E. (tlie Author)—Address to the Geological Society,
      Feb. 20, 1857. 8vo.

454                          Professor TyndaU,                   [Jan. 22,
Rennie, James, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Mathematical Treatises. By the Rev.
     J. West. 8vo. 1838.
  Elements of Christian Theology. By Bishop Pretyman [Tomline]. 2 vols.
     8vo. 1799.
  Traite de Trigonometrie, par S. F. Lacroix. 8vo. Paris, 1837.
   Precis de Geometrie, par A. J. Vincent. 8vo. Paris, 1837.
  Traite de Geometric Descriptive, par L. LefeTiure de Fourcy. 8vo. Paris,
     1837.
Royal College ofSurgeons—Catalogue of the Library. 5 vols, 8vo. 1840-55.
Roma, Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincci—Atti, Anno VII. Sess. 1, 2.
     Anno. X. Sees. 1-5. 4to. 1856-7.
Siichslsche Gesellschqft der Wissenschajlen—Abhaudlungen, Band VI. Hefte
      1 und 2. 4to. 1857.
  Berichte, 1856, Hefte 2. 1857, Hefte 1. 8vo.
Shaw, Alexander, Esq. M.K.I.— Report on Dr. Fell's Treatment of Cancerous
     Diseases at Middlesex Hospital. 8vo. 1857.
Smithsonian Institution, Washington—Tenth and Eleventh Annual Reports. 8vo .
      1856-7.
   Smithsonian Contributions, Vol. IX. 4to. 1857.
  Researches on the Ammonio-Cobalt Bases; by W. Gibbs and S. Genth. 4to.
     1856.
Society of Arts—Journal for Nov. 1857. 8vo.
Sopunth, Thos. Esg. M.R.I, (the Author)—Notes of a Visit to Egypt. 16to.
     1857.
Streatfeild, J. F. Esq. (the Editor}—Ophthalmic Hospital Reports.    No. 1.
     8vo. 1857.
United States Coast Survey— Report for 1855.
Zoological Society—Proceedings, Nos. 33-1-338. 8vo. 1857.
                                    1858.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, January 22.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq. H.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.                               »
                     PROFESSOR J. TYNDALL, F.R.S.
                 On some Physical Properties of Ice.
THE discourse was prefaced by some remarks on force in general ;
and more especial attention was afterwards directed to the force,
or application of force, manifested in the phenomena of crystalliza
tion. Experimental illustrations were exhibited, and the speaker
passed on to the particular case of crystallized water, or ice. Being

 1858.]          on some Physical Properties ofIce.               455
desirous of examining how the interior of a mass of ice was affected
by a beam of radiant heat sent through it, he availed himself of the
sunny weather of last September and October. The sunbeams
being condensed by a lens, the concentrated beams were sent
through slabs of ice, the arrangement being usually so made as to
cause the focus to fall within the substance. The path of such a
beam through the ice was observed to be instantly studded with
lustrous spots, which increased in magnitude and number as the
action continued. On examining the spots more closely, they
were found to be flattened spheroids, and around each the ice
was so liquified as to form a beautiful flower-shaped figure,
possessing six petals. From this number there was no deviation.
At first the edges of the liquid leaves were clearly defined ; but a
continuance of the action usually caused the edges to become ser
rated like those of ferns. When the ice was caused to move
across the beam, or the beam caused to traverse different portions
of the ice in succession, the sudden generation and crowding together
of these liquid flowers, with their central spots shining with more
than metallic brilliancy, was exceedingly beautiful.
    A slab of ice was prepared, and placed in front of an electric
lamp : by a lens placed in front of the slab, the latter was pro
jected upon a screen ; on sending a beam from the lamp through
the ice, the formation of the flowers was rendered visible to the
audience.
    In almost all cases these flowers were formed in planes parallel
to the surface of freezing ; it mattered not whether the beam tra
versed the ice parallel to this surface, or perpendicular to it.
Some apparent exceptions to this rule were found, which will form
the subject of future investigation.
    The general appearance of the shining spots at the centres of
the flowers was that of the bubbles of air entrapped in the ice : to
examine whether they contained air or not, portions of ice con
taining them were immersed in warm water. The ice surrounding
the cavities melted, the latter instantly collapsed, and no trace of
air rose to the surface of the water. A vacuum, therefore, had
been formed at the centre of each spot ; due, doubtless, to the well-
known fact that the volume of water in each flower was less than
that of the ice, by the melting of which the flower was produced.
    The associated air-and-water cells, found in such numbers in
the ice of glaciers, and observed by the speaker in lake ice, were
next examined. Two hypotheses have been started to account for
these cells. One attributes them to the absorption of the sun's heat
by the air bubbles, and the consequent melting of the ice which
surrounds them. The other hypothesis, which is a very reasonable
one, supposes that the liquid in the cells never has been frozen, but
has continued in the liquid condition from the neve or origin of the
glacier downwards. Now if the water in the cells be due to the
melting of the ice, the associated air must be in a rr,rrfied condi

456                       Professor Tyndall,                  [Jan. 22,
lion, because the volume of the liquid is less than that of the ice
which produced it ; whereas, if the air be simply that entrapped in
the snow of the neve, it will not be thus rarefied. Here, then, we
have a test as to whether the water-cells have been produced by
the melting of the ice.
    Portions of ice containing these compound cells were immersed
in hot water, the ice around the cavities being thus gradually
melted away. When a liquid connexion was established between
the bubble and the atmosphere, the former collapsed to a smaller
bubble. In many cases the residual bubble did not reach the
hundredth part of the magnitude of the primitive one. There was
no exception to this rule, and it proves that the water of the
cavities is really due to the melting of the adjacent ice.
    The first hypothesis above referred to is I hat of H. Agassiz ;
which has been reproduced and subscribed to by the Messrs.
Schlagintweit, and accepted generally as the true one. Let us
pursue it to its consequences.
    Comparing equal weights of air and water, experiment proves
that to raise a given weight of water one degree in temperature, as
much heat would be needed as would raise the same weight of
air four degrees.
    Comparing equal volumes of air and water, the water is known
to be 770 times heavier than the air ; consequently, for a given
volume of air to raise an equal volume of water one degree in
temperature, it must part with 770 X 4 = 3080 degrees.
    Now the quantity of heat necessary to melt a given weight of
ice would raise the same weight of water 142 '6 Fahr. degrees in
temperature. Hence to produce, by the melting of ice, an amount
of water equal to itself in bulk, a bubble of air must yield up
3080 X 142-6, or upwards of four hundred thousand degrees
Fahrenheit.
    This is the amount of heat which, according to the hypothesis
of M. Agassiz and the Messrs. Schlagintweit, is absorbed by the
bubble of the air in a short time under the eyes of the observer.
That is to say, the air is capable of absorbing an amount of heat
which, had it not been communicated to the surrounding ice, would
raise the bubble to a temperature 160 times that of fused cast
iron. Did air possess this enormous power of absorption it would
not be without inconvenience for the animal and vegetable life of
our planet.
    The fact is, that a bubble of air at the earth's surface is unable,
in the sightest appreciable degree, to absorb the sun's rays ; for
those rays before they reach the earth have been perfectly sifted by
their passage through the atmosphere. The following., experiment
illustrative of this point, has been made by the speaker : the rays
from an electric lamp were condensed by a lens, and the concen
trated beam sent through the bulb of a differential thermometer.
The heat of the beam was intense ; still not the slightest effect was

1858.]           on some Physical Properties of Ice.              457
produced upon the thermometer. In fact, all the rays that glass
could absorb had been absorbed by the lens, and the heat con
sequently passed through the thin glass envelope of the thermo
meter, and the air within it, without imparting the slightest sensible
heat to either.
    The bubbles observed by the speaker, and those which occur in
the deeper portions of glacier ice, he supposes to have been pro
duced by heat which has been conducted through the substance
without melting it. Regarding heat as a mode of motion, he
shows that the liberty of liquidity is attained by the molecules at
the surface of a mass of ice, before the molecules at the centre of
the mass can attain this liquidity. Within the mass each molecule
is controlled in its motion by the surrounding molecules. But if a
cavity exist at the interior, the molecules surrounding that cavity
are in a condition similar to those at the surface ; and they are
liberated by an amount of motion which has been transmitted
through the ice without prejudice to its solidity. The conception
is helped when we call to mind the transmission of motion through
a series of elastic balls, by which the last ball of the series is de
tached, while the others do not suffer visible separation. The
speaker, moreover, proves, by actual experiment, that the interior
portion of a mass of ice may be liquified by an amount of heat
which has been conducted through the exterior portions without
melting them.
    Now precisely the converse of this takes place when two pieces
of ice, at 32" Fahr., with moist surfaces, are brought into contact.
Superficial portions are by this act transferred to the centre, where
a temperature of 32° is not sufficient to produce liquefaction. The
motion of liquidity which the surfaces possessed before contact is
now checked, and the pieces of ice freeze together. This appears
to furnish a complete explanation of all the cases of this nature
which have hitherto been observed.
    The particles of a crushed mass of ice at 32°, or a ball of moist
snow, may, it is now well known, be squeezed into slabs or cups of
ice. That moisture is necessary here, and that the same agent is
necessary in the conversion of snow into glacier ice, was proved by
the following experiment. A ball of ice was cooled in a bath of
solid carbonic acid and ether, and thus rendered perfectly dry.
Placed in a suitable mould, and subjected to hydraulic pressure,
the ball was crushed ; but the crushed fragments remained as
white and opaque as those of crushed glass. The particles, while
thus dry, could not be squeezed so as to form pellucid ice, which is
so easily obtained when the compressed mass is at a temperature of
32° Fahr.
                                                           [J. T.]

458                      W. R. Grove, Esq. on                     [Jan. 29,
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, January 29.
      SIR BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, Bart., D.C.L. F.R.S.
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
          WILLIAM ROBERT GKOVE, Esq. Q.C. V.P.R.S.
        On Molecular Impressions by Light and Electricity.
THE term molecule is used in different senses by different authors :
by some it is employed with the same meaning as the word atom,
i.e., to signify an ultimate indivisible particle of matter ; by others
to signify a definite congeries of atoms forming an integral element
of matter, somewhat as a brick may be said to be a congeries of
particles of sand, but a structural element of a house.
     The term is used this evening to signify tiie particles of bodies
smaller than those having a sensible magnitude, or only as a term of
contradistinction from masses. If there be any distinctive charac
teristic of the science of the present century as contrasted with that
of former times, it is the progress made in molecular physics, or the
successive discoveries which have shown that when ordinary ponder
able matter is subjected to the action of what were formerly called
the imponderables, the matter is molecularly changed. The re
markable relations existing between the physical structure of matter,
and its effect upon heat, light, electricity, magnetism, &c., seems,
until the present century, to have attracted little attention : thus, to
take the two agents selected for this evening's discourse, Light and
Electricity, how manifestly their effects depend upon the molecular
structure of the bodies subjected to their influence? Carbon in
the form of diamond transmits light but stops electricity. Carbon
in the form of coke or graphite, into which the diamond may be
transformed by heat, transmits electricity but stops light. All solid
bodies which transmit light freely, or are transparent, are non
conductors of electricity, or may be said to be opaque to it ; all the
best conductors of electricity, as black carbon and the metals, are
opaque or non-conductors of light.* Bodies which have a peculiar
but definite and symmetrical structure, such as crystals, affect light
definitely and in strict relation to their structure : witness the effects
of polarized light on crystals ; and there are not wanting instances
    * It should be borne in mind that these terms are not absolute, but only
express a high degree of approximation.

 1858.]   Molecular Impressions by Light and Electricity,          459
of similar relations between the structure of bodies and their trans
mission of electricity.
     The converse of this class of effects, however, forms more
properly the subject of this evening's communication, viz., the
changes in the molecular structure of matter produced by Light
and Electricity. The effect of light on plants, on their growth
and colour, the bleaching effects of light on coloured bodies, the
phosphorescence of certain substances by insolation or exposure
to the sun, have long been known, and yet do not seem to have
awakened in the minds of the ancient natural philosophers any
notion of the general molecular effects of light. Leonard Euler
alone conceived that light may be regarded as a movement or
undulation of ordinary matter ; and Dr. Young, in answer, stated
as a most formidable objection, that if this view were correct all
bodies should possess the properties of solar phosphorus, or should
be thrown into a state of molecular vibration by the impact of light,
just as a resonant body is thrown into vibration by the impact of
sound, and thus give back to the sentient organ an effect similar to ,
that of the original impulse.
    In the last edition of his Essay on the " Correlation of Physical -
Forces," (1855, p. 131,) Mr. Grove has made the/ollowing remark*. '"
on this question : " To the main objection of Dr. Young that all bodies \
would have the properties of solar phosphorus if light consisted in
the undulations of ordinary matter, it may be answered that so
many bodies have this property, and with so great variety in its
duration, that run constat all may not have it, though for a time so
short that the eye cannot detect its duration ; the fact of the phos
phorescence by insolation of a large number of bodies is in itself
evidence of the matter of which they are composed being thrown
into a state of undulation, or at all events molecularly affected by
the impact of light, and is therefore an argument in support of the
 view to which objection is taken." The above conjecture has been
substantially verified by the recent experiments of M. Niepce de
St. Victor, of which the following is a short resumd:—
     An engraving which has been for some time in the dark is
exposed to sunlight as to one half, the other half being covered by
 an opaque screen : it is then taken into a dark room, the screen
 removed, and the whole surface placed in close proximity to a sheet
of highly sensitive photographic paper. The portion upon which the
light has impinged is reproduced on the photographic paper, while
no effect is produced by the portion which had been screened from
light. White bodies produce the greatest effect, black little or
 none, and colours intermediate effects.
     An engraving exposed as before, then placed in the dark upon
 white paper, conveys the impression to the latter, which will in its
 turn impress photographic paper.
     Paper, in a tin case, exposed to sunlight, then covered up by a
 tin cover will, when opened in the dark, radiate from the aperture

460                     W. R. Grote, Esq. on                 [Jan. 29,
phosphorescent force, and produce a circular mark on the photo
graphic paper, and even impress on the latter the lines of ail
engraving interposed between it and the photographic surface.
    Phosphorescent bodies produce similar effects in a greater degree,
and bodies which intercept the phosphorescent effect intercept the
invisible radiations. A design drawn by a fluorescent substance,
such as a solution of sulphate of quinine on paper, is reproduced,
the design being more strongly impressed than the residual parts
of the paper.
     Mr. Grove had little doubt that had the discourse been given in
the summer instead of mid-winter, he could have literally realised
in this theatre the Lagado problem of extracting sunbeams from
cucumbers !
     While fishing in the autumn, in the grounds of M. Seguin, at
Fontenay, Mr. Grove observed some white patches on the skin of a
trout, which he was satisfied had not been there when the fish was
taken out of the water. The fish having been rolling about in
some leaves at the foot of a tree, guve him the notion that the effect
might be photographic, arising from the sunlight having darkened
the uncovered, but not the covered portions of the skin. With a
fresh fish a serrated leaf was placed on each side, and the fish laid
down so that the one side should be exposed, the other sheltered
from light : after an hour or so the fish was examined, and a well
defined image of the leaf was apparent on the upper or exposed
side, but none on the under or sheltered side. There was no
opportunity of further experiment ; but there seems little doubt of
the effect being photographic, or an oxidation or deoxidation of the
tissue determined by light.
     Many important considerations might be suggested as deducible
from the above results, as to the influence of light on health, both
that of vegetables and animals. The effect of light on the healthy
growth of plants is well known ; and it is generally believed that
dark rooms, though well heated and ventilated, are more " close "
or less healthy than those exposed to light. When we consider the
invisible phosphorescence which must radiate from the walls and
furniture, when we consider the effects of light on animal tissue,
and the probable ozonizing or other minute chemical changes in the
atmosphere effected by light, it becomes probable that it is far more
immediately influential on the health of the animate world than is
generally believed.
     The number of substances proved to be molecularly affected by
light is so rapidly increasing, that it is by no means unreasonable
to suppose that all bodies are in a greater or less degree changed
by its impact.
     Passing now to the effects of Electricity, every day brings us
fresh evidence of the molecular changes effected by this agent. The
electric discharge alters the constitution of many gases across
which it is passed ; and it was shown, that by passing it through

1858.]     Molecular Impressions by Light and Electricity.          461
an attenuated atmosphere of the vapours of phosphorus, this element
is changed by the electric discharge into its allotropic variety, which
is deposited in notable quantity on the sides of the receiver. In
this experiment, the transverse bands or striae discovered by Mr.
Grove, in 1852, are very strikingly shown. Not only is the gaseous
intermedium thus affected, but the terminals from which the dis
charge appears to issue, are disintegrated, and their molecules
projected. Some tubes, through the interior of which Mr. Gassiot
had passed the discharge from Ruhmkorff"s coil for a considerable
time, were shown to be coated in the interior, for a notable space
around the negative terminal, with a deposit of platinum, forming
a reflecting surface like the back of a looking-glass. The vacuum
in these tubes was Torricellian, the tubes having been hermetically
sealed after the descent of the mercury, so as to cut them off from
the mercurial surface. In these cases the electric discharge passes
from metal to metal ; but the glow which is seen on excited elec
trics, such as glass, was also shown by Mr. Grove to be accompanied
with molecular change. Letters cut in paper, and placed between
two well cleaned sheets of glass, formed into a Leyden apparatus
by sheets of tin foil on their outer surfaces, and then electrified by
connexion for a few seconds with a Ruhmkorff coil, had invisible
images of the letters impressed upon the interior surfaces, which
were rendered visible by breathing on them ; and rendered visible,
and at the same time permanently etched, by exposure, after elec
trization, to the vapour of hydrofluoric acid.
     So, again, if iodized collodion be poured over the surface of
glass having the invisible image, and then treated as for a photo
graph, and exposed to uniform daylight, the invisible image is
ultimately developed in the collodion film ; the invisible mole
cular change having been conveyed to the collodion, and rendering
 it, when nitrated, more sensitive to light in the parts where it has
 been in proximity to the electrical impression, than in the residual
parts. Here we have a molecular change, produced first by elec
tricity on the glass, then communicated by the glass to the collodion,
 then changed in character by light, and all this time invisible;
 and then rendered visible by pyrogallic acid, the developing
chemical agent. Test papers between the plates of glass so elec
 trized, show an acid, and also a bleaching re-action, probably due
 to the formation of nitrous acid and of ozone ; and thus evidencing
 a chemical change in the elastic intermedium, as well as in the
 bounding surfaces : but the interior molecules of the glass appear
 also to partake of the effect, as the impressions are reproduced in
 many cases on the opposite surface of the glass.
      Mr. Babbage had observed that some plates of glass which had
formed the ornamented margin of an old looking-glass, and were
backed by a design in gold leaf covered with plaster of Paris,
showed, when this backing was removed by soft soap, an impression
of the gold-leaf device, which was rendered visible by the breath on

462                     W. B. Grove, Esq. on                   [Jan. 29,
the glass. Some of the plates had been kindly lent by him for this
evening ; and in one, Mr. Grove had removed a portion of the
backing, and the continuation of the gilded design came beautifully
out by breathing on the glass while in the frame of the electric
lamp, and was projected (as were the previous electrical images)
on a white screen. The effect on Mr. Babbage's plates may be also
electrical, arising from the gold — a good conductor—acting as pla
tinum does in the voltaic battery, and setting up a chemical action
between the substance used for making the gold adhere and the
glass, or between the constituents of the glass itself; but it would
be hazardous, without further experiment, to express any confident
opinion on this point.
     Of the practical results to science of the molecular changes
forming the subject of this evening's discourse, a beautiful illustration
was afforded by the photographs of the moon by Mr. Warren De la
Eue, which gave, by the aid of the electric lamp, images of the moon
of six feet diameter, in which the details of the moon's surface were
well defined,—the cone in Tycho, the double cone in Copernicus,
and even the ridge of Aristarchus, could be detected. The bright
lines, radiating from the mountains, were clear and distinct. A
photograph of the planet Jupiter was also shown, in which the belts
were very well marked, and the satellites visible. The following
question was suggested by Mr. Grove. As telescopic power is
known to be limited by the area of the speculum or object glass,
even assuming perfect definition, as the light decreases inversely as
 the square of the magnifying power, a limit must be reached at
 which the minute details of an object become lost for want of light.
 Now, assuming a high degree of perfection in astronomical pho
 tographs, these may be illuminated to an indefinite degree of
 brilliancy by adventitious light. With a given telescope, could a
 better effect be obtained by illuminating the photographic image,
 and applying microscopic power to that, than by magnifying the
 luminous image in the usual way by the eye-glass of the telescope ?
 Can the addition of extraneous light to the photograph permit a
 higher magnifying power to be used with effect than that which
 can be used to look at the image which makes the photographic
 impression ? In other words, is the photographic eye more sensitive
 than the living eye ; or can a photographic recipient be found which
 will register impressions which the living eye does not detect, but
 which, by increased light or by developing agents, may be rendered
 visible to the living eye? Much may be said, pro and con, on this
 question, and it probably can only be satisfactorily answered by
 experiment, when photographic science is sufficiently advanced.
     The phenomena treated of this evening, which are a mere selec
 tion from a crowd of analogous effects, show that light and electri
 city, in numerous cases, produce a molecular change in ponderable
 matter affected by them. The modifications of the supposed im
 ponderables themselves have long been the subjects of investigation ;

 18o8.]     Molecular Impressiont by Light and Electricity        463
the recent progress of science teaches us to look for the reciprocal
effects on the matter affected by them.
    Gases which have transmitted light are altered; as, for example,
chlorine is rendered capable of combining directly with hydrogen ;
liquids are altered, peroxalate of iron is chemically changed, and
gives off carbonic acid ; and the light -which has produced these
effects is less able to produce them a second time. Solids are
altered, as shown in the extensive range of photographic effects.
So with electricity,—compound gases are changed chemically, as
ammonia or atmospheric air ; elementary gases are changed allo-
tropically, as phosphorus vapour, or oxygen ; liquids are changed,
as in the decomposition of water and other electrolytes ; and solids
are changed, as in the projection of the particles of the terminals,
and the impressions on the surfaces of electrics, shown this evening.
Frictional electricity may itself be due to the rupture of cohesion
between dissimilar molecules ; at all events few, if any, electrical
effects have not been proved to be accompanied with molecular
changes; and we are daily receiving additions to those produced
by light. So, again, iron, and other bodies, have their molecular
structure changed by magnetism. Chemical affinity is universally,
and heat generally, admitted to be an affection of ordinary matter.
Mr. Grove feels deeply convinced that a dynamic theory, one which
regards the imponderables as forces acting upon ordinary matter
in different states of density, or as modes of motion, and not as
fluids or entities, is the truest conception which the mind can form
of these agents ; but to those who are not willing to go so far,
the ever increasing number of instances of such molecular changes
affords a boundless field of promise for future investigation, for
new physical discoveries and new practical applications.
    The permanency of such changes also gives valuable means of
reading, in the present state of matter, its past history; final or
absolute knowledge on such subjects we cannot hope to obtain, but
relative or approximate knowledge is as unlimited as is the degree
of improvement in the powers attainable for its acquisition.
    Note.—Since the above was written, the author has observed a
case of molecular action which, in some respects, goes further than
any yet recorded. He happened to procure a small Galilean tele
scope, or perspective glass, by Dollond, 6i inches focus, and 1-pyths
aperture, of which the tripod stand was so arranged as to fold up
and pack into the tube. When so packed it terminated opposite the
object glass in a disc of brass, in the centre of which was an aper
ture -j^ ths of an inch diameter, and in the centre of this the end of
an iron screw, of -j^ths of an inch. The distance of the perforated
disc from the inner surface of the object glass was Jth of an inch.
The impression of this disc and of the central pivot was delicately
etched on the glass; the polished surface being disintegrated
opposite the brass and iron, an an/tulus, opposite the space between

 464                     General Monthly Meeting.                  [Feb. 1,
 these, retaining its polish. The molecular change is extremely
 delicate, and can only be seen in certain inclinations to the light ;
 it does not seem to affect the performance of the glass. Dolloud
 died in 1761 ; but whether made by him or his son, the instrument
 bears internal evidence of being very old ; and was represented as
 having been 40 years in the shop where it was bought. We have
 therefore an experiment of very long duration, and which presents
 these remarkable points : 1st, There is a notable distance between
 the radiating surfaces. 2ndly, The impression is permanently
 etched, and not capable of being removed by any cleaning of the
 surface. It would be out of place in this note to enter on the
 theory of this effect.
                                                             [W. E. G.]
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, February 1.
 WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                   Richard Corbet, Esq.
                  Roger Fenton, Esq.
                  Mervyn Hamilton, Esq.
                  William Augustus Hillman, Esq. F.R.C.S. and
                  John Leighton, jun. Esq. F.S.A.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                      Charles Brooke, Esq. F.R.S.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same : —
   FROM—
Actuaries, Institute of—Assurance Magazine. No. 30. 8vo. 1857.
.dnonymoB*—Neufchatel, and its Events since 1814. 8vo. 1857.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 263. 8vo. 1857.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notice, Dec. 1857.
Basel Naturforschende Gesellschqft—Verhandlungen, Viertes Heft. 8vo. 1857.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.— Pharmaceutical Journal for Jan. 1858. 8vo.
Goosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical Woild for Jan. 1858 4to
Bombay Geographical Society—Transactions, Vol. XIII. 8vo. 1857.

   1858.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                        465
   British Architect!, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in Nov. and Dec. 1857, and
         Jan. 1858. 4to.
   Cambridge Observatory—Astronomical Observations for 1849-51. Vol. XVIII.
         4to. 1857.
   Carrington, R. C. Esq. (the Author)—Catalogue of 3735 Circnmpolar Stars
          observed at Redhill in 1854-56. fol. 1857.
   Chemical Society—Journal, No. 40. 8vo. 1858.         ^
   De Brock, M., Ministre des Finances de Russie—Annales de 1'Observatoire
          Physique Central de Russie. Par A. T. Kupffer. 1854. 2 vols. 4to. 1856.
   Editors—The Medical Circular for Nov. and Dec. 1857, and Jan. 1858. 8vo.
         The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Nov. aud Dec. 1857, and Jan. 1858.
            4to.
         The Journal of Gas-Lighting for Nov. and Dec. 1857, and Jan. 1858. 4to.
         The Mechanic's Magazine for Nov. and Dec. 1857, and Jau. 1858. 8vo.
         The Athenceum for Nov. and Dec. 1857, aud Jau. 1858. 4to.
         The Engineer for Nov. and Dec. 1857, and Jan. 1858. fol.
         The Artizan for Nov. and Dec. 1857, and Jan. 1858.
         The Illustrated Inventor for Nov. and Dec. 1857, and Jan. 1858.
         The Atlantis, No. 1. 8vo. 1858.
   Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Bulletin de la Societe Vaudoise, Nos.
          38—40. 8vo. Lausanne, 1856-57.
       Konigliche Preussischen Akademie,—Berichte, Sept. Oct. und Nov. 1857. 8vo.
       Rapport sur 1'Exposition Universelle, 1855, present^ a 1'Empereur par
         S. A. I. le Prince Napoleon. 4to. Paris, 1807.
   Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIV. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo.
          1857.
   Geological Society—Proceedings, No. 1-8. 8vo. 1857.
   Geological Society of Dublin—Journal, Vol. VII. Part 5. 8vo. 1857.
   Geological and Polytechnic Society nf the West Riding of Yorkshire—Report of
          Proceedings, 1856-7. 8vo.
   Geologische Anstalt, Wien—Jahrbuch, 1857. No. 1. 4to. 1857.
   Graham, George, Esg. (Registrar-General)—Reports of the Registrar-General
         for Nov. and Dec. 1857, and Jan. 1858. 8vo.
  Hanwell Asylum, Committee ofVititors— Eleventh aud Twelfth Reports. 12mo.
         1856-57.
  Johnson, Edmund C. Esq. M.R.I. - St. James's Medley, Nos. 9, 10, 12. 8vo. 1857.
       Biographical Sketches of Great Monarchs, by Viscount Cranborne. 16to. 1853.
       The Land of Silence and the Land of Darkness. By the Rev. B. G. Johns.
          16to. 1857.
   l.iiimiiii Society—Journal, No. 6. 8vo. 1857.
        Transactions, Vol. XX. Part 2. 4to. 1857.
   I. ml-. Philosophical and Literary Society—Annual Report, 1856-7. 8vo.
  Lubbock, John, Esg. M.R.I, (the Author)—On Eight New Species of the
         Entomoetraca. 8vo. 1857.
  Macrory. Edmund, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Reports of Patent Cases, Part 2.
         8vo. 1857.
  Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), Nov. and Dec. 1857, and
          Jan. 1858. 8vo.
• Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for Nov. and Dec. 1857,
         and Jan. 1858.
  Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen aufdem Gesammtgebiete dcr
         Geographie, 1857. Heft 9, 10, 11. 4to. Gotha, 1857.
   Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 60, 61, 62. 8vo. 1857.
  Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society—Transactions, Vol. XL. 8vo. 1857.
      Catalogue of the Library. 8vo. 1856.
  J{tu,>ul Society—Proceedings, No. 28. 8vo. 1857.
  .Sf. Petersbourg, Academic Impfrialede—Memoiresdes Sciences Mathematiques.
         Tome VI. 4to. 1857.
        VOL. II.                                                     -' h.

466                          Dr. Lankester, on the                    [Feb. 5,
Society (if Arts—Journal for Nov. and Dec. 1857, and Jan. 1858. 8vo.
Sopwlth, Thomas, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the A uthor)— Reminiscences of First
     Visits to Scotland, London, and the South-West of England in 1828, 1830,
     and 1833. 16to. 1847.
   Treatise on Isometrical Drawing. 2nd Edition. 8vo. 1838.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.Sjg- Portraits. 16to. Leipzig, 1779.
 Vereins z«r BefSrderunifiles Gewerbfleisses in Preuisen— Sept. and Oct. 1857.
     4to.
 Von Kersten, Charles, Esq. (the Author)— Reading made Easy (for German,
     English, and French, by New Characters.) 8vo. Brussels, 1857.
 Wilton, Thumas, Esq. M.R.I.—Plans of the Lake of Haarlem and its Drying-
      np. 1843-55.
 Yearsley, James, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)— Controversy on the Artificial
     Tympanum. 8vo. 1858.
Zoological Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 334-338. 8vo. 1857.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, February 5.
      THE LORD WENSLEYDALE, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                EDWIN LANKESTER, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
              On the Drinking Waters of the Metropolis.
 IN bringing the subject of the drinking waters of the metropolis
before his audience, the lecturer stated that he wished to address
them not as a chemist or a naturalist, but as a medical officer of
health. He wished to make his lecture practical, and to answer the
question, What water shall we drink? Water might be discoursed
on as a solid, a liquid, or a vapour, and from every point of view it
had deep interest for man. It was as one of the great factors of the
organic kingdoms, that he must now regard it. Water was necessary
to the formation of the tissues of both plants and animals. Some
water plants consisted of from 90 to 95 per cent, of water, whilst
Professor Owen had estimated the solid matter of a jelly-fish weigh
ing two pounds, at sixteen grains. Seventy-eight parts in the
hundred of blood, and seventy-two parts in the hundred of muscle •
was water. Most kinds of solid human food contained more than
fifty per cent, of water.
     Water was not only necessary to the formation of animal and
vegetable tissues, but to the introduction into the system of saline
and organic matters. The water of the blood held 420 grains of
saline matters in solution, and the tissues also contained salts, such
as phosphate of lime, which were introduced by the agency of
water. The organised matters of the food of animals were taken

  1858.]         Drinking Waters of the Metrvjwlis.               467
 into the blood by the agency of water. Fats were reduced to
 soluble soaps, and proteinaceous rnatters were formed into soluble
 albumen before being taken into the system.
     The great source of water for these purposes was the ocean,
 which spread over the surface of the earth, raised into the atmos
 phere by heat, and precipitated again by cold, formed snow and
 rain. These collecting on the surface of the earth, formed rivers,
 or penetrating the rocks, appeared again as springs. Both kinds
 of water contained organic and inorganic substances. The latter
 were dissolved, the former for the most part suspended. In
 river waters the inorganic matters varied according to the rocks
 over which they flowed. The Dee contained five grains in the
 gallon ; the Exe, fifteen grains ; the \Vandle, seventeen ; and the
 Thames, twenty. The organic matters of rivers are derived from
 the plants and animals which live in them, and from the vegetable
 and animals refuse cast into them.
     Spring waters contained more and less inorganic matters than
 rivers. When the quantity was large or peculiar, they were called
 mineral waters. When the salts of lime abounded they were called
hard waters ; and when free from the salts of lime, and very large
quantities of other salts, soft water. Spring waters generally con
 tained less organic matters than river waters.
     The water used in London for drinking purposes was obtained
 from both rivers and springs. The Thames and the New Uiver,
and partially other rivers, supplied the river water. The spring
water was of two kinds. First, from surface wells, obtained by
digging through the gravel which covered the London clay in the
 western parts of the metropolis, and into the clay itself. Secondly,
from deep wells, which generally passed through the London clay
and penetrated the chalk below. The surface wells received the
soakage of the water which fell over London, and the water was
contaminated by the contents of cesspools, drains, and sewers. The
deep wells received their supply of water from the chalk which
formed the sides of the great " London Basin." All these waters
contain more or less of the following mineral constituents :—
     1. Carbonate of Lime, of which 3 to 17 grains are contained
in the gallon. Although insoluble itself, it is held in solution by
carbonic acid. This gas is produced by the decomposition of
organic matters, and is one source of the carbonate of lime in the
surface well waters. The carbonate of lime is the most common
source of the hardness of the waters of London. It may be got
rid of by Clark's process, which consists in adding lime to the
water ; the lime combines with the carbonic acid, and throws down
a double quantity of carbonate of lime : that is, the carbonate
fonned, and that held in solution. This process would greatly
improve the Thames water. It throws down not only carbonate
of lime, but a considerable quantity of organic matter. This plan
is carried out most successfully on a large scale at Plumstead. It
                                                          2x2

468                     Dr. Lanhcslcr, on the               [Feb. 5,
was recommended by the Government Commissioners, on account
of its "health, comfort, and economy."
     2. Sulphate of Lime existed in the proportion of from 1 to
15 grains in the gallon. It decomposes in contact with organic
matters, and produces sulphuretted hydrogen. Very small quantities
of organic matter serve to produce this effect.
     3. Chloride of Sodium existed in Thames water, in from 1 to
4 grains in the gallon ; in deep wells, from 10 to 17 grains ; and
in surface wells, from 20 to 40 grains. In the Thames it might be
the produce of the tide, in the deep wells it was washed out of the
chalk ; but in the surface wells, where it was most abundant, there
could be little doubt that it was derived from the animal and
vegetable refuse of the houses through which it percolated. The
analyses of above one hundred of these wells showed that they
were all equally open to suspicion on this point.
     4. Phosphates and Silica existed in all the London waters, in
small quantities.
     5. Ammonia also had been detected in small quantities in the
Thames, in much larger and more appreciable quantities in the
surface wells. This substance was the result of the decomposition
of animal matter ; and in the surface wells was undoubtedly de
rived from human excretions.
     6. Nitrates resulted from the oxidation of the ammonia. They
were absent in deep wells ; existed only in very small quantities in
the Thames, but in large and sometimes even dangerous quantities
in surface wells. In one water, examined by Mr. Noad, above
50 grains in the gallon were detected.
    The organic matters were not injurious when fresh or recent,
but they assumed certain conditions of decomposition, which occa
sionally rendered them deadly. Their influence might be estimated
by the case of the Lambeth and Vauxhall Water Company's
supply, during the years 1848 and 1854,—two years in which
cholera visited London. In 1848, both companies derived their
supply of water from the Thames, at Battersea, and both supplied
the same district with water, and the houses supplied were equally
visited with cholera. But in 18.54, the Lambeth Company ob
tained an improved supply high up the Thames, at Ditton. The
consequence was, according to Dr. Snow's calculations, that the
deaths amongst the population supplied by the Vauxhall Company,
as compared with the Lambeth, was as Y to 1 ; according to the
most favourable view of the case, as given by Mr. Swain, it was
3i to 1. There was nothing to account for this difference but the
larger quantity of organic impurity in the water supplied by
the Vauxhall Company, which still obtained' water from the more
impure source. The outbreak of cholera in the Golden Square
district, in September 1854, was traced to the pump in Broad
Street, which was subsequently found to have communicated
with the drain of a neighbouring house. Other cases of disease

1858.]            Drinking Waters of the Metropolis.            469
connected with the contamination of water by organic matter were
related.
     It appeared, also, that water containing organic matter acted
on lead, and thus added another source of poisoning to its own.
This had been pointed out by Mr. Noad and Dr. Medlock. The
latter chemist held that nitrous acid was formed from the organic
matter which, uniting with the lead, formed a quadribasic nitrite of
lead. This yielded up its oxide of lead to carbonic acid, forming
an insoluble carbonate of lead, leaving the nitrous acid free to act
on further quantities of lead. Dr. Medlock explained the action
of distilled water on lead as resulting from the water being dis
tilled from water containing organic matter. Water carefully re
distilled did not act on lead. But Mr. Faraday had found that
water obtained from melting pure ice was the purest water that
could be obtained, and it was shown that this water acted on lead.
 Organic matters in standing water underwent a kind of fermenta
tion, by which carbonic acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, and other
gases were got rid of, and nitric acid was formed. The water thus
underwent a process of self-purification. This occurred in Thames
water, and accounted for the fact that ships were often supplied
with water from the Thames below London Bridge. This water
was dangerous to drink before or during the fermenting process.
     The appreciation of small quantities of organic matters by che
mical processes, was a difficult process. During the evaporation of
 water, the organic matters were dissipated, and not all left in the
 evaporating basin.
     The microscope was an important aid. It detected the nature
of organic impurities. These consisted of dead and living animal
 and vegetable matters. The dead consisted of the tissues of animals
 and plants. The source of these impurities could in some in
 stances be made manifest. Such impurities were very manifest in
the Thames and surface well waters ; scarcely to be detected in
 the deep well waters. The living matters consisted of plants and
animals. Amongst the plants were to be found forms of Dcsmidifc,
 Diatomacee, and Conferve. Some forms of the latter family were
especially characteristic of impure waters. One form, the Calothrix
nivea, was found most abundant in water containing sulphuretted
 hydrogen. The filaments of microscopic Fungi had been found in
impure well water. They had been detected in several waters
known to have been productive of disease. The lecturer had re
corded two instances ( Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science,
 vol. iv. p. 270), and others had been published.
      Amongst the living animals, the forms of Infusoria were most
 abundant. These were frequently indicative of the impure condi
 tion of water. Eggs of the higher animals were not unfrequently
 found in the Thames water ; and some of these undoubtedly be
 longed to those forms of Annulosa, which find their highest deve
 lopment in the human body.

470                     Professor Faraday,                   [Feb. 12,
     Many of these forms of animal and vegetable life are not in
jurious in themselves ; but they are most numerous where there is
the greatest amount of impurity, and are a measure of the greater
or less objectionable nature of a water for drinking purposes. They
were not present in water freshly drawn from deep wells.
     From these circumstances it was concluded, that the water from
deep wells was most desirable and unobjectionable as drinking
water ; that the water from surface wells ought under no circum
stances to be drunk at all; and that if Thames water was used, it
ought to be filtered, or what is better, boiled andfiltered. Boiling
expelled the carbonic acid from water, and rendered it vapid ; but
its briskness might be restored by passing it through the gasogene.
In the filtration of water various agents may be used, as sand,
sponge, charcoal, rock, &c. The most effectual is animal charcoal,
which may be introduced into any of the ordinary forms of filter.
Dr. Medlock had shown that the addition of iron to water con
taining organic impurities, precipitated them without rendering the
water metallic. Water, which had been filtered in contact with
iron twelve months since, was exhibited and compared with water
which had not been thus filtered ; the latter showed a large quan
tity of impure vegetable growth, whilst the former was quite pure.
Water, which had been obtained from the wells at Watford three
years ago, was also exhibited, and showed no signs of vegetation ;
also water which had undergone " Clark's process," and was equally
pure.
                                                            [E. L.]
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 12.
ILR.H. THE PRINCE CONSORT, K.G. U.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-Patron,
                             in the Chair.
               PROFESSOR FARADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                    Remarks on Static Induction.
THE object of the speaker was to give to the Members of the Royal
Institution a simple reference to the production and nature of the
static phenomena of electricity ; especially in respect of induction,
into which indeed they all resolve themselves. When flannel,
shell-lac, metal, and sulphur, are any two of them rubbed together
they become electrified in the well-known manner ; and in such order

  1858.]               Remarks OH Sttitic Induction.                 471
 that any one of them becomes negative to those which precede it
  in the list, or positive to those which follow. Thus, metal becomes
 negative to shell-lac, and positive to sulphur ; and as either of
  these substances can be employed in the investigation of the fun
  damental principles of induction, this difference is important in
  some of the methods of examining by the electrometer their
 temporary or permanent state. If a stick of shell-lac have a
 flannel cap fitted to one extremity, both being unexcited, and these,
 either separate or associated, be examined by the gold-leaf electro
 meter, they will show no signs of electricity. If the cap, grasped
 by the hand, be turned round on the shell-lac with friction, but left
 in its place, the associated substances will still show no signs of
 electricity. If separated, each will show a strongly excited state
 opposite to that of the other. If one be laid on the cap of the
 electrometer (the gold leaves of which were 7 inches long and
 14 inches wide, with perfect insulation) it will show a highly
 excited state ; if the other be gradually brought near, and finally
 placed by the side of the first, all the electric signs will disappear,
 to reappear when the separation is again produced. The experi
 ment presents a type case of excitation and induction. By the
 friction together the opposite electricities are excited ; they then
 exist and keep their state by mutual induction ; they are perfectly
 equivalent to each other, and hold their existence by this definite
 and relative equivalency ; for one electricity cannot exist by itself.
 They show no external signs of electricity whilst the forces are
related only to each other, but when the two bodies in which the
states are located are separated, then this relation is not exclusive,
 but by so much as the induction is diminished between the two sub
stances, it is thrown in other directions ; as towards the electrometer,
 or the walls of the room. When one is carried into a separate
room, or put into a vessel of conducting matter, then the excited
bodies become independent of each other ; each has raised np an
exactly equal amount of the contrary force by action terminating at
a distance, according to the laws of ordinary,induction. The power
exerted by each excited body in this distant action maybe expressed
 by the term , lines of force. These lines, or the force they represent,
are sustained, so long as they are contained in or pass through an
insulating medium. They continue, until meeting with conducting
matter they evolve the contrary state to that at which they originate,
and in the equivalent proportion, and so terminate the insulation ;
or failing that, they continue their course outwards. If it were
possible to place the excited shell-lac in the centre of an almost
infinite extent of insulating medium, the lines of force would be as
infinitely extended from it. If the power at any section of the
whole of the lines of force could be compared with that at any other
section, they would be found equal to each other ; though one
section might be close to the shell-lac, and the other at an infinite
distance. If there were 1:0 conducting matter at the boundaries of

 472                       Prufetsar Faraday,                  [Feb. 12,
 the insulating space above supposed, the shell-lac could not exist
 independently in the excited state : it would then keep its lines of
 force altogether turned upon the body by which it had first been
 excited, the induction between the two being sustained by their
 reciprocal action, without which electricity could neither be excited
 nor exist. Such are some of the consequences which follow in
 evitably upon the laws of static induction, combined with the law
of the conservation of force.
     But if this function of induction be so essential to the very exist
 ence of electricity in its developed or active state, what is its
 nature ? It acts through distance and across intervening bodies :
 how are the space and the bodies affected ? In all actions at a dis
 tance it is most important to ascertain, if possible, what occurs in the
intervening medium, or the interposed space ; whether the investi
gation ends in the establishment of a particular process for the
particular case, or the reference of the process to any more general
mode of action representing all cases of distant action.
     Induction acts across any insulating body, whether it be solid,
fluid, or gaseous. Common air is concerned in most inductive
actions, but being mobile, its particles cannot be retained in a
given place, position, or state, so as to allow of close examination.
Sulphur and shell-lac are excellent bodies as subjects ofinvestigation,
the more especially as their specific inductive, capacity is about
twice that of air ; and being solid bodies, their superficial or bound
ing particles can be thrown into a given state, yet preserved in
their place to be examined with the purpose of showing what that
state is. If a round plate of metal, 9 inches in diameter, be set
up vertically in the air and insulated, and a like plate of good gutta-
percha raised on an insulating pillar be placed parallel to and about
9 inches from it; then, upon exciting the gutta-percha, strong
induction occurs. The gutta-percha presents the inductric, the
copper plate the inducteous, surfaces which limit the field of induc
tion, which field supplies an excellent place for experiment. The
gutta-percha should be excited by a piece of close broad cloth, free
from loose particles, and all dust, or other sources of convective
effects should be avoided. Plates of sulphur, about 3 or 4 inches
square, and 1 inch thick, may be employed as the inductive
medium, and these having white silk loops introduced into he
edges when cast, may, by the further use of white silk slings, be
suspended or handled with perfect facility. Some discs of stiff
paper, gilt on both sides, being attached at the edge to thin stems
of shell-lac, are thus well insulated, and serve either as metallic
plates or carriers.
    It is almost impossible to take a block of sulphur out of paper,
or from off the table without finding it electric ; if, however, a small
spirit-lamp flame be moved for a moment before its surface at about
an inch distance, it will discharge it perfectly. Being then laid on
the cap of the electrometer it will probably not cause divergence of

 1858.]               Remarks on Static Induction.                  473
the gold leaves ; but the proof that it is in no way excited is not
quite secure until a piece of uninsulated tinfoil or metal has been
laid loosely on the upper surface. If there be any induction across
the sulphur, due to the feeble excitement of the surfaces by oppo
site electricities, such a process will reveal it : a second application
of the flame will remove it entirely. When a plate of sulphur is
excited on one side only, its application to the electrometer does not
tell at once which is the excited side. With either face upon the
cap the charge will be of the same kind, but with the excited side
downwards the divergence will be much, and the application of the
uninsulated tinfoil to the top surface will cause a moderate diminu
tion, which will return as the tinfoil is removed ; whereas, with the
excited side upwards, the first divergence of the leaves will be less,
and the application of the tinfoil on the top will cause considerable
diminution. The approximation of the flame towards the excited
side will discharge it entirely. The application near the unexcited
side will also seem partly to discharge it, for the effect on the elec
trometer will be greatly lessened ; but the fact is, that the flame
will have charged the second surface with the contrary electricity.
When therefore the originally excited surface is laid down upon the
cap of the electrometer, a diminished divergence will be obtained,
and it is only by the after application of uninsulated tinfoil upon
the upper surface that the full divergence due to the lower surface
is obtained.
    Being aware of these points, which are necessary to safe manipu
lation, and proceeding to work with a plate of sulphur in the field of
induction before described, the following results are obtained : A
piece of uncharged sulphur being placed in the induction field parallel
of course to the gutta-percha and copper- plates, and retained there,
even for several minutes, provided all be dry and free from dust and
small particles, when taken out and examined by the electrometer,
either without or with the application of the superposed tinfoil, is
found without any charge. The gilt plate carrier before described, if
introduced in the same position and then withdrawn is found en
tirely free of charge. If the sulphur plate be in place, and then
the carrier be introduced and made to touch the face of the sulphur,
then separated a small space from it, and brought away and exam
ined, it is found without any charge ; and that whether applied to
either one side or the other of the block of sulphur. So that any
of these bodies, which may have been thrown into a polarized or
peculiar condition whilst under the induction, must have lost that
state entirely when removed from the induction, and have resumed
their natural condition. Assuming, however, that the sulphur had
become electrically polarized in the direction of the lines of in
duction, and that therefore whilst in the field one face was positive
and the other negative, the mere touching of two or three points by
the gold-leaf carrier would be utterly inefficient in bringing any
sensible portion of this charge or state away ; for though metal can

 474       Professor Faraday on Static Induction.               [Feb. 12,
 come into conduction contact with the surface particles of a mass of
 insulating matter, and can take up the state of that surface, it is
 only by real contact that this can be done. Therefore the two
 sides of a block of sulphur were gilt by the application of gold
 leaf on a thin layer of varnish, and when the varnish was quite dry
 and hard this block was experimented with. Being introduced into
the induction field for a time and then brought away, it was found
 free from charge on both its surfaces ; being again introduced, and
 the carrier placed between it and either the gutta-percha or the
copper-plate, but not touching these or the sulphur, the carrier
when brought away showed no trace of electricity. The carrier
being again introduced at the inductive or gutta-percha side, made
to touch the gilt surface of the sulphur on that side, separated a
little way and then brought out to be examined, gave a positive
charge to the electrometer : when it was taken to the other side of
the sulphur and applied in the same manner, it brought away a
negative charge. Thus showing, that whilst the sulphur was under
induction, the side of it towards the negative gutta-percha was in
the positive state, and the side towards the positive inducteous
surface of copper bounding the extent of the induction field, was
in the negative state. Thus the dielectric sulphur whilst under
induction is in a constrained polar electrical state, from which it
instantly falls into an indifferent or natural condition the moment
the induction ceases, either by the removal of the sulphur or the
gutta-percha. That this return action is due to an electrical tension
within the mass, sustained while the act of induction continues, is
evident by this, that if the carrier be applied two or three times
alternately to the two faces, so as to discharge in part the electricity
they show under the induction, then on removing the sulphur from
the induction field it returns, not merely to neutrality or indifference,
but the surfaces assume the opposite states to what they had before ;
a necessary consequence of the return of the mass of inner particles
to or towards their original condition.
    The same result may be obtained, though not so perfectly, with
out the use of any coatings. Having the uncoated sulphur in its
place, put the small spirit lamp between it and the copper-plate ;
bring up the excited gutta- percha to its place, remove the spirit-
lamp flame, and then the gutta-percha, and finally, examine the
sulphur : the surface towards the flame, and that, only, will be
charged—its state will be found to be positive, just like the same
side of the gilt sulphur which had been touched two or three times
by the carrier. During the induction, the mass of the sulphur had
been polarized ; the anterior face had become positive ; the pos
terior had become negative ; the flame had discharged the negative
state of the latter ; and then, on relieving the sulphur from the
induction, the return of the polarity to the normal condition had
also returned the anterior face to its proper and unchanged state,
but had caused the other, which had been discharged of its tern

1 858.]     Mr. E. B. Denison, on Improvements in Locks.                 475
porary negative state whilst under induction, now to assume the
positive condition. It would be of no use trying the flame on the
other side of the sulphur plate, as then its action would be to dis
charge the gutta-percha, and destroy the induction altogether.
    When several plates were placed in the inductive field apart
from each other, subject to one common act of induction, and
examined in the same manner, each was found to have the same
state as the single plate described. It is well known that if several
metallic plates were hung up in like manner, the same results would
be obtained. From these and such experiments, the speaker took
occasion to support that view of induction which he put forth twenty
years ago,* which consists in viewing insulators as aggregates of
particles, each of which conducts within itself, but does not conduct
to its neighbours, and induction as the polarization of all those
particles concerned in the electric relation of the inductric and in-
ducteous surfaces ; and stated, that as yet he had not found any
facts opposed to that view. He referred to specific inductive capa
city, now so singularly confirmed by researches into the action of
submarine electro-telegraphic cables, as confirming these views ;
and also to the analogy of the tourmaline, whilst rising and falling
in temperature, to a bar of solid insulating matter, passing into and
out of the inductive state.
                                                               [M. F.]
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.X^/ytQ "" '
                         Friday, February 19.
     TUB LOUD WENSLEYDALE, Vice-President, in the Chair.
       EDMUND BECKETT DENISON, Esq. M.A. Q.C. M.R.I.
 On some of the Improvements in Locks since the Great Exhibition
                                0/1851.
 IT is impossible to give an intelligible abstract of the mechanical
details of this lecture without drawings ; but the substance of it
will be found, among other matters relating to locks, in the second
 edition of Mr. Denison's book on Clock* and Locksfi reprinted,
with additions, from the Encyclopedia Britannica.
     He proposed to take up the subject where it was left by the late
  * Phil. Trans., 1837.
  t Published by A. and C. Black, Edinburgh ; and sold at Dent's, 61, Strand.

476                     Mr. E. B. Denison,                [Feb. 19,
Professor Cowper, in a lecture here in 1852. Mr. Cowper had
been one of the arbitrators iu the case of Hobbs versus Bramah,
and he explained in that lecture the mode in which both the
Bramah and Chubb locks had been picked by Mr. Hobbs in 1 85 1 ;
which applied equally to every English lock then in existence, of a
higher order than the common warded locks, which had long been
known to possess no security at all.
    Mr. Denison said he believed there was still a notion prevail
ing among persons who ought to know better, that the picking of
locks by this method required singular skill and dexterity, such as
need not be feared from ordinary lock-pickers. That was quite
a mistake, now that the method is so well known to everybody
in the lock trade, and to everybody who takes the trouble to look
into any modern book on locks. The long delay of the thieves
who opened the box with a Chubb lock on the South-Eastern
Railway, in the gold-dust robbery, only proved that they were
grossly ignorant of their business. Any moderately good hand,
among not merely Mr. Hobbs's but Mr. Chubb's own workmen,
would have opened the box, and shut it up again, between London
and Reigate. Indeed, in a trial before Lord Campbell, a few years
ago, one of Mr. Chubb's men confessed that the picking of one of
his locks, or of any others then known to him, was merely a ques
tion of time ; and Mr. Hobbs has several times said in public, that
he is acquainted with persons, both in the trade and out of it, who
can pick locks quicker than he can, now that the proper way of
doing it is known.
   Moreover, the time required to pick the best locks of the usual
construction is really very small. Mr. Denison said he had seen
one of the newest Bramah locks, with eight sliders, or eight slits in
the key, picked in less than four minutes ; and it is part of the
regular business of Mr. Hobbs's shop in Cheapside, to send men
to open Chubb and Bramah, and other locks of which the keys
have been lost, or which have got out of order.
     For this and other reasons, more fully explained in the book
referred to, the Bramah or Mordan lock, which has not been at
all improved since 1851, has no longer any pretence to be
reckoned among the secure class of locks, but ought to rank
with others—if not below them,—which are now sold for much
less, such as Tucker's, Parnell's, and Hobbs's cheap locks,
even those which have not the addition to be mentioned pre
sently. One of the good effects of the exposure and defeat of
our best locks has been the invention of a greater variety of
really different locks in the last six years, than in the previous
sixty, or six hundred. The competition thus arising, and especially
the establishment of a lock factory by Mr. Ilobbs himself, where
locks are made by machinery (like Colt's revolvers and the
American clocks), has effected a very great reduction in their
price. The common three-inch drawer locks, with four tumblers,

1858.]               on some Improvements in Locks.               477
equal to the best locks of 1851, are now sold by him at 27*. a
dozen, and by Mr. Tucker, and perhaps other makers, at about the
same price. It may be as well to mention that the piece called the
" detector," by which the Chubb lock gained so much of its cele
brity, is of no use whatever towards the prevention of picking by
the method which is now generally connected with Mr. Hobbs's
name ; though it is in reality much older, and been actually pub
lished in a former edition of the Encyclopedia Britunnica, 30
years ago, as applicable to the Bramah lock as first made, without
false notches ; only no one had ever thought of applying it to
tumbler locks, which were invariably made without false notches
before 1851, with the single exception of Strutt's lock, which was
invented in 1819, but never came into general use.
     It should be observed that the mere variety of locks of different
constructions, and the same outward aspect, is to a certain extent
a source of security. Formerly, a thief knew almost by looking at
the key-hole, of whose make and of what construction a lock was ;
but there are now so many locks and keys, all of the same general
appearance, that you can no longer tell by the mere look of the
outside what kind of machinery you have to deal with inside ; any
more than Mr. Hobbs knew, when he accepted a challenge to
pick one of Mr. Cotterill's locks, that it contained an additional
contrivance not to be found in those locks as generally made and
sold, and therefore of course he failed, though the Cotterill locks
commonly sold are quite as easy to pick as Bramah's, and in just
the same way.
     The principle of all locks above the rank of the common
warded locks, whatever may be the details of their arrangement, is
this : —There are a number of similar pieces (which may have the
name of tumblers, levers, sliders, discs, rings, or pins, according to
circumstances), each with a notch in it at a different place ; and
until all these notches are brought together into one given position,
the pieces in question, or some of them, prevent the passage of
another piece in the lock, on which its opening depends. Mr.
Denison exhibited a model, made not to resemble any particular
lock, but to illustrate this general principle of them all ; and he
showed on it the application of the " tentative " mode of picking
 by applying pressure to the bolt, and then gently moving each of
 the tumblers or sliders, &c., in succession, on which any pressure is
 felt, until all their notches come under the piece which has to enter
 them, and then the bolt yields to the pressure, and goes back
      As soon as the vincibility of all the best English locks by this
method had been demonstrated in 1851, the makers of tumbler
locks began re-inventing several old contrivances, and especially
the false notches of Strutt's lock of 1819, or it may be said, of
Bramah's lock of 1817 ; for all the good Bramah locks (includ
ing the very one on which Mr. Hobbs won the 200 guineas)
had been made with false notches since that time ; and tumbler

  478                      Mr. E. B. Denuon,                  [Feb. 19,
 locks in America had also had them, as well as other contrivances
 since introduced here, but without defeating the art of the lock-
  picker. False notches do undoubtedly increase the difficulty of
 picking, and the time required for doing it ; but the facts already
 mentioned are quite sufficient to show that they do nothing more.
 Of course that is worth something ; but it is very far short of
 restoring the Chubb and Bramah locks, for instance, to the position
 which they enjoyed while the tentative method of picking was
 unknown, and when they really were impregnable by any known
 mode of manipulation.
      The first invention which really defeated this process of lock-
 picking was appropriately enough Mr. Hobbs's own. What he
 calls his " protector," or moveable stump lock, is so made, that as
 soon as you try to make the bolt press upon the tumblers, the
 pressure is taken off them altogether, and transferred to a fixed pin
 in the lock, which would prevent it from being opened in that state
 of things, even if all the tumblers were then raised to the proper
 height. This is done by the moveable stump, for a description of
 which we must refer to the book above-mentioned, or to the Rudi
 mentary Treatise. on Locks, in Weale's Series. This invention, in
 its present form, is perfectly effectual against any mode of picking
 yet known. At any rate, a challenge to attempt it was refused by
 that same Mr. Goater, who confessed at the trial above referred to,
 that he could pick the locks of his own master, Mr. Chubb, and
 pretended to be able to pick any others as well, and had really
 picked one of Hobbs's locks as they were made at first. This
 " protector " lock, it should be observed, is quite distinct from the
 great American lock with a changeable key, also made by Mr.
 Hobbs here, but invented by Day and Newell, of New York, a far
 more complicated and expensive machine, and with the disad
 vantage of requiring a very large key, and apparently not more
real security than the " protector " lock, except so far as the power
of changing the lock by re-arranging the " bits " of the key may be
supposed to increase its security by guarding against the risk of an
impression being taken from the key ; and the lock is also not
without some special risks of its own, which might have remarkably
unpleasant consequences, if the key got into the hands of a mis
chievous person, either while the lock is open or shut.
     A variety of inventions are described in the above-mentioned book
on Clocks and Locks, and in the large volume on locks, published
by Mr. Price, of Wolverhampton, all aiming at the same object as
the moveable stump, but very few of them doing it successfully.
Revolving curtains, and barrels, and " detention catches," and " self-
acting," and " double-action levers," and a variety of other recent
inventions of old and new things, may be dismissed at once with
the same remark as the false notches ; viz., that they make a lock
more troublesome to pick, but they do no more ; and they are all
only more complicated contrivances for doing that incompletely

1858.]             on some Improvements in Locks.                  479
which is done completely and with great simplicity by the moveable
stump of the " protector lock."
    The only inventions of this class which Mr. Denison thought
deserving of special notice, were a series of locks by Mr. Tucker,
of Fleet Street, of which specimens were exhibited, with a large
model of one of them, as of the other locks described in the lec
ture. They have also the merit of being simple and cheap, and
unlikely to get out of order, and if not equal to Mr. Hobbs's in
security, they would baffle any but a very first-rate hand at lock-
picking, and are certainly superior to several more expensive locks
which profess to defeat the tentative mode of picking.
    The lecturer also described and exhibited a lock of an entirely
different construction, invented by himself. It is not intended for
furniture and small work, but for doors of safes, prisons, and other
places where a lock of great strength as well as security is required.
A description of it will be found in all the three books above-men
tioned, and it is the only English lock to which the merit of
security against any known method of picking is ascribed by Mr.
Hobbs, in the Rudimentary Treatise OH Locks. Its peculiarities
and advantages are, besides the important one alieady mentioned :
First, that a large and strong lock requires only a very small key.
(2.) It requires no key to lock it, but merely the turning of a
handle, the key being required for unlocking only. This obviates
the necessity for leaving your keys in the hands of other persons,
if you are only present when you want to open your door or safe,
and also removes the temptation to leave them in the lock, which
affords great facilities for having impressions taken from them.
(3.) The key-hole is so small that no instrument strong enough to
force the lock can be got in. (4.) The key-hole is kept closed by
a spring plate or curtain, which is pushed in by the key ; and when
the lock is open no instrument whatever can be got into the key-hole
to explore the lock. (5.) This curtain also keeps out dirt and
damp air, which frequently cause locks to get out of order, or at
any rate to want cleaning. (6.) There are no tumbler springs,
and so the tumblers can neither fail from the springs breaking, nor
can they stick together; both of which things not unfrequently
happen in tumbler locks with springs, and without separating
plates. (7.) The moving pieces in the lock are as few as possible,
being in fact none but the bolt, the tumblers, and the curtain.
(8.) Hence also the lock is easy to make, and cheap, and requires
no fine work to prevent friction of the parts, and make it move
easily. It is not patented ; the inventor being one of that increas
ing number of persons who think that patents are an obstruction
to science, and waste more money than they gain for real inventors,
whatever they may do for patent-agents and patent-buyers. One
of the locks exhibited on this construction was made by Mr.
 Chubb ; and Mr. Hobbs also applies them to safes, &c. when
ordered, though they are not yet made for sale.

 480                          Rev. B. Powell,                   [Feb. 26,
     The spring-curtain of this lock may be adapted to almost any
 other, and is particularly recommended for street-door or " latch "
 locks, as they are called, which are very liable iu such towns as
 London to be spoiled, or put out of order, by the action of the air
 and dirt upon them. Mr. Hobbs adds this curtain to his latch
 locks for a trifling extra charge, the cost of making it being insig
 nificant ; and it supersedes the necessity for an external " scutcheon"
 on the key-hole, which seldom keeps long in action, and is not so
 effectual as this self-acting curtain.
     Mr. Denison also exhibited three small bells, made by Mr.
 Mears : one of the same metal as the great bell of Westminster
which he is now re-casting ; another, with the addition of as much
silver as would amount to 1 cwt. and cost £500 in a 16-ton bell ;
 and the third with rather more. These bells clearly bore out the
 statement made iu the lecture on bells last year, that the tone
 would not be improved by adding silver, of which also no trace has
 been found in any old bell-metal that has been analyzed.
                                                           [E. B. D.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, February 26.
     THE LORD WEXSLEYDALE, Vice-President, in the Chair.
       REV. BADEN POWELL, M.A. F.R.S. F.G.S. F.R.A.S.
                       BAVILIAN PROF. OF GEOMETRY, OXFORD.
  On Rotatory Stability; and its Applications to Astronomical
                      Observations on board Ships.
THE subject of rotatory motion, especially when taking place under
those combinations which are presented in the gyroscope, or free
balanced revolver, has attracted much attention at the present day ;
and though the primary mechanical principles bearing upon it had
been long since understood and acknowledged in theory, yet the
practical results to which they might lead had been so little con
sidered, that when first tangibly exhibited they excited unbounded
surprise.
     Even some scientific persons were at a loss to account for them,
or sceptical as to their real nature ; especially when they witnessed
the wonderful results obtained by M. Foucault, apparently sub
verting the laws of equilibrium, and looking more like magic or
legerdemain than sober philosophical experiments. Yet while

  1858.]                   on Rotatory Stability.                       481
 these results excited so much wonder when exhibited with a refined
 apparatus, and in a scientific form, it was forgotten how perfectly
 similar, and equally paradoxical in its nature, is the common and
 familiar result of a top sustained by the mere act of spinning in a
 position from which it directly falls when the rotation ceases.
      Some results of this kind, which had then become known, were
 on a former occasion brought under the notice of the members of
 the Royal Institution (March 3, 1854*). On that occasion, there
 fore, the discussion was confined to the principle of " composition
 of rotations," and those applications of it which had been found in
 certain rotatory phenomena of projectiles, illustrated by the gyro
 scope in its several earlier forms as successively modified by
 Bonenberger, Atkinson, Fessel, and Wheatstone, showing the
 identity of these results on a small scale with the grand cosmical
 phenomenon of the precession of equinoxes. Since the date of that
 lecture, the striking results produced by merely carrying out the
 same principles, and applying the gyroscope to demonstrate directly
 the fact of the earth's rotation, as well as under other conditions to
point to the poles, by M. Foucault, have become familiarly known.
 It is, however, an act of justice to mention that the former result
 (the proof of the earth's rotation) was eighteen years before
 fully pointed out by Mr. Sang,-)- of Edinburgh, and only not prac
 tically accomplished from the expense of the necessary apparatus.
 In recurring to the subject on the present occasion, the object is to
explain another application of the same principles, like the former
very obvious when once disclosed; but which nevertheless remained
unknown and unthought of until it was pointed out and actually
effected by the inventions of Prof. C. P. Smyth : the use of rota
tory apparatus for giving an invariable plane or platform for
astronomical instruments used at sea. To render the subject intel
ligible it is necessary to recur to two simple first principles in dyna
mics, which, when distinctly apprehended, give the clue to the
whole of the applications.
     The first of these is the tendency of a body in rotation to retain
that rotation in the same plane, when perfectly balanced, irrespea-
tive of the motion of external objects, which is termed " the fixity
of the plane of rotation."
     The second is " the composition of rotatory motion :" or that
when a force is impressed on a body in rotation, it does not show
itself directly, but is compounded with the first motion ; so that the
rotation takes an intermediate direction, or the axis shifts its posi
tion in space. This being the cause of the motion of the earth's
axis, giving rise to the precession of equinoxes, it is called gene
rally a " precessional motion."
    * Proceedings of the Royal Institution, Vol. i., p. 393.
    t See Edinburgh New Phil. Journal, Oct. 1836 and 1837 ; and Proceedings
of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts, 1856.
   VOL. II.                                                    2 i.

 482                       Ker. B. Powell,                  [Feb. 26,
     The principle of fixity of the plane of rotation had been
 universally recognised in theory ; and it could not have been
 doubted that in proportion to the momentum acquired by giving
immense velocity to the rotating mass, this constancy would be
 more vigorously displayed ; yet perhaps few were prepared for the
 actual result as exhibited by M. Foucault : even when the princi
 ple was acknowledged, nothing could seem more astonishing than
 the obstinate resistance of the disk to any inclination from its
 original plane of rotation ; which no ordinary degree of force would
 overcome. This principle is that chiefly referred to in the inven
tions about to be described, where the effect depends essentially on
 the great amount of resistance thus offered to any angular motion
impressed by an extraneous cause on a perfectly balanced revolv
 ing heavy disk.
     When we consider the vast amount of precautions taken by
astronomers for securing the stability of their instruments, and the
careful plans adopted for guarding against every imaginable cause
of disturbance on land, it may seem surprising that even any
attempt should be 'made to carry on such operations at sea. Yet
it is a matter of necessity : some observations must be made for
determining the place of the ship, on which its safety depends ; and
other cases often occur when phenomena of great value to astro
nomy,—the science without which the ship could not be navigated,—
are required to be observed at sea ; or may perhaps only be visible
at positions out on the ocean. The most important of these obser
vations are those of the altitudes of the heavenly bodies, on which
depends both the determination of the latitude, and the correction
of time essential to finding the longitutle; and for this purpose
there is a necessity for a well defined horizon, which it is often
impossible to obtain from the state of the atmosphere in its lower
parts, though the sun or star can be distinctly seen above, and this
more especially at night ; yet the safety of the ship may essentially
depend on such an observation.
     Hence various plans have been resorted to for obtaining an
artificial horizon. Simple reflection from the surface of a liquid
can hardly ever be practicable, on account of the motion of the
ship, though it is the usual substitute on land ; by the reflected
image, seen as much below the true horizon as the object is above
it.
     The most celebrated attempt to substitute some other principle,
was an application of rotatory motion, devised by the late Mr.
Troughton, in 1820. It consists in causing a disk, truly balanced
on a fixed pivot, to spin round with great velocity, so as to keep up
its motion during the time required for an observation, known by
the name of" Troughton's top." The disk carries a plane reflector
on its upper surface ; and being a cylinder hollowed out at its
lower end, and the point of support within, the centre of gravity is
thrown below, so that it is in stable equilibrium when at rest. The

1858.]                    on Rotatory Stability.                          483
velocity is communicated by a separate train of wheels, from which
it can be instantly detached. Thus from the principle offixity of
the plane of rotation, it was expected that the reflecting surface
would preserve its level, notwithstanding the motion of the ship.
     It may be proper here to observe, that simple as this idea was,
the practical application of it involved several instances of those
mechanical resources which its inventor could so readily supply.
One of these (of importance in all similar instruments) is the means
of obviating the unavoidable inequalities of density in different
parts of the most accurately cast metallic disk, as well as defects in
accuracy of form, which affect the perfect equilibrium. These
were remedied by plugs, or small pieces of metal, screwed more
or less deeply into holes made for them at opposite parts of the
circumference, three vertically, and three horizontally placed, by
which, in successive trials, a complete compensation was effected.
     The method was, however, found practically to fail ; and the
failure has been since traced to another mechanical principle.
The pivot partakes in the irregular motion of the ship. When the
disk is not revolving, this motion is in turn communicated to the
disk ; and the centre of gravity being below,—the very circumstance
which gives it stability on land—causes it to acquire an oscillatory
movement. When in rotation, this does not show itself directly,
but is compounded with the rotation, and causes a precessional
motion, which is fatal to its use as a horizontal reflector.
     Hence, if the centre of gravity coincided with the point of sup
port, as would be most readily done by suspending the revolving
disk in gymbals in the manner of Bonenberger's machine, this
cause of irregularity would be avoided. By this means it would
preserve its original level; but this would not necessarily nor
usually be the true horizontal level.
     To obtain the true horizontal point another contrivance is
necessary : this (as not being connected with rotatory motion) can
here only be briefly adverted to. It consists essentially in the bub
ble of a spirit-level reflected from a diagonal mirror above it, seen
through a collimating lens, so adjusted that in one inclination the
apparent position of the bubble coincides accurately with the true
horizontal direction : whence it is easily demonstrated that in
every other inclination within certain small limits, the apparent
place of the bubble will deviate from its former place by the same
angle as that by which the base is inclined, or will in all positions
give the true horizontal direction : the level-tube being bent into
a small arc of a circle, whose radius is equal to the principal focal
length of the lens.*
     But for other classes of observations on board ship which involve
    * This contrivance has been fully described in the Notices of the Royal
Astronomical Society, Vol. xviii., p. 65. Jan. 1858.         . , v^i-- - —•»
                                                            .;-•  REESf

484                         fiev. B. Powell.                  [Feb. 26,
the use of the telescope, especially those requiring one of consider
able power, the same requisite of invariable stability of direction
is yet more indispensable, but hitherto unattained.
      One of the most important desiderata of nautical astronomy
has always been the means of observing at sea the eclipses of
J upiter's satellites,—so frequently recurring and affording so simple
and direct a means of obtaining the longitude. The same want
exists also with respect to a variety of other astronomical observa
tions which it is often desirable, if not necessary, to make at sea.
Accordingly, this object has engaged the attention of many inven
 tors of schemes for supporting the telescope, and the observer with
 it, so as to be free from the motion of the ship.
      In general, to procure stability on ship-board, it seemed an
 obvious recource simply to suspend any object which it was desired
 to keep steady by cords from a fixed point in the vessel. But
 a body thus suspended is like a plumb line, when the point of
 snpport is itself set in motion : it acquires a part of that motion
  and becomes a pendulum ; and it oscillates more irregularly and
 violently from the accumulation of motions impressed upon it con
  tinually by every fresh motion of the ship. The case is the same
  as that just considered in Troughton's top.
       There is, indeed (as Prof. Smyth remarks) a semblance of
  steadiness in that (for example) articles keep their places on a
  table so suspended ; a glass of water placed on it does not spill :
  but this is only a case of the same kind as when an object so sus
  pended and whirled round, is retained in its place from centri
  fugal force ; its surface keeps perpendicular to the string, not
  parallel to the horizon. Nairne's or Irwin's " Marine Chair," for
  carrying the observer and his telescope, was simply an application
  of this principle. It was tried on board ship, especially in a voyage
  to the West Indies, by the late Dr. Maskelyne : and though some
  what prematurely rewarded by the. Government, was found not to
   answer : though no one seemed fully aware of the cause cf its
   failure, till Sir J. Herschel (in the Admiralty Manual) pointed
   out the principle just stated, and showed that this free suspension
   must tend to perpetuate disturbances rather than destroy them.
       In these cases the centre 'of gravity is below; this is what con
   stitutes the table or chair, a pendulum. If it were suspended in
   gymbals, so that the centre of gravity should be at the point of
   suspension, the tendency to oscillate from this cause would be over
   come. But still any slight cause might disturb the level : there
   would be no principle of permanent stability.
        Thus, to produce this desired stability for a plane or stand on
   which the telescope is to be rested, we must have recourse to the
  free revolving disk accurately balanced within gymbals, on its
   centre of gravity. The balancing must be perfected by means of
   the adjustable plugs before-mentioned both in the disk, and
   in the gymbal frames ; the pivots of the gymbals must be of

1858.]                    on Rotatory Stability.                           48o
perfect workmanship, to turn with the least possible friction, yet
without looseness or displacement. An immense rotatory velocity
must be communicated to the disk, by machinery, of which its
suspension must be quite independent, so that the moving power
can be instantaneously withdrawn. All these conditions are ful
filled in the form of the machine which, after repeated trials, has
been adopted by Prof. Smyth, exhibited by him at the Paris
Exhibition 1855, and successfully tried on board Mr. Stephensou's
yacht TVtania, on his voyage to Teneriffe, in 1856.* "
     To explain the principle of its action, we must consider the
general conditions of the case.
     In the first instance, it may be necessary to bear in mind that a
telescope pointed to a star may undergo a motion of translation to
any extent and in any direction, provided it retain strict parallelism
to its original position, that is, remain pointed to exactly the same
altitude and azimuth, and it will retain the object in its field just as
if it were absolutely fixed. Thus, if a ship be going in a perfectly
straight course on a perfectly level sea, or even if its motion on the
 waves were confined to one straight direction up and down, this
parallelism might be retained. But this is not the actual case ;
 even if the course be perfectly straight the pitching and rolling
 take place by angular motions, in planes respectively parallel and
 perpendicular to the length of the ship. The slightest angular
 motion is destructive to the parallelism of the telescope. It is
 against this, therefore, that it is our object to guard.
     The grand principle of Jixity of the plane of free rotation, is
 that which enables the revolving disk to retain parallelism to its
 original plane, however the external frame or pivots supporting the
 whole be moved. From this principle the revolving disk resists
 all angular change of position in directions perpendicular to its
plane: but it offers no resistance to any motion in that plane.
 Thus, if set spinning horizontally, it will resist all angular motion
 impressed in a vertical plane, either by the pitching of the ship in
 the direction of its length, or its rolling in the direction of its
 breadth : but it will not resist lateral motion in a horizontal plane,
such as any shifting of the ship's head towards the points of the
 compass.
      Thus a free revolving disk in gymbals externally turning on
 pivots horizontally resting on supports fixed to the deck, will suffice
 to preserve the telescope from all deviation due to pitching and
 rolling. The addition of another disk, freely revolving in a vertical
plane, whose external pivots turn vertically in a frame attached to
 the top of the former internal frame, the upper pivot projecting
 through it, and carrying a small platform for the telescope, and the
     * See a paper " On the angular disturbances of Ships, &c.," by Prof. C. P.
 Smyth, F.R.S. Trans, of Royal Scottish Society of Arts, Vol. iv., Part 4. 1857.
 Also Astron. Society Notices, Vol. xvii., p. 36.
                                                                  2L2

486                        Bee. B. Powell,                    [Feb. 26,
whole, of course, balanced below, will preserve the telescope from
any lateral deviations of the ship. And the combination of the
two will give a plane retaining its parallelism against all three
causes of disturbances. But under favourable circumstances this
last cause of disturbance is but small : so that this addition may
be often of little importance.
    The invariable platform of this revolving apparatus may then
equally be applied to support either a telescope, or the artificial
horizon before mentioned, whether simply or in conjunction with
the sextant, or reflecting circle. By a mere enlargement of the
scale of the machine, the same stand which carries the telescope
might be made to carry the obseirer also, which would be a
material convenience for any nice observations.
    But the essential condition is the preservation of perfect equi
librium about the centre of motion. Now if this were secured by
proper compensation for the observer in one position, the slightest
change of position on his part would vitiate that arrangement.
     The observer, instead of being an extraneous source of dis
turbance incapable of producing any impression on the balanced
and revolving system, now becomes apart of it, and thus impresses
upon it a fresh motion arising from every slight change of posture,
which alters the exact position of the centre of gravity of the whole.
This effect, however, would not manifest itself directly, but being
compounded with the rotation, would show itself in a precessional
motion, fatal to the stability of the direction of the telescope.
     The case is not one of great importance practically, though
interesting theoretically. A modified arrangement to meet it has
been devised by Prof. Smyth, which will be understood by the
following considerations :—
     Two free revolvers turning horizontally are placed with the
lines of the pivots of their interior rings horizontally in directions
(p and Q) at right angles to each other, (which we will call the
disks p and q respectively,) in a common exterior frame, itself
turning on pivots in the direction (Q) in a third exterior frame,
whose pivots are on fixed supports in the direction (p).
     Now supposing the whole to remain perfectly balanced, if any
angular motion in a vertical plane be communicated to the fixed
supports, tending to turn the whole about (P), then the revolving
disk (q), in order to retain its own parallelism, will cause both the
outer and inner general frames together to retain their parallelism,
by turning about (p) through an angle equal and opposite to that
through which the supports are moved ; while the disk (p) simply
retains its position along with the frames.
     An angular motion given to the supports about (Q) will cause
the outer frame to move through that angular space. But the
revolving disk (p), in order to retain its parallelism, will cause the
 inner general frame to move through an angle equal and opposite
to that of the supports about (Q), and the disk (q) will simply
retain its position.

1858.]                  on Rotatory Stability.                    487
    Now let us suppose that the observer (carried on the inner
frame), by some slight movement, displaces the centre of gravity of
the whole ; or what is the same thing, let us suppose a small weight
added to one end of the frame,—suppose, so as to give a tendency
to turn about (p), then the disk ( p) simply retains its position, but
the disk (q) is affected—not, however, directly ; but the effect
being compounded with the rotation, gives a precessional motion to
that particular disk, which merely causes it to turn on the pivots of
its own inner ring. If the small weight were placed so as to pro
duce motion about (Q), precisely the same effect would take place
on the disk ( p), while (q) would retain its position.
    In one word, the precessional disturbance is transferred from
the general frame, to the particular revolving disk.
    Thus on the whole, as Prof. Smyth observes, " If any want of
balance is produced on the frame, it is not immediately altered
thereby, the first effect being only to make the appropriate wheel
turn on its gymbal pivots. If, too, the wheel is heavy and the
speed great, this precessional turning will be so slow that there will
be time for an attendant to press in the opposite direction on the
general frame, and correct the effect of the observer's want of
balance, before the plane of rotation coincides with the direction of
the disturbing force, when the virtue of resistance ceases."
     To strengthen the effect, and at the same time to give a more
convenient balance to the whole, the disks (p) and (q) respectively,
are reinforced each by a corresponding revolver at the other end
of the same diameter of the frame, and similarly mounted in the
inner general frame.
     Thus all angular disturbance in vertical planes being got rid of,
it only remains, on the principle before described, to add a fifth
revolver in the middle, in a vertical plane, to counteract angular
horizontal motion. The inner general frame supports a vertical
frame, which carries this last revolver. Thus we have the con
struction of " the compound precessional free revolver stand," as
the inventor designates it. But he has found the simple form so
effective by itself in the hands of a practised observer, as to render
this more complex construction of no immediate necessity.
     To complete the whole, Prof. Smyth has carefully investigated
the best form of a train of wheels for communicating the rotatory
motion : and has also considered the question of the best moving
power to be used ; which he finds, after many trials, to be that of
water ; which is best brought to bear by a peculiarly beautiful and
simple form of the turbine.
     Thus taking a summary view of the whole subject ; —by direct
consequence, from the simplest acknowledged mechanical principles,
the gyroscope, when its equilibrium is slightly disturbed, demon
strates the precession of equinoxes ; explains the boomerang ;—
and sustains itself in the air against gravitation. When its
equilibrium is undisturbed it exhibits to the eye the actual rotation

  488                  General Monthly Meeting.               [March 1,
  of the earth ; and when restricted to one plane it acts as a magne:ic
  needle without magnetism, or spontaneously rotates in parallelism
  with the earth. To these remarkable, diversified, and somewhat
  paradoxical applications, we have now added another of far higher
  utility, that it gives perfect stability for the nicest astronomical
  observations on board a ship, pitching and tossing with every wave
  and gust of wind.
       [Besides models, illustrative of the principle, the actual instru
  ments were exhibited by Prof. C. P. Smyth.]
                                                              [B.P.]
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, March 1.
  WILLIAM POLE, ESQ. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
     Edward Levi Ames, M.A.            Alfred Gutteres Henriques, Esq.
     Herbert Barnard, Esq.             Thomas Hyde Hills, Esq.
     George Bishop, jun., Esq.         William Longman, Esq.
     John Ashton Bostock, Esq.         Mrs. Lyon Playfair.
     S. M. Boulderson, Esq.            Sir James P. Kay Shuttleworth,
     Edward Hay Currie, Esq.               Bart.
     William Day, Esq.                 William Southey, jun., Esq.
     Alfred Hamilton, Esq.              William T. H. Strange, Esq.
     Joseph Haynes, Esq.               Robert Tait, Esq.
     Stanley Haynes, Esq.               Matthew Uzielli, Esq.
  were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
               William Augustus Hillman, Esq. F.R.C.S.
               John Leighton, jun. Esq. F.S.A.
  were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
      The Secretary announced that the following Arrangements had
  been made for the Lectures after Easter :—
      Nine Lectures on the HISTORY OF ITALY DURING THE MIDDLE
  AGES, by JAMES PHILIP LACAITA, Esq. LL.D.
      Three Lectures (in continuation) on HEAT, CONSIDERED AS A
  MODE OF MOTION, by JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. F.R.S. Professor of
  Natural Philosophy, R.I.
,

1858.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                      489
      Eight Lectures on the VEGETABLE KINGDOM, IN ITS RELA
TIONS TO THE LIFE OF MAN, by DR. EDWIN LANKESTEII, F.R.S.
F.L.S.
      The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same : —
   FROM
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Vol. XVIII., Part 2. 8vo.
       1857.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Jan. and Feb. 1858.
Bayerische Akademie, KBnigliche—Abhandlungen, Band VIII. Abth. 1. 4to.
       1857.
   Rede Ton Dr. Jolley ; und Vortrag von Dr. Von Hermann. 4to. 1857.
   Annalen der Sternwarte bei Munchen, Band IX. 8vo. 1857.
   Magnetische Ortsbestimmnngen, Tbeil II. 8vo. 1856.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb. 1858. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for Feb. 1858. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in Feb. 1858. 4to.
 De la Rue, Warren, F.R.S. M.R.I.—Index Map of the Ordnance Survey,
       showing the Path of the Moon's Shadow during the Solar Eclipse,
       March 15, 1858.
 Editors—The Medical Circular for Feb. 1858. 8vo.
    The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Feb. 1858. 4to.
    The Journal of Gas-Lighting for Feb. 1858. 4to.
    The Mechanic's Magazme for Feb. 1 858. 8vo.
    The Athenceum for Feb. 1858. 4to.
    The Engineer for Feb. 1858. fol.
    The Ai-tizan for Feb. 1858.
    The Illustrated Inventor for Feb. 1858.
 Este, M. L. M.D. M.R.I . (the Author)—On the Royal Institution, &c. 8vo.
        1810.
    On the Drainage of London. 8vo. 1858.
 Everest, Rev. R. (the Author)—Sequel to Statistical Details about Lubeck.
        8vo. . 1858.
  Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Reports of the Liverpool Compass Com
        mittee, with Mr. Airy's Letters thereon, fol. 1857.
     Konigliche Preussischen Akademie, Berichte, Dec. 1857.
  Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXV. No. 1. 8vo. 1858.
  Geological Society—Proceedings, Feb. 1858.
     Journal, No. 53. 8vo. 1858.
  Goldsmid, Aaron Asher, Esq.—A. beautiful Manuscript Copy of the Koran, in
        Arabic. 12mo. 1832.
  Gtraham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General)— Report of the Registrar-General
        for Feb. 1858. 8vo.
  Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), Feb. 1858. 8vo.
  Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for Feb. 1858.
  Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilnngen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
        Geographic. 1857. Heft 12. 4to. Gotha, 1857.
  Photographic Society—Journal, No. 63. 8vo. 1857.
  Prince, C. Leeson, Esq. (the Author)—Summary of a Meteorological Journal,
        kept at Uckfield, Sussex, in 1857.
  Ridley, George, Esq. M.P. M.R.I.—Three Reports on the Use of the Steam
        Coals of the " Hartley District," of Northumberland, in Marine Boilers.
         8vo. 1858.
  Royal Society—Report on the Adjudication of the Copley, Rnmford, and Royal
        Medals, and the. Appointment of the Bakerian, Croonian, and Fairchild
         Lectures. 4to. 1834.

   490                          Professor Faraday,                   [March 22,
   Saumarez, Bcar-Admiral (the Author)—Introductory Key to the Hieroglyphic
        Phraseology of the Old Testament. 4to. 1858.
   Society of Arts—Journal for Feb. 1858. 8vo.
   Taylor, Rev. \V. F.R.S. M.R.I.— Specimen of the Great Bell of Westminster
        [" Big Ben "] now being broken up.
   Thornton, Professor W.—Specimen of the Shore-end of the Atlantic Telegraph
        Wire.
    Vereiia zur Sefb'rdetung der GewerbJJeisses in Preussen— Nov. and Dec. 1857.
         4to.
    Window, F. R. Esq. (the Author)—On Submarine Electric Telegraphs. 8vo.
         1857.
                 PROFESSOR FARADAY, on Static Induction.
               (Addition to the Report of the 12th of February.)
        The inquiries made by some who wish to understand the real
   force of the test experiments relating to static induction, brought
   forward on the above date (page 470,) and their consequences in
   relation to the theory of induction, make me aware that it is
   necessary to mention certain precautions which I concluded would
   occur to all interested in the matter : I hope the notice I propose to
   give here will be sufficient. When metallic coatings or carriers
   are employed for the purpose of obtaining a knowledge of the
   state of a layer of insulating particles, as those forming the surface
   of a plate of sulphur, it is very necessary that they should exist in
   a plane perpendicular to the lines of the inductive force, and in a
    field of action where the lines of force are sensibly equal. Hence
    the importance of the dimensions given in the description of the
    apparatus at page 472 of the report of the evening, when the induc
    tive surfaces are described as 9 inches in diameter, and 9 inches
   apart. The inductive surface there mentioned is a plane : a ball
   cannot properly be used for this purpose ; for the lines of inductive
   force originating at it cannot then be perpendicular to the layer of
   gold-leaf forming the coating of the sulphur. The consequence
    would be that this layer of gold being virtually extended along the
   lines of inductive force, i.e. having parts nearer to and parts more
   distant from the inductric, will be polarized according to well-
   known electrical actions, will have opposite states at those parts,
   will show these states by a carrier, and will give results not belong
   ing merely to insulating particles in a section across the lines,
   but chiefly to united conducting particles in a section oblique to or
   along the lines.
        The carrier itself must be perfectly insulated the whole time, or
   else a case of induction, not including the sulphur, and entirely
   different to that set out with is established. It must not even
   extend by elongation into parts of the field of induction where the
-,

1858.]                    on Static Induction.                       491
force differs in degree ; or else errors of the same kind as those
described with the ball inductric will occur. It should also be
so used as to receive no charge by convection. When introduced
between the inductric and the sulphur, it is very apt, if the charge
be high, or if particles adhere to the inductric, to receive a charge.
This is easily tested by introducing the carrier into its place,
abstaining from touching the gold-leaf, withdrawing the carrier, and
examining it : it is not until this can be done without bringing away
any charge that the carrier should be employed to touch the gold-
leaf surface, and bring away the indication of its electrical state.
    As before said, if when the state of matters is perfect, and no
convection interferes, the gilt sulphur be put into its place, left
there for a short time, and brought away again, it will be found
without any charge either of the gold-leaf coating or the sulphur.
If it be put into place, the coating next the inductric be uninsulated
for a moment only, and the plate brought away, that coating will
then appear positive. If it be put into place and the further gold-
leaf be uninsulated for a moment, that coating when the plate is
brought away will be found negative. These are all well known
results, and will always appear if convection and other sources of
error be avoided.
   22nd March, 1858.                                          M. F.


                    institution of <&rcat ISritain.
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, March 5.
    SIR HENRY HOLLAND, BAUT. M.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                         f
                     PROFESSOR C. PIAZZI SMYTH,
                        iSIRoNuMER-ROVXI. FOR SCOTLAND.
Account of the Astronomical Experiment of 1856, on ttie Peak of
                                  Teneriffe.
 THE object proposed in the astronomical experiment carried out on
the Peak of Teneriffe, the year before last, was to ascertain how
much telescopic observation can be improved, by eliminating the
lower third or fourth part of the atmosphere ; in other words, by
elevating instruments and observers some 10,000 feet above the
 sea level.
     By such a proceeding, not only was it hoped to rise above the
greater part of the clouds, mist, haze, and other aerial impurities,
so patent to the eyes of all men,—but also to get rid of certain
other sources of optical disturbance, which only manifest themselves
 to star-gazers, employing telescopes with high magnifying powers.
 To such, those disturbances are rarely or never absent, even on the
 finest nights ; and they act more and more prejudicially, the larger
 and more perfect the instruments that may be employed. From
 this cause it is, that the full magnifying power which a modern
 telescope is calculated to bear, can very seldom be applied ; minute
 celestial phenomena remain undiscovered ; and our opticians must
 lose heart in carrying on the improvement of object-glass manu
 facture, if their best performances are to be for ever condemned to
 have their finer qualities neutralized by the badness of the air in
 which they are tested.
     Here is evidently an evil of no ordinary magnitude, and it has
troubled astronomers long. Clearly foreseen and carefully weighed
by Sir Isaac Newton, that great philosopher described the nature
of the difficulty, and the only means of remedy in 1730, in words
as felicitous as comprehensive. " Telescopes," says he, " cannot.
be so formed as to take away that confusion of rays, which arises
from the tremors of the atmosphere. The only remedy is a most
   VOL. II.—(No. 28.)                                     2*

494          Prof. Piazzi Smyth's Account of the           [March 5,
serene and quiet air, such as may perhaps be found on the tops of
the highest mountains, above the grosser clouds."
    This appears a very simple and probable piece of speculation,
yet somehow it dropped out of notice, and never had the seal of
practical trial applied to its theoretical prediction, until the late
First Lord of the Admiralty, Sir Charles Wood, duly advised by
the Astronomer-Royal, Mr. Airy, commissioned me to make the
attempt in the summer of 1856, by carrying a large telescope to a
considerable height up the flanks of the Peak of Teueriffe.
    That mountain was chosen as the most elevated one within
reach of a summer expedition, and at the same time of practicable
ascent with large instruments. It is situated, moreover, in the
middle of the N.E. trade wind region, where the weather is not
only more regular than in any other part of the world, but where,
mutatis mutandis, some pretty certain data as to the climate of the
upper atmospheric strata, had been procured from another and
grander scientific work, recently performed, also under the Lords
of the Admiralty, viz., the remeasurement of La Caille's Arc of
the Meridian at the Cape of Good Hope, by their Lordships'
southern astronomer, Mr. Maclear.
    Further particulars of a practical nature, relative to the cha
racter of the ground, as well as the temper and quality of the inha
bitants, having been procured from Robert Stephenson, M.P., who
had lately visited the island, and whose early experiences on South
American Cordilleras, had long since led him to look with favour
on Newton's mountain method of improving astronomical observa
tion,—the preparations for this novel sort of expedition went ou
quickly during May and June.
    At this stage, so much kindly interest in the attempt was shown
in the limited circle of working astronomers, that, beginning with
Mr. Airy, I was favoured by them in the course of a few weeks
with the loan of many valuable instruments ; and finally, Mr.
Stephenson, who had already paved the way to the expedition being
called into being, tendered the magnificent contribution of no less
than the use of his yacht Titania, and her able crew. With them,
accordingly, we set sail on June 22nd from Cowes ; I say we, for
I was accompanied by my wife, the best assistant that either an
astronomer or any other man can possibly have.
    There was still just a trifle of uncertainty spread over our
prospects, for some very opposite opinions were in the field, appa
rently supported by observed facts ; and a few voices even loudly
proclaimed, that high mountain tops, all the world over, are inva
riably loaded with clouds and mist and sleet, and tormented for
ever with impetuous storms. Yet strong in our own belief, on we
went in the swift Titania, and arriving in Teneriffeon July the 8th,
were at once made free of the island by the liberal and hospitable
Spanish authorities ; beginning our first ascent six days afterwards,
with a long line of mules laden with instruments and baggage.

 1858.] Astronomical Experiment on the Peak of Teneriffe.          495
      The morning was desperately cloudy, quite a desponding sort
 of day; but the angle of ascent in the road was happily most
 moderate and uniform, so on and up we rode with the greatest
 facility. A sympiesometer, by Adie of Edinburgh, gave the
 heights without dismounting.         At 3000 feet of altitude, still
 pacing up a constant slope, the level of the clouds was reached,
 —those clouds which had made the sky look so unhappy when we
 were starting from the port of Orotava. A whiff or two of damp
 mist flew about us for a while, and then we suddenly emerged into
clear hot sunshine. From that moment, and hour after hour, as
the decreasing column of the sympiesometer chronicled the height
ascended, and as we continued toiling up the long slope of the
mountain, the sun shone vehemently down upon us from a sky of the
 purest blue ; and never did the clouds below attempt to leave their
constant level of 3000 or 4000 feet above the sea. In this bril
liant illumination, in the rarefied and arid air, amidst volcanic
rocks of grotesque and imposing forms,—in fact, in this most moon-
like region we travelled on, until by evening we had reached the
top of Mount Guajara, on the southern side of the elevation crater ;
and thus within 24 days of leaving England, had the satisfaction of
bivouacking on the top of a mountain 8900 feet high, and only 28°
from the equator ; in a calm air, too, with a temperature of 65°,
and under a sky undimmed by a single cloud, and gloriously re
splendent with stars.
     Was not that at once a realisation of Newton's prophetic de
scription, " a serene and quiet air on the top of the highest moun
tains above the grosser clouds" ?—for all this time the lowland,
beneath us, and the sea far and wide, were covered in by a broad
expanse of mist, whose rollers were driving along under the in
fluence of a violent N.E. wind.
     That great plain of vapour floating in mid-air at a height of
4000 feet, was a separater of many things. Beneath, were a moist
atmosphere, fruits, and gardens, and the abodes of men ; above,
an air inconceivably dry, in which the bare bones of the great
mountain lay oxidising in all variety of brilliant colours, in the
light of the sun by day, and stars innumerable at night.
     Below that constant curtain of cloud, were towns and villages,
—prisons, theatres and churches many,—above it, save a few goat
herds wandering over the heights with their flocks of Guanche
breed, were no traces of human life but in our little astronomical
encampment.
     Then how truly serene and quiet, and transparent, too, was the
air above our 8900 foot elevation ; for, on erecting our telescopes,
not only was each star, whether high or low, seen with an exquisilp
little disc and nearly perfect rings, but the space-penetrating power
was extended with the same instrument and same eye from the
10th magnitude, at the sea level, to the 14th, on Guajara.
     Similar results in their ultimate bearing, followed other obser-
                                                         2M2

 496            Prof. Piazzi Smyth's Account of tte            [March 5
 vations, as those of solar and lunar radiation. But time fails me to
 tell of two months' mountain experience of days, always better for
 astronomy than iu the towns below, and sometimes supremely
 adapted therefor ; and of how, accompanied by two of the sturdy
 seamen of the Titania, we tried our telescopes on the flanks of the
 Peak itself, at a height of 10,700 feet, ascertained at once the
 practicability and advisableness of greater heights still, and climbed
 the culminating point of the mountain 12,198 feet high.
      To describe these operations in full, there is now neither time,
 nor perhaps necessity, as the original observations, with all the nume
 rical and instrumental particulars, have been communicated to the
 Admiralty, and by them were transmitted to the Royal Society, for
 publication, in June last ; while as to the more popular part of our
 daily experiences and little personal adventures, should any one
 care to read them, are they not contained in a little book, recently
 published by Mr. Lovell Reeve, and illustrated with genuine
 photo-stereographs ?
     Such plates being actual reproductions of nature by herself, I
may, perhaps, be allowed to call some attention to them, not indeed
altogether through means of the book, but by exhibiting, with the
assistance of Prof. Tyndall and Mr. De la Rue, magnified optical
pictures of some glass copies from the original negatives.
     These will be better understood, if attention be turned for a
few moments to this large model of the Peak of Teneriffe, and a
tract of country about it, sixteen miles square. It has been pre
pared for this special occasion by the enthusiastic kindness of my
friend Mr. James Nasmyth, C.E., long experienced in watching
lunar craters in telescopes of his own making ; and professionally
intimate with metals, fluid and solid, with all the volcanics, indeed
as well as the mechanics of the workshop. When he heard of a
terrestrial crater, the great crater of Teneriffe, eight miles in
diameter, he could not restrain his admiration and his zeal ; so setting
to work with all the map and measurement particulars which I
could furnish, he produced the present model, as accurate as the
existing state of our knowledge admits.
     By a general vertical illumination the colours may be most
distinctly seen. The green indicates vegetation, mainly confined
to the lower 4000 feet of altitude, or to the region below the
clouds. Above them are seen chiefly the colours of the lava rocks ;
the oldest, light yellow ; the most recent, black ; and the inter
mediate, red.
     [The first collection of pictures shown illustrated the scenery
of the green region on the northern coast ; the second had
its locale at a height of 8000 feet on Mount Guajara, or the
southern wall of the great elevation crater, submarine at the time
of its formation. And the third was confined to the eruption crater,
or central cone, constituting the so-called Peak of Teneriffe; and

1858.]    Astronomical Experiment on the Peak of Teneriffe.         497
exhibits the phenomena of subaerial volcanic action, at elevations
extending from 9000 to 12,200 feet.
    Having exhibited the prevailing colours by a vertical light, a
ray of electric light was next thrown upon the model, at a low
angle, so as to bring out the forms, and especially the angle of
slope, pf the various cones and craters.]
    Studied in this manner, the model will yield so much informa
tion, that I will not venture to detain the audience longer, save
with a very few words on the social bearing of this astronomical
experiment on the Peak of Teneriffe. The claims of science to
respect amongst men, for its services in promoting the union of
nations and the brotherhood of mankind, have been often dwelt on.
Of this admirable and humanizing tendency, is not our experiment
on Teneriffe an example, within its little range ? See an observer
sent out by the English Government, received in a fortified town of
the Spaniards, not only without distrust, but as frankly as if one
of themselves. And did they suffer by it ? We took no notes of
their forts and guns, and military array, we applied ourselves to
our scientific business alone ; and if we have brought away anythmg
more from Teneriffe than what I have already had the honour of
describing to you, it is, respect and admiration for the Spanish
character ; and grand ideas of the results to astronomy as well as
some other sciences, if this first experiment, this mere trial of a new
method, be annually repeated, and energetically followed out.
                                                          [C. P. S.]
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 12.
   THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
               WILLIAM B. CARPENTER, M.D. F.R.S.
 On t/te Lowest (Bhizopod) Type of Animal Life, considered in its
           relaliotis to Physiology, Zoology, and Geology.
AMONG the unexpected revelations which the modern improved
microscope has made to the scientific investigator, there is perhaps
Tione more fertile in interest, than that which relates to the very
lowest type of animal existence ; from the study of which both the

498                    Dr. W. B. Carpenter,                [March 12,
Physiologist and the Zoologist may draw the most instructive
lessons, whilst the Geologist finds in it the key to the existence of
various stratified deposits of no mean importance both in extent and
thickness.
    Though the doctrines of Prof. Ehrenberg as to the complexity
of organization possessed by the minutest forms of Animalcules,
have now been rejected by the concurrent voice of the most com
petent observers, working with the best instruments, yet the
wonders of animalcular life are not in the least diminished by this
repudiation of them. Indeed, as great and small are merely relative
terms, it may be questioned whether the marvel of a complex
structure comprised within the narrowest space we can conceive, is
really so great as that of finding those operations of life which we
are accustomed to see carried on by an elaborate apparatus, per
formed without any instruments whatever ;—a little particle of
apparently homogeneous jelly changing itself into a greater variety
of forms than the fabled Proteus, laying hold of its food without
members, swallowing it without a mouth, digesting it without a
stomach, appropriating its nutritious material without absorbent
vessels or a circulating system, moving from place to place without
muscles, feeling (if it has any power to do so) without nerves, mul
tiplying itself without eggs, and not only this, but in many instancess
forming shelly coverings of a symmetry and completeness not sur
passed by those of any testaceous animals.
     As an example of this type of existence, the Amoeba, a common
inhabitant of fresh waters, may be first selected. This may be
described as a minute mass of " sarcode," presenting scarcely any
evidence of organisation, even of the simplest kind; for although
its superficial layer has a somewhat firmer consistency than the
semifluid interior, this differentiation does not proceed to the extent
of constituting even a body so simple as the " cell " of physiologists,
which consists of a definite membrane investing and limiting its
contents. Although at some times shapeless and inert, the Amoeba
at others is a creature of no inconsiderable activity. Its gelatinous
body extends itself into one or more finger-like prolongations ;
the interior substance transfers itself into one or other of these,
distending it until the entire mass is (as it were) carried into it ;
and then, after a short time, another prolongation is put forth, either
in the same or in some different direction, and the body being again
absorbed into it, the place of the animal is again changed. When
the creature, in the course of its progress, meets with a particle
capable of affording it nutriment, its gelatinous body spreads itself
over or around this, so as to envelope it completely ; and the par
ticle (sometimes animal, sometimes vegetable) thus taken into this
extemporised stomach, undergoes a sort of digestion there, the
nutrient material being extracted, and any indigestible part
making its way to the surface, and being finally (as it were)
squeezed out. The Amcoba multiplies itself by self-division ; and

  1858.]        on the Rhizopod Type of Animal Life.                499
  portions separated from the jelly-like mass, either by cutting or
  tearing, can develope themselves into independent beings.
      Nearly allied to this is another curious organism, on which the
  attention of many eminent microscopists has been recently fixed.
  This creature, the Actiiwphrys, has a body whose form is more
  constantly spherical, but extends its sarcode into radiating filaments
 of extreme delicacy, which are termed pseudopodia ; and it is by
 the agency of these, rather than by the change of place of its whole
 body (as in Amoeba), that it obtains its food. For when any
 small free-moving animalcule or active spore of a vegetable comes
 into contact with one of the pseudopodia, this usually retains it by
 adhesion, and forthwith begins to retract itself ; as it shortens, the
 surrounding filaments also apply themselves to the captive particle,
 bending their points together so as gradually to enclose it, and
 themselves retracting until the prey is brought close to the surface
 of the body. The threads of " sarcode " of which the pseudopodia
 are composed, not being invested (any more than the sarcode of
 the body) by any limiting membrane, coalesce with each other and
 with it ; and thus the particle which has been entrapped becomes
 actually imbedded in the gelatinous mass, and gradually passes
 towards the central part of it, where its digestible portion under
 goes solution, the superficial part of the body with its pseudopodial
 prolongations in the meantime recovering its previous condition.
 Any indigestible portion, as the shell of an Entomostracan, or the
 hard case of a Kotifcr, finds its way to the surface of the body, and
 is extruded from it by a process exactly the converse of that by
 which it was drawn in.
     If, now, it be asked in what consists the peculiar animality of
 beings thus destitute of every feature that we are accustomed to
associate with the idea of an animal,—that is, if it be enquired
what are the characters by which they are distinguished from
vegetable organisms of equal simplicity,—the physiologist cannot
with confidence reply that sufficient evidence is afforded by the
movements of the Amoeba and Actinophrys ; since among the lowest
 Plants there are many, which, at least in certain stages of their
lives, are endowed with yet even greater activity. A more positive
and satisfactory distinction lies in the nature of their aliment, and
in the method of its introduction. For whilst the protophyte obtains
the materials of its nutrition from the air and moisture that sur
round it, and possesses the power of detaching oxygen, hydrogen,
carbon, and nitrogen from their previous binary compounds, and of
uniting them into ternary and quarternary organic compounds
(chlorophyll, starch, albumen, &c.), the simplest protozoon, in com
mon with the highest members of the animal kingdom, seems
utterly destitute of any such power, and depends for its support
upon organic substances previously elaborated by other living beings.
Further, whilst the protophyte obtains its nutriment by simple
imbibition, the protozoon, though destitute of any proper stomach,

600                   Dr. W. B. Carpenter,                 [March 12,
extemporizes, as it were, a stomach for itself in the substance of its
body, into which it ingests the solid particles that constitute its
food, and within which it subjects them to a regular process of diges
tion. Hence these simplest members of the two kingdoms, which
can scarcely be distinguished from each other by any structural
characters, seem to be physiologically separable by the mode in
which they perform those actions wherein their life most essentially
consists.
    There are found, both in fresh and salt waters, numerous
examples of this Rhizopod type, which do not present any essential
advance upon the Amoeba and Actinophrys ; and a large proportion
of these are endowed with a shelly investment which may be either
calcareous or siliceous,—the former being the characteristic of the
Foraminifera, the latter of the Polycystina. In some of these tes
taceous forms, the pseudopodia are put forth only from the mouth
of the shell, whilst in other cases this is perforated with minute
apertures for their passage ; but where there are no such apertures,
the sarcode body not unfrequently extends itself over the entire
external surface of the shell, and may give off pseudopodia in every
direction. Generally speaking, the Foraminifera live attached to
sea-weeds, zoophytes, &c. ; but their pseudopodia have a_ very ex
tensive range, and form a sort of animated spider's web, most won
derfully adapted for the prehension of food. The absence of any
membranous investment to these threads is clearly indicated by
their fusion or coalescence when two or more happen to come into
contact ; and sometimes a fresh expansion of sarcode takes place at
spots remote from the body, so as to form new centres from which
a fresh radiation of pseudopodia proceeds.
    By far the greater number of Foraminifera are composite fabrics,
evolved, like zoophytes, by a process of continuous gemmation, each
gemma or bud remaining in connection with that from which it was-
put forth ; and according to the plan on which this gemmation
takes place, will be the configuration of the composite body thereby
produced. Where the segments succeed each other in a line, that
line is very commonly bent into a spiral ; and each new segment
being a little larger than the preceding, the spire gradually opens
out, so that the shell very closely resembles that of the Nautilus,
both in its form and in its chambered structure. There is, however,
this essential difference,—that whereas in the nautilus and other
chambered shells formed by cephalopod mollusks, the animal lives
only in the outermost chamber, all the inner ones having been suc
cessively vacated by it, each chamber in the foraminiferous shell
continues to be occupied by a segment of the composite body, com
municating with the segments within and without by threads of
sarcode, which traverse minute passages left in the partitions between
the chambers. In the classification of these forms, an extraordinary
amount of allowance has to be made for the very wide range of
variation that may present itself within the limits of one and the

1858.]          on the Rhizopod Type of Animal Life.               501
same specific type. It is very easy to select from any extensive
collection of foraminifera, recent or fossil, sets of forms having
certain characters in common, but yet so dissimilar in other respects
that few naturalists would have any doubt as to their specific or
even generic distinctness ; yet when the collection is thoroughly
examined, such a series of intermediate forms is found to exist, as
connects all these by gradations so insensible as to prevent the pos
sibility of any line of demarcation being satisfactorily drawn between
them. A remarkable example of this kind is presented by the
generic types designated as Dendrilina and Peneroplis ; the former
being a minute shell, resembling that of the nautilus in its general
proportions, and having a single large dendritic aperture in its suc
cessive partitions ; whilst the latter is flattened, and instead of one
large aperture, has a series of small foramina arranged in a single
line. Now between these every gradation can be found, both in
the form of the shell and in the mode of communication through the
septa ; the flattened shell of Peneroplis presenting various degrees
of turgidity until it attains the proportions of Dendritina ; and the
linear arrangement of the isolated apertures, in like manner, giving
place to one in which they are approximated more closely together
into a sort of bundle, still, however, retaining their distinctness ;
whilst in other individuals, the distinct apertures coalesce into one
large jagged orifice, the borders of which become more and more
deeply cut, until they present the ramifying extensions characteristic
of dendritina. Now if, in such a series, we once begin to make a
distinct species for every well marked dissimilarity, either in the
form of the shell, or in that of the aperture, we must multiply our
species almost indefinitely, contrary to all probability ; and there
is no medium between doing this, and uniting the whole series of
forms included in these two reputed genera under one specific type.
This is the more remarkable, because in one locality we may find
only the Dendritina-form, in another only the Peneroplis-form,
whilst the transitional or intermediate forms come from a third.
     Another remarkable example of this wide range of specific
characters is presented in the OrbUolite} a composite organism,
which, originating in a spheroidal nucleus of sarcode, increases by
the formation of new segments in concentric rings around this, so
that, each segment becoming invested with a shelly envelope, a very
beautiful disk is formed, which is enlarged by successive additions
to its margin. The segments communicate with each other by
annular canals ; and there are also passages connecting each annu-
lus with those within and without ; whilst from the outermost an-
nulus there are passages opening at the margin of the shelly disk,
through which alone the pseudopodia issue that obtain the food for
the whole organism. Now there are two very distinct types of
growth presented by these Orbitolites ; one, namely, in which the
disk is very thin, and the segments form (as it were) but a single
floor ; and the other in which the disk becomes comparatively thick

    502                    Dr. W. B. Carpenter,                  [March 12,
    through the vertical elongation of the segments, which, moreover,
    are themselves partially divided into at least three distinct stories :
    two, namely, which form the two surfaces of the disk, and an inter
    mediate one, which is very distinctly separated from them both.
    The former type of growth may be designated as the simple, the
    latter as the complex. Now some Orbitolites seem to go through
    their whole lives upon the simple plan, whilst in others the complex
    plan shows itself in the very first ring ; and from the comparison
    of such alone, it might be fairly supposed that these two plans are
    characteristic of two distinct species. But when a considerable
    number of these forms are examined, it appears that the simple
    type may pass into the complex at any period of its growth ; the
    same disk presenting the simple plan in the first 5, 10, 20, 30, or
    more annuli, and the complex in all those subsequently formed.
    Hence there can be no question that even so marked a diversity in
    plan of growth is not in that case sufficient to establish a diversity of
   specific type, but that the two must be accounted varieties only.
        A no less remarkable range of variation has been shown by
    Prof. Williamson, and Mr. W. K. Parker, to prevail in other
    groups of Foraminifera which they have particularly studied ; so
    that it would appear as if this type of animal existence were spe
    cially characterized by its tendency to such variations. And this
   will seem the more probable, when it is considered how little of
    definiteness there is in the form and structure of the sarcode-body
   that forms the shell ; so that the wonder is, not that there should
   be a wide range of variation both in the form and in plan of growth
   of the aggregate body, and in the mode of communication of the
   individual segments, but that there should be any regularity or con
   stancy whatever. But it is only in the degree of this range, that
   this group differs from others ; and the main principle which must
   be taken as the basis of its systematic arrangement,—that of ascer
   taining the range of specific variation by an extensive comparison
   of individual forms,—is one which finds its application in every
   department of natural history, and is now recognised and acted on
   by all the most eminent zoologists and botanists. There are still
   too many, however, who are far too ready to establish new species
   upon variations of the most trivial character, without taking the
   pains to establish the value of these differences by ascertaining
   their constancy through an extensive series of individuals,— thus,
   as was well said by the late Prince of Canino, " describing speci
   mens instead of species," and burdening science not only with a
   useless nomenclature, but with a mass of false assertions. It should
   be borne in mind that every one who thus makes a bad species, is
   really doing a serious detriment to science ; whilst every one who
   proves the identity of species previously accounted distinct, is con
   tributing towards its simplification, and is therefore one of its truest
   benefactors.
        Some of the most interesting physiological and zoological con-
-,

1858.]          on ttie Rhizopod Type of Animal Life.              503
siderations which connect themselves with the study of this group
having thus been noticed, its geological importance has in the last
place to be alluded to. Traces, more or less abundant, of the ex
istence of Foraminifera are to be found in calcareous rocks of nearly
all geological periods ; but it is towards the end of the secondary,
and at the beginning of the tertiary period, that the development
of this group seems to have attained its maximum. Although there
can be no reasonable doubt that the formation of Chalk is partly
due to the disintegration of corals and larger shells, yet it cannot
be questioned that in many localities a very large proportion of
its mass has been formed by the slow accumulation of foraminiferous
shells, sometimes preserved entire, sometimes fragmentary, and
sometimes almost entirely disintegrated. The most extraordinary
manifestation of this type of life, however, presents itself in the
 "nummulitic limestone," which may be traced from the region
of the Pyrenees, through that of the Alps and Apennines, into Asia
Minor, and again through Northern Africa and Egypt, into Arabia,
Persia, and Northern India, and thence (it is believed) through
Thibet and China, to the Pacific, covering very extensive areas,
and attaining a thickness in some places of many thousand feet ;
 another extensive tract of this nummulitic limestone is found in the
 United States. A similar formation, of less extent but of great
 importance, occurs in the Paris basin ; and it is not a little remark
 able that the fine-grained and easily-worked limestone, which affords
 such an excellent material for the decorated buildings of the French
 metropolis, is entirely formed of an accumulation of minute fora
 miniferous shells. Even in the nummulitic limestone, the matrix
 in which the nummulites are imbedded, is itself composed of minute
 Foraminifera, and of the comminuted fragments of larger ones. The
 remarkable discovery has been recently made by Prof. Ehrenberg,
 that the green and ferruginous sands which present themselves in
 various stratified deposits, from the Silurian to the Tertiary epoch,
 but which are especially abundant in the Cretaceous period, are
 chiefly composed of casts of the interior of minute shells of Fora
 minifera and Mollusca, the shells themselves having entirely disap
 peared. The material of these casts, which is chiefly silex, coloured
  by silicate of iron, has not merely filled the chambers and their
 communicating passages, but has also penetrated, even to its mi
 nutest ramifications, that system of interseptal canals, whose exist
 ence, first discovered by Dr. C. in Nummulites, has been detected
 also in many recent Foraminifera allied to these in general plan of
 structure. And it is a very interesting pendant to this discovery,
 that a like process has been shown by Prof. Bailey, to be at present
 going on over various parts of the sea bottom of the Gulf of Mexico
  and the G ulf Stream ; casts of Foraminifera in green sand being
  brought up in soundings with living specimens of the same types.
                                                         [W. 15. C.]

504           H. T. Buckle, Esq., on the Influence of [March 19,
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 19.
   THE DUKE ov NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                            in the Chair.
                   HENRY THOMAS BUCKLE, Esq.
  On the Influence of Women on the Progress of Knowledge.
THE two leading propositions which Mr. Buckle attempted to
establish, are, 1st,—That women are naturally deductive, men
inductive : 2nd, — That women, by encouraging and keeping alive
habits of deductive thought, have unconsciously accelerated the
progress of knowledge by preventing men from being as exclusively
inductive, or, in other words, as one-sided as they would otherwise
be.
    The influence thus exercised by women escapes general atten
tion, because it displays itself not in making discoveries, but in
affecting the method according to which discoveries are made.
Knowledge is commonly divided only into two parts, art and
science ; but it does in reality contain a third department which is
superior to the other two, and which it is the business of philosophy
properly so called, to investigate. This third, or highest depart
ment, is method ; and in studying any subject, the first question
should always be, " What is the proper method of proceeding ?"
There are only two methods, the inductive and the deductive.
Induction proceeds from the external world to the internal, i.e.,
from facts which are presented to the senses, to ideas which are
presented to the mind. Deduction proceeds from the internal
world to the external, i.e., from ideas to facts. Women are less
practical than men ; they are more enthusiastic, more emotional,
and live in a more ideal world. They, therefore, naturally prefer
a method which proceeds from ideas to facts, leaving to men the
other method of proceeding from facts to ideas. These two methods,
though often united, are essentially distinct ; and even supposing
that all ideas are suggested by the external world (an assertion
which is constantly made, but has never been proved), this would
merely affect the question as to the origin of the elements of our
knowledge, and would leave untouched the method by which those
elements are subsequently arranged. If, for example, as many
affirm, the axioms of geometry are the result of induction, it is
nevertheless certain that the induction takes place at so early a

1858.]          Women on the Progress of Knowledge.                 505
period of life, that we are unconscious of it. Hence we are justified
in terming geometry a deductive science, even if we admit that its
origin is inductive ; because the great labour consists in the subse
quent process of working deductively from ideas, which (according
to this view) we have inductively obtained.
    In England it is constantly stated that since Bacon all great
physical discoveries have been made by induction, in opposition to
the more ideal method. If this be true, the deductive influence of
women must, in reference to such discoveries, have done more harm
than good. But Mr. Buckle asserted that it is not true ; and he
corroborated his assertion by an analysis of the method adopted by
Newton, Haiiy, and Gothe, in regard to their discoveries of the
law of Gravitation, the law of the Derivation of the Secondary
Forms of Crystals, the Morphological Law of Vegetables, and the
law of the Vertebral Composition of the Cranium.
    Finally, Mr. Buckle observed, that an exclusive employment of
the inductive philosophy was contracting the minds of physical
inquirers ; gradually shutting out speculations respecting causes and
entities ; limiting the student to questions of distribution, and for
bidding to him questions of origin ; making everything hang on
two sets of laws, namely those of co-existence and of sequence ; and
declaring beforehand how far future knowledge can carry us. But
we shall not always be satisfied with seeing the laws of nature rest
on this empirical basis ; and the most advanced thinkers are look
ing to a period when we shall deal with problems of a much higher
kind than any yet solved ; when we shall incorporate mind and
matter into a single study ; when we shall seek to raise the veil and
penetrate into the secrets of things. Everything indicates that a
 struggle of this sort is impending, and to achieve success the
 imagination will have to aid the understanding more than it has yet
 done. We shall need every faculty, every resource, and every
 method. The intellectual peculiarities of both sexes must be com
 bined, before we can expect to conduct to a prosperous issue that
 great contest between Man and Nature, of which this generation
 may witness the beginning, but of which our distant posterity can
 hardly hope to see the end.*
                                                           [H. T. B.]
    * Mr. Buckle's Discourse is given in full in "Fraser's Magazine," for
April 1858.

 506                         Rev. J. Barlow,                 [March 26,
;\
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
             '*]
       -^Lsrsr             tFriday, March 26.
   SIR BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-
                         President, in the Chair.
     RKV. JOHN BARLOW, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-Pres. & Sec. R.I.
  On Mineral Candles and other Products manufactured at
                         Belmont and Sherwood.
THE candles and the other products (liquid hydro-carbons), on
which Mr. Barlow discoursed, are manufactured by Price's Candle
Company, at Belmont and Sherwood, according to processes
patented by Mr. Warren De la Rue. The novelty of these sub
stances consists— 1. In the material from which they are obtained.
2. In the method by which they are elaborated. 3. In their
chemical constitution.
     1. The raw material is a semifluid naphtha, drawn up from wells
sunk in the neighbourhood of the river Irrawaddy, in the Burmese
empire. The geological characteristics of the locality are sand
stone and blue clay. In its raw condition the substance is used by
the natives as a lamp-fuel, as a preservative of timber against
insects, and as a medicine. Being in part volatile, at common tem
peratures, this naphtha is imported in hermetically-closed metallic
tanks, to prevent the loss of any constituent. Reichenbach,
Christison, Gregory, Reece,* Young,t Wiesman (of Bonn), and
others have obtained from peat, coal, and other organic minerals,
solids and liquids bearing some physical resemblance to those
procured from the Burmese naphtha ; but the first-named products
have, in every instance, been formed by the decomposition of the
raw material. The process of De la Rue, is, from first to last,
a simple separation, without chemical change.
    2. Tlie processes adopted.—In the commercial processes, as
carried out by Mr. George Wilson, at the Sherwood and Belmont
Works, the crude naphtha is first distilled with steam at a tem
perature of 212° Fahr. ; about one-fourth is separated by this
operation. The distillate consists of a .mixture of many volatile
hydro-carbons ; and it is extremely difficult to separate them from
each other on account of their vapours being mutually very diffus-
able, however different may be their boiling points. In practice,
* See Proceedings of the Royal Institution, Vol. I., p. 4. t Ibid, p. 135.

 1858.]                   on Mineral Candles, fyc.                          507
recourse is had to a second or third distillation, the products of
which are classified according to their boiling points or their specific
gravities, which range from '627 to '860, the lightest coining over
first. It is worthy of notice, that though all these volatile liquids
were distilled from the original material with steam of the tempera
ture of boiling water, their boiling points range from 80° Fahr.
to- upwards of 400° Fahr.
     These liquids are all colourless, and do not solidify at any
temperature, however low, to which they have been exposed.*
They are useful for many purposes. All are solvents of caoutchouc.
The vapour of the more volatile, Dr. Snow has found to be highly
anaesthetic. Those of the lower specific gravity, called in commerce
Sherwoodole, have great detergent power, readily removing oily
stains from silk, without impairing even delicate' colours. The
distillates of higher specific gravity are proposed to be used as
lamp-fuel ; they burn with a brilliant white flame ; and, as they
cannot be ignited without a wick,- even when heated to the
temperature of boiling water, they are safe for domestic use.
      A small per-centage of hydro-carbons, of the benzole series,
comes over with the distillates in this first operation. Messrs.
De la Rue and Miiller have shown that it may be advantageously
eliminated by nitric acid. The resulting substances, nitro-benzole,
&c., are commercially valuable in perfumery, &c.
      After steam of 212° has been used in the distillation just
described, there is left a residue, amounting to about three-fourths
of the original material. It is fused, and purified from extraneous
ingredients (which Warren De la Rue and H. Miiller have found
to consist partly of the colophene series) by sulphuric acid. The
foreign substances are thus thrown down as a black precipitate,
from which the supernatant liquor is decanted. The black pre
cipitate, when freed from acid by copious washing, has all the
characteristic properties of native asphaltum. The fluid is then
transferred to a still, and, by means of a current of steam made to
pass through heated iron tubes, is distilled at any required tem
perature. The distillates obtained by this process are classed
according to their distilling-points, ranging from 300° to 600° Fahr.
The distillations obtained, at 430D Fahr. and upwards, contain a
solid substance, resembling in colour and in many physical and
 chemical properties, the paraffine of Reichenbach; like it it is
 electric, and its chemical affinity is very feeble : but there are
 reasons for believing that a difference exists in the atomic consti
 tution of the two substances. The commercial name of IBclmontine
 is proposed for the solid deijved from the Burmese naphtha. Candles
 manufactured from this material possess great illuminating power.
 It is stated that a Belmontine candle, weighing Jth lb., will give as
     * The freezing mixture of solid carbonic acid and ether does not affect the
fluidity of these bodies.

508        Rev. J. Barlow, on Mineral Candles, fyc.                 [March 26.
much light as a candle weighing Jth lb., made of spermaceti or of
stearic acid. Its property of fusing at a veiy low temperature
into a transparent liquid, and not decomposing below 600° Fahr.
recommends this substance as the material of a bath for chemical
purposes. As to the fluids obtained in the second distillation,
already described, they all possess great lubricating properties ; and,
unlike the common fixed oils, not being decomposable into an acid,
they do not corrode the metals, especially the alloys of copper,
which are used as bearings of machinery. This aversion to chemi
cal combination, which characterizes all these substances, affords,
not only a security against the brass-work of lamps being injured
by the hydro-carbon burnt in them, but also renders these hydro
carbons the best detergents of common oil lamps. It is an interest
ing physical fact, that some of the non-volatile liquid hydro-carbons
possess the fluorescent property which Stokes has found to reside
in certain vegetable infusions.
      3. Chemical constitution of these hydro-carbons.—On this
subject, there will be found a short memoir by Warren de la Rue,
and Hugo Muller, in the Proceedings of the Royal Society, Vol.
viii., page 221. The researches referred to in that memoir are
nearly completed. The principal constituents of the Burmese
naphtha, are—(a), (the largest in proportion) a substance identical
in composition with either the hydrurets or the radicals of the
ethyle series ; (6) Substances of the benzole series, forming a com
paratively small portion. It has, however, been ascertained that
some of the hydro-carbons of this aromatic series differ in their
chemical and physical properties from the analogous members of
the same series obtained from the usual sources. This difference
is most strongly marked in the case of cumole and its higher
homologues of the benzole series,* (c) the colophene series already
adverted to.
     An important characteristic of the Burmese naphtha is its being
almost entirely destitute of the hydro-carbons belonging to the
olefiant-gas seiies.
                                                                       [J. B.]
    * In illustration of this view may be cited, Church's discovery of a para-
benzole in coal tar, boiling at 185° Fahr., and not solidifying at 32°.

                      Institution of <£reat Britain.
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, April 5, 1858.
 WILLIAM POLE, ESQ. M.A. F.R.S . Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                     The Marchioness of Londonderry.
                     Henry Diedrich Jencken, Esq.
                     William Jones Loyd, Esq.
                     Sir Thomas Phillips, and
                     Major-General Westropp Walkins
 were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                     Herbert Barnard, Esq.
                     Thomas Hyde Hills. Esq.
                     John Pyle, Esq. F.R.C.S. and
                     William Southey, jun. Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :
   FBOM
Her Majesty's Government—Mortality of the British Army, as compared with
     the Mortality of the Civil Population in England, fol. 1958.
 The Government of British Guiana — Monthly Tables of Meteorological
     Elements deduced from Observations at Demerara, from 1846 to 1856.
     By P. Sandeman. 4to. 1857.
Hon. East India Company— Geological Papers on Western India: •with an
     Atlas. Edited by H. J. Carter. 8vo. and 4to. Bombay, 1857.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal— Journal, Vol. XVIII. Part 2. 8vo.
     1857.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notice, March 1858. 8vo.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.K.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for March 1858. 8vo.
Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society— Journal, No. 20. 8vo. 1857.
Bootey, Messrs, (the Publishers)—The Musical World for March 1858. 4to.
Bloxam, T. (the Author) —Analyses of Craigleith Sandstone. 8vo. 1858.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in March 1858. 4to.
British MeteorologicalSociety—Report, May 1857. 8vo.
   VOL. II.—(No. 29.)                                           2N

.510                     General Monthly Meeting.                     [April 5,
Editors—The Medical Circular for March 1858. Svo.
      The Practical Mechanic's Journal for March 1858. 4to.
      The Journal of Gas-Lighting for March 1858. 4to.
      The Mechanics' Magazine for March 1858. 8vo.
      The Athenaeum for March 1858. 4to.
      The Engineer for March 1858. fol.
      The Artizan for March 1858.
     The Illustrated Inventor for March 1858.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIV. No. 2. 8vo. 1858.
Geographical Society, Royal— Proceedings, Vol. II., No. 1. 8vo. 1858.
Geological Society—Proceedings, March 1858.
Graham, George, Esg. (Registrar-General)—Reports of the Registrar-G eneral
      for March 1858. 8vo.
Halswell, Edmund, Esq.—Thirteenth Report on Hanwell Asylum. 12mo. 1858.
Irith Academy, Royal— Catalogue of Antiquities in the Museum. By W. R.
      Wilde. Svo. 1857.
Jane*, H. Bence, M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Recherches sur 1'Effet produit
      sur la Circulation par 1'Application prolongee de 1'Eau froide i la surface
     du corps de I'homme. Par Dr. H. Bence Jones et W. H. Dickinson,
      Esq. Svo. Paris, 1858.
Jaaa, T. Wharton, Esq. F.R.S. (th> Author)—Catechism of the Physiology
     and Philosophy of Body, Sense, and Mind. 16to. 1858.
Lee, Robert, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Treatise on the Employment
      of the Speculum in Uterine Diseases. Svo. 1858.
Longman, Messrs, and Co.—Projectile Weapons of War and Explosive Com
     pounds. By J. Scoffern. 3rd Edition. 16to. 1858.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), March 1858. Svo.
Jfovello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for March 1858.
J'ctf.rmnnn, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographie, 1858. Heft 1. 4to. Gotha, 1858.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 64. Svo. 1858.
Plateau, M. J. (the Author)—Recherches sur les Figures d'Equilibre. 4«
     Sen<?. 4to. 1857.
Royal Scottish Society of Arts—Transactions, Vol. V. Parti. Svo. 1857.
Royal Society—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXLVII. Part 2. 4to. 1858.
   Proceedings, No. 29. Svo. 1858.
   List of Members, 1857.
Society of Arts—Journal for March 1858. Svo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 1. Svo. 1858.
United Service Institution—Journal, Vol. I. Nos. 1, 2. Svo. 1857-58.
Yates, James, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)— On the Limes Rheeticus and Limes
     Trans-Rhenanus of the Roman Empire. Svo. 1858.

  1858.]            Mr. Godwin-Austen, on Coal.                     511
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 16.
    THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
          ROBERT GODWIN-AUSTEN, Esq. F.R.S. & G.S.
  On the Conditions which determine the probability of Coal beneath
                the South-Eastern parts of England.
 FOSSIL fuel may be of any geological age : seams and traces of it
have often encouraged researches amongst the tertiary strata of the
 London basin : even within the last few years there has been a
 Woking Heath coal-mining adventure ; and it has long been a
matter of popular belief that Blackheath is to supply London with
 coal. There are, however, thick accumulations of tertiary fuel, of
which Bovey, in South Devon, is the best example in this country.
There is coal belonging to the period of the chalk—there have
 been innumerable trials for coal amongst the fresh-water formations
of the "Weald of Kent, Surrey, and Sussex—there is tolerable coal
associated with the oolitic series of Yorkshire; but the coal to
which the following speculations refer is that which is derived
from what have been designated the " true coal measures."
     The period to which this coal belongs in the earth's history is
of very great antiquity ; but the usual way of representing its age
by reference to a vertical scale of geological formations, is inappli
cable in the present case ; and the only way in which it can be
stated is this, that the whole series of formations which may be
seen in the cliffs of the south coast of England, from Torbay to
the Isle of Wight, have been accumulated since the period of the
" true coal" series.
     The superficial extent of the carboniferous series in this country
is very great : allowing for what has been denuded, and what we
know is covered up, it may be described as extending in a broad
band from Berwick diagonally across the whole island into South
Wales, and thence across the county of Devon.
     The usual subdivision of the great carboniferous series into a
descending series of " coal measures," " mountain limestone," and
red sandstone, is geographical ; the area of sandstone with coal
plants is western ; that of the limestone is central ; and true coal
measures occur unconnected with either. The carboniferous form
                                                          2N2

512      Mr. Godwin- Austen, on the probability of Coal [April 16,
ation, as a whole, exceeds that of any other geological group in this
country, considered with reference to surface.
    What is coal? It .is pure vegetable matter— the product of
plant-growths. And with respect to the mode by which it has been
accumulated, two theories have been proposed : there is the " drift "
theory, which accounts for its occurrence as the accumulations of
vegetable matter, brought down by mighty rivers, and deposited in
lakes and sea-margins. There is something too turbulent in this
theory to account for our great seams of fossil fuel.
    The other theory is, that coal is the product of a vegetation
which grew upon the very spots, and covered the areas over which
our coal-beds extend, like the peat-beds of the present day. This is
the theory of M. De Luc, M. Ad. Brongniart, and Messrs. Lindley
and I lull i in.
    In supposing that coal originated as peat, all that is meant is,
that it is the product of a vegetation composed of like plants, such
as could live on in association over the same spots, growing above
and decaying beneath ; but differing as widely in the plants which
composed it from our present peat plants, as did the whole of
the vegetation of that period from that of the present period : the
huge stigmariae are wholly unlike any plants which commence the
peat growth now.
     The succession of a coal-field may be seen in a small scale in
the deposits of lakes which have had differences of level from local
accidents ; and with reference to extent Ireland may be taken as an
illustration of continuous masses of vegetable matter, of vast thick
ness, covering the whole country for 50 miles, and at low levels.
Depress Ireland ever so little, so that the waters of the sea should
reach in in some places, and the river waters, such as those of the
Shannon, should collect into lakes ; and just in proportion as the
water was shallow would an uniform stratum of sand, or silt, or
gravel, be spread out above the peat-growths.
    The history of the coal-fields of this and every country, is that
of an endless succession of such changes.
    The question of the probable existence of coal measures at any
given spot over the European area depends primarily on the
original form of the surface of these coal growths : in other words,
can we construct a map of "Western Europe for the coal measure
period ?
    The restoration of the physical features of a portion of the
earth, for any given past period, is not so difficult, nor so purely
speculative as some may imagine : every form and combination of
mineral materials composing the sedimentary formations, all the
forms of life they contain, serve to indicate the precise conditions
under which they have been accumulated. Shingle and gravel
mark marginal zones, sand zones mark lower or submarginal
regions, deep sea deposits consist of mud or oaze ; thousands of
persons who have never even heard of the inquiries of the geolo

 1858.]        beneath the Soulh-Eastern parts of England.         5 13
 gist, have doubtless argued that Blackheath, with its rounded
 shingle, must at some time or other have been at the sea-side.
 Assemblages of marine shells are the evidences of former seas ;
 land and fresh-water shells and plants of old lakes and terrestrial
 conditions.
      By the aid of such guides as these, the form of the area of the
coal measures may be defined. Commencing in the west, we have
early indications of the proximity of dry land and fresh-water accu
mulations. The earliest carboniferous deposits contain fern-like
plants in wonderful profusion and beauty : with them are "• pond
muscles" (anodon). The land here lay to the south. The deposi
tions of the North of Ireland require the existence of a wide expanse
of dry land somewhere beyond it on the north. The "VVicklow moun
tains were part of the dry land of the coal period. In the beds of
the carboniferous limestone near Dublin may be seen angular frag
ments of the peculiar granite of these mountains, and which must
have been floated away by seaweeds from a shore line, just as hap
pens now. Dry land connected the Wicklow mountains with those
of Wales. If we pass over this interval we find evidence that the
mountains of Wales were then dry land. The conditions of por
tions of the coal measures bordering on this region have been investi
gated by most competent geologists, Sir 11. Murchison and Mr. Prest-
wich. In the Shrewsbury district are pure fresh-water limestones.
Coalbrook-dale, throughout the whole accumulation of its beds,
seems to have been immediately subordinate to an area of dry land.
The great Yorkshire coal series, which has been so well described
by Professor Phillips, is wholly lacustrine, with the exception of
one intercalated band of marine limestone.
     The proximity of dry land to the Edinburgh coal-field has been
shown by the researches of Dr. Hilbert and Mr. L. Horner, in the
fresh-water deposits of Burdie. The mountains of Cumberland
were dry land, and so all those of the border counties which range
from Wigtonshire to Berwick. All the mountains of the western
highlands of Scotland, an area extending north beyond the Shet-
lands, and westwards into the Atlantic, was also land surface : a
vast tract lay in this (the north) direction, of which the great
Scandinavian chain alone remains, and which supported the rivers
which bore down the waste of granitic and crystalline rocks which
enter so largely into the coal-measure sandstones of our northern
districts.
     Passing across into the Cotentin, we find a series of coal forma
tion, skirting the old mountain ranges of the north-west of France.
     The great central granitic plateau of France is fringed with
coal growths, and over the whole of its surface, are innumerable
small coal-fields, the lacustrine accumulations of the valleys of that
region —this was an upland coal region.
     The Vosges mountains have been raised over a surface which
was dry laud, and was connected with the Schwartzwald, the

   514      Mr. Godwin-Austen, on the probability of Coal [April 16,
   Odenwald, and the Spessart, and a great tract extending north and
   east, whence came down that curious assemblage of terrestrial
   forms which has been met with in the great fluviatile and lacustrine
   deposits of the Saarbruch coal basin. Such is the form of the
  area which contains the great coal formations of western Europe.
       The island which is represented in the interior of that great
  basin is not imaginary*—evidence of direction and extent of southern
  coast line from shingle bed of Burnot. The extension of a band of
  shingle from beyond Eupen to the Boulonnais, marks the direction
  of an old coast line which lay to the north of it. It was from this
  mass of land that the terrestrial vegetation, and the fresh-water
  shells so abundant in the Liege coal measures, were derived.
       The whole area, as here described, may be compared, as to its
  physical characters, with large level tracts which lie west of the
  Blue Mountains in Australia, into which the Lachlan, the Darling,
  the Murrumbidgee, and the Murray discharge.
       Between the close of the coal growths, and the period of the
  formation which next succeeded, the surface of the whole of the
  area which has been sketched out was disturbed and broken up.
  Some of the lines, like that of our Pennine Chain, conform to those
  masses of terrestrial surface which tended in that direction ; and
 a very remarkable line it one which has a general east and west
 direction across the European area. This line also conforms to
 the direction of old land which was to the north and south of it,
 and comprises the whole of the interval between the coal growth
 surfaces of the Saarbruch districts, and those of Belgium.
       The Section along the Meuse affords good illustrations of the
 character of this band of disturbed strata ; in this section the upper
 beds of the coal measures occupy the deep troughs ; the older parts
 of the Palaeozoic series appear in the ridges. Such is the character
 of the great Liege, Natnur, Mons, Valenciennes coal band through
 out.
     The line which passes along the south of this coal band, was a
 boundary linefor the oolitic formations, and for the earliest accu
 mulations of the cretaceous period,—this is particularly well seen in
 the Boulonnais.
      The question as to the probability of coal in this (south-east)
 part of England, depends on the relation between the physical con
 figuration of the present surface as compared with this older surface.
      The character of the axis or ridge of Artois, with its valleys of
elevation, was described as a continuation of the line of disturbance
along the south of the Mons coal band, in the east, and as coin
ciding with the north escarpment of the Boulonnais on the west.
The Boulonnais is physically a portion of the great elliptical denu
dation of Weald, of which the North Downs from Dover, west, are
     * The reference here made is to a map wliirh represented the physical
features of Western Europe, at the period of the coal growth.

1858.]         beneath the South-Eastern parts of England.          515
a continuation of the chalk range from "Wissant, east. This line of
disturbance is continued on by the valleys of elevation of High-
clere, King's-clere, &c., and opens out into the valley of Devizes,
forming a great linear anticlinal ridge, which coincides with the
axis of old red sandstone of Frome, supporting the coal-fields of
Somerset on the north.
     The principle on which the existence of a band of coal measures
may be conjecturally placed along the south-east counties of
England, is this,—that like physical features have a like significance
•—the precise probability of the continuity of the coal-band along
our south-east area is great, and every fresh point of agreement
adds strength to that probability ; so that when these amount to
three or four, the evidence may be deemed conclusive.
     The Kentish-Town artesian well passed through the white chalk
and gault, a shingle brand of old sedimentary and crystalline rocks,
ending on micaceous sandstones, at a high angle. Here the points
of agreement with the French and Belgic sections, were, 1st,
the absence of the oolitic series ; 2nd, of the lower cretaceous strata ;
and 3rd, the occurrence of the tourtia or shingle brand, as in Flan
 ders and the north of France.
     The artesian well at Harwich found the chalk resting in old
clay slate, with cleavage structure, and micaceous sandstones ; and
from the presence of a Posidonia, may be referred to the culm
series of the Rhenish provinces or of Devonshire ; in this instance
there is a perfect agreement with the condition of surfaces which
extend north from the Belgian coal-band.
     By the help of these points, we can trace the arrangement of
the old rocks beneath our south-east counties. The limiting boun
dary of the oolitic series, and of the lower green sand, lies south of
London. The coal-trough conforms to the valley of the Thames
and Kennet ; older rocks still, such as those of the Belgian series,
 rise to the north ; beyond which, at the distance of Harwich, the
coal series is again brought in.
     The existence of coal beneath Blackheath is therefore not so
 great an improbability as was once supposed ; nor in the absence
of the whole series of secondary formations, from the white chalk
 downwards, is its depth probably very great.
                                                         [R. G.-A.]

 516                   Col. Henry James, on the               [April 23,
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 23.
    THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
                  COL. HENRY JAMES, R.E. F.E.S.
        On tJie Geodetic Operations of the Ordnance Survey.
THE Geodetic operations of the survey include the triangulation
and levelling, which extends over the whole United Kingdom, the
measurement of arcs of meridians, and the determination of the
figure, dimensions, and mean specific gravity of the earth.
     The special object for which these operations are required was
first described, and then, the methods employed in performing
them were briefly sketched.
     The triangulation, consists, 1st of a primary series of tri
angles, the sides of which are some of them upwards of JOO
miles in length, and the stations of which are placed on the highest
mountains ; such for example, as Suowdon, in Wales, Sea Fell, in
Cumberland, and Slieve Donard, in the county of Down, in Ireland ;
the sides of this triangle are each upwards of 100 milss long. This
great triangulation extends over the United Kingdom ;—a series of
stations are then selected to form a secondary triangulation, the
sides of which are from 10 to 15 miles long; and again another
series of stations are selected to form the minor or tertiary triangula
tion, the sides of which are about three-quarters of a mile in length ;
and thus the whole country is covered with a connected network of
triangles, to form the basis of the detailed survey which is now in
progress. Upon the accuracy with which this portion of the work
is executed, mainly depends the character of the national survey
for accuracy in its most important features.
     The minor triangulation is that which is immediately used for the
detailed survey : the field surveyors actually measure the length of
each side with their chains, and cross lines are also measured within
the triangles. As the length of each side is previously known,
the correctness with which the surveyors perform their work is
tested in the office, and accuracy insured in every part. The
establishment of a general triangulation also enables the engineer
to employ large numbers of surveyors at the same time, and without
any fear of the work being distorted in any direction, as every

 1858.]      Geodetic Operations 'of the Ordnance Survey.         517
object on the ground must, under this arrangement, be accurately
represented in its true relative position to all others, however dis
tant they may be. Thus the houses represented on a plan of
a parish in the centre of the kingdom are not only in their
correct relative position to the houses in their neighbourhood, but
also to every other house, whether in Caithness or Cornwall.
    The levels on the plans are all given with reference to the
mean tide level at Liverpool, or the line above and below which
the tide rises and falls. Lines of levels from this datum have
been carried through all parts of the country ; and thus the levels
also are in correct relation to each other, however distant the points
may be which are compared.
    The curious circumstance was adverted to, that the levelling
taken in Ireland, connecting the mean tide level at a series of
stations all round the coast, seemed to establish the fact, that the
plane of the mean tide level was inclined from N.W. to S.E., and
was three feet higher on the coast of Donegal than on the coast of
Wexford.
    The speaker was not able to offer any other possible explana
tion for this, than that of the impinging of the warm water of the
Gulf Stream upon the north-west coast of Ireland, and he offered
this as a mere conjecture.
    A set of the Ordnance Plans as now produced were exhibited at
the meeting. They consist of
       1 . Plans of Towns, on the y-Jfth scale, or 42 feet to an inch.
       2. Plans of Parishes, on the -jx^th scale, or 25 • inches to
              a mile ; or one square inch to one acre.
       3. Plans of Counties, on the scale of 6 inches to a mile.
       4. Map of the Kingdom, on the scale of 1 inch to a mile.
    All the plans which are drawn on the larger scales, are reduced
by photography to the smaller, and at a very trifling cost, and, as
compared with all former methods of reduction, with marvellous
rapidity. This method of accurately reducing plans was first
introduced by Col. James, and will effect a very great saving in the
cost of the survey. The plans of the parishes are ziucographed,
but all the others are engraved on copper.
    The methods employed for conducting the geodetic operations
were then described.
    The first consideration is the obtaining an accurate standard of
length ;—the Ordance standard of length is a bar of iron, on which
the length of 10 feet as derived from the old Parliamentary standard
yard was set off. But this standard yard having been destroyed in
the fire which consumed the Houses of Parliament, a new standard
has been constructed, by a commission, of which the Astronomer-
Royal, and Mr. Sheepshanks and Mr. Baily were members. The
superintendent of the survey had therefore to ascertain the length

  518                    Col. Henry James, on the             [April 23,
  of the Ordnance standard in terms of the new standard of length ;
  and for this purpose he had an intermediate standard constructed
 on which 3^- lengths of the standard yard were set off, and the
  10 feet thus derived compared with the original 10 foot Ordnance
 standard. From the comparisons made between these, we have a
  proof of the accuracy with which the national standard of length
  has been restored ; the difference would not, in fact, amount to
 more than the TVtn °f an inch in a mile.
      With the 10 foot standard for reference, the late General Colby,
  who for many years so ably superintended the survey, designed his
  Compensation Bars, for the measurement of the base lines for the
  triangulation. General Colby, availing himself of the known
 unequal expansion of brass and iron, combined bars of these metals
 in the base-measuring apparatus, iu such a way as to preserve
 the distance between two points on the tongues connecting the
 bars, at the constant distance of 10 feet, under every change of
 temperature.
      In the actual measurement of the bases, these bars were ranged
 in a perfectly straight and horizontal line, and to prevent any
 possible disturbance in the position of the first laid bars, they were
 separated by an interval of six inches, the interval itself being
 measured with a double microscope, the foci of the microscopes
 being exactly at six inches apart, and their invariability secured by
 the bars connecting the two, being made to compensate each other's
 expansion, in the same way that the 10 feet bars are compensated. A
 central microscope between the two described serves as a pivot for
 reversing them, and also for the purpose of establishing fixed points
 on the ground, as points of reference in the remeasurements taken.
      Sir John Herschel and Mr. Babbage were present when 500
 feet of the base at Lough Foyle were remeasured, and the error
 amounted to only a third (by estimation) of the breadth of the very
 finest dot which could be made with the point of a needle.
 We have thus an assurance of the extreme accuracy with which
 the two bases, one on Salisbury Plain, the other on the shores of
 Lough Foyle, in the north of Ireland, each about seven miles long,
 were measured. These base lines may, in fact, be described as air
 lines drawn from the fine dot at one extremity to that at the other.
     Having established an accurate base, the next operation is to
 establish some trigonometrical stations to form triangles with it ; and
then, by means of a theodolite, the centre of which is accurately
adjusted over the dots at the extremities of the base, measuring the
angles between the stations, the data are obtained for computing the
length of the sides of the triangles. The sides of the triangles thus
obtained become new bases, from which the length of the sides of
other triangles are in like manner computed ; and in this way the
exact length of every line in the great network of the triangulatiou
is accurately known. Of the accuracy with which the angles were
taken, we have, first, the proof by the summation of the angles in

   1858.]      Geodetic Operations oftlie Ordnance Survey.           519
  each triangle : and, secondly, the proof arising from a comparison
  of the computed length of one base, as derived from the angular
  measurements, and the actual length from the linear measurements.
        The difference between the computed length of the Lough
  Foyle base, through the triangles extending from it to Salisbury
  Plain, a distance of 360 miles, and the actual measured length, was
  five inches.
       But as this error could not be attributed to one base rather than
  the other, a mean base was established by a correction to each in
  the proportion of the square roots of their lengths, so that com
  puting from the mean base, the measured bases have apparent
  differences of + or — 24 inches.
       Three other bases were measured with Ramsden's 100 feet steel
 chains, one on Hounslow Heath, another at Misterton Car, near
  Doncaster, and the third at Belhelvie, near Aberdeen ; and the
  measured lengths of these bases, differed in no instance 3 inches
 from the lengths as computed from the mean base.
     ' The observed angles have also been so corrected as to render the
 triangulation consistent in every part ; and the result is, that taking
 any side of any triangle as a base, and computing in any way
 through the triangulation, the same length will be reproduced. The
 triangulation may, therefore, be said to be perfect in every respect.
       The latitudes of 32 of the principal stations were observed with
 Ramsden's great zenith sector, which was afterwards burnt in the
 great fire at the Tower, and with Airy's zenith sector, which was
 made expressly for the survey.
       If the figure of the earth be first supposed to be a sphere, it is
obvious that the length of every degree of latitude would be equal,
and that when the length of a certain number of degrees of latitude
 is accurately known, we have all that is required to compute the
length of the 360 degrees of a great circle of the earth, and of the
length of its diameter ; but if the figure of the earth is not a sphere,
but a spheroid compressed at the poles, then the length of each
degree, as measured towards the poles, will be unequal and con
tinually increasing, and this is found from observation to be the
actual fact. Thus, for example, the length of a degree in the
parallel of Edinburgh is 100 yards longer than a degree at South
ampton ; and in the Shetland Islands, it is 200 yards longer ; and
from a knowledge of the length of the several portions of arcs of
meridians measured in this and other countries, the true figure and
dimensions of the earth are known.
      The elements of the spheroid which most nearly represent all
the distances and latitudes, are
                    Polar diameter = 7899- 5 miles.
                    Equatorial . = 7926 '5 miles.
                                         1
                    Ellipticity . . =

520                  Col. Henry James, on the               [April 23,
     The elements of the spheroid, given in Airy's " Figure of the
Earth," are
                  Polar diameter = 7899-1 miles.
                  Equatorial      . = 7925 '6 miles.
                  Ellipticity .   • = 2^9.3
    Our most recent determination, therefore, slightly increases the
ellipticity, and we increase the equatorial diameter of the earth by
about one mile.
    One of the chief difficulties which is encountered in the investi
gation of the figure of the earth, arises from the local attraction at
the stations at which the observations for latitude are taken, in con
sequence of the irregular distribution of the masses of matter in the
mountains or hills near the stations, or the unequal density of the
matter beneath the surface of the earth.
     Thus, for example, when observations are taken on the north
end of the hill at Dunnose, in the Isle of Wight, and also at the
south end, the great mass of the hill being between the two stations,
the difference of latitude is found to be greater than is due to the
actual distance between the stations ; and this, because the attraction
of the mass of the hill has drawn the plumb line in each case to
wards it, and made the celestial arc greater than the geodetic.
     The detailed survey of Edinburghshire having been published
with the contours, or zones of equal altitude, engraved on the plans,
and thus furnishing accurate information as to the relief of the
ground, the superintendent of the survey undertook, in 1854, to
investigate the amount of the local attraction at Arthur's Seat ; and
this the jmore readily, as it would furnish the data for computing
the mean density of the earth itself. Observations for latitude were
taken at the north and south ends of the mountain, and also on the
summit, and the geological structure and specific gravity of the
rocks composing it ascertained.
     The attraction of the mountain was computed, by supposing it
divided into a number of vertical prisms, and summing their sepa
rate attraction, resolved into the direction of the meridian.
     The attraction of each prism is, according to the known laws of
gravitation, proportioned to the mass, and inversely proportioned to
the square of its distance ; similarly, the attraction of the earth
is in proportion to its mass, and inversely as the square of the
distance from the centre, the ratio of these attractions is equal to
the tangent of the angle of deflection. This will be obvious from
the inspection of a diagram, on which the attraction of the earth
is represented by a vertical line, and the attraction of the moun
tain by a short line drawn at right angles to it, showing the
extent to which the plumb line is deflected or drawn towards the
mountain.

1858.]      Geodetic Operations of the Ordnance Survey.          521
    Then, if the mountain be assumed to be of the same specific
gravity as the earth, the computed deflection at the
                                                     u
                South end                        = 4-2
                North end        ...             = 3-8
                  Or the whole disturbance =8-0
but the observed sum of the deflections, that is, the excess of the
celestial arc above the geodetic arc, was found to be only 4 '07,
or little more than \ what it would have been had the earth
and mountain been of the same specific gravity ; and consequently
the earth must be of nearly double the specific gravity of the
mountain.
    The specific gravity of the mountain was ascertained to be
2-75, and therefore as 4'07 : 8'0 : : 2-75 = 5'45 the mean den
sity of the earth ; by employing the full number of decimals, we
have 5 '316 as the mean density of the earth. From similar obser
vations at Schehallien Mountain, Hutton derived the mean density
= 5 • 0. From experiments on the attraction of balls,
                Cavendish obtained      .     . 5 • 44
                Baily          „        .    .5-67
                Reich          „        .     .5-44
    The Astronomer-Royal, from experiments with pendulums on
the surface of the earth, and at a great depth, obtained 6 • 55.
    Col. James concluded his address by saying, " I have endea
voured to give what may be called a mere outline sketch of the
geodetic operations of the survey. A full account of all these
operations, and of the very intricate and laborious computations
which have been made, has just been published. This account has
been drawn up by Capt. Alexander Clark, R.E., who is employed
with me on the survey, and I must refer all those who desire to
have more precise information on these subjects to it.
    " But I trust it will be understood, from what I have said, how
necessary and important these operations are for the execution of a
survey with that perfect accuracy which the nation has a right to
expect from the officers entrusted with its execution ; and that we
have, at the same time, contributed data for determining the exact
figure, dimensions, and specific gravity of the earth, which form the
only units of measure for estimating the distances, the size, and the
specific gravity of all the heavenly bodies which surround us."
                                                          [H.J.]
     [The standard of length, and the compensation-bars used in
the measurement of the bases, were exhibited in the lecture-room
and described, and a series of diagrams were referred to in the
course of the lecture.]

 522            Prof. Ramsay, on the Geological Causes    [April 30,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 30.
     THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                             in the Chair.
                PROFESSOR ANDREW C. RAMSAY, F.RJS.
 On the Geological Causes that have influenced the Scenery of
   Canada and the North-Eastern Provinces of the United States.
 IT is impossible thoroughly to explain all the points of this dis
course without the aid of the pictorial illustrations and sections
"Employed on the occasion, and therefore in this abstract only
some of the leading geological features are noticed.
     The island of Belleisle and the Laurentine chain of mountains
between the shores of Labrador and Lake Superior consist of
gneissic rocks older than the Huronian formation of Sir Wm. Logan.
This gneiss is probably the equivalent of the oldest gneiss of the
Scandinavian chain, and of the north-west of Scotland, underlying
that conglomerate, which, according to Sir Roderick Murchison, in
Scotland represents the Cambrian strata of the Longmynd and of
Wales. The mountains of the Laurentine chain present those
rounded contours that evince great glacial abrasion ; and among
the forests north of the Ottawa the mammillated surfaces were
observed by the speaker to be often grooved and striated, the
striiitiniis running from north to south. The whole country has
been moulded by ice. Above the metamorphic rocks, in the
plains of Canada and the United States south of the St.
Lawrence, and around Lake Ontario and Lake Erie, the Silurian
and Devonian strata lie nearly horizontally, but slightly inclined
to the south. Consisting of alternations of limestone and softer
strata, the rocks have been worn by denudation into a succession
of terraces, the chief of these forming a great escarpment, part of
which, by the river Niagara, overlooks Queenston and Lewis-
ton, and capped by the Niagara limestone, extends from the
neighbourhood of the Hudson to Lake Huron. Divided by this
escarpment the plains of Canada bordering the lakes, and part of
the United States, thus consist of two great plateaux, in the
lower of which lies Lake Ontario, Lake Erie lying in a slight
depression in the upper plain or table land, 329 feet above Lake
Ontario. The lower plain consists mostly of Lower Silurian rocks,
bounded on the north by the metamorphic hills of the Laurentine

1858.]       that have influenced the Scenery of Canada.          523
chain. The upper plain is chiefly formed of Upper Silurian and
Devonian strata. East of the Hudson, the Lower Silurian rocks
that form the lower plain of Canada become gradually much dis
turbed and metamorphosed, and at length rising into bold hills
trending north and south, form in the Green Mountains part of the
chain that stretches from the southern extremity of the Appalachian
Mountains to Gasp6, on the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Between the
plains of the lakes and this range, the steep terraced mass of the
Catskills, formed of old red sandstone, lies above the Devonian
rocks facing east and north in a grand escarpment.
   The whole of America south of the lakes, as far as latitude 40°,
is covered with glacial drift, consisting of sand, gravel, and clay,
with boulders, many ofwhich, during the submergence of the country,
have been transported by ice several hundred miles from the
Laurentine chain. Many of these are striated and scratched in a
manner familiar to those conversant with glacial phenomena.
When stripped of drift all the underlying rocks are evidently ice-
smoothed and striated, the striations generally running more or
less from north to south, indicating the direction of the ice-drift
during the submergence of the country at the glacial period. The
banks of the St. Lawrence, near Brockville, and all the Thousand
Islands, have been rounded and moutonnee by glacial abrasion
during the drift period.
    The submergence of the country was gradual, and the depth it
attained is partly indicated in the east flank of the Catskill moun
tains. This range, near Catskill, runs north and south, about 10
or 12 miles from the right bank of the Hudson. The undulating
ground between the river and the mountains is seen to be
covered with striations wherever the drift has been removed. These
have a north and south direction ; and ascending the mountains
to Mountain House, the speaker observed that their flanks are
marked by frequent grooves and glacial scratches, running not
 down hill, as they would do if they had been produced by glaciers,
but north and south horizontally along the slopes, in a manner that
might have been produced by bergs grating along the coast
during submergence. These striations were observed to reach
the height of 2850 feet above the sea. In the gorge, where the
hotel stands at that height, they turn sharply round, trending
nearly east and west ; as if at a certain period of submergence, the
floating ice had been at liberty to pass across its ordinary course in
a strait between two islands. During the greatest amount of sub
mergence of the country, the glacial sea in the valley of the Hudson
must have been between 3000 and 4000 feet deep, and it is pro
bable that even the highest tops of the Catskills lie below the
water.
    In Wales, it has been shown that during the emergence of the
country in the glacial epoch, the drift in some cases was ploughed
out of the valleys by glaciers ; but though the Catskill mountains

524                           Annual Meetiny.                         [May 1,
are equally high, in the valleys beyond the great eastern escarpment
the drift still exists, which would not have been the case had gla
ciers filled these valleys during emergence in the way that took
place in the Passes of Llanberis and Nant-Francon, and in parts of
the Highlands of Scotland.
     It has been stated above that the upper plain around Lake
Erie, and the lower plain of Lake Ontario, are alike covered with
drift. Part of this was formed, and much of it modified during
the emergence of the country. In the valley of the St. Lawrence,
near Montreal, about 100 feet above the river, there are beds of
clay, containing Leda Portlandica, and called by Dr. Dawson of
Montreal, the Leda clay. Dr. Dawson is of opinion that when this
clay was formed, the sea in which it was deposited washed the base
of the old coast line that now makes the great escarpment at
Queenston and Lewiston, overlooking the plains round Lake Ontario.
It has long been an accepted belief that the Falls of Niagara com
menced at the edge of this escarpment, and that the gorge has
gradually been produced by the river wearing its way back for
seven miles to the place of the present Falls.* In this case, the
author conceives that the falls commenced during the de.jiosition of
the Leda clay, or near the close of the drift period, when during
the emergence of the country the escarpment had already risen
partly above water. If it should ever prove possible to determine
the actual rate of recession of the Falls, we shall thus have data
by which to determine approximately the time that has elapsed
since the close of the drift period ; and an important step may thus
be gained towards the actual estimate of a portion of geological
time.
                                                             [A. C. R.]
                         ANNUAL MEETING,
                              Saturday, May 1.
   THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.Gr. F.R.S., President,
                                in the Chair.
     The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors was read, and
adopted.
     The statement of Sums Received shows a steady and gradual
    * The details on which this belief is founded, may be found in the writingt
of Professor Hall, of Albany, and Sir Charles Lyell.

1858.]                        Annual Meeting.                           525
increase in the yearly income. The amount of Annual Contribu
tions for 1857 amounted to £2006. 1 Is. <)</., being more than had
been received in any previous year~: while the Receipts from
Subscriptions to Lectures (£761. 15*. 6d.) were greater than in
any of the three preceding years, or than the average receipt from
that source in the last ten years.
     During the last ten years the Members and Annual Subscribers
have increased from 328 to 427, being an addition of nearly one-
third.
     On Dec. 31, 1857, the Funded Property was £25,166. 5*. lOrf. ;
and the Balance in the hands of the Bankers, £930. 13*. SJ.
There were no Liabilities.
     A List of Books Presented accompanies the Report, amounting
in number to 264 volumes, and making, with those purchased by
the Managers and Patrons, a total of 1009 volumes (including
Periodicals) added to the Library in the year.
     Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary,
to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor
Faraday, for their services to the Institution during the past year.
     The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
for the ensuing year :—
       PRESIDENT—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
       TREASURES—William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
       SECRETARY— Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.
                                  MANAGERS.
The Lord Ashburton, D.C.L. F.R.S.        Sir Roderick I. Murchison, G.C.S.
 Warren De la Rue, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.       D.C.L. F.R.S.
 George Dodd, Esq. F.S.A.                James Rennie, Esq. F.R.S.
Sir Charles Fellows, F.G.S.              Robert P. Roupell, Esq. M.A. Q.C.
 William Robert Grove, Esq. M.A.         Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S.
    Q.C. F.R.S.                         John Webster, M.D. F.R.S.
 Sir Charles Hamilton, Bart. C.B        Charles Wheatstone, Esq. F.R.S.
 Sir H. Holland, Bt. M.D. F.R.S. F.G.S. Col. Philip James Yorke, F.R.S.
 Henry Bence Jones, M.D. F.R.S.
                                   VISITORS.
 Allen Alexander Bathnrst, Esq. M.P.     Thomas N. R. Morson, Esq.
 John Charles Burgoyoe, Esq.             Sir Edwin Pearson, M.A. F.R.S.
 John Robert F. Bnrnett, Esq.            Henry Pemberton, Esq.
 C. Wentworth Dilke, jun. Esq.           James Rennell Rodd, Esq.
 William Gaussen, Esq.                   William Roxburgh, M.D.
 John HallGladstone.Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.    Joseph Skey, M.D.
 Thomas Lee, Esq.                        John Godfrey Teed, Esq. Q.C.
 Charles Lyall, Esq.
    VOL. II.                                                      2o

526                   General Monthly Meeting.                     [May 3,
    The President nominated the following Vice-Presidents for the
ensuing year :—
William Pole, Esq. the Treasurer.       William Robert Grove, Esq.
Rev. John Barlow, the Secretary.        Sir Roderick I. Murchison.
The Lord Ashburton.                     Charles Wheatstone, Esq.
             GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, May 3.
WILLIAM POLE, ESQ. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                   Colonel Edward Francis Grant.
                   Francis Hird, Esq. F.G.S.
                   George Kingsley, M.D.
                   Sir Henry Charles Paulet, Bart.
                   Robert Parris, Esq.
                   Sir Charles Taylor, Bart., and
                   Christopher Welch, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The following Professors were re-elected :—
WILLIAM THOMAS BRANDE, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. as Honorary
        Professor of Chemistry.
JOHN TYNDALL, Esq. F.R.S. as Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     ACTONIAN PRIZE.—The Managers reported, That in their
judgment no Essay had been received by them within the period of
seven years since the last award in 1851, of sufficient merit to en
title the author thereof to the prize of £105 ; that consequently no
prize had been awarded this year ; and that the £105 intended to have
been awarded, would, pursuant to the Trust-Deed, be retained and
awarded with another sum of £105 in 1865, of which due notice
would be given.
     The Managers further reported, That the late RICHARD
HORSMAN SOLLY, Esq. M.R.I, had bequeathed by his will £100
to the Royal Institution.

  18.58.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                        627
       The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
  Members returned for the same : —
     FROM
  Actuaries, Institute of—Assurance Magazine, No. 31. 8To. 1858.
  Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, April, 1858; and Vol. XVII.
        8vo. 1856-7.
     Memoirs, Vol. XXVI. 4to. 1857.
 Barlow, Rev. John, M.A. F.R.S. V.P.and Sec. R.I.—Jo. B. Porto Magitc
        Naturalis Libri xx. 8vo. Rothomagi, 1G5U.
 Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for April 1858. 8vo.
 Bousey, Messrs, (the Publishers}—The Musical World for April 1858. 4to.
 Bolfeld, Beriah, Esq. M.P. M.R.I, (the Author}—Catalogue of the Minister's
        Library in the Collegiate Church of Tong, in Shropshire. 4to. 1858.
 British Architects, Royal Institute oj—Proceedings in April 1858. 4to.^~—-* »^.
  Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 41. 8vo. 1858.               /?'", j . ."' •
 Editors—The Medical Circular for April 1858. 8vo.                    ,,' £, ,
     The Practical Mechanic's Journal for April 1858. 4to.            V "/ .
     The Journal of Gas- Lighting for April 1858. 4to.                 \O '/ '
     The Mechanics' Magazme for April 1 858. 8vo.
     The AtheiuEum for April 1858. 4to.                                   \ *
     The Engineer for April 1858. fol.
    The Artizan for April 1858. 4to.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Kdnigliche Prenssischen Akademie ;
       Berichte, Jan. 1858. 8vo.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIV. No. 3. 8vo .1858
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. II.No. 2. 8vo. 1858.
    Journal, Vol. XXVII. 8vo. 1857.
 Geological Society—Proceedings, April 1858. 8vo.
 Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General^— Report of the Registrar-General
       for April 1858. 8vo.
Ball, Spencer, Esq.—Dr. Maitland's Notes on Strype. 8vo. 1858.
Hosting, W. Esq. (the Author)—Observations on the New Reading Room in the
       British Museum, fol. 1858.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), April 1858. 8vo.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for April 1858.
 I 'rin ma nn, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheiluugen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
       Geographic. 1858. Heft 2. 4to. Gotha, 1858.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 65. 8vo. 1858.
Poey, M. Andre's (the Author)—Sur la Syst6matisation des Pht-nomenes
       M6t<iorologiques, &c. (3 Pamphlets.) 8vo. 1857-8.
Prytherch, Dr.—Apollyon, and the Reaction of the Slavonians. By Col. F. T.
       Duller. 8vo. 1847.
Roupell, Mrs. T. B. (the Author)—Specimens of the Flora of South Africa.
       (Plates.) fol. 1849.
Dublin Society, Royal—Journal, Nos. 7 and 8. 8vo. 1858.
Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society—Proceedings, Vol.1.; and Vol. II.
       No. 1. 8vo. 1857-8.
Royal Society—Proceedings, No. 30. 8vo. 1858.
Society of Arts—Journal for April 1858. 8vo.
VereuuzurBefSrderungdesGewerbfleissesin t'rcusscn—Jan. undFcb. 1858. 4to.
Vincent, B. As»ist.-Sec. R.I.— Odes of Hafiz, in Persian. MS.
Warburton, Henry, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.—The New Charter of the Universit
      of London. 8vo. 1858.
                                                                 2o2

 528                    Mr. J. P. Lacaita, on                  [May 7,
               WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 7.
    THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                             in the Chair.
                 JAMK; PHILIP LACAITA, Esq. LL.D.
           On the late Earthquakes in Southern Italy.
SOUTHERN Italy is celebrated for its delightful climate, its match
less scenery, its great historical associations ; but it has also a less
 enviable renown ; it is the classic ground of volcanoes and earth
quakes. Etna and Vesuvius are the two most active volcanoes in
Europe, and terrific earthquakes have often desolated vast districts
of the country.
     Though the common origin, to a certain extent, of the agents
producing the phenomena of volcanoes and earthquakes is now
scarcely questioned, considerable difference of opinion still prevails
with regard to the real nature and character of those agents. It
is for men of science to determine whether those agents are to be
found in the internal heat of the earth which is supposed to arise
from a state of fusion ; or in the heat produced by chemical com
binations and changes ; or in the currents of electricity circulating
on the earth's crust ; or in any other causes whatsoever. On this
rexata qiuestio much light will no doubt be thrown before long by
the observations made on the spot by Mr. Mallet, the distinguished
author of the " Dynamics of Earthquakes," who, on the first news
of the late earthquake in Southern Italy in December last, was
sent thither by the Royal Society, for the pursuit of scientific
enquiry. Without entering, however, into the field of science, the
object of the speaker was to give the members of the Royal Insti
tution a short account of six great earthquakes, without counting
minor ones, which within the memory of man laid waste extensive
tracts of the kingdom of Naples arid caused great loss of life ;
and especially of the last earthquake, which took place on the night
of the 16th of December, 1857.
    1. On the 5th of February, 1783, at 1 p.m., the Piana di
Monteleone, in the province of Calabria Ultra I., was convulsed
by a violent shock of earthquake, which in less than two minutes
levelled to the ground 109 towns and villages, and buried 32,000
out of 166,000 inhabitants under the ruins of their houses. A

 1858.]         the late Earthquakes in Southern Italy.           529
repetition of the shock at midnight ruined the towns of Reggio and
 Messina, and convulsed the whole Valdemone. At the entrance
of the Faro Straits, the sea, retiring from the Calabrian shore and
afterwards rushing back with overwhelming violence, swept away
 more than 1500 inhabitants of the town of Scylla, who had taken
refuge on the beach for safety. After a iuccetsion of slight shocks,
 on the 28th of the following March, another violent shock con
 vulsed the whole country from Reggio to Cape Colonna, an area
of 1200 square miles, and added two thousand more to the number
of victims. Mountains were cleft asunder, high clifEs tumbled
 down, rivers turned from their bed or dammed in their course,
 lakes formed, valleys lifted up into hills, deep chasms opened, the
 physical aspect of the country changed, all distinctions of property
altered. For twenty days a thick pestilential fog set over the
 desolated country ; epidemic fevers followed in summer ; and at
 the beginning of 1784 Calabria had already lost more than 80,000
inhabitants. From February to December 1783, there were no
 less than 949 shocks, and 151 in 1784; they did not altogether
 cease till 1786.
     2. The mountain of Frosolone, in the province of Molise, the
ancient Samnium, on the 26th of July, 1804, at 104- p.m., was the
centre of a violent shock of earthquake, which lasted 35 seconds,
and caused great desolation over an area of 600 square miles. It
ruined 61 towns and villages, and crushed to death more than
6000 people. It was severely felt as far as Naples, where all the
buildings were greatly injured by its effects.
 . 3. On the 29th of April, 1835, and on several successive days,
the Val di Crati, in the province of Calabria Citra, including the
town of Cosenza and its numerous villages, was convulsed by
violent shocks of earthquake, which caused the death of more than
 1000 people under the ruins.
     4. On the 12th of October, 1836, the districts of Rossano and
Castrovillari, in the same province, and the district of Lagonegro,
in Basilicata, felt another violent shock of earthquake, which swept
away more than 600 inhabitants.
     5. The city of Melfi, built on a spur of Mount Vulture, an
extinct volcano in the province of Basilicata, on the 14th of
August 1851, was the focus of a violent earthquake, which, besides
Melfi itself, ruined Barile, Rapolla, and many other towns, and
was felt as far as Naples on the western, and Brindisi on the
eastern coast. The first shock, at 2 p.m., lasted 20 seconds ; the
second shock, at 3 p.m., lasted only five seconds. The loss of
human life exceeded 1400; Melfi alone, out of 9274, lost 1093
inhabitants.
     6. But worse than any of the later earthquakes, and second
only to the Calabrian one of 1783, was the earthquake which took
place on the 16th of December last, at 101 p.m., at a season of the
year, which, by a comparison of all the known dates of earthquakes,

530                    Mr. J. P. Lacaita, on                  [May 7,
has been ascertained to be more subject to disturbances than any
other. The sky was clear, the air still ; indeed unusual stillness
had prevailed the whole of that day. A sharp undulatory shock
of 20 seconds' duration, immediately preceded and accompanied
by an appalling hollow rumbling noise, had scarcely awaked the
inhabitants, who, according to the early habits of provincial life
had already retired to rest, when after a hardly perceptible pause
of about three minutes, a second and most violent successive and
whirling shock of 25 seconds' duration crushed thousands of them
under the ruins of their falling houses. Three other shocks were
felt on that awful night, and many others on the following days ;
but none nearly so violent and so destructive as the two former
ones. For nearly two months a slight shock was felt almost perio
dically just before sunrise. On the 7th of March, about 3 p.m., a
violent shock, second only to those of the 16th of December, was
felt, which caused considerable injury ; and, according to the
latest accounts, up to the 28th of April last, the shocks, though
comparatively slight and harmless, still continued, and the people
were in a state of constant alarm. Such was also the case in every
one of the five previous earthquakes that have been noticed ; the
violence of the hidden agents at work was not at once exhausted by
the first great shocks, but continued slightly to shake the ground
for months, and sometimes, as in the Calabrian earthquake of 1783,
for nearly four years afterwards.
     The seat of this earthquake was in the central group of moun
tains in the provinces of Basilicata and Prineipato Citra, part of
the main chain of the Apennines, which are the watershed betweep
the streams flowing into the Tyrrhenian, the Ionian, and the
Adriatic sea, and form the upper basins of the Calore or Tanagro,
the Sele, the Ofanto, the Bradano, the Basento, the Sinno, and the
Agri rivers. The centre of action, as far as it can be judged from
the intensity of its terrific effects, was almost in the heart of the
province of Basilicata, in a group of compact limestone mountains of
the cretaceous period, the southern branch of the said central group,
which running from north to south between the heads of the valleys
of the Sinno and the Agri on the east, and the valley of Diano on
the west, swells farther south into the lofty peaks of Monte Cocuzzo,
Monte del Papa, and Monte Pollino, on the frontiers of Calabria.
On the declivities or lower peaks of this group, which are covered
with beds of tertiary marine marl sands and conglomerate, and
within a district extending over an area of about 216 square miles,
stand, or rather stood, the towns and villages of Montemurro,
Saponara, Viggiano, Tramutola, Marsico Vetere, Marsico Nuovo,
Spinosa and Sarconi, with an aggregate population of 35,570. Out
of this number more than 12,000, or more than one-third, in less
than half a minute were crushed to death ; two thousand severely
wounded ! The ground was cracked and convulsed in the strangest
manner ; chasms and deep fissures were opened in several places,

1858.]         the late Earthquakes in Southern Italy.            531
fertile hills became bare rocks, valleys were raised up, small pools
formed, mountains cleft by deep ravines. The towns of Montemurro
and Saponara especially were nearly entirely swept away ; the former
lost 5600 out of 7000, and the latter 3000 out of 4000 inhabitants.
Saponara, which rose in the middle ages out of the ancient Gru-
mentum, where Hannibal sustained a slight defeat by the Consul
Claudius Nero, was almost entirely levelled with the ground ;
there remain only a few shattered houses standing. Of Monte
murro, originally a Saracenic settlement of the tenth century,
literally nothing was left but a heap of rubbish. On the morning
of the 17th of December, 5600 of its inhabitants were dead or
dying under the ruins, 685 disabled by wounds ; the few remaining
unhurt found themselves torn from their dearest ones, houseless,
amidst a mass of ruins, without means of subsistence or help, and
exposed to all the inclemency of a severe winter on a high peak of
the Apennines ! A few days later the stench of the dead human
beings under the ruins made life unbearable to the few surviving
onus! Both at Montemnrro and Saponara, most of the houses
standing on beds of conglomerate had been overturned, or shuffled
in the strangest manner, and the ruins deposited in the ravines
beneath ; the contents of the lower stories were, in several in
stances, thrown up into the stories above, or scattered into different
directions, as if propelled by a central force. The scenes of misery
and horror that took place in those doomed towns exceed what
 imagination can fancy. Viggiano came next, a town whose inhabit
ants from time immemorial have been in the habit of wandering,
with their harps over different parts of the world, and return home
 with their savings in summer. It lost 1700 out of 6634 inhabitants,
and had most of the houses and churches overthrown. At this place
an extensive fire added to the horrors of the night.
     From the centre of a triangle formed by these three towns,
on which the fury of the convulsion was more violently wreaked,
 the distances, in a direct line, are,—to the Gulf of Policastro,
 24 miles; to IVstum, on the Gulf of Salerno, 58 miles; to the
 mouth of the Agri, on the Gulf of Tarentum, 47 miles ; to the
 extinct volcano of Mount Vulture, 55 miles ; to Mount Vesuvius,
 94 miles ; to Ban, on the Adriatic, 80 miles ; and to Mount Etna,
 195 miles.
     Beyond this district, the terrific effects of the earthquake ex
 tended, though somewhat diminished in intensity, over an area of
more than 3000 square miles, destroying or injuring, more or less,
 about 200 towns and villages, with an aggregate population of
 more than 200,000 inhabitants, of whom no less than 10,000 were
 killed.
     Within this area the beautiful and fertile valley of Diano,
through which flows the Tanagro, a tributary of the Sele, traversed
in its length by the high road leading into Calabria, and enlivened
 on both sides by numerous towns and villages built on the top or

 532                     Mr, J. P. Lacaita, on                 [May 7,
 the slope of the hills, was sadly desolated. Polla is said to have
 lost 2000 out of 7060 inhabitants ; Fadula, 500 out of 9000 ;
 Pertosa, 218 out of 1100; Sassano, 185 out of 3600 ; Montesano,
 420 out of 4800, &c. Leaving the valley of Uiano, and proceeding
 northwards to the head of the valley of the Sele, will be found
 Brienza, Calvello, St. Angelo Le Fratte, Picerno, Tito, Potenza,
 the capital of Basilicata, &c., with most of their houses and public
 buildings ruined, and many of their inhabitants killed. At Tito,
 in particular, more than 300 out of 4939 inhabitants were crushed
 to death, and its beautiful Norman cathedral totally thrown to the
 ground. South of Potenza, in the upper valleys of the Bradano,
 the Basento and the Agri, and eastward of the centre of action,
 Laurenzana, Corleto, Guardia, Aliano, Armento, Gallicchio,
 Missanello, Sant' Arcangelo, Castelsaraceno, and numerous other
 towns and villages, had most of the houses thrown down, and many
 inhabitants killed.
     But the effects of this terrific earthquake extended far beyond
 the large area that has just been noticed. The two shocks of the
 16th were felt, with various degrees of intensity, as far as the town
of Reggio in Calabria on the south, Brindisi on the Adriatic, on
 the east, Vasto, also on the Adriatic, on the north, and Terracina
 on the west. Within these limits many towns had their buildings
 much injured, and some inhabitants killed. All the towns on the
 Adriatic, from Polignano to Manfredonia, had their buildings
rent. At Canosa, 15 houses were thrown down, 155 more
rendered uninhabitable, and 5 persons were killed. At Melfi and
 Barile, there were three deaths. In the neighbourhood of Bella, a
 town which stands half way between Potenza and Melfi, a tract of
about 600 acres was split in different directions, and surrounded
 with a chasm 15 feet deep, and about as wide. At Salerno, many
public buildings were injured, and 4 persons killed. Even at
Tratnonti, near Amalfi, there were two deaths ; and at Naples, the
inhabitants were so greatly alarmed by the violence of the shocks,
as to spend in the open air all the night of the 16th of December.
     On the whole, by this terrific earthquake, at least 22,000 human
beings, on a most moderate calculation, were destroyed in a few
seconds. Many no doubt would have been saved had it been pos
sible by active steps to dig them out immediately. This will
account for the comparatively very small number of wounded, in
all about 4000.
     From the above data it will be seen that in the course of 75
years, from 1783 to 1857, the kingdom of Naples lost at least
111,000 inhabitants, by the effects of earthquakes, or more than
1500 per year, out of an average population of six millions !
    Several touching anecdotes were told in the course of the nar
rative. In 1783, Eloisa Basili, a beautiful girl of 16, was buried
under the ruins with a child in her arms, who died on the fourth
day. She was so wedged in that she could not get rid of its lifeless

 1858.]         the late Earthquakes in Soutliern Italy.              533
 remains. She was dug out alive after eleven days, which she had
 counted from a ray of light that reached her. She recovered, but
 remained sad and gloomy, could not bear to see a child, would
 neither marry nor become a nun. She preferred solitude, turned
 away with a shudder from houses, and liked to sit musing under
 a tree, whence no buildings were seen. She pined away, and died
 at five-and-twenty.
      More fortunate was the lot of Marianna De' Franceschi, a
 beautiful young lady of 20, who, in the earthquake of 1804, was
 dug out at Guardia Kegia, after being buried for ten days and
 eight hours. She recovered, married, and became the mother of
 a numerous family.
      A lady with child was dug out after 30 hours by her devoted
 husband, who nearly died from over-fatigue. On being asked what
her thoughts were during the time, she answered, " I was waiting."
      In the late earthquake, a gentleman of Montemurro, whilst
escaping from the house with his wife and a large family of children,
 remembered that one of them had been left in bed. He rushed
 back to take him, but the house tumbling on every side, he remained
alone on a wall. All his family were crushed to death. The blow
was too great ; his mind gave way, and he went raving mad. At
 Saponara, the judge was buried under the ruins of his house with
his young wife and two children. He was dug out alive, but his
 wife was found dead lying across his knees with her arms out
stretched towards her dead children. He was overwhelmed by
 his loss ; ever since he has diligently fulfilled the duties of his
 office, but haa never been heard to allude to the event, or seen
 to smile.
      Instances were mentioned, showing how tenacious life could be
under the most trying circumstances. Besides the cases of Basil!
and De' Franceschi already recorded, in 1783 a baby was dug out
alive on the third day, and lived. At Montemurro, in December
last, Maria Antonia Palermo and her two little girls, one of them
only thirteen months old, were dug out on the eighth day, and
lived. With some animals the length of time they had stood alive
was quite remarkable. A donkey was found living yet on the
fifteenth day; and in 1783 two mules and a chicken were found
still alive on the twenty-second, and two pigs on the thirty-second
day.
     Five photographs of some of the ruined towns, which Mr.
Mallet had kindly lent for the evening, were exhibited. Of the
ruined cathedral of Tito, and of the churches of Polla, and other
ruins, beautiful illustrations were afforded at the end of the discourse,
by a series of photographs which Messrs. Negretti and Zambra, of
Hatton Garden, had had executed on the spot, and which, by the aid
of the electric lamp, were reproduced on a large scale on the wall.
                                                            [J. P. L.]

 534                          Professor Huxley, on                            [May 21,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                 Friday, May 14.
    TIIE REV. JOHN BARLOW, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President and
                             Secretary, in the Chair.
                       HENRY BRADBURY, Esq. M.R.I.
                Printing; its Dawn, Day, and Destiny.
     [No Abstract received.—The Discourse has been printed in full, and a copy
 presented to the Library of the Royal Institution.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                  Friday, May 21.
     TIIE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
                          THOMAS H. HUXLEY, F.R.S.
   jTtiT.m»» PROFXS8OR OF FHT8IOLOOT ROTAL INSTITDTION. AND nn n I'-.,- .11 OF NATURAL
                 III3TORY, aoVERNMENT SCHOOL OF JUNES. JBRUYM STREET.
                      On the Phenomena of Gemmation.
THE speaker commenced by stating that a learned French natural
ist, M. Duvau, proposed many years ago, to term the middle of the
eighteenth century, " 1'Epoque des Pucerons : " and that the im
portance of the phenomena which were first brought to light by the
study of these remarkable insects renders the phrase " Epoch of
Plant-lice," as applied to this period, far less whimsically inappro
priate than it might at first sight seem to be.
     After a brief sketch of the mode of life of these Plant-lice, or
Aphides, as they are technically termed ; of the structure of their
singular piercing and sucking mouths ; and of their relations to
what are called " Blights ; " the circumstances which have more
particularly drawn the attention of naturalists to these iusects were
fully detailed.

1858.]               the Phenomena of Gemmation.                   535
    It was between the years 1740 and 1750, in fact, that Bon
net, acting upon the suggestions of the illustrious Reaumur, isolated
an Aphis immediately after its birth, and proved to demonstration,
that not only was it capable of spontaneously bringing forth
numerous living young, but that these and their descendants, to the
ninth generation, preserved a similar faculty.
    Observations so remarkable were not likely to pass unheeded ;
but notwithstanding the careful sifting which they have received,
Bonnet's results have never been questioned. On the contrary, not
only have Lyonet, Degeer, Kyber, Duvau, and others, borne ample
testimony to their accuracy, but it has been shown that, under
favourable conditions of temperature and food, there is practically
no limit to this power of asexual multiplication, or as it has been
conveniently termed, " Agamogenesis."
    Thus Kyber bred the viviparous Aphis Dianthi and Aphit
Rose for three years in uninterrupted succession ; and the males
and true oviparous females of the A. dianthi have never yet been
met with. The current notion that there is a fixed number of
broods, " nine or eleven," is based on a mistake.
    As, under moderately favourable conditions, an Aphis comes to
maturity in about a fortnight ; and as each Aphis is known to be
capable of producing a hundred young, the number of the progeny
which may eventually result even from a single Aphis during t lie six
or seven warm months of the year is easily calculated. M. Tou-
gard's estimate adopted, (and acknowledged) by Morren, and copied
from him by others, gives the number of the tenth brood as one
quintillion. Supposing the weight of each Aphis to be no more
than -j ,T'D ,,th of a grain, the mass of living matter in this brood
would exceed that in the most thickly populated countries in the
world.
    The agamogenetic broods are either winged or wingless. The
winged forms at times rise into the air, and are carried away by the
wind in clouds ; and these migrating hordes have been supposed to
be males and females, swarming like the ants and bees ! During
the summer months it is unusual to meet other than viviparous
Aphides, whether winged or wingless ; but ordinarily, on the ap
proach of cold weather, or even during warm weather, if the sup
plies of food fall short, the viviparous Aphides produce forms
which are no longer viviparous, but are males and oviparous females.
The former are sometimes winged, sometimes wingless. The latter,
with a single doubtful exception, are always wingless.
    The oviparous females lay their eggs, and then, like the males, die.
It commonly happens also that the viviparous Aphides die, and then
the eggs are left as the sole representatives of the species ; but in
mild winters many of the viviparous Aphides merely fall into a state
of stupor and hybernate, to re-awake with the returning warmth of
spring. At the same time the eggs are hatched and give rise to
viviparous Aphides, which run through the same course as before.

536                     Professor Huxley, OH                [May 21,
The species Aphis, therefore, is fully manifested not in any one
being or animated form, but by a cycle of such, consisting of,—1st
the egg; 2nd, An indefinite succession of viviparous Aphides ;
3rd, Males and females eventually produced by these, and giving
rise to the egg again.
    If, armed with the microscope and scalpel, we examine into the
minute nature of these processes (without which inquiry all specu
lation upon their nature is vain), we find that the viviparous Aphis
contains an organ similar to the ovarium of the oviparous female, in
some respects, but differing from it, as Von Siebold was the first
to show, in the absence of what are termed the colleterial glands
and the spermatheca—organs of essential importance to the oviparous
form.
    In the terminal chambers of this " Pseud-ovarium," ovum-like
bodies, thence called " pseud-ova," are found. These bodies pass
one by one into the pseudovarian tubes, and there gradually
become developed into young, living Aphides. As Morren has
well said, therefore, the young Aphides are produced by " the indi-
vidualization of a previously organized tissue."
    The only organic operation with which this mode of develop
ment can be compared, is the process of budding or gemmation, as
it takes place in the vegetable kingdom, in the lower forms of
animal life, and in the process of formation of the limbs and other
organs of the higher animals. And the parallel is complete if such
a plant as the bulbiferous lily or the Marchantia, or such an animal
as the Hydra, is made the term of comparison.
     Thus agamogenesis in Aphin, is a kind of internal budding
or gemmation. If we inquire how this process differs from multi
plication by true ova or " Gamogenesis," we find that the young
ovum in the ovarium is also, to all intents and purposes, a bud,
indistinguishable from the germ in the pseudovarium of the agamo-
genetic Aphis. Histologically there is no difference between the
two ; but there is an immense qualitative or physiological difference,
which cannot be detected by the eye, but becomes at once obvious
in the behaviour of the two germs after a certain period of their
growth. Dating from this period, the pseudovum spontaneously
passes into the form of an embryo, becoming larger and larger as it
does so ; but the ovum simply enlarges, accumulates nutritive
matter, acquires its outer investments, and then falls into a state of
apparent rest, from which it will never emerge, unless the influence
of the spermatozoon have been brought to bear upon it.
     That the vast physiological difference between the ovum and
the pseudovum should reveal itself in the young state by no external
sign, is no more wonderful than that primarily the tissue of the
 brain should be undistinguishable from that of the heart.
     The phenomena which have been described, were long supposed
 to be isolated, but numerous cases of a like kind, some even more
 remarkable, are now known.

 1858.]              the Phenomena of Gemmation.                     537
     Among the latter, the speaker cited the wonderful circum
stances attending the production of the drones among bees, as
described by Von Siebold ; and he drew attention to the plant
upon the table, Coelobogyne ilicifolia, a female- euphorbiaceous
 shrub, the male flowers of which have never yet been seen, and
 which nevertheless, for the last twenty years, has produced its
 annual crop of fertile seeds in Kew Gardens.
     Not only can we find numerous cases of agamogenesis similar
to that exhibited by Aphis in the animal and vegetable worlds, but
if we look closely into the matter, agamogenesis is found to pass by
insensible gradations into the commonest phenomena of life. All
life, in fact, is accompanied by incessant growth and metamorphosis ;
and every animal and plant above the very lowest attains its adult
form by the development of a succession of buds. When these
buds remain connected together, we do not distinguish the process
as anything remarkable ; when on the other hand, they become
detached and live independently, we have agamogenesis. Why
some buds assume one form and some another, why some remain
attached and some become detached, we know not. Such phe
nomena are for the present the ultimate facts of biological science ;
and as we cannot understand the simplest among them, it would
seem useless, as yet, to seek for an explanation of the more complex.
     Nevertheless, an explanation of agamogenesis in the Aphis and
in like cases has been offered. It has been supposed to depend
upon " the retention unchanged of some part of the primitive
germ-mass ;" this germ-mass being imagined to be the seat of a
peculiar force, by virtue of which it gives rise to independent
organisms.
     There are however two objections to this hypothesis : in the first
place, it is at direct variance with the results of observation ; in the
second, even if it were true, it does not help us to understand the
phenomena. With regard to the former point, the hypothesis pro
fesses to be based upon only two direct observations, one upon
Aphis, the other upon Hydra; and both these observations are
erroneous, for in neither of these animals is any portion of the
primitive germ-mass retained, as it is said to be, in that part which
is the seat of agamogenesis.
     But suppose the fact to be as the hypothesis requires ; imagine
that the terminal chamber of the pseudovarium is full of nothing
but " unaltered germ-cells ;" how does this explain the phenomena ?
Structures having quite as great claim to the title of " unaltered
germ cells " lie in the extremities of the acini of the secreting
glands, in the sub-epidermal tissues and elsewhere ; why do not
they give rise to young ? Cells, less changed than those of the
pseudovarium of Aphis, and more directly derived from the primi
tive germ-mass, underlie the epidermis of one's hand ; nevertheless,
no one feels any alarm lest a nascent wart should turn out to be
an heir.

 538        Professor Frankland, on the Production of               [May 28,
     On the whole, it would seem better, when one is ignorant, to
 say so, and not to retard the progress of sound inquiry by inventing
 hypotheses involving the assumption of structures which have no
 existence, and of " forces " which, their laws being undetermined,
 are merely verbal entities.
                                                                [T. H. H.]
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 28.
 WILLIAM ROBERT GROVE, Esq. M.A. Q.C. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
             PROFESSOR E. FRANKLAND, F.R.S. F.C.S.
              mm- HIT. ON CHIKICTRT AT BT. RARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL.
 On the Production of Organic Bodies without the agency of
                                   Vitality.
THE earlier researches of chemists brought them into contact with
two classes of bodies, distinguished from each other by well-marked
and obvious peculiarities. One of them was met with in the inani
mate or mineral kingdom, the various materials of which were
distinguished by their comparative stability or resistance to change,
and by the facility with which the greater number of them could
be artificially produced from the elementary bodies composing
them. The other class of bodies was found exclusively in the
animate portion of creation, or was directly derived from the pro
ductions of the organs of plants and of animals : these compounds
were distinguished by their proneness to undergo change, and by
the impossibility of producing them by artificial means. By no
processes then known to ohemists, could the elements composing
these latter bodies be made to unite, so as to produce compounds,
either identical with, or analogous to, the substances generated by
the organs of plants and of animals. These substances were con
sequently, from their origin, termed organic bodies or organic
compounds. They were regarded as dependent for their origin,
upon the influence of that aggregate of conditions sometimes called
vital force ; and it was generally believed, that we should never
succeed in producing these bodies artificially, until we could form,
and endow with vitality, the organs from which they were derived.
    Such was the state of knowledge and opinion until the year
1828, when Wohler succeeded in artificially producing urea, a body

  1858.]       Organic Bodies without the agency of Vitality.            539
 which had up to that time been known only as a product of the
 animal organism.* This discovery was followed many years later
 by the artificial formation of acetic acid, which was produced by
 Kolbe from a mixture of protochloride of carbon, water, and
 chlorine exposed to sunlight, the chloracetic acid thus obtained
 being afterwards converted into acetic acid by an amalgam of
 potassium. The subsequent production of methyl by the same
 chemist from acetic acid, added one of the organic radicals to the
 list of compounds producible from their elements. Although little
 further progress was made for several years in this department of
 chemical research, yet the artificial production of urea and acetic
 acid, together with their derivatives, completely broke down the
 barrier between so-called " organic " and " in-organic " bodies ;
 and although the name " organic " was still retained for the class
 of bodies to which it had previously been assigned, it was now
obviously no longer strictly applicable.
     The recent ingenious researches of M. Berthelot have greatly
 extended this branch of chemical enquiry, and have, in a most im
portant degree, increased the number of bodies capable of artificial
 formation. The production of chloride of methyl and the members
 of the defiant gas family up to amylene (Cw H1«) furnish us with
 the whole series of alcohols and their derivatives, from amylic
 alcohol downwards. Phenylic alcohol and naphthaline, both artifi
cially produced by Berthelot, yield a host of interesting bodies ;
 whilst phenylcarbamic acid enables us to step from the phenylic to the
salicylic group, since, when treated with hyponitrous acid, it yields
salicylic acid. Lastly, M. Berthelot has succeeded in artificially
forming glycerine, the basis of animal and vegetable oils and fats,
and also in forming grape sugar ; the latter however is obtained by
the contact of glycerine with putrifying animal matter, and conse
quently cannot be said to be produced altogether without the agency
of vitality ; although the putrifying organic matter contributes none
of its constituents to the new compound, and does not undergo any
appreciable change in weight or appearance during the process.
These substances yield such a numerous class of derivatives that
upwards of 700 distinct organic compounds can now be produced
from their elements without the agency of vitality.
     The processes employed for the artificial production of these
bodies, though deeply interesting, present, with one or two excep
tions, little or no analogy to the natural mode by which organic
compounds are formed in the tissues of plants ; but the speaker
endeavoured to show, that a close attention to the nature of the
inorganic materials assimilated by the vegetable kingdom, and their
relations to the more important organic compounds derived from
plants, leads to the belief, that such compounds can be successfully
    * The artificial formation of urea from cyanate of ammonia was exhibited
under the influence of polarised electric light.

540           Professor Frankland, on the Production of [May 2S,
produced by processes strictly analogous to those employed by
nature. He contended that the constitution of the so-called organo-
inetallic bodies, in which the production of complex organic com
pounds from inorganic ones by the replacement of elements by
organic groups, can be so clearly traced, afforded a valuable clue to
the formation of organic bodies in general, and led directly to the
conclusion, that if the organic compounds of the metals be formed
upon the model of the oxides of the respective metals, the organic
compounds of carbon (that is, all organic compounds) are formed
upon the model of the oxides of carbon.
     It has long been known, that with slight and unimportant excep
tions, the only materials employed by nature in the construction of
the most complex organic compounds, are carbonic acid, water,
ammonia, and nitric acid. The fact that a vast number of organic
compounds are cast in the molecular mould of water, has been
proved by the ingenious researches of Williamson and Gerhardt ;
whilst the wouderful fertility of the ammonia model has been amply
demonstrated by the labours of Hofmann and Wurtz. It would also
not be difficult, to prove the claim of nitric acid to be considered as
a third model, upon which a number of other organic compounds
are built up ; but it was necessary to confine attention on the pre
sent occasion to the consideration of carbonic acid only, as a
model upon which a very large number of organic bodies are
formed.
     Guided by the constitution above referred to, of the organo-metal-
lic bodies, and bearing in mind the replacibility of the oxygen in
water and binoxide of nitrogen, and the chlorine in terchloride of
phosphorus, by organic radicals ; Professor Kolbe and the speaker
were led to the following hypothesis regarding the constitution of
several important classes of organic compounds.
     1. The replacement of one atom of oxygen in carbonic acid by
hydrogen, or its homologues, produces an organic acid, either of
the fatty or of the aromatic series, thus :—
                                                   Benzole Acid.
                                                       |(Clt Hs)
                                                             °
                                                             O
                                                             o
    2. The like replacement of two atoms of oxygen in carbonic
acid, produces either a ketone, or an aldehyde, thus :—
Carbonic Acid.        Acetune.       Aldehyde.      Oil of Bitter Almonds.
        O               (C, H8)          I C, II.               Cu H,
  r i             c     (C,H.)
                           O         C«lJ H
                                     r       O                     H
  I/. , Q         ^«
                                                                   0
        O                  O                 0                     O

 1858.]      Organic Bodies without the agency of Vitality.                541
      3. The like replacement of three atoms of oxygen in carbonic
 acid, produces an ether, thus :—
                 Carbonic Acid.                   Vinic Ether.
                           o                           CSH,
                    c, o   o                     c.      H
                                                         H
                           o                             O
      4. The like replacement of all the atoms of oxygen in carbonic
 acid, produces a radical, a hydride of a radical, or a double radical,
 thus :•—
                                       Hydride of Methyl.
  Carbonic Acid        Ethyl.              (Fire damp.)        Methyl-ethyl.
          o             |CaH,                    H                  C,HS
     c, oo          C 1 H
                    u< H                   c.    H
                                                 H            C.
                                                                      H
                                                                      H
          o             [C4HS                    H                  C.H,
      The authors of this hypothesis now attempted to verify it b)'
 direct experiment. They endeavoured to avail themselves of the
 powerful affinities of zinc-ethyl, in order to effect the substitution of
 oxygen in carbonic acid, and sulphur in bisulphide of carbon,
 by ethyl ; these attempts were, however, at best only partially suc
 cessful ; the re-agent, the zinc-ethyl, was not sufficiently powerful to
 rival the action ofplants in the decomposition of carbonic acid ; and
 its effects upon bisulphide of carbon resulted in the production
 of a number of organic bodies containing sulphur ; and although one
of these appeared to have the formula of sulphopropionic acid
 (C« H5 S, + H S), yet its complete separation and purification pre
 sented such difficulties, that it would have been hazardous to rely
 upon it as a proof of the correctness of their hypothesis. In short,
 the verification of these views was not permitted to their authors,
 but was reserved for Mr. Wanklyn, who, in his newly-discovered
 sodium and potassium compounds of the organic radicals, came
 into possession of re-agents, which enabled him at once to effect the
 desired substitutions. His memoir on the production of propionic
 acid by the action of sodium-ethyl upon carbonic acid,* which has
just been communicated to the Chemical Society, proves the first
 proposition of a hypothesis, which considerably simplifies our views
of the molecular structure of organic bodies, and which, if proved
 to be throughout correct, cannot fail to enable us greatly to increase
 the number of organic compounds capable of being procured from
 their elements without the intervention of vitality.
     The speaker then referred to the following list of important
    * This conversion of carbonic acid into propionic acid, was experimentally
demonstrated, and the remarkable properties of sodium-ethyl and potassium-
ethyl were also exhibited.
    VOL. II.                                                       2p

542         Professor Frankland, on the Production of          [May 28,
 organic bodies, selected from the large number above spoken of, as
 being capable of artificial formation from their elements : —
        Name.                                       Formula.
   Oxalic Acid                                    (C, O,,HO),
   Hydrocyanic Acid                               C8 N, H
   Light Carburetted Hydrogen        . . .        C, H4
   Urea                                           C, N, H4 O,.
   Formic Acid (Acid of Ants) . . .               C, II O3, H O.
   Chloroform                                    C, H C18.
   Acetic Acid .                                 Ct Hs O,, H O.
   Alcohol                                       C, H, O, H 0.
   Ether                                         (C4H50),.
   Olefiant Gas                                  C4 II4.
   Acetic Ether                                  C4 H5 O, C4 H8 O,.
   Oil of Garlic                                 (C8 H, S)8.
   Oil of Mustard                                C, II5 S, C, N S.
   Glycerine                                     C, HB O,.
   Butyric Acid                                  C8 Hr Oa, H O.
   Pine Apple flavour (Butyric Ether) .          C8 H7 O8, C4 H5 0.
   Succinic Acid                                 C8 H4 O,, 2 H O.
   Valerianic Acid                               C1« H, O8, H O.
   Pear flavour (Acetate of Amyl) . .            Ct H3 O8, C1« H,, O.
   Apple flavour ( Valerianate of Amyl) .        C,« H, O8, C1« H,, O.
   Lactic Acid                                   C,, H18 O,,.
   Grape Sugar ?.......                          C,, H,, On.
   Caproic Acid                                  C18 Hu O8) H 0.
   Benzole                                      C18 H,.
   Nitrobenzole                                  C18 H5 N O4.
   Aniline                                      N (CI8 H5) II,.
   Phenyl Alcohol (Creosote) . . . .             C,, II, O, H O.
   Picric Acid                                  C11H,(NO4),0,HO.
   Salicylic Acid                               C14 H5 O5, H O.
   Salicylate of Methyl (Oil of Wintergreen)     C14 II, O5, C, H, 0.
   Naphthaline                                   Ca, H8.
     The artificial formation of urea, lactic acid, and caproic acid, is
interesting in connection with certain functions of the animal eco
nomy. Pine-apple oil. pear oil, and apple oil, are instances of the
artificial production of the delicate flavours of fruit, whilst oil of
wintergreen and nitrobenzole are like examples of the formation of
esteemed perfumes. But of all the bodies hitherto thus produced,
alcohol, glycerine, and sugar, are undoubtedly the most deeply
interesting, owing to the part they take in the nutrition of animals :
they prove to us the possibility of producing, without vegetation or
any vital intervention, an important part of the food of man.
Should the chemist also succeed in forming artificially the nitro
genous constituents of food, without which life cannot be main
tained, it would then be possible for a man, placed upon a barren

 1858.]      Organic Sadies without the agency of Vitality.          543
rock, and furnished with the necessary apparatus and inorganic
materials, to support life entirely without either animal or vegetable
food. No one of these nitrogenous constituents has however yet
been artificially produced, and the absence of all clue to their
rational constitution forms at present a formidable barrier to their
non-vital formation.
     It would be difficult to conclude a subject like the present, with
out any notice of the considerations which naturally suggest them
selves, regarding the possibility of economically replacing natural
processes by artificial ones in the formation of organic compounds.
At present, the possibility of doing this only attains to probability
in the case of rare and exceptional products of animal and vegetable
life. Thus valerianic acid, which for a long time was extracted
from the root of the Valeriana officinalis, could now probably be
more cheaply prepared from its elements ; but a still cheaper source
of this acid has been in the meantime discovered, viz. the oxidation
ofamylic alcohol, a waste product formed in the manufacture of
spirit of wine, and obtainable at such a moderate cost as to prevent,
in an economical point of view, the successful production either of
amylic alcohol or valerianic acid by any artificial and exclusively
non-vital processes at present known. It is also highly probable,
that if we could produce artificially such bodies as quinine and the
rare alkaloids, or alizarine and similar powerful and valuable
organic colouring matters, we should be able to compete with
organic life in the formation of these bodies; nevertheless, the
discovery of the processes of artificial formation would doubtless be
preceded by a knowledge of methods, by which such rare bodies
could be produced from more abundant, and consequently cheaper
forms of vegetable or animal matter ; and it is therefore exceed
ingly improbable, that any purely non-vital process will be suc
cessfully, and at the same time economically employed for the
manufacture even of such rare and valuable vital products. Such
being the economical bearings of the case with regard to the rare
and exceptional educts of vitality, when we turn to consider the
great staple products of the animal and vegetable kingdoms, the
hope of rivalling natural processes becomes faint indeed. By no
processes at present known could we produce sugar, glycerine, or
alcohol from their elements, at one hundred times their present
cost, as obtained through the agency of vitality. But, although
our present prospects of rivalling vital processes in the economi
cal production of staple organic compounds, such as those constitut
ing the food of ma"n, are so exceedingly slight, yet it would be
rash to pronounce their ultimate realization impossible. It must
be remembered, that this branch of chemistry is as yet in its
merest infancy, and that it has hitherto attracted the attention of
few minds ; and further, that many analogous substitutions of
artificial for natural processes have been achieved. Thus, under
certain circumstances, we find it less economical to propel our shi|

544                       Professor Tyndall,                           [June 4,
by the force of the wind, and our carriages by animal power, than
to employ steam power for these purposes. We do not find it
desirable to wait for the bleaching of our calicoes by the sun's rays ;
and even the grinding of corn is no longer entirely confided to
wind and water power.
    In such cases, where contemporaneous natural agencies have been
superseded, we have almost invariably drawn upon that grand store
of force collected by the plants of bygone ages, and conserved in
our coal fields. It is the solar heat of a past epoch that furnishes
the power which we now utilise in our steam-engines. One im
portant element in cheap production is time, and it is precisely in
regard to this element, that we economically supersede, in the
above instances, the contemporary resources of nature. Now time
is also an important element in the natural production of food ;
and although it is true, that the amount of labour required for the
production of a given weight of food is not considerable, yet it is
nevertheless true that this weight requires a whole year for its pro
duction. By the vital process of producing food we can only have
one harvest in each year. But if we were able to form that food
from its elements without vital agency, there would be nothing to
prevent us from obtaining a harvest every week ; and thus we might,
in the production of food, supersede the present vital agencies of
nature, as_we have already done in other cases, by laying under
contribution the accumulated forces of past ages, which would thus
enable us to obtain in a small manufactory, and in a few days,
effects which can be realized from present natural agencies, only
when they are exerted upon vast areas of laud, and through con
siderable periods of time.
                                                                      [E.F.]
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, June 4.
    THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                     JOHN TYNDAIX, EEQ. F.R.S.
               FROFUaOR O» KATUUA). rilli.l wnvm , ROYAL INSTITOTION.
                          On the Mer-de- Glace.
A PORTION of a series of observations made upon the Mer-de-Glace
of Chamouni during the months of July and August last year
formed the basis of this discourse.

1858.]                   on the Afcr -de- Glace.                     545
     The law first established by Prof. J. D. Forbes, that the central
portions of a glacier moved faster than the sides, was amply illus
trated by the deportment of lines of stakes placed across the Mer-
de-Glace at several places, and across the tributaries of the glacier.
The portions of the Mer-de-Glace derived from these tributaries
were easily traceable throughout the glacier by means of the
moraines. Thus, for example, that portion of the trunk stream
derived from the Glacier du Geant, might be distinguished in a
moment from the portion derived from the other tributaries, by the
absence of the debris of the moraines upon the surface of the
former. The commencement of the dirt formed a distinct junction
between both portions. Attention has been drawn by Prof. Forbes
to the fact, that the eastern side of the glacier in particular, is " ex
cessively crevassed ;" and he accounts for this crevassing by sup
posing that the Glacier du Grant moves most swiftly, and in its
effort to drag its more sluggish companions along with it, tears
them asunder, and thus produces the fissures and dislocation for
which the eastern side of the glacier is remarkable. The speaker
siid that too much weight must not be attached to this explanation.
It was one of those suggestions which are perpetually thrown out
by men of science during the course of an investigation, and the
fulfilment or non-fulfilment of which cannot materially affect the
merits of the investigator. Indeed, the merits of Forbes must
be judged on far broader grounds ; and the more his lajxmrs are
compared with those of other observers, the more prominently does
his comparative intellectual magnitude come forward. The speaker
would not content himself with saying that the book of Prof. Forbes
was the best book which had been written upon the subject. The
qualities of mind, and the physical culture invested in that excellent
work, were such as to make it, in the estimation of the physical
investigator at least, outweigh all other books upon the subject
taken together. While thus acknowledging its merits, let a free and
frank comparison of its statements with facts be instituted. To
test whether the Glacierdu G«5ant moved quicker than its fellows, five
different lines were set out across the Her-de-Glace, in the vicinity
of the Montenvert, and in each of these it was found that the point
of swiftest motion did not lie upon the Glacier du Gt!ant at all ;
but was displaced so as to bring it comparatively close to the
eastern side of the glacier. These measurements prove that the
statement referred to is untenable ; but the deviation of the point
of swiftest motion froirtithe centre of the glacier will doubtless be
regarded by Prof. Forbes as of far greater importance to his theory.
At the place where these measurements were made, the glacier
turns its convex curvature to the eastern side of the valley, being
concave towards the Montenvert. Let us take a bolder analogy
than even that suggested in the explanation of Forbes, where he
compares the Glacier du Geant to a strong and swiftly flowing
river. Let us inquire how a river would behave in sweeping round
a curve similar to that here existing. The point of swiftest motion

5-16                           Professor Tyndall,                        [June 4,
 would undoubtedly lie on that side of the centre of the stream
 towards which it turns its convex curvature. Can this be the case
 with the ice ? If so, then we ought to have a shifting of the point
 of maximum motion towards the eastern side of the valley, when
 the curvature of the glacier so changes as to turn its convexity to
 the western side. Such a change of flexure occurs opposite the
 passages called Les Fonts, and at this place the view just enunciated
 was tested. It was soon ascertained that the point of swiftest motion
 here lay at a different side of the axis from that observed lower
 down. But to confer strict numerical accuracy upon the result,
 stakes were fixed at certain distances from the western side of
 the glacier, and others at equal distances from the eastern side.
 The velocities of these stakes were compared with each other,
 two by two ; a stake on the western side being always compared
with a second one which stood at the same distance from the eastern
 side. The results of this measurement are given in the following
 table, the numbers denoting inches : —
       1st pair.        2nd pair.    3rd pair.      4th pair.       5th pair.
     West 15 I West 17i\ West 22-H West 23fl West 23i
     East 12ij East 15JJ East 15*J East 18i| East 194
     It is here seen that in each case the western stake moved more
 swiftly than its eastern fellow stake ; thus proving, beyond a doubt,
that opposite the Fonts the western side of the Mer-de-Glace
moves swiftest ; a result precisely the reverse of that observed
where the curvature of the valley was different.
     But another test of the explanation is possible. Between
the Fonts and the promontory of Trelaporte, the glacier passes a
point of contrary flexure, its convex curvature opposite to Trelaporte
being turned towards the base of the Aiguille du Moine, which
stands on the eastern side of the valley. A series ofstakes was placed
across the glacier here ; and the velocities of those placed at certain
distances from the western side were compared, as before, with those
of stakes placed at the same distances from the eastern side. The
following table shows the result of these measurements; the numbers
as before denote inches : —
                 ! 1st pair.        2ud pair.          3rd pair.
               West .        12f 1 West .      15 1 West .       17i
               East .        14Jf East .       17$j East .       19
     Here we find that in each case the eastern stake moved faster
than its fellow. The point of maximum motion has therefore once
more crossed the axis of the glacier, being now upon its eastern
side.
     Determining the points of maximum motion for a great num
ber of transverse sections of the Mer-de-Glace, and uniting
these points, we have the locus of the curve described by the

1858.]                  on the Mer-de- Glace.                     547
point referred to. Fig. 1 represents a sketch of the Mer-de-
Glace. The dotted line is drawn along the centre of the glacier ;
the defined line which crosses the axis of the glacier at the points
                    A A is then the locus of the point of swiftest
                    motion. It is a curve more deeply sinuous than
                    the valley itself, and crosses the central line of
                    the valley at each point of contrary flexure.
                    The speaker drew attention to the fact that the
                    position of towns upon the banks of rivera is
                    usually on the convex side of the stream, where
                    the rush of the water renders silting-up impos
                    sible : the Thames was a case in point ; and the
                    same law which regulated its flow and deter
                    mined the position of the adjacent towns, is at
                    this moment operating with silent energy among
                    the Alpine glaciers.
                        Another peculiarity of glacier motion is now
                    to be noticed.
                        Before any observations had been made upon
                    the subject, it was surmised by Prof. Forbes that
                    the portions of a glacier near its bed were re
                    tarded by friction against the latter. This view
                    was afterwards confirmed by his own observa
tions, and by those of M. Martins. Nevertheless the state of our
knowledge upon the subject rendered further confirmatfou of the
fact highly desirable. A rare opportunity for testing the question
was furnished by an almost vertical precipice of ice, constituting
the side of the Glacier du Geant, which was exposed near the
Tacul. The precipice was about 140 feet in height. At the top
and near the bottom stakes were fixed, and by hewing steps in the
ice, the speaker succeeded in fixing a stake in the face of the pre
cipice at a point about 40 feet above the base. After the lapse of a
sufficient number of days, the progress of the three stakes was mea
sured ; reduced to the diurnal rate, the motion was as follows :—
                Top stake                  6 -00 inches.
                Middle stake               4-59 „
                Bottom stake               2-56 „
    We thus see that the top stake moved with more than twice
the velocity of the bottom one ; while the velocity of the
middle stake lies between the two. But it also appears that the
augmentation of velocity upwards is not proportional to the distance
from the bottom, but increases in a quicker ratio. . At a height of
100 feet from the bottom, the velocity would undoubtedly be prac
tically the same as at the surface. Measurements made upon an
adjacent ice cliff proved this. We thus see the perfect validity of
the reason assigned by Forbes for the continued vertically of the
walls of transverse crevasses. Indeed a comparison of the result

548                      Professor Tyndall,                    [June 4,
with his anticipations and reasonings will prove alike their sagacity
and their truth.
     The most commanding view of the Mer-de-Glace and its tribu
taries is obtained from a point above the remarkable cleft in the
mountain range underneath the Aiguille de Charmoz, which is
sure to attract the attention of an observer standing at the Mont-
envert. This point, which is marked G on the map of Forbes, the
 .speaker succeeded in attaining. A Tubingen Professor once visited
the glaciers of Switzerland, and seeing these apparently rigid masses
enclosed in sinuous valleys, went home and wrote a book, flatly
denying the possibility of their motion. An inspection from the
point now referred to would have doubtless confirmed him in his
opinion ; and indeed nothing can be more calculated to impress the
mind with the magnitude of the forces brought into play than the
squeezing of the three tributaries of the Mer-de-Glace through the
neck of the valley at Trelaporte. But let us state numerical results.
Previous to its junction with its fellows, the Glacier du < ieant mea
sures 11 34 yards across. Before it is influenced by the thrust of
the Talefre, the Glacier de Lechaud has a width of 825 yards ; while
the width of the Talefre branch across the base of the cascade,
before it joins the Le'chaud, is approximately 638 yards. The
sum of these widths is 2597 yards. At Trelaporte those three
branches are forced through a gorge 893 yards wide, with a central
velocity of 20 inches a day ! The result is still more astonish
ing, if we confine our attention to one of the tributaries—that of the
Lrchaud. Before its junction with the Talefre, the glacier has a
width of 37i English chains. At Trelaporte this broad ice river
is squeezed to a driblet of less than 4 chains in width, that is to say,
to about one-tenth of its previous horizontal transverse dimension.
     Whence is the force derived which drives the glacier through
the gorge ? The speaker believed that it must be a pressure from
 behind. Other facts also suggest that the Glacier du Ge"ant is
throughout its length in a state of forcible longitudinal compression.
 Now, taking a series of points along the axis of this glacier, — if
 these points, during the descent of the glacier, preserved their dis
tances asunder perfectly constant, there could be no longitudinal
compression. The mechanical meaning of this term, as applied to
a substance capable of yielding like ice, must be that the hinder
 points are incessantly advancing upon the forward ones. The
 speaker was particularly anxious to test this view, which first oc
 curred to him from a priori considerations. Three points, ABC,
 were therefore fixed upon the axis of the Glacier du GeVint, A
 being the highest up the glacier. The distance between A and B
 was 545 yards ; and that between B and C was 487 yards. The
daily velocities of these three points, determined by the theodolite,
 were as follows : —
                        A . . 20*55 inches.
                        B . . 15-43 „
                        C . . 12-75 • „

1858.]                   on the Mer-de- Glace.                      549
    The result completely corroborates the foregoing anticipation.
The hinder points are incessantly advancing upon those in front,
and that to an extent sufficient to shorten a segment of this glacier,
measuring 1000 yards in length, at the rate of 8 inches a day.
Were this rate uniform at all seasons, the shortening would amount
to 240 feet in a year. When we consider the compactness of this
glacier, and the uniformity in the width of the valley which it fills,
this result cannot fail to excite surprise ; and the exhibition of force
thus rendered manifest, must, in the speaker's opinion, be mainly
instrumental in driving the glacier through the jaws of the granite
vice at Trelaporte.
     Attention was next drawn to a remarkable system of seams of
white ice, which, when observed from a sufficient distance, appears
to sweep across the Glacier du Ge'ant, in the direction of the " dirt-
bands/' These seams are more resistant than the ordinary ice of
the glacier, and sometimes protrude above the latter to a height
of 3 or 4 feet. Their origin was for some time a difficulty, and it
was at the base of the ice cascade which descends from the basin of
the Talefre, that the key to their solution first presented itself. It
was well known that the ice of a glacier is not of homogeneous
structure, but that the general more or less milky mass of the ice
is traversed by blue veins of a more compact and transparent texture.
In the upper portions of the Mer-de-Glace, these veins swept across
the glacier in gentle curves, leaning forward,—to which leaning
forward, Prof. Forbes gave the name of the " frontal dip." So far
as the speaker was informed, a case of -; backward dip " had never
been described. Yet here, at the base of the ice cascade referred
to, he had often noticed the veins exposed upon the walls of a
longitudinal crevasse to lean backwards and forwards on both sides
of a vertical line, like the joints of stones used to turn an arch.
This fact was found to connect itself in the following way with the
general state of the glacier. At the base of the ice-fall a succession
of protuberances, with steep frontal slopes, followed each other,
and were intersected by crevasses. Let the hand be placed flat
upon the table, with the palm downwards ; let the fingers be bent
so as to render the space between the joints nearest the nails and
the ends of the fingers nearly vertical. Let the second hand be
now placed upon the back of the first, with its fingers bent as in the
former case, and so placed that their ends rest upon the roots of the
first fingers. The crumpling of the hands fairly represents the
crumpling of the ice, and the spaces between the fingers represent
the crevasses by which the protuberances are intersected. On
the walls of these crevasses the change of dip of the veined struc
ture before referred to was always observed, and at the base of each
protuberance a vein of white ice was found firmly wedijed into the
mass of the glacier.
     Fig. 2 represents a series of these crumples with the veins of
 white ice t i i at their bases. It was soon observed that the water
 which trickled down the protuberances, and gushed here and there

550                      Professor Tyndall,                     [June 4,
from glacier orifices collected at the bases of the crumples, and
                                    FIG. 2 .
formed streams which cut for themselves deep channels in the ice.
These streams seemed to form the exact matrices or moulds of the
veins of white ice, and the latter were finally traced to the gorging up
of the channels of glacial rivulets in winter by snow, and the sub
sequent compression of the mass to resistant white ice during the
descent of the glacier. The same explanation applies to the system
of bands upon the Glacier du Geant ; and the speaker was enabled to
trace the little arms of white ice which once were the tributaries
of the streams, to see the vein of white ice dividing into branches,
and uniting again so as to enclose glacial islands ; he finally traced
them to the region of their formation, and by sketches of
existing streams, taken near the base of the Seracs, and of bands
of white ice taken lower down, a resemblance so striking was
exhibited as to leave no doubt of the connexion between both. On
the walls of some deep crevasses which intersected the white ice
seams at right angles he also found that the latter penetrated the
glacier only to a limited depth ; having the appearance of a kind of
glacial " trap" intruded from above.
     But how is the backward dip of the blue veins to be accounted
for ? The speaker believed in the following way. At the base of
the cascade the glacier is forcibly compressed by the thrust of the
mass behind it ; besides this, it changes its inclination suddenly and
considerably ; it is bent upwards : and the consequence of this
                    NX               ,1G.3.
                   \     WTrv
                    \     ^%tfTT
bending is a" system of wrinkles, such as those represented in
 Fig. 3. The interior of a bent umbrella handle, sometimes pro

1858.]                   on the Mer-de- Glace.                       551
sents wrinkles which are the representatives, in little, of the
protuberances upon the glacier. Or the coat sleeve is an equally
instructive illustration : when the arm is bent at the elbow the
sleeve wrinkles, and as the places where these wrinkles occur in
the cloth are determined, to some extent, by the previous creas
ing, so also the places where the wrinkles are formed upon the
glacier, are determined by the previous scarring of the ice during
its descent down the cascade. The
manner in which these crumples tend                   ..o.^       FIC.*.
to scale off speaks strongly in favour of
the explanation given. Fig. 4 is a type
of numerous instances of scaling off
observed by the speaker, and recorded
in his note-book. By means of a
hydraulic press he was able to pro
duce a perfectly similar scaling off in
small masses of ice. One consequence
of this crumpling of the glacier would be the backward and for
ward inclination of the veins as actually observed. The falling
backward and forward of the veins was also observed on the
wrinkles of the Glacier du Geant. It was also proved, by
measurements, that these wrinkles shorten as they descend.
    In virtue of what quality then can ice be bent and squeezed,
and change its form in the manner indicated in the foregoing obser
vations ? The only theory worthy of serious consideration at the
present day is that of Prof. Forbes, which attributes these effects to
the viscosity of the ice. The speaker did not agree with this theory ;
as the term viscosity appeared to him to be wholly inapplicable as
expressive of the physical constitution of glacier ice. He had
already moulded ice into cups, bent it into rings, changed its form
in a variety of ways by artificial pressure, and he had no doubt
of his ability to mould a compact mass of Norway ice which stood
upon the table into a statuette ; but would viscosity be the proper
term to apply to the process of bruising and regelation by which
this result could be attained ? He thought not. A mass of ice at
32° is very easily crushed, but it has as sharp and definite a fracture
as a mass of glass. There is no sensible evidence of viscosity.
    The very essence of viscosity is the ability of yielding to a force
of tension, the texture of the substance, after yielding, being in a
state of equilibrium, so that it has no strain to recover from ; and the
substances chosen by Prof. Forbes, as illustrative of the physical
condition of a glacier, possess this power of being drawn out in a
very eminent degree. But it has been urged, and justly urged,
that we ought not to conclude that viscosity is absent because hand
specimens do not show it, any more than we ought to conclude that
ice is not blue because small fragments of the substance do not
exhibit this colour. To test the question of viscosity then, we
must appeal to the glacier itself.          Let us do so. First, an
analogy between the motion of a glacier through a sinuous valley,

552                        Professor Tyndall,                [June 4,
and of a river in a sinuous channel has been already pointed out.
But the analogy fails in one important particular : the river, and
much more so a mass of flowing treacle, honey, tar, or melted
caoutchouc, sweeps round its curves without rupture of continuity.
The viscous mass stretches, but the icy mass breaks, and the
" excessive crevassing " pointed out by Prof. Forbes himself, is the
consequence. Secondly, the inclinations of the Mer-de-Glace and
its three tributaries were taken, and the association of transverse
crevasses with the changes of inclination was accurately noted.
Every traveller knows the utter dislocation and confusion pro
duced by the descent of the Mer-de-Glace from the Chapeau down
wards. A similar state of things exists in the ice-cascade of the
Talefre. Descending from the Jardin, as the ice approaches the
fall, great transverse chasms are formed, which at length follow
each other so speedily as to reduce the ice masses between them to
mere plates and wedges, along which the explorer has to creep
cautiously. These plates and wedges are in some cases bent and
crumpled by the lateral pressure, and on some masses vortical forces
appeared to have acted turning large pyramids 90° round, so as to
set their structure at right angles to its normal position. The ice
afterwards descends the fall, the portions exposed to view being a
fantastic assemblage of frozen boulders, pinnacles, and towers, some
 erect, some leaning, falling at intervals with a sound like thunder,
 and crushing the ice crags on which they fall to powder. The
 descent of the ice through this fall has been referred to as a proof
 of its viscosity ; but the description just given does not, it was
 believed, harmonize with our ideas of a viscous substance.
     But the proof of the non-viscosity of the substance must be
sought at places where the change of inclination is very small.
Nearly opposite 1'Angle there is a change from 4 to 9 degrees, and
the consequence is a system of transverse fissures which renders the
glacier here perfectly impassable. Further up the glacier, trans
verse crevasses are produced by a change of inclination from 3
to 5 degrees. This change of inclination is accurately protracted
in Fig. 5 ; the bend occurs at the point B ; it is scarcely percepti-
                                 Fig. 5.
ble, and still the glacier is unable to pass over it without breaking
across. Thirdly, The crevasses are due to a state of strain from
which the ice relieves itself by breaking : the rate at which they
widen may be taken as a measure of the amount of relief demanded
by the ice. Both the suddenness of their formation, and the slow
ness with which they widen are demonstrative of the non-viscosity
of the ice. For were the substance capable of stretching even
at the small rate at which they widen there would be no necessity
for their formation.

1858.]                      on the Mcr -de- Glace.                             553
     Further, the marginal crevasses of a glacier are known to be a
consequence of the swifter flow of its central portions, which throws
the sides into a state of strain from which they relieve themselves
by breaking. Now it is easy to calculate the amount of stretch
ing demanded of the ice in order to accommodate itself to the
speedier central flow. Take the case of a glacier, half a mile
wide. A straight transverse element, or slice, of such a glacier,
is bent in twenty-four hours to a curve. The ends of the slice
move a little, but the centre moves more : let us suppose the
versed side of the curve formed by the slice in twenty-four hours to
be a foot, which is a fair average. Having the chord of this arc,
and its versed side we can calculate its length. In the case of the
Mer-de-Glace which is about half-a-mile wide, the amount of
stretching demanded would be about the eightieth of an inch in
twenty-four hours. Surely, if the glacier possessed a property
which could with any propriety be called viscosity, it ought to be
able to respond to this moderate demand ; but it is not able to do
so ; instead of stretching as a viscous body, in obedience to this slow
strain, it breaks as an eminently fragile one, and marginal crevasses
are the consequence. It may be urged that it is not fair to distri
bute the strain over the entire length of the curve : but reduce the
distance as we may, a residue must remain which is demonstrative
of the non-viscosity of the ice.
     To sum up then, two classes of facts present themselves to the
glacier investigator, one class in harmony with the idea of vis
cosity, and another as distinctly opposed to it. Where pressure
 comes into play we have the former, where tension comes into play
 we have the latter. Both classes of facts are reconciled by the
assumption, or rather the experimental verity, that the fragility of
ice* and its power of regelation, render it possible for it to change
its form without prejudice to its continuity ; and no doubt was
entertained that the motion of the parts of a glacier was aided by
the partial liquefaction of the mass by pressure, as pointed out by
Mr. James Thomson, and proved experimentally by Prof. Wm.
Thomson, and the speaker himself.
     A detailed account of the observations referred to in the fore
going pages is contained in a paper recently presented to the Royal
 Society. It now remains for the author to express his grateful
 sense of the able and unremitting assistance rendered him by his
friend Mr. T. A. Hirst, during his six weeks' residence at the
 Montenvert.                                                           ,- , ,,, -,
    * Wherever the compressed ice is surrounded by a resistant mass, the yield
 ing is so gradual as to resemble plasticity ; I should have no objection to the
 use of this term, but the term " viscous " lias undoubtedly led to erroneous con
 ceptions of the physical qualities of glacier ice.

554                     General Monthly Meeting.                   [June 7,
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, June 7.
     THE LOKD ASHBDRTOX, D.C'.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                  Professor Thomas Minchin Goodeve, M.A.
                  James Johnston, Esq.
                  Mrs. Portlock, and
                  Miss Anne Swanwick.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same : —
  FROM
Han. East India Company—Bombay Observations for 1856. 4to. 1857.
Airy, G. B. F.R.S. (Aftromxner-SoyaD—Description of the Galvanic Chro-
     nographic Apparatus at the Koyal Observatory, Greenwich. 4to. 1S58.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, May, 1858.
Author, The—The 'Social Evil. 8vo. 1858.
Bradbury, Henry, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Printing: its Dawn, Day, and
     Destiny. 4to. 1858.
British Architects, Royal Institute gf—Proceedings in May 1 858. 4to.
Editors—The Medical Circular for May 1857. 8vo.
    The Practical Mechanic's Journal for May 1858. 4to.
    The Journal of Gas-Lighting for May 1858. 4to.
     The Mechanics' Magazine for May 1858. STo.
     The Athenaeum for May 1858. 4to.
     The Engineer for May 1858. fol.
     The Artizan for May 1858.
Faraday, Professor. — Reale Accademia delle Scienze, Napoli :—Mcmorie,
     Vol. I. fasc 2. Vol. II. 1857. Rendiconto. 1856-7. 4to.
Geological Society—Proceedings, May, 1858.
  Quarterly Journal, No. 54. 8vo. 1858.
Greenwich, Royal Observatory— Observations in 1856. 4to. 1858.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, No. 8. 8vo. 1858.
Logan, Sir W. E. (the Director)—Geological Survey of Canada. Report for
     1853-6. 8vo. and 4to. 1857.
Lunacy Commissioners—Tenth and Eleventh Reports. 8vo. 1856-7.
Mendicity Society—Fortieth Annual Report. 8vo. 1858.
Robin, M. Ed.—Loi Nouvelle nJgissant les Diife'rentes Proprietcs Chimiques,
     &c. 8vo. Paris, 1853.
Royal Soriety of Literature—Transactions, Vol. VI. Part 1. 8vo. 1857.
Taylor, Alfred S. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author}—Medical Jurisprudence.
     6th Ed. 16to. 1858.
Wilson, Thos. Esq. M.R.I.—Etudes sur les Fc"cules les plus usitees, par Dr.
     Saugerres. 8vo. 1858.
Yates, James, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—What is the best Unit of
     Length? 8vo. 1858.'

1858.]      Faraday, on Wheatstone's Electric Telegraph.           555
              WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, June 11.
   THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G. F.K.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
                PROFESSOR FARADAY, D.C.L. F.R.S.
On Wheatstane's Electric Telegraph in relation to Science (being
    an argument in favour of the full recognition of Science as a
    branch of Education).
THE development of the applications of physical science in modern
times has become so large and so essential to the well-being of man
that it may justly be used, as illustrating the true character of pure
science, as a department of knowledge, and the claims it may have
for consideration by Governments, Universities, and all bodies to
whom is confided the fostering care and direction of learning. As
a branch of learning, men are beginning to recognize the right of
science to its own particular place;—for though flowing in channels
utterly different in their course and end to those of literature, it
conduces not less, as a means of instruction, to the discipline of the
mind ; whilst it ministers, more or less, to the wants, comforts, and
proper pleasure, both mental and bodily, of every individual of every
class in life. Until of late years, the education for, and recogni
tion of, it by the bodies which may be considered as governing the
general course of all education, have been chiefly directed to it
only as it could serve professional services,—namely, those which
are remunerated by society ; but now the fitness of university
degrees in science is under consideration, and many are taking a
high view of it, as distinguished from literature, and think that it
may well be studied for its own sake, i.e. as a proper exercise of
the human intelligence, able to bring into action and development
all the powers of the mind. As a branch of learning, it has
(without reference to its applications) become as extensive and
varied as literature ; and it has this privilege, that it must ever
go on increasing. Thus it becomes a duty to foster, direct, and
honour it, as literature is so guided and recognised ; and the duty is
the more imperative, as we find by the unguided progress of science
and the experience it supplies, that of those men who devote them
selves to studious education, there are as many whose minds are
constitutionally disposed to the studies supplied by it, as there are
of others more fitted by inclination and power to pursue literature.

 556               Professor Faraday, on Wheatstone's           [June 1 1 ,
      The value of the public recognition of science as a leading
 branch of education, may be estimated in a very considerable degree
 by observation of the results of the education which it has obtained
 incidentally from those, who pursuing it, have educated themselves.
 Though men may be specially fitted by the nature of their minds
 for the attainment and advance of literature, science, or the fine
 arts, all these men, and all others, require first to be educated in that
 which is known in these respective mental paths ; and when they
 go beyond this preliminary teaching, they require a self-education
 directed (at least in science) to the highest reasoning power of the
 mind. Any part of pure science may be selected to show how
much this private self-teaching has done, and by that to aid the
 present movement in favour of the recognition generally of scientific
 education in an equal degree with that which is literary ; but perhaps
electricity, as being the portion which has been left most to its own
 development, and has produced as its results the most enduring
 marks on the face of the globe, may be referred to. In 1800, Volta
 discovered the voltaic pile ; giving a source and form of electricity
 before unknown. It was not an accident, but resulted from his
mental self-education : it was, at first, a feeble instrument, giving
feeble results ; but by the united mental exertions of other men,
who educated themselves through the force of thought and experi
ment, it has been raised up to such a degree of power as to give us
light, and heat, and magnetic and chemical action, in states more
exalted than those supplied by any other means.
     In 1819, Oersted discovered the magnetism of the electric cur
rent, and its relation to the magnetic needle ; and as an immediate
consequence, other men, as Aragoand Davy, instructing themselves
by the partial laws and action of the bodies concerned, magnetized
iron by the current. The results were so feeble at first as to be
scarcely visible ; but, by the exertion of self-taught men since then,
they have been exalted so highly as to give us magnets of a force
unimaginable in former times.
     In 1831, the induction of electrical currents one by another, and
the evolution of electricity from magnets was observed,—at first in
results so small and feeble, that it required one much instructed in
the pursuit, to perceive and lay hold of them ; but these feeble
results, taken into the minds of men already partially educated and
ever proceeding onwards in their self-education, have been so deve
loped, as to supply sources of electricity independent of the voltaic
battery or the electric machine, yet having the power of both, com
bined in a manner and degree which they, neither separate nor
together, could ever have given it, and applicable to all the prac
tical electrical purposes of life.
     To consider all the departments of electricity fully, would be
to lose the argument for its fitness in subserving education, in the
vastness of its extent ; and it will be better to confine the attention
to one application, as the electric telegraph, and even to one small

1858.]         Electric Telegraph in relation to Science.                557
part of that application, in the present case. Thoughts of an elec
tric telegraph came over the minds of those who had been instructed
in the nature of electricity as soon as the conduction of that power
with extreme swiftness through metals was known, and grew as the
knowledge of that branch of science increased. The thought, as
realized at the present day, includes a wonderful amount of study
and development. As the end in view presented itself more and
more distinctly, points at first apparently of no consequence to the
knowledge of the science generally, rose into an importance, which
obtained for them the most careful culture and examination, and
the almost exclusive exercise of minds whose powers of judgment
and reasoning had been raised first by general education, and who,
in addition, had acquired the special kind of education which the
science in its previous state could give. Numerous and important
as the points are, which have been already recognised, others are
continually coming into sight as the great development proceeds,
and with a rapidity such as to make us believe that much as there
is known to us, the unknown far exceeds it ; and that extensive as is
the teaching of method, facts, and law, which can be established at
 present, an education looking for far greater results should be
favoured and directed.
     The results already obtained are so large, as even in money
value to be of very great importance; —as regards their higher
influence upon the human mind, especially when that is con
sidered in respect of cultivation, I trust they are, and ever will be,
far greater. No intention exists here of comparing one telegraph
with another, or of assigning their respective dates, merits, or spe
cial uses. Those of Mr. \Vheatstone are selected for the visible
illustration of a brief argument in favour of a large public recog
nition of scientific education, because he is a man both of science
and practice, and was one of the very earliest in the field, and
because certain large steps in the course of his telegraphic life will
tell upon the general argument. Without referring to what he had
done previously, it may be observed that in 1840 he took out
patents for electric telegraphs, which included, amongst other things,
the use of the electricity from magnets at the communicator,—
the dial face,—the step-by-step motion,—and the electro-magnet at
the indicator. At the present time, 1858, he has taken out patents
for instruments containing all these points ; but these instruments are
so altered and varied in character above and beyond the former, that
an untaught person could not recognise them. The changes may be
considered as the result of education upon the one mind which has
been concerned with them, and are to me strong illustrations of the
effects which general scientific education may be expected to
produce.*
    * The former and the present apparatus were set to work in illustration of
the points as they were noticed.
    Vox.. II.                                                   2u

558            Professor Faraday, on Wheatstone's            [June 11,
     In the first instruments powerful magnets were used, and
keepers with heavy coils associated with them. When magnetic
electricity was first discovered, the signs were feeble, and the mind
of the student was led to increase the results by increasing the force
and size of the instruments. When the object was to obtain a
current sufficient to give signals through long circuits, large appa
ratus were employed, but these involved the inconveniences of
inertia and momentum ; the keeper was not set in motion at once,
nor instantly stopped ; and, if connected directly with the reading
indexes, these circumstances caused an occasional uncertainty of
action. Prepared by its previous education, the mind could per
ceive the disadvantages of these influences, and could proceed to
their removal ; and now a small magnet is used to send sufficient
currents through 12, 20, 50, a hundred, or several hundred miles;
a keeper and helix is associated with it, which the hand can easily
put in motion ; and the currents are not sent out of the indicating
instrument to tell their story, until a key is depressed, and thus
irregularity contingent upon first action is removed. A small
magnet, ever ready for action and never wasting, can replace the
voltaic battery ; if powerful agencies be required, the electro
magnet can be employed without any change in principle or
telegraphic practice ; and as magneto-electric currents have special
advantages over voltaic currents, these are in every case retained.
These advantages I consider as the results of scientific education,
much of it not tutorial, but of self : but there is a special privilege
about the science-branch of education, namely, that what is personal
in the first instance immediately becomes an addition to the stock
of scientific learning, and passes into the hands of the tutor, to be
used by him in the education of others, and enable them in turn
to educate themselves. How well may the young man entering
upon his studies in electricity be taught by what is past to
watch for the smallest signs of action, new or old; to nurse them
up by any means until they have gained strength ; then to study
their laws, to eliminate the essential conditions from the non-
essential, and at last, to refine again, until the encumbering matter
is as much as possible dismissed, and the power left in its highly
developed and most exalted state.
     The alternations or successions of currents produced by the
movement of the keeper at the communicator, pass along the'wire to
the indicator at a distance ; there each one for itself confers a
magnetic condition on a piece of soft iron, and renders it attractive
or repulsive of small permanent magnets ; and these acting in turn
on a propelment, cause the index to pass at will from one letter to
another on the dial face. The first electro-magnets, i.e. those made
by the circulation of an electric current round a piece of soft iron,
were weak ; they were quickly strengthened, and it was only when
they were strong, that their laws and actions could be successfully
investigated. But now they were required small, yet potential.

  1858.J       Electric Telegraph in relation to Science.            559
 Then came the teaching of Ohm's law ; and it was only by patient
 study under such teaching that Wheatstone was able so to refine the
 little electro-magnets at the indicator as that they should be small
 enough to consist with the fine work there employed, able to do
 their appointed work when excited in contrary directions by the
 brief currents flowing from the original common magnet, and un
 objectionable in respect of any resistance they might offer to the
 transit of these tell-tale currents.
      These small transitory electro-magnets attract and repel certain
 permanent magnetic needles, and the to-and-fro motion of the
 latter is communicated by a propelment to the index, being there
 converted into a step-by-step motion. Here everything is of the
finest workmanship ; the propelment itself requires to be watched
by a lens, if its action is to be observed ; the parts never leave
hold of each other ; the vibratory or rotatory rachet wheel and the
fixed pallets are always touching, and thus allow of no detachment
or loose shake ; the holes of the axes are jewelled ; the moving
parts are most carefully balanced, a consequence of which is that
agitation of the whole does not disturb the parts, and the telegraph
works just as well when it is twisted about in the hands, or placed
on board a ship or in a railway carriage, as when fixed immovably.
Where it is possible, as in the vibratory needle, the moving parts
are brought near to the centre of motion, that the inertia of the
portion to be moved, or the momentum of that to be stopped, should
be as small as possible, and thus great quickness of indication
obtained. All this delicacy of arrangement and workmanship is
introduced advisedly ; for the inventor, whom I may call the
student here, considers that refined and perfect workmanship is
more exact in its action, more unchangeable by time and use, and
more enduring in its existence, than that which being heavier must
be coarser in its workmanship, less regular in its action, and less
fitted for the application of force by fine electric currents.
     Now there was no chance in the course of these developments ;
—if there were experiments, they were directed by the previously
acquired knowledge ;—every part of the investigations was made and
guided by the instructed mind. The results being such, (and like
illustrations might be drawn from other men's telegraphs or from
other departments of electrical science,) then, if the term education
may be understood in so large a sense as to include all that belongs
to the improvement of the mind either by the acquisition of the
knowledge of others or by increase of it through its own exertions,
we learn by them what is the kind of education science offers to
man. It teaches us to be neglectful of nothing ;—not to despise the
small beginnings, for they precede of necessity all great things in
the knowledge of science, either pure or applied. It teaches a
continual comparison of the small and great, and that under differ
ences almost approaching the infinite : for the small as often con
tains the great in principle as the great does the small ; and thus the

560                    General Monthly Meeting.                  [Juty ^»
mind becomes comprehensive. It teaches to deduce principles
carefully, to hold them firmly, or to suspend the judgment :—to dis
cover and obey law, and by it to be bold in applying to the greatest
what we know of the smallest. It teaches us first by tutors and
books to learn that which is already known to others, and then by
the light and methods which belong to science to learn for our
selves and for others ;—so making a fruitful return to man in the
future for that which we have obtained from the men of the past.
Bacon, in his instruction, tells us that the scientific student ought not
to be as the ant who gathers merely, nor as the spider who spins
from her own bowels, but rather as the bee who both gathers and
produces.
     All this is true of the teaching afforded by any part of physical
science. Electricity is often called wonderful— beautiful ;—but it
is so only in common with the other forces of nature. The beauty
of electricity, or of any other force, is not that the power is myste
rious and unexpected, touching every sense at unawares in turn, but
that it is under law, and that the taught intellect can even now
govern it largely. The human mind is placed above, not beneath
it ; and it is in such a point of view that the mental education
afforded by science is rendered supereminent in dignity, in practical
application, and utility ; for, by enabling the mind to apply the
natural power through law, it conveys the gifts of God to man.
                                                              [M. F.]
             GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, July 5.
      THE LORD ASHBURTOX, D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                           James Don, M.D.
was duly elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
                            Robert Tait, Esq.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
     The Secretary announced, That the Managers had appointed
PnoFtx-soit RICHARD OWEN, D.C.L. F.R.S. to be Fullerian Pro
fessor of Physiology, on June 14th last.

1858.]                  General Monthly Meeting.           .              561
     The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   FROM
Anonymous—Dr. S. G. Howe and others on the Causes of Idiocy. 8vo. 1858.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, June 1858. 8vo.
Bath and West of England Society—Journal, Vol. VI. 8vo. 1858.
Hell, Jacob, Esq. M.R. I.— Pharmaceutical Journal for May and June 1 858. 8vo.
Boosev, Messrs, (the Publishers)— The Musical World for May and June 1858.
     4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings in June 1858. 4to.
Editors—The Medical Circular for June 1858. 8vo.
     The Practical Mechanic's Journal for June 1858. 4 to.
     The Journal of Gas-Lighting for June 1858. 4 to.
     The Mechanics' Magazine for June 1858. 8vo.
     The Athentcnm for June 1858. 4to.
     The Engineer for June 1858. fol.
     The Artizan for June 1858.
De Brock, M. Ministte des Finances de Russie— Compte Eendu Annuel de
     1'Obsen-atoire Physique Central de Russie, 1856. 4to. 1857.
Faraday, Professor D.C.L. F.R.S. Sfc.—Konigliche Prcussischen Akademie,
     Berichte, April, Mai, 1858.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIV Nos.4,5. 8vo. 1858.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. II. No. 3. 8vo. 1858.
Geological Society—Proceedings, June 1858.
Graham, George, Esg. (Registrar-General)—Reports of the Registrar-General
     for May and June 1858. 8vo.
Lankester, Dr. E. M.R. /.—KUchenmeister's Parasites of the Human Body.
      Vol. II. 8vo. 1858.
Madden, Sir Frederick (the Author)—Examination of Mr. Singer's Remarks on
     the Glossary of Havelok the Dane. 4to. 1829.
M/icihcnui, George, Esq. M.K.I, (the Author)—Clinical Memoir on Strangula
     ted Hernia, &c. 8vo. 1858.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), June 1858. 8vo.
Noodle, Mr. (the Publisher)—Musical Times, for May and June 1858. 4to.
1'etermann, A. Esq. (the Author)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographie, 1858. Heft 3, 4. 4to. Gotha, 1858.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 66, 67. 8vo. 1858.
Pittman, ./mirth, Esq. (the Author)—The People in Church, &c. 8vo. 1858.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 31. 8vo. 1858.
Society of Arts—Journal for May and June 1858. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 2. 8vo. 1858.
Surrey Archaeological Society—Collections. VoL I. 8vo. 1857-S8.
 Trench, Sir Frederick (the Author)— Letter on the Thames Embankment.
      Ho. 1841.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerb/leisses in Preussen—MSrz und April 1858.
      4to.
 Walker, C. V. Esq.—The Globotype Telegraph, invented by David M'Callum.
      8vo. 1858.

                        INDEX TO VOL. II.
 ABEL, F. A., on the Application of     CALVERT, F. C., on Chevreu1's Laws
   Chemistry to Military purposes, 283.     of Colours, 428.
 Acoustic Experiments, 441.             Canada, Geology of, 522.
 Actonian Prize of 1858 — Subject an    Candles, Mineral, &c., 506.
   nounced, 1 ; No Award, 526.          Carpenter, Dr. W., on the Rhizopod
 Airy, G. B., Pendulum Experiments          type of Animal Life, 497.
   at Harton, 17.                       Catalogue of Library, New, 446.
 Aluminium, specimens exhibited, 79,    Catalytic Action, on, 66.
   85 ; Rev. J. Barlow on, 215.         Cattle of Britain, 259.
 America, North, Physical Geography,    Charcoal, a sanitary agent, 53.
    167, 522.                           Chaucer's Life and Works, 248.
 Ammonia, on, 274.                      Chemistry. See Abel, Asliby, Ilarlow,
 Annual Meeting in 1855, 98 ; in 1856,      Faraday, Frankland, Gladstone,
   254; in 1857, 421 ; in 1858, 524.        U(tfmannt Jones, Maloite, Odling,
 Apes, Anthropoid, 26.                      Plaijfair, Boscoe, Stenhouse, War-
 Aphides, on, 535.                          ington.
Appert's Mode of Preserving Food, 77.   Chemistry, Military, 283 ; Agricultu
Aquarium, 403.                              ral, 289; of Light, 223.
Ashby, Rev. J. E., on Catalytic Ac      Chevreul, M., Laws of Colours, 428.
   tion, 66.                            Chromatic Phcenomena, 338.
Assyrian and Babylonian Excava          Clark's process of Purify ingWater,467
   tions, 143.                          Cleavage of Rocks, &c., 298.
Astronomy and Photography, 462.         Coal, English, 59 : American, 181 ;
Atlantic Telegraph, 401.                    Power of, 184. See Austen.
Austen, If. Godwin, on Coal in South    Colne River Water, 49.
   of England, 511.                     Colours, Laws of, 428.
                                        Conservation of Force, 352.
BALLOON Ascent, 437.                    Cookery, Military, &c. 422.
Bank Notes, on Manufacture of, 263.     Cottager's Stove, 423.
Barlow, Rev. J., on Application of
   Chemistry to the Preservation of
                                        DANTE, on, 118.
   Food, 72.                            De la Rue, Warren, his Photographs
— on Aluminium, 215.
— on Woody Fibre and Parchment              of the Moon exhibited, 462.
                                        — Chemical Discoveries, &c., 50fi,508.
   Paper, 409.                          Denison, E. B., on the Great Bell of
— on Mineral Candles, &c., manu
   factured at Belmont and Sherwood,        Westminster, 368.
                                        — on Locks, 475.
   506.                                 Deville, M., Aluminium, 215 ; Elected
Bell, Great, of Westminster, 368.
Bells, List of, 384.                        Hon. M.R.I., 413.
Belmontine, 507.                        Dia-magnetism, 159.
Bradbury, H., on Nature-Printing, 106   Dickinson, J., on Supply of Water for
— on Bank Notes, 263.                       London, 47.
                                        Donne, W. B., on Chaucer, 248.
— Present from, 147.                    Dresser, C., on Science and Orna
     on Printing (no abstract), 534.
Branson, Dr. F., Nature-Printing, 112.      mental Art, 350.
Brett, J. W., on the Submarine Tele
   graph, 394.                          1 '.AH I'M, Measurement of, &c., 17, 519.
Buckle, H. T.,on Influence ofWomen      Earthquakes in South Italy, 528.
   on the Progress of Knowledge, 504.   Education in Science, 556.

                                     IN HEX.                                 563
Electricity. See Faraday, Grove,           Huxley, T. H., on Gemmation, 534.
   Malone, Tyndall.                        — elected Fullerian Professor of
Electric Telegraph, 394, 557.                 Physiology, V47.
                                           Hydro-carbons, on, 63.
FARADAY, Professor, on Magnetic Phi
   losophy, 6, 196.                        ICE, Physical Properties of, 454, 545.
— on Gravity, 10.
— on Electric Conduction, 123.            JAMES, H., on Ordnance Survey, 516.
— on Ruhmkorff's Induction Appara         Jekyll, E., on Siege Operations, 42.
   tus, 139.                              Jones, H. B., on Ventilation, 236.
— on Petitjean's Silvering Process,       Joule, Mr., Researches on Heat, 202.
   308.
— on Divided Gold, 310.                    K AIIS Siege of, 246.
— on the Couservation of Force, 352.      Kyhl, P., Nature-Printing, 11O.
— on the Relations of Gold to Light,
   444.
— on Static Induction, 470, 490.          LACAITA, J. P., on Dante, 118.
— on Wheatstoue's Electric Tele           — on Earthquakes in Southern Italy,
   graph, &c., and Scientific Educa          5i3.
   tion, 556.                             Lankester, Dr. E., on the Drinking
Fizeau, M., Photographic Engraving,          Waters of the Metropolis, 466.
   346.                                   Lectures, Courses in 1855, 5, 56; in
Food, Preservation of, 72.                   1856, 150,205; in 1857, 318,414;
Forbes, Professor J. D., on his theory       in 1858, 452, 488.
  of Glaciers, 320, 545.                  Leyden Battery, Currents of, 132.
Force, Conservation of, 352.              Library Catalogue, New, 446.
Frankland, E., on the production of       Light, Chemical Action of, 223, 343 ;
   Organic bodies, 538.                      relations of Light and Gold, 310,
Fullerian Professorship of Physiology:       444; Chromatic Phenomena from
  —T. H. Huxley elected, 147.                Transmitted Light, 336.
— R. Owen elected, 561.                   Lissajous' Acoustic Experiments, 441.
                                          Locks, Improvements in, 475.
GATNB, W., Parchment Paper, 409,          Lyell, Sir C., on Erratic Blocks, in
   411.                                       Massachusetts, 86.
Gemmation, on, 534.                       — on the Temple of Serapis, 207.
Geology. See Austen,Carpenter, Lyell,
   Phillips, liamsay, Rogers, Sopwith.    MAGNETISM, 6, 13, 159, 196, 352.
Glaciers, 320, 545.                       Malone, T. A., on Photogalvanography,
Gladstone, J. H., on Gunpowder, 99.          343.
— on Chromatic Phcenomena exhi            Malvern Hills, 386.
  bited by Transmitted Light, 336.        Massachusetts Erratic Blocks, 86.
Gold and Light, Relations of, 310, 444.   Maurice, Rev. F. D., on Milton as a
Grant, J., on Military Cookery, 422.         Schoolmaster, 328.
Grove, W. R., on Perpetual Motion.        Mer-de-Glace, 545.
   152.                                   Meteorology of Torquay, 437.
— on Molecular Impressions of Light       Military Chemistry, 283; Cookery,
  and Electricity, 458.                      422.
Gunpowder and its substitutes, 99.        Mining Districts of North of England,
                                             57.
HALT,, Sir B., present from, 315.         Milton as a Schoolmaster, 328.
Hamilton, W. R., presents Lepsius*        More, H., on Man, 26, 41.
  Egypt, 414.                             Motive Power, 152, 199.
Harton Colliery Experiments, 17.          Muller, H., Chemical Discoveries,
Heat, Application of, to Cookery, 422.       506, 508.
Hofmann, A. W., on Ammonia, 274.
Huxley, T. H., on Development of          NATCRAL History. See Huxley, Oven.
  Animal Life in Time, 82.                Nature-Printing, 106.
— on Natural History, 187.                Nerve, our present Knowledge of, 432
— on our Knowledge of Nerve, 432.         New Zealand, Earthquake at, 213.

564                                   INDEX.
Northumberland, Duke of, Pres. R.I.,      Schehallien Experiment, 18.
  presents Resell ini's Egypt, 80.        Science as a Branch of Education, 556.
Niepce, MM., Photographic Experi          Scott, A. J., Physics and Metaphysics
  ments, 344, 459.                           (no abstract), 439.
                                          Serapis, Temple of, Changes in, 207.
ODLINO, W., on the Hydro-carbons, 68.     Sherwoodole, 507.
Ordnance Survey, 516                      Siege Operations, 42.
Organic Bodies, Production of, 538.       Siemens, C. W., on the Regenerative
Owen, Professor, on Anthropoid Apes,         Steam-engine, 227.
  and their Relation to Man, 26.          Smyth, Professor Piazzi, Rotatory
— on Ruminant Quadrupeds, 256.               Apparatus, 485.
— elected Fullerian Professor, 561.       — Ascent of Peak of Teneriffe, 493.
                                          Solly, R. H., bequeaths i'100 to Royal
PABCHMENT Paper, 409.                        Institution, 526
Pendulum Experiments atHarton, 17.        Sopwith, T., on Mining Districts of
Permian Epoch, Climate of, 417.              North of England, 57.
Perpetual Motion, on, 152.                Sorby, Mr, on Cleavage, 308.
Petitjean's Silvering Process, 308.       Steam-engine, Regenerative, 227.
Petroleum, Burmese, Manufactures          Stenhouse, Dr. J., on the Applications
  from, 506.                                 of Charcoal to Sanitary Purposes, 53.
Phillips, J., on the Malvern Hills, 385.
Professors elected, 104, 147, 261, 426,   TALBOT, H. Fox, Photographic En
   526, 561.                                 graving, 347.
Photogalvanography, 343.                  Telegraph, Submarine, 394.
Powell, Professor Baden, on Rotatory      Thomson, W., on Motive Power, 199.
  Stability, 480                          Tyndall, Professor J., on the Magnetic
Playfair, Dr. L., on Chemistry of            and Diamagnetic Force, 13, 159.
  Agriculture, 289.                       — on the Leyden Battery, 132.
Presents, Lists of, in Reports ofGeneral  — on Cleavage of Rocks, &c. 295.
   Monthly Meetings.                      — on Glaciers, 320.
Pretsch, P., Photogalvanography, 384.     — on Lissajous' Acoustic Experi
                                             ments, 441.
                                          — on the Physical Properties of Ice,
RAMSAY, A. C., on Climate of the             454.
  Permian Epoch, 417.                     — on the Mer-de-Glace, 545.
— on Geology of Canada, &c., 522.
RawlinsoD, Col., on Excavations in        UNOULATA, Owen's List of, 260.
   Assyria and Babylon, 143.
Rhizopod Type of Animal Life, 497.        VENTILATION, on, 236.
Riese, M ., Electrical Researches, 133.   Vivian, Edw., on Meteorology and a
Rogers, H. D., Geology of North              Balloon Ascent, 437.
   America, 167.
Roscoe, H., on Chemical Action of         WALKEB, C. V., Railway Telegraph
   Light, 223.                               Signals, 403.
Rotatory Stability, on, 480.              Warington, R., on the Aquarium, 403.
Ruhmkorff's Induction Apparatus,          Warner, Messrs., Bell-founding, 380.
   139.                                   Water Supply of London, 47, 466.
                                          Westminster Bell, 368.
Ruminant Quadrupeds, on, 256.             Wheatstone's Electric Telegraph, 394,
                                             556.
SANDWJTH, H., on Siege of Kara, 246.      Women, their Influence on the Pro
Savage, Miss A., presents her Father's       gress of Knowledge, 504.
   Work on Printing in Colours, 333.      Woody Fibre, on, 409.
                                  END or VOL. I


                  PERIODICALS
                14 DAY USE
           TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED
             LOAN DEPT.
 This book is due on the last date stamped below, or
           on the date to which renewed.
  Renewed books are subject to immediate recall.
    MAR 1 8 1987
       ,-j JAN 2 o 1983
LD 21A-60m-10,'65                   General Library
 (F7763slO)476B                 University of California
                                        Berkeley

      PERIODICALS
                  U.C. BERKELEY LIBRARIES
                        8001024825
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY


