This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

      M»,
     -4: "5"";
. ' dull,d ., -
   ~- Aid
                      ,
                0-H"
                 .- 01; MW
            . ~11:         '
            WM-wé. . -
         g 41 I“
               d         ‘


      .  .
 “(Wm .
arm.»   “.9.
 <U+FB02>‘ ,
                 . “4- ...
             --.‘,.-n.,

   $5 BIBLIOTHEEK
VAQRJTEYLER’S STICHTING

             * \
                wninscawan
              b
                  Human 9
Iii-a
      ,'_...

3‘
      Q
      <3 BIBLIOTHEEK
‘1 VgLTEYLER’S STICHTING

Q
  Huan 0


                   NOTICES
          PROCEEDINGS
                       AT THE
      MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS
                       OF THK
&opai institution oi #reat Britain,
                        WITH
     ABSTRACTS OF THE DISCOURSES
                    DELIVERED AT
         THE EVENING MEETINGS.
                   VOL. nr.
            i     1858—18(52.
                 LONDON :
 PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS,
              14, CHARING CROSS.
                       1862.

                                     Patron,
                            HER MOST GBACIODS MAJESTY
                    QUEEN               VICTOEIA.
      President—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
      Treasurer—William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.— V.P.
      Secretary—Henry Bence Jones, M.A. M.D. F.R.S.
       Managers. 1862-63.                          Visitors. 1862-63.
The Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.— V.P.      Neil Arnott, M.D. F.R.S.
William Bowman, Esq. F.R.S.                  Hon. and Rev. Samuel Best.
Sir Roderick I. Murchison, D.C.L.            George J. Bosanquet, Esq.
   F.R.S.                                    Archibald Boyd, Esq., M.A.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.          Bernard Edward Biouhuist, Esq.
George Dodd, Esq. F.S.A.                     John Charles Burgoyue, Esq.
The Earl of Ducie, F.R.S.                    George Frederick Chambers, Esq.
John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.RS.        Hon. Sir Charles Crompton, Justice of
William Robert Grove, Esq. M.A. Q.C.            Queen"s Bench.
  F.R.S.— V.P.                               Edward Enfield, Esq.
Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L.         Captain Frederick Gaussen.
  F.R.S V.P.                                 The Duke of Manchester.
The Lord Lovaine, M.P.                       John MacDonnell, Esq.
William Frederick Pollock, Esq. M.A.         Colonel William Pinney, M.P.
Lewis Powell, M.D. F.S.A.                    George Stodart, Esq.
Robert P. Roupell, Esq. M.A. Q.C.            Hon. Sir James P. Wilde, Baron of the
Major-Gen. Edward Sabine, R.A. Pres.            Exchequer.
  of Royal Society.— V.P.
Colonel Philip James Yorke, F.R.S.
Honorary Professor of Chemistry—William Thomas Brande, Esq. D.C.L.
       F.R.S. L. & E. &c.
Fullerian Professor of Chemistry—Michael Faraday, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.&C.
Fullerian Professor of Physiology—John Marshall, Esq. F.R.S. &c.
Professor of Natural Philosophy—John Tyndall, Esq. F.R.S. &c.
          Assistant Secretary and Keeper of the Library—Mr. B. Vincent.
          Clerk of Accounts and Collector—Mr. W. Hughes.
          Assistant in the Laboratory—Mr. Charles Anderson.

                         CONTENTS.
                                  1858.
                                                                  Page
Nov. 1.—General Monthly Meeting             .          .    .         1
Dec. 6. ^General Monthly Meeting                                      3
                                 1859.
Jan. 28.^ W. R. Grove, Esq.—On the Electrical Discharge,
              and its Stratified Appearance in Rarefied Media . 5
Feb. 4.-—Professob Owen—On the Gorilla .              .    .    .10
  „     7.— General Monthly Meeting                                 30
  „ 11.—Edmund Beckett Denison, Esq.—On some of the
              Grounds of Dissatisfaction with Modern Gothic
              Architecture       ....... 32
  „ 18.—Somerville Scott Alison—On certain Auditory
              Phaenomena : (delivered by Professor Tyndall) 63
  „ 25.—Professor Faraday—On Schonbein's Ozone and
              Antozone ........ 70
March 4.— Professor Tyndall—On the Veined Structure of
              Glaciers                                         .. 72
         .—WilliamMonthly
    „ 117.—General      Odling,   M.B.—On Magnesium, Calcium, 79
                                Meeting
    ,,        Lithium,
       18.—Rev.    Walter      Mitchell—On
                         and their                         . of.80
                                   Congenei-3 a .New . Method
              rendering visible to the Eye some of the more
              abstruse Problems of Crystallography .       .    .86
   „ 25.—Robert Angus Smith, Ersq.— On the Estimation of
              Organic Matter in the Atmosphere        .    .   .89
April 1.—Nevil Story Maskelyne, Esq.— On the Insight
              hitherto obtained into the nature of the Crystal
              Molecule by the instrumentality of Light. .       . . .95
  „    4.— General Monthly Meeting—Letter and Donation
              from Sir Henry Holland                               106

                                                                  Page
April 8.—James Paget, Esq.—On the Chronometry of-Life . 117
   „ 12.—Professor Owen—Summary of the Succession in
               time, and Geographical Distribution of Recent
               and Fossil Mammalia .        .     .    .    .    .109
   „ 15,—Sir Charles Lyell—On the Consolidation of Lava
              Form
              on     of Volcanoes
                  Steep  Slopes, and on the Origin of the Conical 125
May    2.—Annual Meeting                                           132
       (5. —Robert Druitt, M.D. — On Houses in relation to
              Health                                               133
  „    9.—General Monthly
     13.—William               Meeting
                        Hopkins,   Esq. —On the Earth's Internal 137
               Temperature and the Thickness of its Solid Crust . 139
  „  20.—John Hall Gladstone, Esq.— On the Colours of
              Shooting Stars and Meteors                           143
  „  27.—William Pengelly, Esq.—On the Ossiferous
              Caverns and Fissures of Devonshire       .    .    .149
June   3.—Professor Huxley—On the Persistent Types of
              Animal Life                                          151
  „    6.—General Monthly Meeting—Letter and Present from
              Jacob Bell, Esq                                      154
  „   10.—Professor Tyndall—On the Transmission of Heat
              through Gases .         .     .    .    .    .    .155
  „  17.— Professor Faraday— On Phosphorescence, Fluo
              rescence, &c.      .    .    .     .    .    .    .159
July   4.—General Monthly Meeting                                 163
Nov.   7.— General Monthly Meeting         .     .    .    .    .165
Dec.   5.—General Monthly Meeting                                  167
                                  1860.
Jan. 20.—Professor Tyndall—On the Influence of the Mag
              netic Force upon the Electric Discharge      .    .169
  „ 27.—Professor Owen— On the Cerebral Classification of
              the Class Mammalia .         .     .    .    .    .174
Feb. 3.—Frederick Field, Esq.-—On the Mineral Treasures
              of the Andes                                        190
  „    6.—General Monthly Meeting                                 193
  „ 10.—Professor Huxley—On Species and Races, and their
              Origin       ........ 195

                               CONTENTS.                                 T
                                                                      Page
Feb. 17.—Professor F. Crace Calvert— On the Influence of
  „ 24.— Dr.     W. B.on Carpenter—
              Science                    On the Relation
                          the Art of Calico-Printing         .
                                                       . between   . 201
              the Vital and the Physical Forces         .    .     . 206
March 2.—Professor H. E. Roscoe—On the Measurement of
  „           the Chemical
       5.—General    MonthlyAction
                               Meeting
                                     of the Solar Rays .     .         217
                                                                    . 210
  „    9.—Professor Faraday— On Lighthouse Illumina
              tion—the Electric Light                                  220
  „   16.—Maxwell T. Masters, Esq.— On the Relation
              between the Abnormal and the Normal Formations
              in Plants                                                223
  „   23.—Nevil Story
      30.—William      Odling,
                           Maskelyne,
                                 Esq.—OnEsq.—On
                                            Acids andDiamonds
                                                       Salts .         234
                                                                   . 229
  „ 20.—T.
April           Spencer
       2.—General          Cobbold,
                     Monthly   MeetingM.D.—On the Scope and 241
              Tendency of the Natural History Sciences (no
              Abstract)                                                243
  „ 27.—F."A. Abel, Esq.—On recent Applications of Science,
              in reference to the Efficiency and Welfare of Mili
              tary Forces                                             243
May 1.—Annual Meeting .......                                          252
  „    4.—Edwin Lankester, M.D.— On Bread-making and
              Baking                                                   253
  „    7..— General Monthly Meeting                                    256
  „ 1 1 .—Thomas Mayo, M.D.—On the relations of the Public
              to the Science
  „ 18.—Professor             and Practice
                         William     Thomson—On
                                            of Medicine
                                                      Atmospheric
                                                              .     .  258
              Electricity                                       263, 277
  „   25.—William Pengelly, Esq:—On the Devonian Fossils
              of Devon and Cornwall, with special reference to
              the Collection presented to the Oxford University
              Museum, in connection with the Burdett-Coutts
                                                                       263
June    1.--Professor Tyndall—On some Alpine Phenomena . 269
  »,   4.-                                                             270
  »     8.--Professor Faraday—On the Electric Silk-Loom . 271
July   2.-                                                             274
Nov.    5.-                                                            290
Dec.    3.-                                                            293

                              CONTENTS.
                                1861.
Jan. 18.—Professor Tyndall—On the Action of Gases and Page
  „             G. C. Wallich—On
      25. —Dr.Vapours                  the Nature....
                        upon Radiant Heat           of the Deep-sea 295
              Bed, and the Presence of Animal Life at vast
              Depths in the Ocean ......                            299
Feb. 1.—Rev. Alexander J. D. D'Orsey—On the Study of
              the English Language as an Essential Part of a
             University Course        ......                        307
  „    4.— General Monthly Meeting                                  313
  „    8.—Professor Huxley—On the Nature of the Earliest
  „ 15.—Henry        in Chorley,
              StagesF.  the Development
                                   Esq.—On      English. Poetry
                                           of Animals         . in. 315
             reference to Music      .      .     .     .    .    .317
  „ 22.—Professor Faraday—On Platinum                   .    .    .321
March 1.—Professor H. E. Roscoe—On Bunsen a"hd Kirch-
             hofFs Spectrum Observations          .... 323
  „    4.—General Monthly Meeting                                   328
  „    8.—Dr. E. Frankland—On some Phenomena attending
             Combustion
  „ 15.—Latimer           in Rarefied
                      Clark,  Esq.—On  AirElectrical
                                                 .      .    . and.331
                                                      Quantity
             Intensity ........ 337
  „   18.— M. F. P. Do Chaillu—Personal Narrative of his
             Travels in Western Central Africa (no Abstract) . 335
     22.—Professor Henry D. Rogers—On the Origin of
             the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy .           .    .    .341
April 1.—General Monthly Meeting                                    345
  „ 12.—Professor Helmiioltz—On the Application of the
             Law of the Conservation of Force to Organic
             Nature                                                 347
     19.—John Ruskin,
  „ 26.—Professor          Esq.—Onthe
                        Owen—On       Tree
                                         Scope
                                             Twigs      .    . of. 358
                                                and Appliances
             a National Museum of Natural History (no Ab
             stract)                                                360
May    1.—Annual Meeting                                            361
  „    3.—Professor Faraday—On Mr. Warren De la Rue's
             Photographic Eclipse Results .... 362

                            CONTENTS.                              Vli
                                                                 Page
May    6.—General Monthly Meeting                                 366
   „  10.—William Soovell Savory, Esq.—On the Relation
            of the Animal and Vegetable to the Inorganic 368
            Kingdom
   „  17.—Professor J. Clerk Maxwell—On the Theory of
            Three Primary Colours       .....                     370
   „ 24.—Professor J. O. Westwood—On the Metamor
            phoses of Insects      ......                         375
   „ 31.—Augustus V. Waller, M.D.— On the Nutrition
            and Reparation of Nerves .....                        378
June 3.—General Monthly Meeting                                   382
   „   „ —Charles T. Newton, Esq.—On the Mausoleum of
            Halicarnassus .......                                 384
   „   7.—Professor Tyndall—On the Physical Basis of
            Solar Chemistry                                       387
July 1.—General Monthly Meeting                                  396
Dec. 4.—General
Nov.   2.—General Monthly Meeting                                399
                                                                 402
                              1862.
Jan. 13.—Special General Meeting                                 404
  „ 17.—Professor Tyndall— On the Absorption and
            Radiation of Heat by Gaseous Matter .        .    . 404
            Brains
            Differences
  „ 24.—Professor  of certain
                        Rolleston—
                         between
                              Animals
                                  the On
                                       .....
                                          theof Affinities
                                      Brain                the 407
                                                 Man and and
  „  31/—William Hopkins, Esq. —On the Theories of the
            Motions of Glaciers                                  410
Feb. 3.—General Monthly Meeting                                  418
  „    7.—Professor Hoxley—On Fossil Remains of Man .            420
  „  14.—Dr. W. Odling—On Mr. Graham's Researches on
            Dialysis                                             422
  ,t 21.—James Fergusson, Esq.— On the Site of the Holy
            Sepulchre at Jerusalem     .....                     426
  „ 28.—A. E. Durham, Esq.—On Sleeping and Dreaming
            (Ho Abstract)                                        430
March 3.— General Monthly Meeting                               430a

V1H                             CONTENTS.
                                                                    Page
March 7.—Professor Oliver—On the Distribution of North
              ern Plants                                            431
   „ 14.—W. S. Savory, Esq.—On Motion in Plants and
              Animals ........ 433
   „ 21.—F. A. Abel, Esq.—On some of the Causes, Effects,
              and Military
   „ 28.—Admiral             Applications of Explanation
                       R. Fitzroy—An           Explosions of . the. 438
              Meteorological Telegraphy, and its basis, now
              under trial at the Board of Trade         .    .    . 444
April 4.—Commissioner M. D. Hill—On the Post-Office . 457
   „    7.—General Monthly Meeting                                  466
   „ 11.—Dr. Hofmann — On Mauve and Magenta, and the
              Colouring Matters derived from Coal .          .    . 468
May 1.—Annual Meeting ....... 484
  „     2.—E. Monckton Milnes, Esq. M.P.—On the Inter
              national Exhibition for 1862        .     .    .    .485
  „     5.—General Monthly Meeting                                  489
  „    9.—W. Fairbairn, Esq.—On the Properties of Iron
              and its Powers of Resistance to Projectiles at high
              Velocities                                          .491
  „ 16. —J. Scott Russell, Esq.—On the Iron Walls of
              England                                               503
   „ 23.—Warington W. Smyth, Esq.— On Coal, as one of
   „ 30.—T. the   great Materials
                Bazley,  Esq. M.P.—A        PleaIndustry
                                     of British              . for. 510
                                                 for Cotton and
              Industry ........                                      514
June 2.—General Monthly Meeting                                     526
  „      6.—Professor J. Sir
       13.—Major-Gen.             Henry On
                             Tvndall—      C. Rawlinson,
                                               Force .       .
                                                            K.C.B.. 527
              D.C.L. F.R.S.—On Cuneiform Writing, and the
 Nov.
  „ 20.—Professor
July     7.—General
               Way toMonthly
         3.—General    Rtad
                     Monthly
                         Faraday—On
                              itMeeting
                                 Meeting
                                 (no Abstract.)  ....
                                           Gas-Furnaces      .      540
                                                                     542
                                                                  . 536
    Index                                                           545

          iSowal Institution of* ©teat                     Britain.
                                       1858.
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, November 1 .
  William Pole, Esq. M.A.. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                     Cromwell Fleetwood Varley, Esq.
was duly elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
                           Mervyn Hamilton, Esq.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to H. W.
Pickersgill, Esq. R.A. for his Present of a Portrait (painted by
himself) of the Rev. John Barlow, F.R.S. the Honorary Secretary
of the Royal Institution.
     The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same : —
   Fromof Trade—Meteorological Papers, Nos. 2 and 3. 4to. 1858.
Board
 Commissioners in Lunacy—Twelfth Report. 8vo. 1858.
East India Company, the Hon,—Catalogue of Birds in the Museum. By T. Hors-
     field and F. Moore. Vol. 2. 8vo. 1856-8.
Actuaries, Institute of—Assurance Magazine, No. 32. 8to. 1858.
Agricultural Society of England, the Royal—Journal, No. 41. 8vo. 1858.
Amsterdam, Koninklijke Ahademie van Wetenschappen—Verhandelingen, Deel 4, 5, 6.
     4to. 1857-8.
   Jaarboek. 8vo. 1857-8.
   Catalogus van de Boekerij. Ersten Deels Ersten Stuk. 8vo. 1857.
   Verslagen, Natuurkunde, Deel 7, 8vo.
     Letterkunde, Deel 3. 8vo. 1857-8.
Antiquaries, Society of—Archaiologia, Vol. XXXVII. Part 2. 4to. 1858.
   Proceedings, No. 47. Svo. 1857.
Arts, Society of—Journal for July to Oct. 1858. 8vo.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Nos. 264, 266, 267. 8vo. 1857.
Astronomical Society, Royal— Monthly Notices, 1858. 8vo.
Basel, Naturforschende Gesellschuft—Verhandlungen, Theil II . Heft I. 8vo. 1858.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for July to Oct. 1858. 8vo.
     Vol. III. (No. 29.)                                              b

2                              General Monthly Meeting.                           [Nov. 1 ,
Black, Judge, The Hon. (Canada)—Eight Maps of Canada. 4to. 1857.
  Reports, Maps, and Estimates of the River St. Lawrence and Lake Champlain
       Y. Hind,fol.Essay
  H.Canal,                 on the Insects and Diseases injurious to the Wheat Crops. 8vo.
                        1856.
Brett,Toronto,
Boosey,     W. Esq.
                1857.
        J.Messrs.   (theM.R.I,
                          Publishers}—The
                                 (the Author)—Origin
                                              Musical World   for Julyoftothe
                                                        and Progress          Oceanic
                                                                            Oct.         4to.
                                                                                 1858. Elec
Calcutta
      tricArchitects,
British     Council ofRoyal
           Telegraph,     Education—Report
                          &c. Institute
                                8vo. 1858.
                                         of—Proceedings   Instruction
                                               of Public in             in Bengal,
                                                             Session 1857-8.     4to.1856-7.
     8vo.Edw.
Calver,          K. Esq. (the Author)—On the Construction and Principle of a Wave
             1857.
     Screen (for Harbours of Refuge). 8vo. 1858.
Canada, Parliament of—Catalogue of the Library, Vol. II. 8vo. 1858.
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 42. 8vo. 1858.
Clay, Mr. Perctval {the Publisher)—J . Mitchell, on the Extraction of the Precious
     Metals. 8vo. 1858.
Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—The 25th Annual Report, for 1857. 8vo. 1858.
Department of State, Washington—Map of the Basin of La Plata.
Dublin Society, Royal—Journal, Nos. 9, 10. 8vo. 1858.
Dublin Geological Society— Journal, Vol. VIII. Part I. 8vo. 1858.
Editors—The Medical Circular for July to Oct. 1858. 8vo.
  The Practical Mechanic's Journal for July to Oct. 1858. 4to.
  The Journal of Gas-Lighting for July to Oct. 1858. 4to.
  The Mechanics' Magazine for July to Oct. 1858. 8vo.
  The Athenaum for July to Oct. 1858. 4to.
  The Engineer for July to Oct. 1858. fol.
  The Artizan for July to Oct. 1858. 4to.
  The Atlantis, No. 2. 8vo. 1858.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—KSnigliche Preussische Akademie, Berichte,
     Juni-Aug. 1858. 8vo. Abhandlungen, 1857. 4to.
  Atti deH'Accadeniia Pontificia de- Lincei Nuovi, Anno x. Sessioni 6, 7 ; Anno xi.
     Sessioni 1-5. 4to. Roma, 1857-58.
  Overeigt over det Kdngelige Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Forhandlinger,
      1857-58. 8vo. Kjbbenhavn.
  Exposition Universelle de 1851. Travaux de la Commission Francaise. Vol.1.
      Introduction, par le Baron Dupin : Force Productive des Nations. 8vo. Paris,
      1858. Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXV. No. 6, Vol. XXXVI.
Franklin
     Nos. 1-8. 8vo. 1858.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. II. Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1858.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 55. 8vo. 1858.
GeologischeAnsta.lt, Wien—Jahrbuch, 1857. Nos. 2-4. 4to.
Hamilton, Sir Charles, Bart. C.B. M.R.I.—Vocabulary of the Language of the
      Aborigines of Newfoundland. (MS.) 1820.
Hqfmann, Dr. A. W. F.R.S. (the Author)—Report on Vegetable Parchment. 8vo.
James,    Lieut.-Col. H. C.E. F.R.S. (on behalf of the Secretary at War)—Account
      1858.
      of the Observations and Calculations of the principal Triangulation of the
      Ordnance Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain and Ireland. 2 vols. 4to.
      1858.Julius, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Author)—The British Army in India, &c.
Jeffreys,
      8vo. 1858.
Lendrick, W. E. Esq. (the Author)—The Ministry and the Parliament. A Review
      of the Session of 1858. 8vo. 1858.
Lewin, Malcolm, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Way to regain India. 8vo. 1858.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, No. 9. 8vo. 1 858.
Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 12. 8vo. 1858.
Manning, J. A. Esq. (the Author}—Observations on the Sewage of Glasgow and
      London. 8vo. 1858.

 1858.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                               3
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), July to Oct. 1858. 8vo.
Novello, Mr. (the PublisherJ—-The Musical Times, for July to Oct. 1858. 4to.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographie. 1858. Heft 5-8. 4to. Gotha, 1858.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 68-71. 8vo. 1858.
Radcliffe Trustees, Oxford—Radcliffe Astronomical Obserrations in 1856. Vol.
      XVII.
Reeves,        8vo.Evans,
         Charles      1858.M.D. (the Author)—Diseases ofthe Spinal Cord, &c. 12mo.
        Society of Edinburgh—G. Lawson's Botanical Papers. 8vo. 1858.
Royal1858.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 32. 8vo. 1858.
   Philosophical Transactions, 1858. Vol.148. Parti. 4to. 1858.
Sdchsische Gesellschaft, Kbnigliche—Abhandlungen. Band IV. (pp. 803-454.)
     Band VI. (pp. 253-302). 4to. 1858.
     Phys. Classe,
   Berichte,         1857.Classe,
              Phil. Hist.    Heft 1856.
                                  3, 4. 1858.
                                         Heft 3, Heft 1. 8vo.
                                                  4. 1857,       1857-8.Heft 1. Math.
                                                            und 1858.
Scqffern, J. M.B.—Capt. T. Thackeray's Manual of Rifle Firing. 12mo. 1588.
Sorby, H. C. Esq. (the Author)—Geological Tracts. 8vo. 1 851-56.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 3. 8vo. 1858.
St. PCtersbourg, Acade~mie Irnpe"riale de—Compte Eendu Annuel, 1856. 8vo. 1857.
Pereins zur Befdrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Mai-Aug. 1858. 4to.
Trutch, Mr.—Preston's Map of Oregon and Washington Territories. 1856.
 Vincent, B. Assist. Sec. R.I.—T. Mapleson, History and Art of Cupping, 2nd
     edit 12mo.
Whitehouse,           1821. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Atlantic Telegraph. 8vo.
              E. Wildman,
     1858.to the Statement of the Directors of the Atlantic Telegraph Company. 8vo.
   Reply
     1858.
Wrey, J. W. Esq. M.R.I.—Reports on Amendment of the Law of Bankruptcy.
     8vo. Society—Proceedings,
Zoological  1858.                   Nos. 350-362. 8vo. 1858.
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, December 6, 1858.
"William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
                 Right Hon. James A. Stuart Wortley, M.P.
                 William George Armstrong, Esq.
                 George F. Chambers, Esq.
                 Rev. Edwin Prodgers, jun. and
                 Horace James Smith, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                           Professor T. M. Goodeve, and
                           C. F. Varley, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
                                                                         b2

                            General Monthly Meeting.            [Dec. 6, 1858.
       The Secretary announced that the following Arrangements had
  been made for the Lectures before Easter, 1859 :—
       Six Lectures on Metalline Properties (adapted to a Juvenile
  Auditory), by Michael Faraday, Esq. D.C.L. F.RS. in the
  Christmas Vacation, 1858-9.
       Twelve Lectures on Fossil Mammals, by Richard Owen, Esq.
  D.C.L. F.R.S. Fullerian Professor of Physiology, R.I.
       Twelve Lectures on the Force of Gravity, by John Tyndall,
  Esq. F.R.S. Professor of Natural Philosophy, R.I.
       Nine Lectures on Organic Chemistry, by Dr. W. A. Miller,
  Professor of Chemistry at King's College, London.
       Mr. J. P. Lacaita will commence a Course of Ten Lectures on
  a Literary subject oh Saturday, April 2.
       The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
  table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same ; viz.
     From
. Actuaries- Institute of— Assurance Magazine, No. 33. 8vo. 1858.
  Arts, Society oi-—Journal for November, 1858. 8vo.
  Hell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for November 1858. 8vo.
  Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for November 1858. 4to.
  British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings for November 1858. 4to.
  Cambridge Philosophical Society—Transactions, Vol. X. Part 1. 4to. 1858.
   (Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 43. 8vo. 1858.
  Editors—The Medical Circular for November 1858. 8vo.
     Tbe Practical Mechanic's Journal for November 1858. 4to.
     The Journal of Gas-Lighting for November 1858. 4to.
     The Mechanics' Magazine for November 1858. 8vo.
     The Athenamm for November 1858. 4to.
     The Engineer for November 1858. fol.
     The Artizan for November 1858. 4to.
     The B.itish Workman. 1855-7. fol.
  Franklin Institute ofPennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXVI. Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1858.
  Geoqraphicil Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. II. No. 6. 8vo. 1858.
  Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 56. 8vo. 1858.
     Proceedings for November 1858. 8vo.
  Hamilton, Sir Charles, Bart. C.B. M.R.I.—Musci American! : Specimens of the
        Mosses collected in British North America during Capt. Franklin's Arctic
        Expedition. By T. Drummond. 2 vols. 4to. 1828.
  Hofmann, Dr. A.W. F.R.S. (the Author)—Report on Vegetable Parchment. 8vo.
        1858.L. Esq. F.R.S. (the Author) —Geological Researches near Cairo, &c.
  Horner,
        Part II. (Phil. Trans.) 4to. 1858.
  Lee, Robert, M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Engravings of the Ganglia and
       Nerves of the Uterus and Heart. 4to. 1858.
  Linnean Society—Proceedings, No. 10. 8vo. 1858.
  Machie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, Vol. I. 1858.
  Murchison, Sir R. I. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Director)—Memoirs of the Geological
       Survey of Great Britain :—
     Mining Records for 1857. 8vo. 1858.
     British O.ganic Remains : Decade IX. 4to. 1858.
     Catalogue of the Rock Specimens and of the Contents of the Mining Record
       Office in the Museum of Geology. 12mo. 1858.
  Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for November 1858. 8vo.

   1859.]              Mr. Grove, on the Electrical Discharge.                   5.
  Nicholson, Sir Charles, D.C.L. F.S.S.—Catalogue of Egyptian aud other Antiqui
        ties. 8vo. 1858.
  Novello, Mr. (the Puhl".sher)—The Musical Times for November 1858. 4to.
            Professor,
  Owen,British   Association
                        D.C.L.
                             at Leeds.
                                 F.R.S. 8vo.   1858.
                                        (the Author)—Address at the Meeting uf the
  Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
       Geographie. 1858. Heft 9. 4to. Gotha, 1858.
  Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 72, 73. 8vo. 1858.
  Sorb;/, H. C. Esq. (the Author)—Geological Tracts. 8vo. 1851-6.
  United Service Institution— Journal. Nos. 3-6. 8vo. 1857-8.
   Watkins, C. R. Esq. (the Author)—Principles of liotany. 12mo. 1858.
                                          1859.
                       WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,             •
                                  Friday, January 28.
         Six Henry          Grove, Esq.
                    W. R.Holland,      Bart.Q.C.M.D.
                                                  F.R.S. V.P.E.I.
                                                      F.R.S.  in the Chair.
 On the Electrical Discharge, and its Stratified appearance in
                                    Rarefied Media.
Few subjects of physical investigation possess greater interest than the
electrical discharge ; its brilliant effects and mysterious characteristics
offer powerful stimuli to curiosity and enquiry. The speaker proposed
first shortly to state the extent of knowledge we possess respecting it ;
then to pass to certain peculiar phenomena first discovered by him in
 1852, and subsequently experimented on by others, and most elabor
ately by Mr. Gassiot ; and then to offer an opinion as to their cause
      The best mode of examining and attempting to explain the electrical
or rationale.
discharge is to compare it with its nearest analogue flame, to which one
form of the discharge, viz. the Voltaic arc, has much seeming resem
blance. The flame of a common candle results, as is well known, from
the chemical combination of carbon and hydrogen with the oxygen of
the air ; and the combustion is most brilliant where the heated gases
and particles are in proximity to the oxygen. It forms a hollow cone,
as the oxygen of the air, being cousumed or combined into water and
carbonic acid at the exterior portion, cannot reach the interior : the
course of the currents of heated air, and the particular form of this
hollow cone of flame, are beautifully shown by the refraction it pro
duces on a more brilliant light, such as that of the electric lamp ; the

6               Mr. Grove, on the Electrical Discharge,                    [Jan. 28,
flame issues from a single nucleus, the wick ; and the amount of heat
    In the isVoltaic
produced                forthere
               definitearc   a definite
                                  are two     pointsoforchemical
                                           amount                    polar terminals
                                                         foci; thecombination.
there undergo a change, but not a consumption equivalent or nearly
so to the heat and light produced ; but if the consumption of the zinc
or the quantity of it combined with oxygen in the cells of the battery
be compared with the amount of heat generated in the arc, plus that in
the cells of the battery and conducting wires, the same amount of total
heat will be found to be developed as if the same quantity of zinc
        subdividing
wereBysimply             in oxygen.
                burnedmore     and more the plates of the voltaic battery and
proportionately increasing their number, we gradually increase the
length and diminish the volume of the arc, until at length we arrive,
as in the voltaic columns of De Luc and Zamboni, at the electric
    The spark from a• Ruhmkorff coil was projected on a screen by the
spark.
electric lamp, and the impression contrasted with that of the flame of
a candle ; in the former two cones are seen to issue from the terminals
instead of the single one of the latter, one being more powerful, and
overcoming or beating back the other ; and this effect is reversed as
    direction
the In  all cases   the current
                 of hitherto      is reversed.
                              observed      there is a dispersion or projection of
a portion of the terminals ; this takes place in all forms of electric dis
ruptive discharge, whatever be the materials of which the terminals
are composed. In the voltaic arc there is a transmission of matter,
principally from the positive, which is the more intensely heated, to
the negative terminal ; in the spark from the Ruhmkorff coil the dis
persion is principally, and in some cases appears to be entirely, from
    negative
the In  addition     to this,
                terminal,   while
                              therethisis isgenerally,
                                             now the more     intensely
                                                         but not         heated.
                                                                   always,  a change
produced in the medium across which the discharge passes ; compound
liquids, vapours, and gases are decomposed, and even elementary gases
are allotropically changed. There is also a polar condition of the
electrical discharge, which produces the converse chemical effects at
each pole—effects described by Mr. Grove in a paper in the Philo
sophical Transactions for 1852, and subsequently shown at an evening
    Gasesofoffer
meeting             a powerful resistance to the passage of the discharge,
              this Institution.
but this resistance is diminished as the gases are rarefied ; and a dis
charge which would not pass across a space of half an inch in air of the
    In experimenting
ordinary  density will pass      the passage
                            on through      severaloffeet
                                                       theindischarge   through air.
                                                             highly attenuated   the
vapour of phosphorus in 1852, Mr. Grove observed for the first time
that the discharge was traversed by a number of dark bands or striae.
At first he was disposed to attribute this phenomenon to some peculi
arity of the medium ; but on trying good vacua of other vapours and
gases, he found the striae were in all cases visible, and seemed to
depend on the degree of rarefaction of the gas. Many subsequent
experiments have been made by himself and others on the subject, and

1859.]         and its stratified Appearance in Rarefied Media.                      7
more particularly by Mr. Gassiot ; and the extent of knowledge we
have acquired upon this still mysterious phenomenon was now discussed
and In   the vapour of phosphorus the striae generally exhibit themselves
      illustrated.
like narrow ruled lines, about 0*05 inch diameter, transverse to the
line of discharge ; but with certain precautions they become wider and
assume a conical form, somewhat resembling the whalebone snakes
made as a toy for children. Mr. Gassiot has used most carefully pre
pared Torricellian vacua, and has also, in conjunction with Dr.
Frankland, obtained excellent vacua, by filling tubes containing sticks
of caustic potass with carbonic acid, exhausting them by the air-pump,
      allowing
and The           the residual
            following  is a summary
                                gas to of
                                        be the
                                            absorbed
                                                 effectsby   the potass.
                                                          produced    by the electric
     If the through
discharge              be equal
              vacuum these         to that generally obtained by an ordinary
                              vacua.
air-pump, no stratifications are perceptible ; a diffused lambent light
fills the tube : in a tube in which the rarefaction is carried a step
further, narrow striae are perceptible, like those first described in the
phosphorus vapour experiment. A step further in rarefaction increases
the breadth of the bands ; next we get the conical or cup-shaped form ;
and then, the rarefaction being still higher, we get a series of luminous
cylinders of an inch or so in depth, with narrow divisions between
them. Lastly, with the best vacua which have been obtained, there is
neither discharge, light, or conduction.* The fact of non-conduction
by a very good Torricellian vacuum was first noticed by "Walsh, sub
sequently carefully experimented on by Morgan (Philosophical Trans
actions, 1785), and subsequently by Davy (1822) ; the latter did not
obtain an entire non-conduction, but a considerable diminution both
     Fromandthese
of light             repeated
                 conducting      experiments it may fairly be considered as
                             power.
proved, that in vacuo, or in media rarefied beyond a certain point,
electricity will not be conducted, or more correctly speaking, trans
mitted ; an extremely important result in its bearing on the theories of
     The gradual widening of the strata, as the rarefaction proceeds, is
electricity.
in favour of the phenomena of stratification being due to mechanical
impulses of the attenuated medium, and appears to support the follow
ing rationale of the phenomenon given by Mr. Grove ; who does not
advance it as conclusive, but only as an approximation to a theory
to be sifted by further experiments. When the battery contact is
broken, there is generated the well-known induced current in the
    * The production
secondary              thevacua
              wire in of    samebydirection
                                    carbonic acid,
                                              as the     the increasing
                                                    andoriginal           current,
                                                                 batterybreadth     to
                                                                                of the
stratifications with increased rarefaction, was communicated by Mr. Gassiot in a
paper, read to the Royal Society, Jan. 13, 1859. I incline to think that oxy-
hydrogen gas, with potash, might give a better vacuum than carbonic acid, as
the last residual portions of the gas would be slowly combined by the discharge,
and the water so formed absorbed by the potash.—W. R. G.

8             Mr. Grove, on the Electrical Discharge,           [Jan. 28,
which secondary current the brilliant effects of the Ruhmkorff coil are
due : but in addition to this current in the secondary wire, there is
also a secondary current in the primary wire, flowing in the same
direction ; the induction spark, at the moment following the disruption
of contact, completing the circuit of the primary, and thus allowing the
secondary current to pass. This secondary current in the primary wire
produces in its turn another secondary, or what may be termed a
tertiary, current in the secondary wire, in an opposite direction to the
secondary current. There are thus, almost synchronously, two currents
in opposite directions in the secondary wire ; these, by causing a
conflict or irregular action on the rarefied medium, would give rise to
waves or pulsations, and might well account for the stratified appear
ance. The experimental evidence in favour of this view is as follows :
when a single break of battery contact is made by drawing a stout
copper wire over another wire, the striae do not invariably appear
in the rarefied medium through which the current of the secondary
wire passes. This would be accounted for on the above theory by
supposing that in some cases of disruption the induced spark passes
across immediately on disruption, and thus completes the circuit for
the secondary current in the primary wire ; while in other cases, either
from want of sufficient intensity, or from the mode or velocity with
which contact is broken, or from the oxidation of the points where
contact is broken, there is no induced spark by which the current can
pass : in the former case there would be a tertiary current in the
secondary wire, and therefore striae ; in the latter there would be
none.But the following experiment is more strongly in favour of the
theory. It is obvious that the secondary must be more powerful than
the tertiary current. Now supposing an obstacle or resistance placed
in the secondary circuit, which the secondary current can overcome
but the tertiary cannot, we ought by the theory to get no striae. If an
interruption be made in the secondary current in addition to that
formed by the rarefied medium, and this interruption be made of the
full extent which the spark will pass, there are, as a general rule, no
striae in the rarefied medium, while the same vacuum tube shows the
striae well if there be no such break or interruption. The experiment
was shown by a large vacuum cylinder (16 inches by 4) of Mr.
Gassiot, and his micrometer electrometer ; this tube showed numerous
broad and perfectly distinct bands when the points of the micrometer
were in contact ; but when they were separated to the fullest extent
that would allow sparks to pass, not the slightest symptom of bands
or striae were perceptible, the whole cylinder was filled with an uniform
lambent flame. With a spark from the prime conductor of the elec
trical machine, the striae do not appear in tubes which show them well
with the Ruhmkorff coil ; occasionally, and in rare instances, striae
may be seen with sparks from the electrical machine, but, not as far
as Mr. Grove has observed, when the spark is unquestionably single.
All this is in favour of the theory given above ; but without regarding
that as conclusive or as a proved rationale, it is clearly demonstrated

 1859.]        and its stultified Appearance in Rarefied Media.              9
by the above experiments, that the identical vacuum tubes which show
 the striae with certain modes of producing the discharge, do not show
 them with other modes, and that therefore the striae are not a necessary
 condition of the discharge itself in highly attenuated media, but
     The upon
 depend                the electrical
           studytheofmode               discharge in vacuo is of the utmost
                            of its production.
 importance in reference to the theories of electricity, and probably will
 assist much towards the proper conception of other modes of force,
     The
 or, as    experiments
        they  are termed,ofimponderables,
                             Walsh and Morgan,       corroborated
                                              heat, light, &c.     as they now
 are by that of Mr. Gassiot, show, that although the transmission of
 electricity across gaseous media is aided by rarefaction of the medium
 up to a certain degree, yet that a degree of attenuation may be
 reached at which the transmission ceases, at all events for a given dis
 tance between the terminals and given intensity of electrical charge.
 Whether having arrived at this point a reduction of the space to be
 traversed, or an increase of intensity in electricity, or both, would
 again enable the electricity to pass, is not quite clear, though there is
 reason to believe that it would, and the increased intensity of electricity
 would probably be again stopped by a further improvement in the
vacuum, and so on. But the experiments go far to prove that ordinary
 matter is requisite for the transmission of electricity, and that if space
 could exist void of matter, then there would be no electricity : thus
 supporting the views advocated by Mr. Grove and some others, that
     The non-transmission
"electricity                       electricity
             is an affection orofmode   of motion
                                               by very
                                                    of ordinary matter.
                                                         highly attenuated gas
may also afford much assistance to the theory of the aurora borealis, a
phenomenon, the appearance of which, the regions where it is seen, its
effect on the magnet, and other considerations, have led to the univer
     The experimental
sal belief                result that a certain degree of attenuation of air
            that it is electrical.
forms a good conductor, or easy path for the electrical force, while
either a greater or a less degree of density offers more resistance, and
this increasing towards either extremity of density or rarefaction,
show, that if there be currents of electricity circulating to or from the
polar regions of the earth, the return of which, as is generally believed,
gives rise to the beautiful phenomena of the aurora borealis or australis,
the height where this transit of electricity takes place would be just
that at which the density of the air is such as to render it the best con
ductor. By careful measurement of the degree of attenuation requisite
to enable the electrical discharge to pass with the greatest facility in
our laboratory experiments, we may approximatively estimate the degree
of rarefaction of the atmosphere at the height where the aurora borealis
exists. By these means we get a mode of estimating the height of
the aurora by ascertaining, from the decrement of density in the atmo
sphere in proportion to its distance from the earth, at what elevation
the best conducting state, or that similar to our best conducting
vacuum tubes would be found, or conversely, by ascertaining the
height of the aurora by parallactic measurements, we- may ascertain

 to                              Professor Owen,                       [Feb. 4,
the ratio of decrement in the density of the atmosphere. Thus by our
cabinet experiments, light may be thrown on the grand phenomena of
the universe, and the great questions of the divisibility of matter,
whether there is a limit to its expansibility, whether there is a fourth
state of attenuation beyond the recognised states of solid, liquid, and
gaseous, as Newton seemed to suspect, (30th query to the Optics,) and
whether the imponderables are specific affections of matter in a peculiar
state, or of highly attenuated gaseous matter, may be elucidated.
The manageable character of the electrical discharge, and the various
phenomena it exhibits when matter is subjected to its influence in
all those varied states which we are enabled, by experiment, to reduce
it, can hardly fail to afford new and valuable information on these
abstruse and most      interestingEVENING
                   WEEKLY           enquiries. MEETING, [W. R. G.]
                          Friday, February 4, 1859.
Sir R. I. Murchison, D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                        Professor Owen, F.R.S. &c.
                 FULLERIAN PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY, ROYAL INSTITUTION.
                                  On the Gorilla.
 The lecturer referred to the discourse " On the Anthropoid Apes and
 their relations to Man," delivered by him in 1855, in which so much
 as was at that time known respecting the extraordinary and then
 recently-discovered species of ape, the subject of the present lecture,
had been detailed, with inferences drawn from the osteology and
 dentition of the gorilla, in regard to the hypothetical origin of man by
transmutation and development of the ape. The additional facts, sub
 sequently ascertained respecting the gorilla, although they prove its
nearer approach to man than any other tailless ape, have not in any
 degree affected or invalidated the conclusions at which the lecturer
      arrived
had Since          his previous
            thein date            discourse, skeletons and the entire carcase
                        of that discourse.
preserved in spirits of the gorilla had successively reached the Museums
of Paris, Vienna, and London ; and had formed the subjects of several
memoirs, the results of the recorded observations differing only in
     Dr. toWyman,
regard                 the accomplished
            the interpretation               anatomical professor at Boston,
                                  of the facts.
U.S., agreed with Professor Owen, in referring the gorilla to the

1859.]                           on the Gorilla.                                   11
same genus as the chimpanzee (Troglodytes), but he regards the latter
     Professors
as more            allied to the
          nearly Duvernoy           Isidorekind.
                              andhuman       Geoffroy St. Hilaire consider the
differences in the osteology, dentition, and outward character of the
gorilla to be of generic importance ; and they enter the species in the
zoological catalogues as Gorilla gina, the trivial name being that by
which the animal is called by the natives of Gaboon ; the French
naturalists also concur with the American in placing the gorilla below
the chimpanzee in the zoological scale ; and some have more lately
been disposed to place both below the siamangs, gibbons or long-armed
       (Hylobates).
apesDeferring    the discussion of these questions, the lecturer, referring
to a spirited and accurate painting, life-size, of the adult male gorilla,
by Wolf, proceeded to describe the external characters of the animal,
as they were exhibited by the specimen preserved in spirits which had
shortly before been received at the British Museum, and had since
been admirably prepared and mounted by Mr. Bartlett, the well-known
taxidermist. The lecturer first called attention to the shortness,
almost absence, of neck, due to the backward position of the junction
of the head to the trunk, to the great length of the cervical spines,
causing the " nape " to project beyond the " occiput," to the great size
and elevation, of the scapulae, and to the oblique rising of the clavicles
from their sternal attachments to above the level of the angles of the
jaw. The brain-case, low and narrow, and the lofty ridges of the
skull, make the cranial profile pass in almost a straight line from the
occiput to the superorbital ridge, the prominence of which gives the
most forbidding feature to the physiognomy of the gorilla ; the thick
integument overlapping that ridge forming a scowling pent-house over
the eyes. The nose is more prominent than in the chimpanzee or
orang-utan, not only at its lower expanded part, but at its upper half,
where a slight prominence corresponds with that which the author had
previously pointed out in the nasal bones. The mouth is very wide,
the lips large, of uniform thickness, the upper one with a straight, as
if incised margin, not showing the coloured lining membrane when the
 mouth is shut. The chin very short and receding, the muzzle very
 prominent. The eyelids with eye-lashes, the eyes wider apart than in
 the orang or chimpanzee ; no eyebrows ; but the hairy scalp continued
 to the superorbital ridge. The ears smaller in proportion than in
 man, much smaller than in the chimpanzee ; but the structure of the
auricle more like that of man : it was minutely described and com
pared. On a direct front view of the face, the ears are on the same
parallel with the eyes. The teeth had been described in the lecturer's
 former discourse.* The huge canines in the male give a most formi
 dable aspect to the beast : they were not fully developed in the
     * "Onand
 younger        entire specimen,
            the Anthropoid  Apes: " now
                                     Proceedings,
                                          mounted.      The profile
                                                  E.I. Vol/II.        of26the; and
                                                               (1855J p.       trunkin
 the Transactions of the Zoological Society, 1848.

 12                           Professor Owen,                     [Feb. 4,
describes a slight convexity from tbe nape to the sacrum,—there being
no inbending at the loins, which seem wanting, the thirteenth pair of
ribs being close to the " labrum ilii." The chest is of great capacity ;
 the shoulders very wide across ; the pectoral regions are slightly
marked, and show a pair of nipples placed as in the chimpanzee and
 human species. The abdomen is somewhat prominent, both before
and at the sides. The pelvis relatively broader than in other apes.
      The chief deviations from the human structure were seen in the
limbs, which are of great power, the upper ones prodigiously strong.
The arm from below the short deltoid prominence preserves its thick
ness to the condyles ; , a uniform circumference prevails in the fore
arm ; the leg increases in thickness from below the knee to the ankle.
There is no calf. These characters of the limbs are due to the general
absence of those partial muscular enlargements which impart the
graceful varying curves to the outlines of the limbs in man. Yet
they depended, the lecturer remarked, rather on excess, than defect,
of development of the carneous as compared with the tendinous parts
of the limb-muscles, which thus continue of almost the same size from,
their origin to their insertion, with a proportionate gain of strength to
the beast. The difference in the length of the upper limbs between
the gorilla and man is but little in comparison with the trunk ; it
appears greater through the arrest of development of the lower limbs.
Very significant of the closer anthropoid affinities of the gorilla was
the superior length of the arm (humerus) to the fore-arm, as compared
with the proportions of those parts in the chimpanzee. The hair of
the arm inclines downward, that of the fore-arm upward, as in the
chimpanzee. The thumb extends a little beyond the base of the
proximal phalanx of the fore-finger ; it does not reach to the end of
the metacarpal bone in the chimpanzee or any other ape : the thumb
of the siamang is still shorter in proportion to the length of the fingers
of the same hand : the philosophical zoologist will see great significance
in this fact. In man the thumb extends to, or beyond, the middle of
tho first phalanx of the fore-finger.
     The fore-arm in the gorilla passes into the hand with very slight
evidence, by constriction, of the wrist ; the circumference of which,
without the hair, was fourteen inches, that of a strong man averaging
eight inches. The hand is remarkable for its breadth and thickness,
and for the great length of the palm, occasioned both by the length of
the metacarpus and the greater extent of undivided integument between
the digits than in man ; these only begin to be free opposite the middle
of the proximal or first phalanges in the gorilla. The digits are thus
short, and appear as if swollen and gouty ; and are conical in shape
after the first joint, by tapering to nails, which, being not larger or
longer than those of man, are relatively to the fingers much smaller.
The circumference of the middle digit at the first joint in the gorilla
is 5 J inches; in man, at the same part, it averages 21 inches. The
skin covering the middle phalanx is thick and callous on the backs of
the fingers, and there is little outward appearance of the second joint.
The habit of the animal to apply those parts to the ground, in occasional

 1859.]                        on the Gorilla.                            13
 progression, is manifested by these callosities. The back of the hand
 is hairy as far as the divisions of the fingers ; the palm is naked and
 callous. The thumb, besides its shortness, according to the standard
 of the human hand, is scarcely half so thick as the fore-finger. The
 nail of the thumb did not extend to the end of that digit ; in the
 fingers the nail projected a little beyond the end, but with a slightly
 convex worn margin, resembling the human nails in shape, but rela
 tively less.
     In the hind limbs, chiefly noticeable was that first appearance in the
 quadrumanous series of a muscular development of the gluteus, causing
 a small buttock to project over each tuber ischii. This structure, with the
 peculiar expanse (in quadrumana) of the iliac bones, leads to an inference
 that the gorilla must naturally and with more ease resort occasionally
 to station and progression on the lower limbs than any other ape.
     The same cause as in the arm, viz., a continuance of a large pro
portion of fleshy fibres to the lower end of the muscles, co-extensive
 with the thigh, gives a great circumference to that segment of the
 limb above the knee-joint, and a more uniform size to it than in man.
The relative shortness of the thigh, its bone being only eight-ninths
the length of the humerus (in man the humerus averages five-sixths the
length of the femur), adds to the appearance of its superior relative
thickness. Absolutely the thigh is not of greater circumference at its
middle than is the same part in man.
     The chief difference in the leg, after its relative shortness, is the
 absence of a " calf," due to the non-existence of the partial accumula
tion of carneous fibres in the gastrocnemii muscles, causing that
prominence in the type-races of mankind. In the gorilla the tendo-
achillis not only continues to receive the " penniform " fibres to the
heel, but the fleshy parts of the muscles of the foot receive accessions
of fibres at the lower third of the leg, to which the greater thickness of
that part is due, the proportions in this respect being the reverse of
those in man. The leg expands at once into the foot, which has a
peculiar and characteristic form, owing to the modifications favouring
bipedal motion being superinduced upon an essentially prehensile,
quadrumanous type. The heel makes a more decided backward pro
jection than in the chimpanzee ; the heel-bone is relatively thicker,
deeper, more expanded vertically at its hind end, besides being fully as
long as in the chimpanzee. This bone, so characteristic of anthropoid
affinities, is shaped and proportioned more like the human calcaneum
than in any other ape. The malleoli do not make such well-marked
projections as in man ; they are marked more by the thickness of the
fleshy and tendinous parts of the muscles that pass near them, on their
way to be inserted into parts of the foot. Although the foot be
articulated to the leg with a slight inversion of the sole, it is more
nearly plantigrade than in the chimpanzee or any other ape. The
hallux (great toe, thumb of the foot), though not relatively longer
than in the chimpanzee, is stronger ; the bones are thicker in proportion
to their length, especially the last phalanx, which in shape and breadth
much resembles that in the human foot. The hallux in its natural

14                             Professor Owen,                         [Feb. 4,
position diverges from the other toes at an angle of 60 deg. from the
axis of the foot ; its base is large, swelling into a kind of ball below,
upon which the thick callous epiderm of the sole is continued. The
transverse indents and wrinkles show the frequency and freedom of the
flexile movements of the two joints of the hallux ; the nail is small,
flat, and short. The sole of the foot gradually expands from the heel
forward to the divergence of the hallux, and seems to be here cleft, and
almost equally, between the base of the hallux and the common base of
the other four digits. These are small and slender in proportion, and
their bases are enveloped in a common tegumentary sheath as far as
the base of the second phalanx. A longitudinal indent at the middle
of the sole, bifurcating—one channel defining the ball of the hallux,
the other running towards the interspace between the second and third
digit—indicates the action of opposing the whole thumb (which seems
rather like an inner lobe or division of the sole), to the outer division
terminated by the four short toes. What is termed the " instep " in
man is very high in the gorilla, owing to the thickness of the carneo-
tendinous parts of the muscles as they pass from the leg to the foot
over this region. The mid-toe (third) is a little longer than the second
and fourth ; the fifth, as in man, is proportionally shorter than the
fourth, and is divided from it by a somewhat deeper cleft. The whole
sole is wider than in man—relatively to its length much wider—and in
that respect, as well as by the off-set of the hallux, and the definition
of its basal ball, more like a hand, but a hand of huge dimensions
      of protentous
and The               power ofisgrasp.
          hairy integument        continued along the dorsum of the foot to
the clefts of the toes, and upon the first phalanx of the hallux : the
whole    regard
     In sole     to the outward coloration of the gorilla, only from the ex
             is bare.
amination of the living animal could the precise shades of colour of the
naked parts of the skin be truly described. Much of the epiderm had
peeled off the subject of the present discourse ; but fortunately in large
patches, and the texture of these had acquired a certain firmness,
apparently by the action of the alcohol upon the albuminous basis.
 The parts of the epiderm remaining upon the face indicated the skin
 there to be chiefly of a deep leaden hue ; it is everywhere finely
 wrinkled, and was somewhat less dark at the prominent parts of the
 supraciliary roll and the prominent margins of the nasal " alae :" the
       and palms
solesAlthough    thewere
                      general
                          also colour
                               of a lighter colour.
                                       of the hair appears, at first sight, and
 when moist, to be almost black, it is not so, but is rather of a dusky
 grey : it is decidedly of a less deep tint than in* the chimpanzee ( Trogl.
 niger) : this is due to an admixture of a few reddish, and of more
 greyish, hairs with the dusky coloured ones which chiefly constitute the
 " pelage : " and the above admixture varies at different parts of the
 body. The reddish hairs are so numerous on the scalp, especially
 along the upper middle region, as to make their tint rather predominate
 there ; they blend in a less degree with the long hairs upon the sides
 of the face. The greyish hairs are found mixed with the dusky upon

1859.]                           on the Gorilla.                             15
the dorsal, deltoidal and anterior femoral, "regions ; but on the limbs,
not in such proportion as to affect the impression of the general dark
colour, at first view. Near the margin of the vent are a few short
whitish hairs, as in the chimpanzee. The epiderm of the back showed
the effects of habitual resting, with that part against the trunk or branch
of a tree, occasioning the hair to be more or less rubbed off: the
     It is most
epithelium         probable,
               was here         from and
                         very thick        degree of admixture of different
                                      the tough.
coloured hairs above described, that a living gorilla seen in bright
sunlight, would in some positions reflect from its surface a colour much
more different from that of the chimpanzee than appears by a com
parison of the skin of a dead specimen sent home in spirits. It can
hardly be doubted also, that age will make an appreciable difference
     The
in the     adult male
        general   coloration
                        gorilla
                              of measures  five feetgorilla.
                                 the Troglodytes       six inches from the sole
to the top of the head, the breadth across the shoulders is nearly three
feet, the length of the upper limb is three feet four inches, that of the
lower limb is two feet four inches ; the length of the head and trunk is
three feet six inches, whilst the same dimension in man does not
     In the
average      foregoing
          three  feet. remarks the lecturer had given the results of direct
observations made on the first and only entire specimen of the gorilla
which had reached England. At the period when they were made, no
other description of its external characters had reached him ; and if
the majority of them be found to agree with previously recorded
observations by naturalists enjoying earlier opportunities of studying
similarly preserved specimens, the rarity and importance of the species
might excuse, if it did not justify, a second description from direct
scrutiny of a new specimen by an old observer of the anthropoid quad-
rumana. A much more important labour, however, remained. The
accurate record of facts in natural history was one and a good aim ; the
deduction of their true consequences was a better. Professor Owen
proceeded, therefore, to reconsider the conclusions from which his
experienced French and American fellow-labourers in natural history
     The from
differed         him,may
           first—it    andbeincalled
                               whichthe
                                      it seemed  he stood alone.
                                         supreme—question      in regard to the
gorilla was, its place in the scale of nature, and its true and precise
     Is it or not the nearest of kin to human kind ? Does it form, like
affinities.
the chimpanzee and orang, a distinct genus in the anthropoid or knuckle-
walking group of apes? Are these apes, or are the long-armed
gibbons, more nearly related to the genus Homo? Of the broad-
breast-boned quadrumana, are the knuckle-walkers or the brachiators,
i.e. the long-armed gibbons, most nearly and essentially related to the
human subject? Professor Owen proceeded to grapple with the first
     Atmost
as the         important
         the first          whether of the entire animal or of the skeleton,
                   aspect, question.
he freely admitted that the gorilla strikes the observer as being a
much more bestial and brutish animal than the chimpanzee. All the

 16                              Professor Owen,                         [Feb. 4,
 features that relate to the wielding of the strong jaws and large canines
 are exaggerated ; the evidence of brain is less ; its proper cavity is
 more masked by the outgrowth of the strong occipital and other
 cranial ridges. But then the impression so made that the gorilla is
 less like man, is the same which is derived from comparing a young
 with an adult chimpanzee, or some small tailless monkey with a full-
 grown male orang or chimpanzee. Taking the characters that
 cause that impression at a first inspection of the gorilla, most of the
 small South American monkeys are more anthropoid ; they have a
 proportionally larger and more human-shaped cranium, much less pro
      Referring
 minent            to the
           jaws, with      diagrams
                        more               the skeletons of the adult males of
                              equableofteeth.
 the gorilla, chimpanzee, orang, and gibbon, Professor Owen remarked
 that the globular cranium of the last, and its superior size compared
 with the jaws and teeth, seemed to show the gibbons to be more nearly
 akin to man than any of the larger tailless apes. And this conclusion
 had been formed by a distinguished French palaeontologist, M. Lartet,
 and accepted by a high geological authority at home.* The experi
 enced Professor of Human Anatomy at Amsterdam had been also cited
 as supporting this view ; but the lecturer had failed to find any statement
of the grounds upon which it was sustained. In the art. Quadrumana
of Todd's Cyclopaedia, cited by Lartet,| Professor Vrolik briefly
treats of the osteology of the Quadrumana according to their natural
families. In " a first genus, Simia proper, or ape," he includes the
chimpanzee or orang, noticing some of the chief points by which these
apes approach the nearest to man. He next goes to the second
genus, the gibbon (Hylobates), notices their ischial callosities, and the
nearer approach of their molars, in their rounded form, to the teeth of
carnivora than the molars of the genus Simia. Then, comparing the
siamang with other species of Hylobates, Vrolik says, " its skeleton ap
proaches most to that of man," which may be true in comparison with
other gibbons, but certainly is not so as respects the higher Simia;.
No details are given to illustrate the proposition even in its more
limited application ; but the minor length of the arms in the siamang,
as compared with Hylobates lar, was probably the obvious character
      The appearance
in Vrolik's     mind. of superior cerebral development in the siamang
and other long-armed apes is due to their small size and the concomi
tant feeble development of their jaws and teeth. The same appear
ance makes the small platyrrhine monkeys of South'America equally
anthropoid in their facial physiognomy, and much more human-like
than are the great orangs and chimpanzees. It is an appearance which
depends upon the precocious growth of the brain, as dependent on the
law of its development. In all quadrumana the brain has reached
       Sir size
its *full        beforeSupplement
            C. Lyell,   the secondto set
                                      the of
                                          5th teeth
                                               Edition of a Manualalmost
                                                    is acquired,           before
                                                                    of Elementary
Geology, 1 859, p. 1 5.
    t Comptes Rendus de l'Académie des Sciences, Juillet 28, 1856.

1859.]                           #« the Gorilla.                             17
the first set is shed. If a young gorilla, chimpanzee, or orang, be
compared with a young siamang, of corresponding age, the absolutely
larger size and better shape of brain, the deeper and more numerous
convolutions of the cerebrum, and the more completely covered cere
bellum, unequivocally demonstrate the higher organization of the
shorter-armed apes ; " in the structure of the brain," writes Vrolik,*
in accordance with all other comparative anatomists, " they " (chim
panzee and orang-utan) " approach the nearest to man." The degree
to which the chimpanzee and orang so resembled the human type
seemed much closer to Cuvier, who knew those great apes only in
their immaturity, with their small milk teeth and precociously de
veloped brain. Accordingly, the anthropoid characters of the Simia
satyrus and Simia troglodytes, as deduced from the facial angle and
dentition, are proportionally exaggerated in the " Regne Animal."-j'
 As growth proceeds, the milk-teeth are shed, the jaws expand, the
great canines succeed their diminutive representatives, the biting
muscles gain a proportional increase of carneous fibres, their bony
fulcra respond to the call for increased surface of attachment, the
sagittal and occipital crests begin to rise ; but the brain grows no
more ; its cranial box retains the size it showed in immaturity ; it
finally becomes masked by the superinduced osseous developments in
those apes which attain the largest stature and wield the most for
 midably armed jaws. Yet under this disguise of physical force, the
 brain is still the better and the larger than is that of the little long-
 armed ape, which retains throughout life so much more of the characters
     The siamang
 of immaturity,       and other
                  especially  in the
                                   gibbons
                                     structure  of the
                                             have       skull.lower but longer
                                                     smaller
 upper canines, relatively, than in the orangs and chimpanzees ; the
 permanent ones more quickly attain their full size, and are sooner in
 their place in the jaws ; consequently the last molar teeth-—what we
 call the "wisdom-teeth''— come last into place as they do in the
 human species. But, if this be interpreted as of importance in deter
 mining the relative affinity of the longer-armed and shorter-armed
 apes to man, it is a character in which, as in their seeming superior
 cerebral development, the Hylobqtes agree with some much lower
 quadrumana with still smaller canines. The comparative anatomist,
 pursuing this most interesting comparison with clear knowledge of the
 true conditions and significance of a globular cranium and small jaws
 within the quadrumanous order, turns his attention to the true dis
      In respect
 tinctive characters
                  to the
                       of brain,
                          the human   organization.
                                 he would  look not so much for its relative
 size to the body, as for its relative size in the species compared one
  with another in the same natural group. He would enquire what
  quadrumanous animal shows absolutely the biggest brain ? what species
              Art. Quadrumana,
 shows the* deepest               numerousofand
                      and mostCyclopaedia           winding
                                                Anatomy,       iv., p. 195. ? in
                                                          vol. convolutions
    Vol.• III.     (No. 29.)t Ed. 1829, pp. 87, 89.                       c

18                            Professor Owen,                          [Feb. 4,
which is the cerebrum largest, as compared with the cerebellum ? If
he found all these characters highest in the gorilla, he would not be
diverted from the just inference because the great size and surpassing
physical power attained in that species masked the true data from
     The view.
obvious   comparative anatomist would look to the caecum and the ischial
integument: if he found in one subject of his comparisons ( Troglodytes)
a long " appendix vermiformis caeci," as in man, but no " callosities,"
and in another subject (Hylobates) the ischial callosities but only a
short rudiment of the caecal appendix, he would know which of the two
tailless apes were to be placed next " the monkeys with ischial callosities
and no vermiform appendix," and which formed the closer link toward
man. He would find that the anthropoid intestinal and dermal charac
ters were associated with the absolutely larger and better developed
brain in the gorilla, chimpanzee, and orang ; whilst the lower quad-
rumanous characters exhibited by the caecum and nates were exhibited
    Pursuing
by the          the comparison
         smaller-brained          through thetailless
                          and longer-armed               gibbons. of the bony
                                                   complexities
framework, the comparative anatomist would first glance at the more
obvious characters ; and such, indeed, as would be given by the entire
animal. The characteristics of the limbs in man are their near equality
of length, but the lower limbs are the longest. The arms in man
reach to below the middle of the thigh ; in the gorilla they nearly attain
the knee ; in the chimpanzee they reach below the knee ; in the orang
they reach the ankle ; in the siamang they reach the sole ; in most gibbons
the whole palm can be applied to the ground without the trunk being
bent forward beyond its naturally inclined position on the legs. These
gradational differences coincide with other characters determining the
relative proximity of the apes compared with man. In no quadru-
mana does the humerus exceed the ulna so much in length as in man ;
only in the very highest and most anthropoid, viz. the gorilla and
chimpanzee, does it exceed the ulna at all in length ; in all the rest, as
     Thelower
in the         quadrupeds,
           humerus,  in the the
                             gorilla,
                                 fore-arm
                                      though    less long,
                                            is longer        the arm. with the
                                                        thancompared
ulna, than in man, is longer than in the chimpanzee ; in the orang it is
shorter than the ulna ; in the siamang and other gibbons it is much
shorter, the peculiar length of arm in those " long-armed apes" is
     Thedue
chiefly      to the excessive
          difference in the length
                               length   thetheupper
                                     of of            limbs, asbones.
                                                antibrachial     compared with
the trunk, is but little between man and the gorilla. The elbow-joint
in the gorilla, as the arm hangs down, is opposite the " labrum ilii,"
the wrist opposite the " tuber ischii ;" it is rather lower down in the
chimpanzee ; is opposite the knee-joint in the orang ; and opposite the
     Man's perfect
ankle-joint          hand is one of his peculiar physical characters ; that
             in the siamang.
perfection is mainly due to the extreme differentiation of the first from
the other four digits, and its concomitant powe!" of opposing them
as a perfect thumb. An opposable thumb is present in the hand of
most quadrumana, but is usually a small appendage compared with

  1859.]                             on the Gorilla.                             19
  that of man. It is ' relatively largest in the gorilla. In this ape the
  thumb reaches to a little beyond the base of the first phalanx of the
  fore-finger ; it does not reach to the end of the metacarpal bone of the
  fore-finger in the chimpanzee, orang, or gibbon ; it is relatively smallest
  in the last tailless ape. In man the thumb extends to or beyond the
  middle of the first phalanx of the fore-finger. The philosophical zoolo
  gist will see great significance in the results of this comparison. Only
  in the gorilla and chimpanzee are the carpal bones eight in number, as
  in man ; in the orangs and gibbons they are nine in number, as in the
       The
  tailed     scapulae are broader in the gorilla than in the chimpanzee,
           monkeys.
  orang, or long-armed apes ; they come nearer to the proportions of that
  bone in man. But a more decisive resemblance to the human structure
  is presented by the iliac bones. In no other than the gorilla do they
  bend forward, so as to produce a pelvic concavity ; nor are they so
  broad in proportion to their length in any ape as in the gorilla. In
  both the chimpanzee and orang the iliac bones are flat, or present a
  concavity rather at the back than at the forepart. In the siamang they
  are not only flat, but are narrower and longer, resembling the iliac
  bonesThe oflower
              tailedlimbs,
                     monkeys    and characteristically
                            though    ordinary quadrupeds.short in the gorilla, are
  longer in proportion to the upper limbs, and also to the entire trunk,
  than in the chimpanzee ; they are much longer in both proportions and
  more robust than in the orangs or gibbons. But the guiding points of
  comparisons here are the heel and the hallux (great toe or thumb
       Thefoot).
  of the     heel in the gorilla makes a more decided backward projection
. than in the chimpanzee ; the heelbone is relatively thicker, deeper,
  more expanded vertically at its hind end, beside being fully as long as
  in the chimpanzee : it is in the gorilla shaped and proportioned more like
  the human calcaneum than in any other ape. Among all the tailless
  apes the calcaneum in the siamang and other gibbons least resembles
          shape or the
  in itsAlthough       foot be articulated
                    proportional               to man.
                                    size that of   the leg with a slight inversion
  of the sole it is more nearly plantigrade in the gorilla than in the chim
  panzee. The orang departs far, and the gibbons farther, from the human
  typeThe    great
         in the  inverted
                    toe which
                          position
                                formsof the  foot.
                                         the fulcrum    in standing or walking is
  perhaps the most characteristic peculiarity in the human structure ; it
  is that modification which differentiates the foot from the hand, and
  gives the character to his order (Bimana). In the degree of its
  approach to this development of the hallux the quadrumanous animal
  makes      true step inand
       Thea orang-utan         the siamang,
                           affinity  to man. tried by this test, descend far and
 abruptly below the chimpanzee and gorilla in the scale. In the orang
  the hallux does not reach to the end of the metacarpal of the second
  toe ; in the chimpanzee and gorilla it reaches to the end of the first
 phalanx of the second toe ; but in the gorilla the hallux is thicker and
 stronger than in the chimpanzee. In both, however, it is a true thumb,
                                                                       c2

20                               Professor Owen.                         [Feb. 4,
by position, diverging from the other toes, in the gorilla, at an angle of
    Man has
60 degrees       12 the
              from       axisofofribs,
                     pairs             the gorilla and chimpanzee have 13
                                  the foot.
pairs, the orangs have 12 pairs, the gibbons have 13 pairs. Were the
naturalist to trust to this single character, as some have trusted to the
cranio-facial one, and in equal ignorance of the real condition and value
of both, he might think that the orangs (Pithecus) were nearer akin
to man than the chimpanzee ( Troglodytes) are. But man has some
times a thirteenth pair of ribs ; and what we term " ribs " are but
vertebral elements or appendages common to nearly all the true ver
tebrae in man, and only so called, when they become long and free.
The genera Homo, Troglodytes, and Pithecus, have precisely the same
number of vertebrae : if Troglodytes, by the development and mobility of
the pleurapophyses of the 20th vertebra from the occiput seem to have
an additional thoracic vertebra, it has one vertebra less in the lumbar
region. So, if there be, as has been observed in the same genus, a differ
ence in the number of sacral vertebrae, it is merely due to a last lumbar
    Thecoalesced
having              with what
          thirteen pairs   of ribs,
                                 we therefore,
                                     reckon theinfirst gorillavertebra
                                                   thesacral            in man.
                                                                and chimpanzee
are of no weight, as against the really important characters significative
of affinity with the human type. But, supposing the fact of any real
value, how do the advocates of the superior resemblance of the gibbon's
    In applying
skeleton           of man
           to that the  characters
                             disposeofofthe
                                         the skull to thepair
                                              thirteenth       of ribs ? of the
                                                           determination
important question at issue those must first be ascertained by which the
genus Homo trenchantly differs from the genus Simia, of Linnaeus.
To determine these osteal distinctions, the lecturer stated that he had
compared the skulls of many individuals of different varieties of the
human race together with those of the male, female, and young of species
of Troglodytes, Pithecus, and Hylobates; Professor Owen referred
to his Catalogue of the Osteological Series in the Museum of the Royal
College of Surgeons, 4to., 1853, for the detailed results of these com
parisons. On the present occasion he would restrict himself to a few
    The first
of these       and most obvious differential character is the globular form
          results.
of the brain-case, and its superior relative size to the face, especially the
jaws, in man. But this, for the reasons he had already assigned, is not
an instructive or decisive character, when comparing quadrumanous
species, in reference to the question at issue. It is exaggerated in the
human child, owing to the acquisition of its full, or nearly full size, by
the brain, before the jaws have expanded to lodge the second set of
teeth. It is an anthropoid character in which the guadrumana resemble
man, in proportion to the diminution of their general bulk. If a gorilla,
with milk-teeth, have a somewhat larger brain and brain-case than a
chimpanzee at, the same immature age, the acquisition of greater bulk
by the gorilla, and of a more formidable physical development of the
skull, in reference to the great canines in the male, will give to the chim
panzee the appearance of a more anthropoid character, which really
does not belong to it ; which could be as little depended upon in a

1859.]                          on the Gorilla.                                  21
question of precise affinity as the like more anthropoid characters of the
     Much
female,      compared
          as more  important
                         with the
                               andmale,    gorilla-were
                                    significant          the following characters
                                                    or chimpanzee.
of the human skull. The position and plane of the occipital foramen ;
the proportional size of the condyloid and petrous processes ; the mas
toid processes, which relate to balancing the head upon the trunk in the
erect altitude ; the small premaxillaries and concomitant small size of
the incisor teeth, as compared with the molar teeth. This character
relates to the superiority of the psychical over the physical powers
in man. It governs the feature in which man recedes from the brute,
as does also the prominence of the nasal bones in most, and in all the
typical, races of man. The somewhat angular form of the bony orbits,
tending to a square, with the corners rounded off, is a good human
character of the skull ; which is difficult to comprehend as an adaptive
one, and therefore the better in the present inquiry. The same may be
said of the production of the floor of the tympanic or auditory tube
       the plate the
 intoBelieving        foregoing
                  called         to be sufficient to test the respective degrees
                         " vaginal."
of affinity to man within the limited group of quadrumana to which it
was proposed, in the present lecture, to apply them, the speaker would
not weary his audience or weaken his argument by citing minor
characters. The question at issue is, as between the anthropoid apes
and man. Cuvier deemed the orang (Pithecus) to be nearer akin to man
than the chimpanzee ( Troglodytes) is. That belief has long ceased to
 be entertained. Professor Owen proceeded, therefore, to compare the
      Mostchimpanzee,
 gorilla,                entering
            naturalists and        upon
                             gibbon,   in this
                                          reference
                                               question    wouldhuman
                                                       to their         affinities.
                                                                 first look  to the
 premaxillary bones, or, owing to the early confluence of those bones
 with the maxillaries in the gorilla and chimpanzee, to the part of the
 upper jaw containing the incisive teeth, on the development of which
 depends the prognathic or brutish character of a skull. Now the
 extent of the premaxillaries below the nostril is not only relatively but
 absolutely less in the gorilla, and consequently the profile of the skull
 is less convex at this part, or less " prognathic," than in the chimpanzee.
 Notwithstanding the degree in which the skull of the gorilla surpasses
 in size that of the chimpanzee, especially when the two are compared
 on a front view, the breadth of the premaxillaries and of the four
 incisive teeth is the same in both. In the relative degree, therefore, in
 which these bones are smaller than in the chimpanzee, the gorilla, in
 this most important character, comes nearer to man. In the gibbons
 the incisors are relatively smaller than in the gorilla, but the pre
      Next, asbear
 maxillaries         the same
                 regards   the nasal
                               proportional
                                      bones. size,
                                                 In in       adult male as
                                                      thethechimpanzee,       in the
                                                                          siamang.
 orangs and gibbons, they are as flat to the face as in any of the lower
  Simice. In the gorilla, the median coalesced margins of the upper half
 of the nasal bones are produced forwards ; in a slight degree it is true,
 but affording a most significant evidence of nearer resemblance to man.
 In the same degree they impress that anthropic feature upon the face
 of the living gorilla. In some pig-faced baboons there are ridges and

22                             Professor Owen,                      [Feb. 4,
prominences in the naso-facial part of the skull ; but they do not
really affect the question as between the gorilla and chimpanzee. All
naturalists know that the semnopitheques of Borneo have long noses ;
but the proboscidiform appendage which gives so ludicrous a mask to
those monkeys is scarcely the homologue of the human nose, and is
unaccompanied by any such modification of the nose-bones as gives the
true anthropoid character to the human skull, and to which only the
gorilla, in the ape tribe, makes any approximation.
     No orang, chimpanzee, or gibbon shows any rudhnent of mastoid
processes ; but they are present in the gorilla, smaller indeed than in
man, but unmistakeable ; they are, as in man, cellular, and with a thin
outer plate of bone. This fact led the lecturer to express, when in
respect to the gorilla, only the skull had reached him, the following
inference, viz. : " from the nearer approach which the gorilla makes to
man in comparison with the chimpanzee, or orang, in regard to the
mastoid processes, that it assumed more nearly and more habitually
the upright attitude than those inferior anthropoid apes do." This
inference has been fully borne out by the rest of the skeleton of the
    In the
gorilla,     chimpanzee,
         subsequently      as in the orangs, gibbons, and inferior simice,
                        acquired.
the lower surface of the long tympanic or auditory process is more or
less flat and smooth, developing in the chimpanzee only a slight
tubercle, anterior to the stylohyal pit. In the gorilla the auditory
process is more or less convex below, and developes a ridge, answering
to the vaginal process, on the outer side of the carotid canal. The
processes posterior and internal to the glenoid articular surface, are
better developed, especially the internal one, in the gorilla than in the
chimpanzee ; the ridge which extends from the ectopterygoid along
the inner border of the foramen ovale, terminates in the gorilla by an
angle or process answering to that called " styliform " or " spinous " in
man, but of which there is no trace in the chimpanzee, orang, or
     The orbits have a full oval form in the orang ; they are almost
gibbon.
circular in the chimpanzee and siamang ; more nearly circular, and
with a more prominent rim in the smaller gibbons ; in the gorilla
alone do they present the form which used to be deemed peculiar to
man. There is not much physiological significance in some of the
latter characters ; but, on that very account, the lecturer deemed
them more instructive and guiding in the actual comparison. The
occipital foramen is nearer the back part of the cranium, and its plane
is more sloping, less horizontal, in the siamang, than in the chimpanzee
and gorilla. Considering the less relative prominence of the fore part
of the jaws in the siamang, as compared with the chimpanzee, the
occipital character of that gibbon and of other species of Hylobates
     In thewell
indicates       their
            greater relative
                      inferior
                             sizeposition in the quadrumanous
                                   of the molars,               the incisors,
                                                  compared withscale.
the gorilla makes an important closer step towards man than does the
 chimpanzee. The molar teeth are relatively so small in the siamang,
 that notwithstanding the small size of the incisors, the proportion of

 1859.]                         on the Gorilla.                              23
those teeth to the molars is only the same as in the gorilla : in other
gibbons (Uylobates lar), the four lower incisors occupy an extent
equal to that of the first four molars, in the chimpanzee equal to that
of the first three molars, in the siamang equal to that of the first two
molars and rather more than half of the third, in man equal to the
first two molars and half of the third : in this comparison the term
molar      applied to the
     Theis proportion       bicuspids.
                       of the  ascending ramus to the length of the lower
     tests
jaw In      profile
         a the       of the
                relative affinity
                             lowerof jaw,
                                     the tailless
                                           compare   thetoline
                                                  apes         drawn vertically
                                                            man.
from the top of the coronoid process to the horizontal length along
the alveoli. In man and the gorilla it is about 7-10ths, in the chim
panzee 6-10ths, in the siamang it is only 4-10ths. The siamang further
differs in the shape and production of the angle of the jaw, and in the
shape of the coronoid process, approaching the lower simiae in both
these characters. In the size of the post-glenoid process, in the shape
of the glenoid cavity which is almost flat, in the proportional size of
the petrous bone, and in the position of the foramen caroticum, the
siamang departs further from the human type and approaches nearer
that of the tailed simiae than the gorilla does, and in a marked
     Every legitimate deduction from a comparison of cranial characters
degree.
makes the tailless quadrumana recede from the human type in the
following order,—gorilla, chimpanzee, orangs, gibbons ; and the last-
named    in acomparisons
     Those                   have decided
               greater and more               been invested with additional
                                    of late degree.
interest from the discoveries of remains of quadrumanous species in
     The first
different  members    of the tertiary
                  quadrumanous         formations.
                                   fossil, the discovery of which by Lieuts.
Baker and Durand is recorded in the "Journal of the Asiatic
Society of Bengal," for November, 1836, has proved to belong, like
subsequently discovered quadrumanous fossils in the Sewalik (pro
bably miocene) tertiaries, to the Indian genus Semnopithecus. The
quadrumanous fossils discovered in 1839, in the eocene deposits of
Suffolk, belong to a genus (Eopithecus) having its nearest affinities with
Macacus. The monkey's molar tooth from the pliocene beds of Essex
is most closely allied to the Macacus sinicus. The remains of the large
monkey, 4 feet in height, discovered in 1839 by Dr. Lund in a limestone
cavern in Brazil was shown by its molar dentition,
to belong to the platyrrhine family now peculiar to South America.
The lower jaw and teeth of the small quadrumane discovered by M.
Lartet in a miocene bed of the south of France, and described by
him and De Blainville, is so closely allied to the gibbons as to scarcely
justify the generic separation which has been made for it under the
name   Pliopithecus.
     Finally,  a portion of a lower jaw with teeth and the shaft of a humerus
of a quadrumanous animal (Dryopithecus), equalling the size of those

24                            Professor Owen,                            [Feb. 4,
 bones in man, have been discovered by M. Fontan, of Saint-Gaudens,in
 a marly bed of upper miocene age, forming the base of the plateau on
 which that town is built. The molar teeth presetit the type of grind
ing surface of those of the gibbons (Hylobates), and as in that genus
the second true molar is larger than the first, not of equal size, as in the
human subject and chimpanzee. The premolars have a greater antero
posterior extent, relatively, than in the chimpanzee ; and in this respect
agree more with those in the siamang. The first premolar has the
outer cusp raised to double the height of that of the second ; its inner
lobe appears from M. Lartet's figure to be less developed than in the
gorilla, certainly less than in the chimpanzee. The posterior talon of
the second premolar is more developed, and consequently the fore and
aft extent of the tooth is greater than in the chimpanzee ; thereby the
second premolar of Dryopithecus more resembles that in Hylobates,
      departs
and The    canine,
               further
                     judging
                        from the     the figures
                              fromhuman   type. published by M. Lartet*,
seems to be less developed than in the male chimpanzee, gorilla, or
orang. In which character the fossil, if it belonged to a male, makes
a nearer approach to the human type ; but it is one which many of the
inferior monkeys also exhibit, and is by no means to be trusted as
significant of true affinity, supposing even the sex of the fossil to he
known        being
     The asshaft     male.
                 of the humerus, found with the jaw, is peculiarly rounded,
as it is in the gibbons and sloths, and offers none of these angularities
and ridges which make the same bone in the chimpanzee and orang
come so much nearer in shape to the humerus of the human subject.
The fore part of the jaw, as in the siamang, is more nearly vertical than
in the gorilla or chimpanzee, but whether the back part of the jaw may
not have departed in a greater degree from the human type than the
fore part approaches it, as is the case in the siamang, the state of the
fossil does not allow of determining. One significant character is, how
ever, present,—the shape of the fore-part of the coronoid process. It
is slightly convex forwards, which causes the angle it forms with the
alveolar border to be less open. The same character is present in
the gibbons. The fore part of the lower half of the coronoid process
in man is concave, as it is likewise in the gorilla and chimpanzee. I
am acquainted with this interesting fossil, referred to a genus called
Dryopithecus, only by the figures published in the 43rd volume of the
 Comptes Rendus de I'Academie des Sciences. From these it appears
that the canine, two premolars, and first and second true molars are in
place. The socket of the third molar is empty, but widely open above ;
from which I conclude that the third molar had also cut the gum, the
crown being completed, but not the fangs. If the last molar had existed
     mere
as a In     germ, siamang,
        a young              withbeen
                   it would have   the points
                                       preserved
                                              of the  permanent
                                                  in the             of the jaw.
                                                         substancecanines    just
protruding from the socket, the crown of the last molar is complete,
and on a level with the base of that of the penultimate molar, whence
             Comptes Rondus de le'Academie des Sciences, Paris, vol. 43.

1859.]                          on the Gorilla.                                  25
I infer that the last molar would have cut the gum as soon as, if not
before, the crown of the canine had been completely extricated. This
dental character, the conformation" and relative size of the grinding
teeth, especially the fore-and-aft extent of the premolars, all indicate
the close affinity of the Dryopithecus with the Pliopithecus and exist
ing gibbons ; and this, the sole legitimate deduction from the maxillary
and dental fossils, is corroborated by the fossil humerus, fig. 9, in the
    There isplate.
above-cited     no law of correlation by which, from the portion of
jaw with teeth of the Dryopithecus, can be deduced the shape of
the nasal bones and orbits, the position and plane of the occipital
foramen, the presence of mastoid and vaginal processes, or other cranial
characters determinative of affinity to man ; much less any ground for
inferring the proportions of the upper to the lower limbs, of the hume
rus to the ulna, of the pollex to the manus, or the shape and develop
ment of the iliac bones. All those characters which do determine the
closer resemblance and affinity of the genus Troglodytes to man, and
of the genus Hylobates to the tailed monkeys, are at present unknown
in respect of the Dryopithecus. A glance at fig. 5 ( Gorilla), and fig. 7
(Dryopithecus), of the plate of M. Lartet's memoir, would suffice to
teach their difference of bulk, the gorilla being fully one-third larger.
The statement that the parts of the skeleton of the Dryopithecus as
yet known, viz., the two branches of the lower jaw and the humerus,
" are sufficient to show that in anatomical structure, as well as stature,
it came nearer to man than any quadrumanous species, living or fossil,
before known to zoologists*," is without the support of any adequate
fact, and in contravention of most of those to be deduced from M.
Lartet's figures of the fossils. Those parts of the Dryopithecus merely
show—and the humerus in a striking manner—its nearer approach to
the gibbons. The most probable conjecture being that it bore to them,
in regard to size, the like relations which Dr. Lund's Protopithecus
bore to the existing Mycetes. Whether, therefore, strata of such high
antiquity as the miocene may reveal to us " forms in any degree inter
mediate between the chimpanzee and man " awaits an answer from dis
coveries yet to be made ; and the anticipation that the fossil world
" may hereafter supply new osteological links between man and the
highest known quadrumana " may be kept in abeyance until that world
has furnished us with the proofs that a species did formerly exist which
          nearnature
cameOfasthe     to manand as does
                             habitstheoforang,
                                          the last-named
                                                 the chimpanzee,        the gorilla.
                                                             species,orwhich  really
offers the nearest approach to man of any known ape, recent or fossil,
the lecturer had received many statements from individuals resident at
or visitors to the Gaboon, from which he selected the following as most
     Gorilla-land
probable,              a richly wooded extent of the western part of Africa,
            or leastis questionable.
    * Sir Chas.
traversed       Lyell,
            by the      Supplement
                    rivers  Dangerto and
                                       the Fifth
                                            Gaboon,        of Manual
                                                 Edition,and  extending    from the
                                                                       of Elementary
 Geology, 8vo., 1859, p. 14.

26                                 Professor Owen,                            [Feb. 4,
equator to the I Oth or 1 5th degree of south latitude. The part where
the gorilla has been most frequently met with presents a succession of
hill and dale, the heights crowned with lofty trees, the valleys covered
by coarse grass, with partial scrub or scattered shrubs. Fruit trees of
various kinds abound both on the hills and in the valleys ; some that
are crude and uncared for by the negroes are sought out and greedily
eaten by the gorillas, and as different kinds come to maturity at different
seasons, they afford the great denizen of the woods a successive and
unfailing supply of these indigenous fruit trees. Professor Owen spe
    The
cified      following(Elais
       thepalm-nut        :— guiniensis) of which the gorillas greatly affect
the fruit and upper part of the stipe, called the " cabbage." The negroes
of the Gaboon have a tradition that their forefathers first learnt to eat
the " cabbage," from seeing the gorilla eat it, concluding that what was
goodThe    him must be good
       for "ginger-bread       tree"    man.
                                    for(Parmarium         excelsum), which bears a
    The banana
plum-like    fruit.tree
          papau      (Musa     sapientium),
                          (Carica    papaya).and another species (Musa para-
disaicd).
     Thetree,
     A         with a shelled
           Amomum                 and Am.
                         Afzelii fruit,       a walnut, which the gorilla breaks
                                        like grandiflorum.
openA  with
        tree,
     Such     the
            fruits
               alsoblow
                    and
                     botanically
                          other
                           of a stone.
                                    unknown,
                                 rich           with a productions
                                       and nutritious                   of the vege
                                                          fruit like a cherry.
table kingdom, constitute the staple food of the gorilla, as they do of
the chimpanzee. The molar teeth, which alone truly indicate the diet
of an animal, accord with the statements as to the frugivorous charac
ter of the gorilla : but they also sufficiently answer to an omnivorous
habit to suggest that the eggs and callow brood of nests discovered in
     trees gorilla
the The              makesbya the
            frequented          sleeping
                                   gorillaplace
                                            mightlike     hammock,
                                                     nota be          connecting the
                                                              unacceptable.
branches of a sheltered and thickly leaved part of a tree by means of
the long tough slender stems of parasitic plants, and lining it with the
broad dried fronds of palms, or with long grass. This hammock-like
abode may be seen at different heights, from 10 feet to 40 feet from the
     Theybut
 ground,        there
             avoid   theisabodes
                            never more
                                   of man,              mostnest
                                         thanbutonearesuch       in a tree.seen in the
                                                               commonly
 months of September, October, and November, after the negroes have
 gathered their outlying rice crops, and have returned from the " bush"
 to the village. So observed, they are described to be usually in pairs ;
 or, if more, the addition consists of a few young ones, of different
ages, and apparently of one family. The gorilla is not gregarious. The
 parents may be seen sitting on a branch, resting the back against the
 tree-trunk—the hair being generally rubbed off the back of the old
 gorilla from that habit—perhaps munching their fruits, whilst the
 young gorillas are at play, leaping and swinging from branch to branch,
         the or
 withIfhoots        male cries
               oldharsh          of boisterous
                             be seen                when in quest of food, he is
                                       alone, or mirth.

1859.]                         on the Gorilla.                             27
usually armed with a stout stick, which the negroes aver to be the
weapon with which he attacks his chief enemy the elephant. Not that
the elephant directly or intentionally injures the gorilla, but, deriving its
subsistence from the same substances, the ape regards the great probosci
dian as a hostile intruder. When therefore he discerns the elephant
pulling down and wrenching off the branches of a favourite tree, the
gorilla, stealing along the bough, strikes the sensitive proboscis of the
elephant with a violent blow of his club, and drives off the startled giant
     In passing
trumpeting        fromwith
              shrilly        detached
                        onerage        tree to another the gorilla is said to
                                 and pain.
walk semi-erect, with the aid of his club, but with a waddling awkward
gait ; when without a stick, he has been seen to walk as a biped, with
his hands clasped across the back of his head, instinctively so counter
poising its forward projection. If the gorilla be surprised and ap
proached while on the ground, he drops his stick, betakes himself to
all-fours, applying the Dack part of the bent knuckles of his fore-hands
to the ground, and makes his way rapidly, with an oblique swinging
kind of gallop, to the nearest tree. There he awaits his pursuer,
especially if his family be near, and requiring his defence. No negro
 willingly approaches the tree in which the male gorilla keeps guard.
 Even with a gun the negro does not make the attack, but reserves his
 fire in self-defence. The enmity of the gorilla to the whole negro
 race, male and female, is uniformly testified to. The young men of the
 Gaboon tribe make armed excursions into the forests, in quest of ivory.
 The enemy they most dread on these occasions is the gorilla. If they have
 come unawares too near him with his family, he does not, like the lion,
 sulkily retreat, but comes rapidly to the attack, swinging down to the
 lower branches, and clutching at the nearest foe. The hideous aspect
 of the animal, with his green eyes flashing with rage, is heightened by
 the skin over the prominent roof of the orbits being drawn rapidly
 backward and forward, the hair erected, and causing a horrible and
 fiendish scowl. If fired at and not mortally hit, the gorilla closes at
 once upon his assailant and inflicts most dangerous, if not deadly,
 wounds with his sharp and powerful tusks. The commander ofa Bristol
 trader told the lecturer he had seen a negro at the Gaboon frightfully
 mutilated by the bite of the gorilla, from which he had recovered.
 Another negro exhibited to the same voyager a gun-barrel bent and
 partly flattened by the bite of a wounded gorilla, in its death-struggle.
 Negroes when stealing through the gloomy shades of the tropical forest
  become sometimes aware of the proximity of one of these frightfully
  formidable apes by the sudden disappearance of one of their com
  panions, who is hoisted up into the tree, uttering, perhaps, a short
  choking cry. In a few minutes he falls to the ground a strangled
  corpse. The gorilla, watching his opportunity, has let down his huge
  hind-hand, seized the passing negro by the neck, with vice-like grip,
 has drawn him up to higher branches, and dropped him when his
      The strength
  struggles          of the gorilla is such as to make him a match for a
            had ceased.
 lion, whose tusks his own almost rival.        Over the leopard, invading

28                               Professor Owen,                           [Feb. 4,
the lower branches of the gorilla's dwelling tree, he will gain an easier
victory ; and the huge canines, with which only the male gorilla is
furnished, doubtless have been assigned to him for defending his mate
      offspring.
and The     skeleton of the old male gorilla obtained for the British
Museum in 1857, shows an extensive fracture, badly united, of the left
arm-bone, which has been shortened, and gives evidence of long
suffering from abscess and partial exfoliation of bone. The upper
canines have been wrenched out or shed, some time before death, for
       sockets
theirThe         have become
            redeeming             in this fragmentary history of the gorilla is
                         quality absorbed.
     It is reported
the male's   care of that
                      his family,
                           a French      the female's devotion
                                    andnatural-history                her young.
                                                         collector,toaccompanying
a party of the Gaboon negroes into the gorilla woods, surprised a
female with two young ones on a large boabdad (Adansonia), which
stood some distance from the nearest clump. She descended the tree,
with her youngest clinging to her neck, and made off rapidly on all
fours to the forest, and escaped. The deserted young one on seeing
the approach of the men began to utter piercing cries : the mother,
having disposed of her infant in safety, returned to rescue the older
offspring, but before she could descend with it her retreat was cut off.
Seeing one of the negroes level his musket at her, she, clasping her
young with one arm, waved the other, as if deprecating the shot ;
the ball passed through her heart, and she fell with her young one
clinging to her. It was a male, and survived the voyage to Havre,
where it died on arriving. Professor Owen had examined the skeleton
of this young gorilla in the museum of natural history at Caen, and
was indebted to Professor Deslongchamps, Dean of the Faculty of
      Therein might
Sciences              be more
               that town,    for drawings
                                  difficultyofinthis rare specimen.
                                                   obtaining  a young gorilla for
exhibition than a young chimpanzee. But as no full-grown chimpanzee
has ever been captured, we cannot expect the larger and much more
      A boldadult
powerful           gorilla
               negro,  the leader
                            to be ever
                                    of an   elephant-hunting
                                         taken   alive.          expedition, being
offered a hundred dollars if he would bring back a live gorilla, replied,
" If you gave me the weight of yonder hill in gold coins, I could not
do it ! "
      All the terms of the aborigines in reference to the gorilla imply
their opinion of his close kinship to themselves. But they have a low
opinion of his intelligence. They say that during the rainy season he
builds a house without a roof. The natives on their hunting ex
cursions light fires for their comfort and protection by night ; when
they have gone away, they affirm that the gorilla will come down and
warm himself at the smouldering embers, but has not wit enough to
 throw on more wood, out of the surrounding abundance, to keep the
      burning,—"
 fire Every   account       the habits
                     theofstupid  old manof ! a" wild animal obtained at second
hand from the reports of aborigines has its proportion of " apocrypha."
 The lecturer had restricted himself to the statements that had most

1859.]                          on the Gorilla.                         29
probability and were in accordance with the ascertained structures and
powers of the animal, and would only add the averment and belief of
the Gaboon negroes that when a gorilla dies, his fellows cover the
corpse with a heap of leaves and loose earth collected and scraped up
     A most
for the       singular phenomenon in natural history, if one reflects on
         purpose.
the relations of things, is this gorilla ! Limited as it is in its numbers
and geographical range, one discerns that the very peculiar conditions
of its existence—abundance of wild fruit—needs must be restricted in
space ; but, concurring in a certain part of Africa, there lives the
     The like
creature        conditions
           to enjoy  them. exist in Borneo and Sumatra, and there also a
correlative human-like ape, of similar stature, tooth-armour, and force,
exists at their expense. Neither ourangs nor gorillas, however, minister
to man's use directly or indirectly. Were they to become extinct,
no sign of the change or break in the links of life would remain.
What    may be finally
     Reverting           to the
                 their real     ancient ?notices which might relate to the
                            significance
great anthropoid ape of Africa, Prof. Owen referred to his first Memoir,
of February, 1848, in which was quoted (Trans. Zool. Soc.,f\o\. iii.
p. 418), Dr. Falconer's Translation of the Voyage of Hanno, (London,
1797,) with his Dissertation vindicating the authenticity of the "Peri-
plus." Professor Owen had lately been favoured by the venerable
Bishop Maltby, the first amongst our Greek scholars, with the follow
ing translation of the passage supposed to allude to the species in
question :—" On the third day, having sailed from thence, passing the
streams of fire, we came to a bay called the Horn of the South.
In the recess there was an island like the first, having a lake, and in
this there was another island full of wild men. But much the greater
part of them were women, with hairy bodies, whom the interpreters
called ' gorillas.' But, pursuing them, we were not able to take the
 men ; they all escaped, being able to climb the precipices, and
defended themselves with pieces of rock. But three women (females),
who bit and scratched those who led them, were not willing to follow.
 However, having killed them, we flayed them, and conveyed the skins
to Carthage. For we did not sail any further, as provisions began to
 fail." This encounter indicates, therefore, the southernmost point on
      westthe
 the To       inquiry
           coast of Africa
                        by Bishop
                             reachedMaltby,  how far the" newly-discovered
                                      by the Carthaginian navigator.
 great ape of Africa bore upon the question of the authenticity of the
 Periplus, Prof. Owen had replied :—" The size and form of the great
 ape, now called ' gorilla,' would suggest to Hanno and his crew no
 other idea of its nature than that of a kind of human being ; but the
 climbing faculty, the hairy body, and the skinning of the dead speci
 mens, strongly suggest that they were large anthropoid apes. The fact
 that such apes, having the closest observed resemblance to the negro,
 being of human stature and with hairy bodies, do still exist on the west
 coast of Africa, renders it highly probable that such were the creatures
 which Hanno saw, captured, and called ' Gorullai."

30                     General Monthly Meeting.                        eb. 7,
    The brief observation made by Battell in west tropical Africa,
1590, recorded in Purchas’s “ Pilgrimages, or Relations of the World,"
1748, of the nature and habits of the large human-like ape which he
calls “ pongo,” more decidedly refers to the gorilla. Other notices, as
by Nieremberg and Bosman, applied by Button to Battell’s pongo,
were deemed valueless by Cuvier, who altogether rejected the conclu
sions of his great predecessor as to the existence of any such ape.
“ This name of pongo or boggo, given in Africa to the chimpanzee or
to the mandril, has been applied,” writes Cuvier, “ by Bu<U+FB01>'on to a pre
tended great species of ourang-utan, which was nothing more than the
imaginary product of his combinations.” After the publication of
Cuvier’s “Regne Animal,” the supposed species was, by the high
authority of its author, banished from natural history; it has only
been authentically reintroduced since the intelligent attention of Dr.
Savage was directed to the skull which he <U+FB01>rst saw at the Gaboon in
1847, and took Professor Owen’s opinion upon.
    [The above lecture was illustrated by life-size drawings of the
gorilla and chimpanzee, executed with characteristic accuracy and
vigour by Mr. Joseph \Volf ; also by diagrams of the skeletons of the
anthropoid apes and man, by Messrs. Scharf and Erxleben.]
                                                                 [a 0.]
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                        Monday, February 7, 1859.
WILLIAM Poms, ESQ. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                   The Earl of Ashburnham,
                   John Derby Allcroft, Esq.
                   Capt. Augustus T. Hamilton, and
                   Mrs. M. A. Newman Smith.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                   George F. Chambers, Esq.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
  Fnom
India Of<U+FB01>ce.- Committeeqf Finance, Sun-Catalogue of Irepidopterous Insects in
    the Museum of the East India Company. By T. Hors<U+FB01>eld and F. Moore.
    Vol. I.  8vo.  1857.

1859.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                             31
Actuaries’ Institute qf—Assurance Magazine, No. 34.     8vo.   1859.
Arts, Societ o —Journa.l for Dec. 1858, and Jan. 1859. 810.
Asiatic Society quengal—Journal, N0. 268. 8vo. 1858.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Nov. and Dec. 1858.        8vo.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—-Pharmaceutical Journal for Ike. 1858 & Jan. 1859.
     8vo.
Bombay Medical Board—Deaths in Bombay, 1857.          8vo.   1858.
Baooey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for Dec. 1858 and Jan.
     1859. 4'90.
British Architects, Institute of—Proceedings for Dec. 1858 and Jan. 1859. Mo.
Druitt, Dr. R. (the Author)-Rep0rts on the Health of St. George’s, Hanover
     Square.    8vo.   1857—8.
Editors—The Medical Circular for Dec. 1858 and Jan. 1859.       8vo.
   The Practical Mechanic’s Journal for Dec. 1858 and Jan. 1859. 4to.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting for Dec. 1858 and Jan. 1859. 4to.
   The Mechanics’ Magazine for Dec. 1858 and Jan. 1859.      Me.
   The  Athenaeum for Dec. 1858 and Jan. 1859. 4to.
   The  Engineer for Dec. 1858 and Jan. 1859. fol.
   The  Artizan for Dec. 1858 and Jan. 1859. Mo.
   The  Atlantis, No. 3.1859. 8vo.
Faraday, Professor, D. C.L. F.R.S. (the Author)—Experimental Researches in
     Chemistry and Physics. 8vo. 1859.
   Repertoire de Chimie, par C. Barreswil et A. Wurtz. Nos. 1-4. 8vo. Paris,
     1858—9.
   Konigliche Preussisehe Akademie, Berichte, Sept.-Okt. 1858. SW. Abhand
     lungen, 1857. 450.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXVI. No. 6. 8vo. 1858.
Geological Society—Proceedings for Dec. 1858 and Jan. 1859. 8vo.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, No. 11. Sim 1859.
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, January 1859.
Mallet, Robert and J. W Esqs. (the Authors)—The Earthquake Catalogue of the
     British Association.   8vo.  1858.
   On Three Foot Shells.       (From Journal of United Service Institution)    8vo.
     1858.
Murchison, Sir R. I. V.P.R.S. MRJ. (the Author)—Siluria.          3rd Edition. 8v0.
      1859.
Newton, Messrs—London Journal (New Series) for Dec. 1858 8a Jan. 1859. Svo.
Novel/o, Mr. (the Publisher)— The Musical Times for Dec. 1858 8; Jan. 1859. Mo.
Nutt, Mr. D.—W. Engelmann’s Bibliotheca Scriptorum Classicorum. 8vo. 1858.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)-—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographie.     1858.   Heft 11, 12. 4to.  Gotha, 1858.
Phillips, R. Esq.—Cata10ghi del Museo Campana. Mo.         1858.
Photographic Society—Journal, NOS. 74—78. 8vo. 1858—9.                 _ _ _
Reeves, C. E. M.D. (the Author)—Hydrocephalus or Cerebral Meningitis.          8vo.
      1858.
Royal .Medical and Chirurgical Society—Transactions, V01.XLI. 8vo. 1858.
 Termant, Professor James, F.G.S.—Catalogue of Fossils, Geological Books, &c.
      l2mo. 1858.
Statistical Society—Journal, V01. XXI. Part 4. Bvo. 1858.
United Service Institution—Journal, No. 7. 8vo. 1859.
 Vereins zur Befdrderung des Gewerb<U+FB02>cisses in Preussen—Sept.-O(:t. 1858. Mo.
Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. IV., Part 5.   4to.  1858.
   Proceedings, Nos. 363-369. 8v0. 1858.

32                           Mr. E. B. Dvnison,                               [Feb. 11,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, February 11, 1859.
William Robert Grove, in                the M.A.
                                     Esq.    Chair.Q.C. F.R.S Vice-President,
 On some      of the Beckett
         Edmund                     of Dissatisfaction
                       Grounds Denison,         Esq. M.A.with          M.R.I. Gothic
                                                                Q.C.Modern
                                   Architecture.*
It is an odd coincidence that the House of Commons has already been
engaged this evening in listening to some lectures on the same subject
as we are going to consider here. For Lord Palmerston, Sir Benjamin
Hall, and a few other gentlemen, have been expressing their dissatis
faction with Gothic architecture, and assuring the House that it is
 essentially gloomy, awkward, barbarous, expensive, and altogether in
 capable of meeting the wants of this enlightened age, and the clerks
 of the Foreign Office. One would almost fancy that we were put
 back a couple of centuries, and listening again to the kind of descrip
 tion which used to be given of the Gothic style by the leaders of
 the public taste in the days of the Restoration, when all Gothic art
 was supposed to be dead and buried far too deep for any chance of
 revival. This is the character which the once celebrated John Evelyn,
 who was one of the Commissioners for rebuilding St. Paul's cathedral,
 gave in his treatise On Architecture and Architects to the style of all
 the great cathedrals of the world except his own and its prototype at
 Rome. He calls it ' a certain fantastical and licentious manner of
 ' building, introduced by the Goths and Vandals and other barbarous
     * I do not
 ' nations,          how to comply
             whoseedemolished     thewith
                                       glorious
                                           the numerous
                                                  Romanapplications
                                                             empire with           stately
                                                                        I haveitshad  for a
 report of this lecture, except by writing a fuller version of it than the usual abstract ;
 for an abstract of a lecture on a subject of this kind would be almost unreadable,
 and therefore of no use. As it was not written beforehand, and I do not profess to
 remember accurately what I said, I can only use the notes from which it was given
 as an outline to be filled up, as if I were writing the lecture for delivery. So
 long as it is substantially the same, it cannot signify to anybody who heard—or did
 not hear it, whether the words are identical or not. In some parts they certainly
 are not, because I was obliged to hurry over some branches of the subject for fear
 of exceeding the usual time unreasonably. Of course the Royal Institution is not
 responsible for my opinions ; and it must be remembered that Architecture is in
 these days an eminently controversial subject.— E. B. D.

   1859.]              on Modern Gothic Architecture.                      33
   ' and pompous monuments, and filled not Europe only, but Asia and
  ' Africa also, with mountains of stone, vast and gigantic buildings
  'indeed, but not worthy of the name of architecture, congestions of
  ' dark, heavy, melancholy, and monkish piles, [Lord Palmerston's view
  'of Gothic almost verbatim] without any just proportion, use, or
  ' beauty, compared with the truly antient ; so as, when we meet with
  ' the greatest industry and expensive carving, full of fret and lament-
 ' able imagery, sparing neither of pains nor cost, a judicious spectator
 ' is rather distracted or quite confounded than touched with that admi-
  ' ration which results from the true and just sympathy, regular propor-
  ' tions, union, and disposition, and from the great and noble manner in
 ' which the august and glorious fabrics of the antients were executed ;'
 with more nonsense of the same kind, to which other similar nonsense
         other writers
 fromBesides           of the
                adopting  thistwo
                                enlightened
                                   last centuries
                                              viewmight  easily
                                                    of the      be added.
                                                            nature  of Gothic
 building, Lord Palmerston has been kind enough to furnish us with
 a few tolerably conclusive measures of his own architectural taste and
 knowledge of the business he has been talking about. First of all it
 appears, that " Pall Mall, with all its magnificent clubs, each one
 handsomer than the other " (whatever that piece of oratory means) is
 his ideal of " a street of palaces ;" such as he would like to see extended
 from the end of Whitehall to the precincts of the Abbey. Then, as
 for the Abbey itself, he has no hesitation in pronouncing that (he does
 not say whether he means Sir Christopher Wren's monstrifications of
 it, or the original work —perhaps he would be rather puzzled to dis
 tinguish them) quite inferior to St. Paul's. And by way of a light
and cheerful model for a set of Government Offices, with no dark
passages, and windows adapted for letting in the utmost quantity of
light, and a refined and lively style of decoration, Somerset House
is the thing ; " he will venture to say that is much handsomer than
the Houses of Parliament." As there is no resemblance between
the style of the Houses of Parliament and any of the prize Gothic
plans for the Foreign Office, that comparison, at any rate, is not
much to the purpose. Indeed, it is only fair to Sir Charles Barry
to remember, that the style prescribed for his building was the latest
and worst of all the Gothic styles ; and moreover, that it was designed
nearly a quarter of a century ago, almost in the infancy of the Gothic
revival, when there was scarcely anything designed which its authors
would not be ashamed of now. The comparison between the two
metropolitan cathedrals, even if Lord Palmerston's opinion of them
was generally agreed with, is of a still less practical character, inas
much as the architects are neither of them likely to be candidates
for employment on the New Offices. If they were, I am inclined to
think that very few people, except Lord Palmerston, Mr. Coningham,
and Mr. Tite, would hesitate about calling up the unknown builders
of the Abbey, or any of our old cathedrals, in preference to the
architect of St. Paul's, Temple Bar, and St. James's, in Piccadilly, or
evenThe    twoWilliam
        to Sir  architectural
                        Chambers,
                               potentates  of the House.
                                     of Somerset  late Government seem to
     Vol. III.    (No. 29.)                                         d

34                         Mr. E. B. Denison,                   [Feb. 11,
have agreed to compose a little difference which they left unsettled
a year ago about this Public Office business, over the dead body
of Mr. Scott and Gothic architecture. After some vain struggles by
his late colleagues to deny that they did leave the matter " in a dead
lock," Sir B. Hall resisting that pleasant job of his superiors for
setting aside all the Westminster Hall prize-men together in favour of
a gentleman who was assumed to be architect to the Government by
divine right or special appointment, Lord Palmerston boldly took the
bull by the horns, pushed his defenders aside, and declared that it was
all perfectly true, that he did want to employ Mr. Pennethorne, and
that he did so "because he thought his plan the best adapted to the
requirements of the case ; and that he still retained that opinion."
Well, so much at any rate for the pretence of objecting to the choice
of an architect or a design because it did not get the first prize—or
rather the second ; for it is another peculiarity of this case, that it is
not the first prizeman after all, but one of the two seconds, whom these
warm supporters of the Westminster Hall judges now select to fight
their anti-Gothic battle with ; knowing very well that the first will not
do, in spite of Lord Palmerston's facetiousness about the unsportsman
like notion of preferring a horse which is all but first in every race
to that which wins in one. Without pretending to know more about
racing than he does of architecture, I humbly venture to doubt, on
mere principles of common sense, whether the experts in that line will
agree with him. The first prizeman ran for £800, and got it ; if you
want to see how, you can read the evidence about the proceedings of
the judges : it does not follow that we are to presume him capable of
all other victories, when there were other races to be run, for which
he did not start. And the case of the second classic prizeman is
still worse, because he did run in the other race, and in the opinion of
     As judges
all the         wasPalmerston's
         for Lord    " nowhere."preference for Mr. Pennethorne's plan,
over all the prize ones, as a matter of taste, why, that is hardly a
thing to argue about ; it is one of those measures of his taste which I
said he had been kind enough to give us. That design was exhibited
in the committee room last year ; and those who saw it and sat there
for the very purpose of examining it do not appear to have been very
much of Lord Palmerston's opinion about either its beauty or fitness.
But setting aside the question of taste, there is a small matter of fact
connected with it, of which he might as well have been informed before
he assured the House of Commons that it was quite a mistake to sup
pose there was the least inconsistency between himself and his right
honourable friend, the late Commissioner of Public Works. That fact
is, that the said Commissioner had specially and very effectively
devoted himself in the Committee to the blowing to pieces of this
identical plan of Lord Palmerston's architect, by showing that it was
particularly ill " adapted to the requirements of the case," and did not
and could not comply with the prescribed conditions ; with which it is
admitted that the Gothic plan chosen by the present Government did
comply entirely.

1859.]                on Modern Gothic Architecture.                          35
    There is another simply practical matter, affecting not only this,
but all other questions of public buildings in the Gothic style, of
which, therefore, I say a few words. Mr. Tite, of the Royal Ex
change, and some other classical architecture gentlemen, still go on
asserting, as if it were an undoubted fact, that Gothic architecture is
necessarily dark, expensive, inconvenient, and difficult to ventilate ;
that sash windows are better than Gothic windows, and so forth
People who hear all this, and know that Mr. Tite was an active mem
ber of the Committee which sat and reported last year in favour of
selecting the architect from among the prizemen, but distinctly
repudiated the doctrine that either the first or the second should be
taken unless the Government thought fit, of course have no idea that
Mr. Tite heard several architects, who were themselves not Gothic men,
admit before the Committee, that the Gothic style is not inferior to the
other in any one of those respects, and also heard Mr. Scott explain that
his windows are sash windows, and that they are not smaller, but larger,
than those of the very buildings in the Italian style which had been
referred to as models, and than the windows in the rival plans. It may
be natural for Lord Palmerston and Mr. Coningham to talk in that
way about Gothic darkness ; but Mr. Tite is an architect, and there
fore cannot possibly be ignorant that there are numbers of Gothic
buildings in which the windows are even wider than the wall between
    However,
them,             cannot
       and thatI the       is themore
                     sameafford   case in
                                       time
                                          notoother  style that ever
                                                this preliminary      existed.
                                                                  topic, which
having casually presented itself, you could hardly expect me to pass it
without notice. I had intended otherwise to decline altogether dis
cussing the relative merits of Gothic and Classical, or Renaissance
architecture ; first, because the subject is thoroughly exhausted in
argument, until some new facts accrue to found new arguments upon ;
and secondly, because I have not much belief in anybody's opinion on
a question of taste being altered by argument. The fact is, that
opinions on artistic questions are hardly ever founded on the reasons
which are given for them, but the opinions are formed first, and the
reasons are invented afterwards to justify or enforce them. Accord
ingly, that which passes for logic in matters of art, however well
executed it may be in point of style, is generally constructed out of
definitions and axioms carefully framed to bear out some foregone con
clusion—of analogies from nature, which the next writer cites for just
the opposite purpose—of nicknames, either of praise or blame, which
assume what is pretended to be proved, and all washed down by copious
draughts of assertion that all this is as true and certain as that " iron
has an affinity for oxygen." In order to avoid exposing myself to the
same censure, I do not mean to "prove" anything that I am going to
say, or to give any reasons for it, except that I have arrived at certain
conclusions or opinions from experience and observation, which you
       do not
can Iverify     yourselves.
            formean  even to claim the merit of novelty for them. Most
of them have been in substance published before, both by myself and
by others. But what I have to say about them is, that within the
                                                                   d2

36                         Mr. E. B. Denison,                    [Feb. 11,
last few months two buildings have been completed, in which these
conclusions, or theories, or whatever you please to call them, have been
enforced in practice for the first time, I believe, since the fall of
Gothic architecture 400 years ago. Those buildings, as it happens,
are both in the same town, and the same architect, Mr. Scott, was
employed for both, and over both of them it has fallen to my lot, from
circumstances of no interest to you, to exercise an unusual amount of
superintendence, and indeed over the smaller and later of the two,
something more than superintendence. The larger one, the re
built parish church of Doncaster, is no doubt known, by reputation at
least, to all of you. But I dare say you are not aware that another new
church in that town was opened at the same time, viz., the one called
St. James's, built for the people employed on the works of the Great
Northern Railway Company, at Doncaster, and their families, amount
ing to 3000 at least ; which church you will see on the right hand,
just before you enter the station from the south. The best view of the
great church, of St. George, is also from the railway, a little north of
 the station. I believe it is no exaggeration to say, that that church is
 universally considered the finest Gothic building of modern times ;
 and as far as its pretensions go, the other is pronounced by most people
 who have seen it, to be fully equal, and in some respects superior, even
 to its more magnificent neighbour. Nobody is more sensible than I
am of the faults in each of them, notwithstanding their general success ;
 but there is no building of any age without some faults quite as
 striking; and whether that be so or not, the conclusions which I have
 arrived at respecting the common causes of dissatisfaction with modern
 Gothic building are founded no less upon the defects than upon the
     The first
 beauties  whichcause
                  are apparent
                       which I shall
                                in these two isbuildings.
                                      notice     one which few persons can
 have failed to hear alleged as an excuse for the inferiority ofmodern to
 antient architecture in every style ; and that cause is stinginess. But
 with the exception of a certain class of buildings which I will
 advert to presently, I believe it would be nearer the truth to say
 that so far from stinginess accounting for the general failure of
 modern architecture, there never was a time in the world when money
 was spent on building in such profusion. You cannot walk far through
 the good streets of London, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Glasgow, and pro
 bably other towns, without seeing buildings which have cost money
 enough to build York Minster ; in some cases far more. Look at
 the few hundred yards of Lord Palmerston's street of palaces, and
 think what you would have had from a builder of the 13th century
 for the cost of them. Let any one reckon up the cost of such of the
 great country or London mansions as he can think of, built in our
 time, and then say whether the architects of the 19th century can lay
 any of the faults of modern architecture, in the popular style at least,
 to the account of the stinginess of their employers. In the Gothic
 style there is certainly more ground for the complaint ; but even there
 it must be confined to that class of buildings which I alluded to just

 1859.]                on Modern Gothic Architecture.                              37
now, and which may briefly be described by a term borrowed from an
enemy of Gothic, as eleemosynary buildings, such as churches built by
subscription, schools, parsonages, almshouses, workhouses, and other
     Youofobserve
things               that I say " churches built by subscription ;" because,
            that kind.
with a few noble exceptions, such as will readily occur to all of us,
there is a striking and surprising difference between the conduct of
rich men in building churches which they regard as their own, and in
building or helping to build those which they do not so regard. I
do not know that I can explain that difference better than by a single
example, out of many similar ones, which could soon be put together.
Not long ago, when a subscription was got up for rebuilding a large
and handsome church, which was intended to cost, and has cost, about
£30 a sitting, a certain rich man, who lives near it, said openly
that he should give as little as he decently could, because he thought
it was a great mistake to spend so much money on it. Well, of
course, he had a right to please himself; but he was also pleased
to furnish a rather odd commentary on his own, and I am afraid,
the popular doctrine about expensive church-building ; for within
a year afterwards he began to build a small church in a secluded
hamlet, not even within sight from his house, which has another church
close to it, and he spent upon it very nearly £60 a sitting, and more
money on the whole than has been spent on St. James's Church, at
Doncaster, which holds about six times the congregation, and has cost
only £8 a sitting, including all the incidental expenses ; or speaking
roundly, about £1 a foot of internal area ; which I am convinced is the
least that any church of ordinary size can be built for, if it is to have
any real architectural character, except under some unusually favour
      circumstances.
ableBut   these specimens of real extravagance, in what may be called
private church-building, are almost always on a small scale ; and there
fore the architects are right in saying that they very seldom indeed
have a chance of doing any great ecclesiastical work. Moreover,
the prejudice against Gothic among the class of persons who spend
their own, or other people's money upon great civil buildings not
" eleemosynary," has hitherto confined Gothic works of this class to a
very small number ; and those are almost entirely private houses, in which
there is less opportunity for display than in public buildings with large
halls and other grand features belonging to them.* Consequently, it is
      I am much
true* that         of the
            aware that  a great
                           difficulty
                                 authority
                                       of producing    good world
                                             in the religious            gone a little
                                                              Gothichasarchitecture,
beyond Lord Palmerston and Mr. Tite, and has ascertained that " Gothic architec
ture was invented by the Devil," and accordingly proscribed it for his Tabernacle
competition. He does not reveal which the angelic style is ; but it can hardly
be that of St. Paul's Cathedral : for it is remarkable that while the nave of West
minster Abbey, and several other Gothic churches, such as Boston and Coventry,
hold from 2000 to 3000 people on the floor, who can alJ hear any preacher with a
good voice, it was necessary to deface St. Paul's with that frightful hoarding to
enable the new congregation to hear at all, and that very imperfectly.

38                         Mr. E. 3. Denison,                   [Feb. 11,
in the only line in which it has been allowed to expatiate, is due to
what is commonly called stinginess, but should rather be called the
perverted and selfish extravagance of modern times ; and extravagance
which almost invariably fails in its object as it deserves. The £5000
or £6000 for which a man might have been celebrated as the builder
of such a tower as this of Doncaster, as the restorer of the splendid
choir of Selby, unrivalled among the parish churches of England, or
the rebuilder of the half-ruined but once beautiful steeple of Redcliffe,
the only one of its style remaining, or which would have redeemed
Doncaster Church from its only great defect, the want of length in the
nave and transepts, is little better than thrown away in erecting some
 gaudy little structure iu a country village or a park, which all the
 neighbourhood goes to look at once, and pronounces very pretty,
 and nobody ever wants to see again ; although the rude and simple
 Early English chapel at Skelton, and the still ruder Norman arches
 of the humble church of Adel, and many others in all the old Gothic
 styles, are still visited, and painted, and engraved, and pretended to
 be copied, while all this modern finery produces no more lasting effect
 on those who see it, than the painting and gilding and upholstery in the
      But here Iofam
 drawing-room            neighbouring
                     theafraid         hall. to the architects, that the
                               the concession
 failure of modern architecture is due either to the stinginess, or to the
 misplaced extravagance of their employers, must stop. For, putting
 aside the numerous buildings of the eleemosynary class which are
 evidently starved, can it be said that the rest are satisfactory ? Are
 they even very distinctly the best ? Nay, are the most expensive parts of
 the same building certain to be superior to the rest ? I must say, that
 according to my observation and experience, none of these things are
 so. Of course, such a proposition is not to be considered proved either
 way by two or three examples ; but the north side of the great Don
 caster Church is unquestionably better than the south, although the
 south side is far more elaborately designed, and more costly than the
  other. Again, St. James's Church is a good deal plainer still, and its
  walls and windows are only a few feet higher than those of the aisles of
  St. George's ; and yet I believe there are few persons who do not
  think the plainer ones the best : not because they are plainer, but
  because, in spite of their plainness, they have more of certain qualities
  which the old Gothic buildings generally possessed, and which new
  ones hardly ever have. No doubt in the best Gothic times it was the
  case that the more elaborate a building was, the handsomer it generally
  was ; and so it ought to be in all times. But so far is it from being
  so now, that I should almost be inclined to say that if you wish to
  make quite certain of a failure in the most essential elements of good
  building, you had better give out at once that you do not care how
  much you spend. No doubt that looks like a paradox, and it is not a
  complimentary one to the present race of architects ; nevertheless, I
  adopt it, not from theory, but from observation, and I believe that if
  you will use your own observation you will come to much the same
  conclusion.

 1859.]                on Modern Gothic Architecture.                    39
     If it is necessary to account for such a phenomenon, I should
 attribute it mainly to the existence of one of the most mischievous
delusions ever propagated on this subject—that " ornamentation is the
principal part of architecture." Of course its author, or rather its
 most distinguished advocate (for it had been secretly or openly
 believed in long before his time) demonstrates its truth with the usual
imposing array of axioms and definitions in the most logical and pre
cise form ; and I am far from intending to break in upon that splen
did fabric of reasoning. I will only say of it, that I prefer, as a matter
of convenience and simplicity, if not for any other reason, the natural
to the non-natural sense of words generally understood ; and therefore
I decline accepting for ' a definition of architecture,' that it is the art
' of designing sculpture for a particular place,' and placing it there
on the ' best principles of building.' Everybody knows that the
thing which mankind have agreed to call Architecture, is nothing
of the kind, and that definitions of that sort, and all that is built
upon them, are a mere rhetorical artifice. And what is of still more
consequence, everybody who chooses to use his eyes can see that the
great majority of the old buildings, whose grandeur and beauty
nobody but Lord Palmerston and his allies now disputes, owe
very little of their architectural effect to sculpture, er to anything
which would be generally understood by the word ornamentation ;
and in this country at any rate, not one to colouring, which is the
only alternative to sculpture allowed by the authority in question.
Mind, I am not saying anything so absurd as that architecture is not
improved by suitable decoration ; but I say that, as a bare matter
of fact, a great deal of what is universally admired as architecture
of a very high order, much finer than the most highly decorated
modern building, is almost or altogether independent of both carving
      colouring.
and The    contrary theory has led architects and their employers too
often to sacrifice everything to ornamentation. That critical and exact
eye for beautiful forms and proportions, definable by no rules, and
capable of infinite variety, as nature itself shews, which appears to
have been possessed by the builders of the 13th century, and by those
of this country more than any, but now by hardly the best architects,
seems in a fair way for being put out and lost altogether by this vulgar
and foolish passion for ornamentation ; the same, I suppose, which has
come to treat the female form as nothing better than a frame, or rather
as the prop for a frame, to hang out heaps of clothes upon. Look at
any of the most extravagant specimens of modern churchbuilding, and
consider them apart from their alabaster, and carving, and mosaics, and
frescoes ; if their constructional elements and proportions do not strike
you as thoroughly base, feeble, and contemptible in comparison with
those of five or six centuries ago, all I can say is, that I advise you to
studyThetheday
            old before
                examples
                       we till   the do.
                           laidthey   first stone of St. James's Church at
Doncaster I had to address a meeting of the Yorkshire and Lincoln
shire architectural Societies in and upon the then unfinished church of

40                            Mr. E. B. Denison,                            [Feb. 11,
St. George*, and I then announced that St. James's Church had been
designed expressly to expose and refute this ornamentation theory, as
'well as some other modern notions which I shall speak of presently.
At that time the result of the experiment was only conjectural, and I
daresay many of the audience thought it a very foolish one ; though
even then it had been observed that some of the plainest parts of the
Now, ST.
church   we JAMES-S
        however,
             were in
                   thewere
                        CHURCH,
                         result is before
                             superior DONCASTER.
                                         to some
                                             you, of    far
                                                        NORTH-EAST
                                                    so the  most
                                                             as this
                                                                   highly
                                                                       large
                                                                           decorated.
                                                                              painting
                                                                          VIEW.
      See TwoitLectures
can* exhibit              if you will
                ;\ and delivered    at Doncaster
                                        take the ontrouble
                                                      the 23rdtoofstop  at Doncaster
                                                                   September,  1857, by
G. G. Scott and iJ. B. Denison.—Brooke and Co., Doncaster ; Bell and Daldy.
Price 6d.
    t Two pictures of these churches, on a very large scale, were drawn for the
lecture by the Rev. James Bell, who was curate of Doncaster when the parish
church was burnt down, and who painted at the time a remarkable picture of the
church on fire, since lithographed in colour in the Bev J. E. Jackson's History
of St. George's Church at Doncaster, with various other illustrations of the old and
new churches. Messrs. Brooke and Co. have lent me the accompanying woodcut of
St. James's Church. Unfortunately there is not one in existence of St. George's,
with the tower as it is now built : in other respects the picture of it in my Lectures
on Churchbuilding is 9orrect.

 1859.]               on Modern Gothic Architecture.                      41
 for the interval between two trains, and look for yourselves, you will be
 in a better condition to judge how far Mr. Ruskin and the modern
 taste are right in pronouncing ornamentation to be the principal part
 of architecture, than by reading a dozen books or listening to anything
 more that I could say about it. Of that we had a curious proof when
 the church was opened last October. A friend of mine, who is, or was,
 a firm believer in Mr. Ruskin and the essentiality of ornamentation to
 architectural effect, and an advocate of the height which is character
 istic of foreign Gothic, against the old English characteristic of length,
 and had for these reasons pronounced the success of this church impos
sible from the drawings of it, nevertheless entirely gave in on seeing
 it, and admitted that it was in some respects superior to the much
 grander church not far off ; and at that time, it may be worth while
to add, that even the very small quantity of ornamentation that there is,
 only £57 worth of carving, and four marble shafts in the pulpit,
was not done. So much for Mr. Ruskin's eloquent demonstration of the
ornamentation theory, and his solemn and emphatic deduction from it :
" Therefore, observe, no man can be an architect who is not either a
sculptor or a painter." The moment it is tested by a building which
has some real architectural character of its own to depend on, and
openly defies that theory, instead of attempting as usual a sneaking
compromise with it, the theory " bursts" like the Trolls in the Norse
     I do when
legends    not know
                 the sunlight
                      whetherfalls
                               it isupon them.
                                     owing to the latent or avowed belief
in this theory that decoration should be aimed at first and principally,
before instead of after all the other conditions of grand building
are satisfied, or to pure and simple ignorance and incapacity for obser
vation, that there are hardly any modern buildings which are not
deficient in two primary elements of all grand building in any style
whatever : I mean massiveness, and depth of shadow, which is the visible
evidence of massiveness, besides having a beauty of its own. So little
indeed do the Gothic builders of the 19th century (and I mean not
merely architects, but many other persons as well) seem to know or be
lieve that it has anything to do with Gothic effect, that we constantly hear
and see that architecture exalted for its lightness over the more clumsy
and unscientific heaviness of the large stone styles of the Egyptians,
Greeks, and Romans. In this there is no doubt a kind of truth, though
the classical architecture gentlemen in Parliament seem to know about
as much of one side of the truth as the other, and actually imagine that
Gothic is the dark and heavy style, and the classical style light in both
meanings of the word. But though the area of the supports in St. Paul's
or St. Peter's is nearly twice as great in proportion to their size as in
most of the Gothic minsters, or in other words, the walls and pillars are
very much heavier, yet it does not follow that if the walls and buttresses
and pillars of York or Westminster were thinner still, the buildings
would be grander, or anything like so grand. In this, as in many other
things, we seem incapable of getting hold of an idea without riding it
to death. Thus Rickman remarked that the general characteristic of

42                           Mr. E. B. Denison,                         [Feb. 11,
 Gothic was verticality, and of Grecian building, horizontality ; which is
true enough in a general way, but is forthwith converted into nonsense and
monstrosity by people jumping to the conclusion that the more vertical
and " aspiring " (as they like to call it) they can have their buildings
the more Gothic they must be. It is always necessary to receive those
neat and succinct definitions and comprehensive statements about any
thing with extreme caution. Even when they are exact enough for a
general summary, or to describe some wide distinction, as in the case
just mentioned, they are utterly unsafe to adopt as rules for criticism,
and much less for action. Therefore I shall not attempt to lay down
any rules for the proper thickness of walls, or window-tracery and mul-
lions. You will find some thicknesses of certain old and new buildings,
including the Doncaster churches, in the Lecture before referred to,
and others in the second edition of my Lectures on Churchbuilding*
I will only mention this fact, which is not given in either of them,
that the sectional area of all the mullions in those two churches,
except a few in St. George's, which everybody can now see to be too
thin, is more than double of some which I measured myself in a large
church in London, which is by no means an unfair specimen of a rather
     The same
ambitious        fault of
            building      generally
                       is very          erection. in the woodwork as in the
                                recentnoticeable
stone of modern buildings ; frequently, and with some architects invari
ably, it is even worse. The clerk of the works told me that an archi
tect looking at the roof of St. James's said it contained just three times
as much timber as he should have put in ; no doubt meaning it as a
severe censure on our extravagance or ignorance of mechanics : not
that modern builders have much to boast of on the score of mechanics ;
for a year seldom goes by without two or three new buildings either
falling down dead, or having their roofs taken off" to anticipate them.
I think these gentlemen may take for granted that the old builders,
who knew how to build stone roofs and wooden roofs which are
stronger now after five centuries than many that were built last year,
knew very well that they were using more materials than were requisite
for merely satisfying the mechanical conditions. But they knew also
that engineering is not architecture, and that science is not art, though
it is involved in it, at least in the art of Gothic building, the architec
ture of pointed arches, and vaults, and buttresses, of open roofs, and
tall spires ; and why should we not add of domes,—not the low and
clumsy Roman or Byzantine dome, incapable of standing on its own
base, but the truly scientific and beautiful Indian or Saracenic pointed
dome, chiefly built I suppose in horizontal courses, and therefore
capable of standing alone, and presenting an outline like a tall Gothic
arch standing on its piers, and with a more than Gothic independence
of abutment beyond them ? J
  * Also published by Bell and Daldy, Fleet Street, and Brooke and Co., Doncaster.
    t The Gothic effect of some of these high-domed buildings, including even the
square parts below, in some lately published photographic views of Cairo, is very

1859.]                   on Modem Gothic Architecture.                                 43
     Mr. Ruskin is manifestly right in describing Redundance, or
visible superfluity of materials or dimensions, as an essential element
of Gothic effect, and probably of all effect in architecture. Redund
ance in ornamentation we are only too capable of appreciating, as I have
said already ; and on redundance in height the architects seem disposed
to run equally wild ; but redundance in mass, and in length, and in
depth of external shadows, all of them eminently characteristic of
the best English Gothic, they choose steadily to ignore. And as long
as they do, and as long also as people will require architects to erect
public buildings, ecclesiastical or civil, of such capacity and for such a
price that they cannot afford to put in materials enough for architectural
effect, even if they wished, so long is there no hope for any real revival
of architecture in any style whatever ; unless indeed the iron and glass
style is to be dignified with the name of architecture ; as I should
think it would be by the gentlemen in the House of Commons who
keep crying out for more light, when they have learnt, as they perhaps
may some day, that the style which they are advocating now is one of
the darkest in the world, and was intentionally made so for good
reasons in its own country, while the people of the south wondered at
      largeness
the The          of our Gothic
            professional            windows
                            architects         here. very angry at the severe
                                        are naturally
 things which are sometimes written of them by the amateurs (on
 whose behalf I shall have something more to say before I have done) ;
 but none of us have said anything so severe as what I am now going
 to quote from a recent book written by one of themselves. Speaking
of these two cognate faults of modern architecture, thinness and want
of shadow, Mr. Garbett says :—
     " The want of thickness in the walls, and recess in the openings, renders the
whole of the architectural ornament applied to many of our public buildings worse
than thrown away, since it makes them more ridiculous as architectural facades
than they would otherwise have been as brick walls. The draughtsmen of com
petition drawings are well aware of this source of effect [depth of windows], and
committees should be on their guard against it ; for many of the disappointments
experienced when these pretty designs have been executed may be traced back to
 the directfalsehood of representing their walls twice or thrice as thick as they were
intended to be. By a most unfortunate seeming fatality, the great national work
of the age, which must have such a powerful influence on its taste, has been
doomed to afford an instance of this disappointment. In the original prspective views
of its famous river front, the windows were recessed at least three feet from the plane
of the wall ; but as executed they do not seem to be one foot therefrom : that is to
 say (taking the front as 800 ft. by 70 in round numbers) the glass has been so
 advanced as to rob the exterior of 112,000 cubic feet of apparent solidity. This
 single circumstance would be sufficient by itself, if not counteracted [which it is not],
 to make all the difference between a sublime building and a mean one ; but among
many complaints at imaginary grievances, no critic raises the cry of ' Give us back
 our 112,000I have
striking.               doubt—Rudimentary
              cubicnofeet.'   that somethingTreatise
                                             truly grand,
                                                       on Design, p. and
                                                             Gothic, 103.yet novel, might
be done in that line by an architect of genius. But the domes must be large : I
believe a small dome, standing by itself at least, is an inevitably poor tiling.

 44                             Mr. E. B. Denison,                          [Feb. 11,
      I have reason to believe that the great Doncaster church is the first
 modern building in which the windows have been set as far back as
 half the thickness of the wall, or from 18 inches in the thinnest walls
 to 2£ feet in the thickest. Those in St. James's Church and in the
 tower of St. George's are deeper still ; for the upper windows of the
 tower were altered to 3 feet deep, and all the windows in St. James's
 are set nearer to the inside than the outside of the walls, so that none
 are less than 20 inches deep ; and the east window, though it is of
 course smaller than St. George's, has the same depth, 2 ft. 6 in. outside.
 I promised not to prove anything this evening, and therefore I
 abstain from giving the reasons why external depth of windows must
 be of far more architectural value than internal, especially as I have
 done so at some length elsewhere,* and exposed the common excuses of
 the architects for the contrary practice. I shall only say here, as a
 matter of fact, that everybody, so far as I can learn, admires St.
 George's Church for its superiority to other modern buildings in this
 respect, and the St. James's windows for their superiority to many in
 St. George's, both in depth of setting and in massiveness, though they
are much plainer in the mouldings and in the general design. Mr.
Scott was afraid that people would be disappointed at finding the depth
of these windows inside no greater than it usually is in walls of the
common thickness, after seeing that it is just a foot more outside, and
that it would be considered a kind of cheat. For anything I know,
the architect of the 19th century, who always puts his windows at least
twice as near the outside as the inside of the wall, may think it his
duty to be disappointed ; but nobody else is : on the contrary, I have
heard more admiration generally expressed after people have seen the
inside of the church than before, even when their attention has been
 directed to this peculiarity of the windows—for modern ones ; which
is only one amongst the many proofs we have had there, that as soon
as the right thing is done, it is generally acknowledged to be right,
     But you
however           the necessity
           littlemust   not imagine
                                  for itthat
                                         mayithave
                                                 is only     the windows
                                                     beeninappreciated      that mo
                                                                        beforehand.
dern Gothic architecture suffers from want of visible depth. It is
equally true of doorways, buttresses, corbels, arch-mouldings, cornices,
eaves of roofs ; everywhere, in short, where it is possible to give the
building a sort of meagre, shaven, eyebrowless look, precisely the
opposite of that which is eminently characteristic of all the buildings of
the three great Gothic centuries, and hardly perished even in the fourth.
The principal expense we were put to in altering work already done in
both churches at Doncaster arose from the necessity for correcting (as far
as could be done) the stupid and perverse shaving down and cropping
of projections and reducing of depths by the clerks who made the work
ing drawings of things which had actually been right in the original
    * See pp.
pictures       79, what
          ; just   &c., ofyou
                           the 2nd
                               see edition
                                   Mr. Garbett      complains
                                           of Lectures          of at Westminster
                                                       on Churchbuilding, and p. 33 of
the other lectures at Doncaster.

1859.]                on Modern Gothic Architecture.                              45
and elsewhere as the common fallacy of drawings. And although the
want of depth in the buttresses at St. George's was painfully apparent
at an early stage—but too late to be cured, except at great expense,
those of St. James's were only just saved in time, after the foundation
had been laid ; and there the consequence of want of depth would have
been worse, because it was on depth, and niassiveness, and general bold
ness of construction, that the architectural effect of that church, as of
all plain ones, had to depend entirely. Mr. Bell has been kind enough
to paint for the purpose of this lecture what we may call a bad St.
James's ; which, you see, is as like the good one as possible in general
dimensions, size of windows, the arcading under the round window, and
so forth, except that the details are made as thin and shallow as usual
in modern Gothic buildings.* As far as pictures can exhibit the differ
ence of effect, and they ought to be stereographic pictures to do it
completely, you can now form some idea of it ; you will form a better
if you will compare the building itself with almost any other modern
church which you can carry in your eye for the purpose, or if you com
 pare any other modern building with almost any old one of the same
 size. I say almost any old one, because I am well aware that there
are a few exceptions, such as the north aisle windows of Bolton Abbey,
which are in the flowing decorated style, and are nearly as bad as
modern ones, and with which the architects will probably knock you
 down, unless you are prepared to ask them why they insist upon copy
 ing the few exceptionally bad models they can find, and pay no atten-
 ton to the infinitely greater number of good ones of just the opposite
 character. And so I leave this topic, adding only the warning (which
 may not be thrown away upon some people), that there is no relation
 between external depth of shadow and internal light : on the contrary,
 since Gothic windows are nearly always splayed as wide as the depth of
 their setting, and Italian ones never are, deep-set Gothic windows will
      The light
let more          common
            next into  a roommodern
                                than Italian
                                         mistakeones of theI same
                                                   which              to notice, is
                                                              have size.
 another instance of a truth turned into falsehood by exaggerations.
 You have all heard or seen how St. Peter's at Rome fails, from the
 magnitude of all its parts and details, in producing the proper impres
 sion of its size, and you will see in Mr. Fergusson's and Mr. Garbett's
 books some strong observations on and illustrations of the same want
 of subdivision of even the Gothic cathedrals on the Continent, into
 parts of moderate size with a distinct outline to each—an art which
 was far better understood by the English architects, who knew how to
 give to our cathedrals an appearance of almost unlimited extent, though
 they are generally smaller than the foreign ones. Well, all this is
 perfectly true and right, and it is undoubtedly an architectural blunder
 to have great size and yet not to get the full effect out of it. But the
 modern    architect
       * This           representedthis
              cannot beinterprets    in atruth
                                          small to
                                                drawing;    I doifnot
                                                   mean,sothat     you   onlyit.make
                                                                      attempt

46                              Mr. E. B. Denison,                                 [Feb. II,
plenty of distinct parts in a building or a window, of any size, and put
plenty of stages in a buttress, or mouldings in an arch, the eye will be
cheated into believing that the building is large, the window a grand
one, the buttress high and deep, and the wall thick : precisely the
reverse of all which is the fact. The eye is not such a fool : though
its owner may not be wise enough to know how he has discovered the
cheat, yet he always does discover it —and more ; for by a strange but
just retribution, buildings designed on this fraudulent principle
generally look even smaller than they are ; and for this reason : the eye
soon perceives that everything within its power of measuring is small
and paltry, and therefore the mind instinctively concludes that the
whole is, whether it is in fact or not. Of the two mistakes, the old
foreign one is immeasurably the best ; inasmuch as it is far better that
you should find a building to be greater than you thought at first,
instead of gradually discovering that the more you see of it the more
paltry and mean and good for nothing it is : not that buildings are the
      thingspersons
onlySome       of which     this that
                        think,          in the desire to avoid this common fault
                                  is true.
in St. James's Church at Doncaster, we have run a little into the
opposite error of St. Peter's at "Rome ; and it certainly is true that its
size is not always appreciated at first. But then it is generally seen
after the much larger church near it, and is talked of as the small one ;
and therefore people are not prepared for an unbroken internal length
such as you find in hardly any of the largest London churches. In
fact, I doubt if there is any other modern Gothic church with even one
continuous roof of 116 feet, much less two ; though there are plenty
of old ones longer. Moreover, you must not suppose that I set up this
church as the best that could be designed ; but the best that we were
able to do for the specific sum of money which was allowed for it ; and
it was particularly intended to prove that a church of that size, truly
Gothic in construction, and most convenient in arrangement, with
nothing mean, or unreal, or pretentious* about it, could be built for a
very moderate sum of money, on principles exactly opposite to those
which are commonly adopted. In that we have certainly succeeded,
for it seems to be generally considered the handsomest building for its
cost and size that has been erected in modern times. St. George's
Church also, considering its size, is remarkable for the simplicity of its
design, and the due magnitude of all its parts ; except that in a few of
the windows the work is somewhat too minute ; and their comparative
feebleness entirely proves what I said just now, viz., that you do not
gain but lose in apparent magnitude by subdivision, as soon as the
parts become too small in themselves ; and therefore all such work as
         worsealready
thatIishave                alluded
                 than thrown       away.to the modern passion for the foreign
characteristic
    * Mr.structure,"
tending    Garbettof justly
                     height,
                      generally and
                             says,means
                                   thatthewhat
                                           onedisposition
                                                which
                                                 it is the
                                                       is only
                                                            to pretence
                                                                sacrifice
                                                           fashion      alltoover.
                                                                   to designate     an unpre
                                                                               it "the  more

 1859.]                on Modern Gothic Architecture.                     47
English and certainly more useful one of length. I should say of
height, as of ornamentation, of course it is a valuable element of
architectural effect, but it ought to come last, not first ; and I will add,
as my own opinion, that it ought very seldom indeed to be the leading
characteristic of a large building; for when it is, it is extremely likely
to destroy that character which everybody understands by the term
Repose, and for which our own long cathedrals seem distinguished
above all others in the world. Some of them are undoubtedly too
low ; but too low for their breadth, not their length ; and with our
usual discrimination and good taste, breadth is the dimension into
which we almost invariably expand now when size is wanted ; and
thus the length is doubly overpowered. I am sorry to have to say that
it is plain to my mind, that this consequence of raising the roof of this
St. George's Church 20 feet (in itself a vast improvement) besides the
widening the nave (which was necessary) was overlooked in fixing the
length ; and that the ground plans of some other churches, which were
produced to prove that the present proportions would turn out right,
proved nothing of the kind ; because they are none of them so high.
If you look at any good pictures of the old and new churches together,
with the information that the clearstoty walls are of just the same
height in both, and therefore by no means of that exaggerated propor
tion which is affected in Gordon Square and Margaret Street, you
would never imagine that the new church is 16 feet longer inside than
the old one, and still more outside. The old church looked a long
one, and yet did not look too low ; the new one, everybody observes,
is too short for its other dimensions ; and there is scarcely a modern
Gothic church anywhere, which is not, especially if height has been
aimed   at. worse fault of the same family is the passion for building
     A still
high spires on bases about half as wide as the old ones. This vile prac
tice seems to me to concentrate all the bad taste, and pretension, and
ignorance of proportion, which will be recorded some day as the
characteristic of this age. The architects profess to be reviving the
architecture of the 13th or 14th centuries —"taking that as their
starting point" for further development ; and yet they seem to have dis
covered that the builders of Salisbury, and Norwich, and Grantham, and
Coventry, and Louth, and Newark, and Lincoln, and Ely, and old Don-
caster, and all the towers of the west, knew nothing of their business, and
of the proper width for a tower in proportion to its height. To be sure,
we need hardly speak of towers, because now-a-days nobody is satisfied
without a spire, and the spire must be higher than some other in the
neighbourhood ; and as for its width, it may be anything the architect
likes : probably they think (if they think about it at all) the narrower
it is the taller it will look, and certainly the cheaper it will be. And
so has grown up the plan of putting the steeple over an aisle, instead
of the nave, or making a narrow transept on purpose for it, as in the
rebuilt parish church at Leeds, or putting it anywhere else where it
can escape the necessity for being as wide as the nave, as the old towers
almost invariably are where they aim at any considerable height, even

 48                          Mr. E. B. Denison,                      [Feb. 11,
 if they stand at the corner, like that of Redcliffe, or St. John's at
 Chester, or on the transept, as at Fountain's Abbey. In short, though
 tower-building was always the glory of architecture in all ages and
 styles when towers grew at all, this century has hardly produced a
 single tower or spire whose proportions would not be laughed to
 scorn by any of the old steeple-builders, except the towers of the
 Houses of Parliament and of Doncaster church ; the latter of which
 is 34 feet square where it rises from the roofs, and 1 70 feet high ;
 and the Victoria tower is the largest in the world, and as it happens,
 exactly double the height of Doncaster ; the great arches however are
       about isa yard
 onlyThere       only one
                      higher
                           more
                             thanphysical   causeones.
                                   our central      of the general failure of
modern Gothic architecture which I mean to speak of. And on this
 one I am glad to say that I can agree with Mr. Ruskin as thoroughly
 as I differ from him about some others, especially his ornamentation
theories. The thing I refer to now however is no theory, but a simple
 matter of observation so plain and obvious that there is very little to
say about it, except to desire people to pay no attention to theories of
perfect building, but to use their eyes ; which, however, is generally
the last thing we lei:rn to do. • Now everybody who does condescend
to learn in that way, will see, the first time he really looks at any old
 Gothic building in good preservation, and at any new one, that the old
 one is, as a builder would say, shockingly inferior in the execution of
the work. He will see no kind of precision about the joints anywhere ;
no edge, or arris (as the builders call it), is either quite a straight
line if it professes to be generally straight, or quite a regular curve if
it is curved. Ornaments of repetition, such as the Norman zigzags or
others of that kind, and the early English tooth moulding (which is
really four narrow leaves set in a pyramid), and the decorated ball-
flower, though alike in a general way, are never exactly alike ; no two
of them would fit the same mould, any more than any two of the millions
of similar leaves of the same tree will. If you take the trouble to
measure the dimensions of corresponding parts, you will find that the
old builders were not very particular about them either, so long as they
were tolerably near what was intended. In short, you will see what
will strike you as a general carelessness about execution ; and usually
the inequalities are greater in large work, heavy mouldings, and bold
carvings, than in small ; or, as Mr. Ruskin well expresses it, " the
execution is always subordinate to the design." Whereas, the pride of
modern work is precision and finish, as the masons and clerks of the
works will tell you themselves, and probably call your attention to the
     Now one
excellence        of these
             of their      things must
                      performance   in that
                                         be way,
                                              wrong.      give may
                                                   if youYou        a chance.
                                                               them read Mr.
Ruskin's reasons why the precision is wrong and the carelessness right,
either in his Seven Lamps, or in the little tract On the nature of
 Gothic, which he has taken out of the Stones of Venice, and published
for sixpence—in my opinion the most valuable part of that overgrown
and costly book. I will content myself with asking you, without
reference to any reasoning about the matter, which you think looks

1859.]               on Modern Gothic Architecture.                     49
best on the whole, the old work with what you think its carelessness, or
the new with all its precision, and pointing, and " cleaning down ?" To
Lord Palmerston and the classical architecture gentlemen, no doubt,
this very carelessness (if they ever observed it) is one of the proofs of
barbarism of old Gothic, and perhaps they think that the men who rub
up stones and point the joints so nicely, and work such sharp edges
and exact curves, are a much higher and more intelligent order of
workmen than the old masons, who very likely could not read, but could
work better mouldings and ornaments out of their own heads than our
architects can design now, and never stopped to see whether they were
exactly alike, or were of any particular size ; as no man ever would who
is capable ofjudging by his brains, instead of his compasses, of the effect
he is producing. Hence too comes that curious fact which Mr. Ruskin
ascertained, that even now the workmen who are set to carve orna
ments of their own design (the best symptom of real Gothic revival
that we have seen), not only do them much better and with more life,
character, and variety, but also much faster than those who merely copy
drawings or models. I was struck myself with the rapidity with which
lumps of stone on our buttresses and pinnacles at Doncaster were con
verted into birds and beasts, and how the men who carved in this way
never added a stroke too much ; while the smoothers, and scrapers, and
copiers of classical models of ornaments never seem to think they have
       have described in the book before referred to how I accidentally
doneI enough.
 learnt that " finishing " is really spoiling, by finding a moulding lying
about which seemed to me exactly right, and like an old one, and being
 told by the man whom I asked how it came to be so, that " it was not
 finished." I have not time to dwell further on this point now, beyond
 saying that with extreme difficulty and in spite of resistance which re
 quired a very strong hand to put it down, I succeeded in getting most
 of the work at Doncaster left " unfinished ;" but in that respect also
 there is just enough done in the usual way to enable anybody to
judge of the difference, for the joints of the nave pillars were pointed
 up as usual, and present their white lines like a band of paint at every
joint, and the inside stone work was scraped ; whereas the great pillars
 were not allowed to be touched after they were built, nor any of the
 outside work or window tracery. At St. James's nothing of the kind
 was allowed.       I may observe however, that where the stone is
 mottled, or has a natural variety of colour, it may baffle even the
 modern builder, and look well in spite of him, as is fortunately the
 case with the stone which was used for most of the inside of St.
 George's Church, and has a singularly good effect both in the walls
 and some of the arches. All this is equally true of woodwork, and
 even of the glazing. Everywhere precision, and extreme regularity,
 and smoothness, are fatal to Gothic effect, and are essentially dull
 and feeble ; as indeed precision for its own sake, where there is
 no object to be gained by it, generally is in other things besides
 building. Of this however, the vast majority of architects seem
 to be still profoundly ignorant or incredulous, though every cast
    Vov III. (No. 29.)                                            E

 50                           Mr. E. B. Denison,                          [Feb. 11,
 in their museum, and every Gothic building in the world testifies
     Theythem.
 against    may possibly, in the vain hope of finding some ex post facto
 excuse for the practice which they adopt for no real reason, but from
 an ignorant acquiescence in the Italian spirit which yet infests a great
 deal of pretended Gothic, ask whether I mean to prohibit the polish
 ing of marble ; and if I do, how its proper effect is to be brought out.
 Of course I do not : and for this simple reason. Marble does owe its
 effect to polish, and therefore polishing is proper for it.* In this
 respect it is precisely opposite to stone-work ; for the variegation of
 surface and the colour of marble do not come out till it is polished ;
 whereas the smoothing or regular working of stone work, and the point
 ing up of joints, or any formal working of them, destroys the variety of
 surface, (except in the one case which I have mentioned, and which is
 so far like marble,) and brings it all to a dull and dead monotony which
 would spoil the best Gothic building in the world. The artists who
 make the picturesque views of intended buildings for the architects are
 perfectly aware of this, and take as much care to avoid all appearance
 of uniformity of surface and precision of details, as the architects them
 selves, or the builders who work to their taste and approval, take after
 wards to obtain it : another instance of tjie fallacy of architectural
 drawings. In the days when everybody's views of grand architecture
 were like Lord Palmerston's, even the drawers of the old cathedrals
 thought it necessary to present them in as much of a classical dress as
 they could without altering their form ; and if you look at any of those
 pictures you will see how completely they are ungothicised, simply by
 this artifice of giving a classical face to the walls, and marking out the
 stones into regular patterns. Many of the prints in modern architec
 tural books have the same fault, though in a less degree ; and if you
 ean find the same thing drawn in the smooth and prim style in one of
 these books, and truly drawn in Britton's Cathedrals or Antiquities
 (for he knew better than to improve upon the Gothic he was copying),
 you will almost doubt whether it is the same, so different does it look
 with a Gothic surface, and an Italian one. And do not let the archi
tects delude you with the nonsense that this roughness is the effect of
 age. That you may dispose of in a moment by the first old building
 you can find (and there are plenty) in which the tool-marks remain
 visible. Moreover age without absolute decay cannot alter the forms
 and sizes of ornaments or mouldings, or make things irregular and
 various which were once precise and uniform. And still further, you
will find that the flat and monotonous modern work never acquires the
variety of the old even where the stone is already perished, and is
    * Nevertheless,
therefore             have used
            older inI effect thanmarble
                                   old stone
                                         unpolished,
                                               work and
                                                      which   has do
                                                           should        again, for a
                                                                   notsoperished.
monumental slab set against a wall ; the effect is certainly better than of the usual
polished ones, though the case is different where the marble is expressly used for
ornament and colour.

   1859.]                  on Modern Gothic Architecture.                            51
        To be sure, the classical notion of symmetry, in its strict sense of
   making everything on one side match something on the other, either as
   a reality or a sham, is pretty well exploded out of Gothic, except in
   the minds of mere builders ; and there is almost more necessity for
   putting in a caution against the opposite extravagance of fanciful and
   ostentatious departure from symmetry and uniformity. All the argu
   ments on both sides from the analogy of nature must end in this :—
   that nature is never at all symmetrical in stationary objects ; and even
   in those, in which the symmetry of nature is constantly appealed to,
   viz. animals, it is very seldom quite symmetrical, and if you take in
-• and universal
   colour,    never.*factButthatforthe
                                     alleye
                                         that,isitpleased
                                                   is of nowith a considerable
                                                            use disputing       amount
                                                                          the notorious
   of symmetry in building, as well as with a certain amount of variety.
   Some styles require or admit more variety than others ; and the differ
   ence between an architect of genius and one of none is that the latter
   does not know, and the former does, probably better than he or any
    one else can explain, how far to carry the symmetry, and what degree
   of variety will be most pleasing and beautiful. But it requires no
   genius to find out so much as this, that even where the general arrange
   ment is symmetrical, the subordinate parts may well be varied, as in
   the opposite or adjacent windows of aisles ; and on the other hand, that
   the great leading features of a building ought not to be duplicated.
   Therefore, the double western towers of our cathedrals are always
   rather narrow, and never very high for the size of the building ; but
   the great single one at Ely is ; and several of the double ones have
   some variety of detail besides. The duplication of the huge steeples at
    Cologne is only another of those " blunders worthy of a German,"
    which, as Mr. Fergusson observes of some others, reduce that vast
   cathedral from " a work of art in the highest sense of the word " to
    nothing more than " the noblg conception of a mason : " even a single
   one at the west, like Hamburgh, would have been better ; and if one
   of the size of the intended two had risen out of the middle, instead of
   <U+2666>he trumpery lantern shown there in the pictures, it would have been
   infinitely finer, and would have made the transepts right also, which
   are as much too long without a central tower, as those of Doncaster
   are too short with one.f
        * It seems to be supposed that the ogee curve, or bend of contrary flexure, must
   be right and beautiful, because it is so common in nature. So far as I can see, a
   real ogee curve, uninterrupted by angles or nodosities, is very uncommon in nature,
   in stationary objects. I do not say that proves it to be unfit for architecture, for
   circular arcs are equally unnatural. But the circle is a form of strength, wherever
   it is used in architectural construction ; while the ogee is essentially a curve of
   weakness, except on a very small scale, or composed of very few stones. Even
   turrets with ogee tops, which are really strong because of the domical principle
   involved in them, are almost universally condemned to the nickname of pepper
   boxes ; and architecture certainly began to fall soon after the ogee curve began to
       t From
   appear       St. James's
            on any           park, near Marlborough House, the Victoria tower in a dim
                    large scale.
    light looks like a great central tower of the Abbey ; and the improvement to the
    effect of then} both is striking.
                                                                             »2

52                          Mr. E. B. Denison,                     [Feb. 11,
   I am not sure how far these and perhaps other physical defects
of modern Gothic architecture are due to the want of anything like
architectural criticism : I mean such criticism of individual buildings,
completed or in progress, as books and pictures undergo. No doubt a
great deal of that criticism is as great rubbish as the majority of the books
and pictures themselves ; but not all. And I cannot help thinking it
is a misfortune both to the architects and to the public that they can
learn absolutely nothing from criticism on architecture, because there
is not only no good criticism, but none at all. I know there are plenty
of magniloquent descriptions in the newspapers of Mr. So-and lSo's
beautiful church, consecrated last Wednesday, and of the Halls and
Exchanges which the Queen is good-natured enough to open, where
everybody lauds everybody, and the architect goes to bed convinced
that in his hands at least " architecture is progressive," and that " the
architecture of the future " is now really on the point of being
" inaugurated," as it is always going te be next year by somebody.
But of course everybody understands these exhibitions as mere local
glorifications, which the London newspapers are kind enough to publish
when they have nothing better to do. I think it was creditable to the
people of Doncaster that they took no pains to get up anything of the
kind, even on such an unusual event as the simultaneous opening of
the two new churches last October. But on the other hand the
absence of any notice of such churches in the daily newspapers, which
give us now the best criticisms of books and pictures, proves what I
was saying, that there is no real criticism of architecture. The two
architects' papers prudently abstain from much architectural criticism ;
and probably if they did not, those criticisms would generally be traced
to some prejudice or partiality which would be well understood in the
    The only
profession,     publication
             if not out of it.that I know o£ which really claims for itself
the rank of a critic on the public works of the year, and this year does
so expressly in contradistinction to the two professional journals, is the
 Companion to the British Almanac. As you test encyclopaedias by
looking at what they say of the subject you know most about, I have taken
the trouble to read what the Companion has to say about these two
churches I have so often mentioned. If you take the same trouble,
you will see that, after giving the principal dimensions of the great
church, they tell us that the new tower in the geometrical style is cer
tainly superior to the old perpendicular one, fine as that was ; but that
they cannot approve of its having been " privately arranged " from the
beginning so to change the style, though the arrangement was kept
secret for three or four years (which is all a pure invention of their
own, or of the critic whom they hire for the occasion, as they might
have learnt from any one who knew the facts, or from my lecture
on the church, which was published both in the Doncaster Gazette,
and in the pamphlet already referred to). Then comes a quantity
of nonsense, complaining that, as in many other churches and
cathedrals, in which there is not width enough of flat wall, we have
not defaced the tower with a clock face, but have given the people

   1859.]               on Modern Gothic Architecture.                    S3
   quarter-chimes instead, which are far more useful and did not exist
   before. Of course all this is sent up by some local malcontent,
   like the paragraph which has been going round the newspapers about
   the impossibility of hearing in the church ; where any man with a
   good voice can be heard perfectly, not merely from the middle where
   the pulpit is, but from one end of the church to the other, 169 feet ;
   and some eminent singers have pronounced it a singularly good place
   for sound, as is also proved by the surprising effect of a small tempo
   rary organ, now in the corner of the church farthest from the congre
   gation. So much for the power of criticism of the Society for the
a  Diffusion
   other         Useful Knowledge,
           newof church,  St. James's,exhibited
                                        all thatupon
                                                  theythat   find to say
                                                        canbuilding.      is,
                                                                     Of the
   that such a church has been built, " but it is a comparatively plain
  structure." I think we need spend no more time in considering the
   value of this, the only annual commentary on the progress of archi
       I aminaware
   tecture          that it is becoming a fashion among the second-rate
              England.
  architects to say that there is only too much criticism, and too much
  interference by "meddling wiseacres," who will never let the cultivated
  taste and true genius of the professional architects have a fair scope
   for action. No doubt it is a very pleasant theory that the business of
  amateur architects is to find money and praise for the professional
  ones ; but it is a little too one-sided to have much chance of being
  adopted by those whose consent is essential to its success ; and so I
  shall not stop to argue about that. But if it be true, as these non
  interference gentlemen would have you believe, that their failures are
  due to us, and their successes to themselves, nothing can be easier than
  to prove it and have done with it. Why don't they say, " Here is such
  a building : these were my drawings for it, but Mr. Denison, or Mr.
  Somebody else, would insist upon altering them in this way, and now
  you see how it is spoilt?'" If they did that, and showed that any
  considerable number of buildings really are spoilt by interference of that
  kind, they would prove their case, and we should have very little to say
  for ourselves. But unless they can, they had far better have held their
  peace than ventured upon this singularly perilous defence. For if
  they will drive us to try that issue, which of their works will they
  select to try it by ? Indeed the proportion of cases in which their
  plans are altered or interfered with is so small, that even if the inter
  ference always made them worse, still the general character of modern
  architecture would not be sensibly affected by it. But small as that
  proportion is, will any architect venture to say that those buildings are
  worse than the many in which they have entirely their own way,
  sometimes with as little restriction on the cost as the design ? If inter
  ference is fatal to success, it is tolerably notorious that the two
  churches whose pictures are behind me ought to be the greatest of
  modern failures. But I do not want to press this point, because it is
  impossible to say all that might easily be said upon it without involv
  ing the better class of architects (who, as far as I have seen, do not
  join in this foolish outcry against the amateurs) in the folly of the bad

 64                          Mr. E. B. Denison,                        [Feb. II,
 ones, who never did anything fit to be seen in their lives, and natu
 rally want to find somebody else to throw the blame upon, and expect
      But asthat
 probably        no speaking
              I am   one will take
                               of architectural
                                    the trouble toliterature,
                                                    expose the  trick.mention a
                                                              I will
 fact, from which some inferences will, no doubt, present themselves to
 you without my lengthening this lecture to extract them : I mean the
 singularly small proportion of books professing to teach any principles
 of architecture, which are written by the present architects. There is
 that Eudimentary Treatise of Mr. Garbett's, to which I have several
 times referred, and which, I agree with Mr. Fergusson, contains " a
 great deal of common sense criticism ;" though probably neither he
 nor I should be inclined to endorse the whole of it ; and Mr. Pen
 rose's celebrated investigation of the principles of construction of the
 Greek temples, of course, belongs to the class of scientific works on
 architecture. But besides these, I do not know any book by a living
 architect, which does. Mr. Scott's two books are written more for the
 purpose of advocating particular opinions or views of architecture,
 (with which for the most part I agree) than of teaching it ; and Mr.
 Street's, on Italian architecture, belongs rather to the class of descrip
 tive books than of scientific. (By the bye I am glad to find that both
 there and elsewhere he has disclaimed the idea of exalting Italian
 Gothic above Northern ; as it seems Mr. Ruskin also has of late,
 and says that he never had that intention, which was very naturally
 imputed to him by probably every reader of the Stones of Venice.) It
is hardly worth while to enumerate as architectural works, the various
small decoctions of Rickman, and older writers on the Gothic Styles
and the Classical Orders : and on the whole it appears that the profes
sional architects have a very small array of literature to set against such
books as the Seven Lamps or the Stones of Venice, Mr. Petit's several
books on Architecture, Mr. Freeman's History of Architecture, Mr.
Parker's Glossary, and other works edited by him, Professor Willis's
several treatises on Mediaeval buildings, and Dr. Whewell's on French
and German Churches. And if none of these had been written, that
truly wonderful " Handbook" of Mr. Fergusson's, would be alone
sufficient to turn the scale in favour of the amateurs against all the
     It is no less
professional        remarkable,
               literature         that ofgeneration.
                          of the present   all these books, professional and
unprofessional, there is literally not one that is expressly devoted to
that style of architecture which some of our Parliamentary professors
of the fine arts assure us is the only style fit to be cultivated by a
civilised nation. For the Greek style is now almost as universally
abandoned or altered into something very different, as it was universally
believed in and talked about fifty years ago. Perhaps the time is not
so far off as some people imagine, when it will only be thought a few
degrees less absurd for the Northern nations to throw away their
own architecture, and import an older one from latitude 43°, than
it is already seen to be to set up the style of 36° as the only grand
style of building for the whole world, from Athens to Edinburgh and
Washington.

    1859.]               on Modern Gothic Architecture.                       55
        After six years' experience in building at Doncaster, besides a little
   elsewhere, I am convinced, without meaning thereby any reflection
   upon architects, that there can be no good building anywhere unless
   there is somebody constantly, or at any rate very frequently, on the
   spot, who has what we may call an architectural eye, and the power to
   stop at once anything which he sees is going to turn out wrong. I
   know that it is one of the common fallacies inculcated by architects,
   that you cannot tell until things are done whether they will look well
   or ill. Why not, I should like to know ? Do they expect us to
    believe that a man sitting in London and drawing an elevation of a
-»  pinnacle,
   place,         a section
           thanorother men ofwhoanseearch,
                                       it begun
                                           knowsupon
                                                 betterthehow it will
                                                           spot,      see that
                                                                 and look      it
                                                                           in its
   looks wrong already ? I say " already," for there is nothing I am
   more certain of than that a thing which looks ugly already, is not
   going to look beautiful when something more is added to it. Old
   ruins, which are simply incomplete buildings, are not ugly. Of course
   a man must know how to distinguish between ugliness and incomplete
   ness of proportions ; but supposing that he does, and is generally a
   person whose judgment of a finished building is likely to be right,
   then I would rather have his opinion of the promise of a building, or
   any part of it, long before it is finished, than of the best architect who
   has never seen it, nor even any correct view of it. For remember,
   that such a thing as a correct view of a building, as it will look, is
   never made, or so rarely, that the exceptions are not worth regarding.
   You have seen what Mr. Garbett says of the artistic or perspective
   view, which is generally made of an intended building, from what is
   expected to be the best point of view. But this is not the building
   plan : it is the captivating picture, which no doubt every honest archi
   tect believes will turn out a true one also, at least as far as it extends ;
   but whether it will or not, depends on whether the sections and eleva
   tions made afterwards by himself or his clerks, are really such as would
   be accurately translated into that perspective ; and generally they are
   not. Moreover, the greatest part of the details are never designed or
   drawn at all as they will appear ; I mean in such perspective as they
   would present, if drawn from actual view in their places. I know it
   would involve a good deal of trouble to do this ; but so it does to do most
   things well. In old times, when the people on the spot designed and
   superintended the details, the absence of accurate drawings, or of any
   drawings, did not signify. But the case is very different now that
   nobody with any more knowledge or taste than is required for " setting
   out work" is allowed (if it can be prevented) to intervene between the
   architect in London, or his clerks who make his working drawings
   according to the stereotyped rules of the office, and the masons who
   turn them into stone. You would be astonished if I were to tell you
   the number of instances in which working drawings of details were
   sent down to Doncaster, which it was discovered, sometimes just in
   time, and sometimes too late, would produce, or had produced a
   totally different effect from that of the general drawings of the whole,
   even in points to which particular attention had been directed. For

56                         Mr. E. B. Denison,                  [Feb. 11,
these reasons I am convinced that both architecture and architects
would be great gainers, if there were, not fewer, but many more
people who had ability and power to interfere with buildings while
they are in progress, and with the designs beforehand, at least to the
extent of requiring alterations to be made where they see that the
thing will fail and be a blemish if it is not altered. At the same time
I am aware that architects have sometimes difficulty enough at present
in working down to the bad taste, capriciousness, ostentation, stingi
ness, and vulgarity of their employers ; and that although competitions
have some advantages, they are very likely to increase the difficulty of
architects in designing what they know will look well ; as they will be
sure to speculate upon the probable prejudices, bad taste, and ignorance
of the majority of the judges, and their almost certain inexperience in
judging of architectural drawings, and will bait their designs accord
     I believe
ingly,           the progress
        or they might  as well save
                               of Gothic
                                    the trouble of makingrapid
                                           architecture,  them. as it has
been, would have been more rapid, and at any rate more complete as
it went on, but for the impatience which is one of the characteristics of
these times. I do not mean merely that kind of impatience which is
evinced by those who told the Gothic architects only eighteen years
ago, that they must ' be content to lay the foundations of an edifice
' which future generations shall see completed, and to toil for the
' recovery of hidden principles and lost harmonies which the master
' spirit of a succeeding age may awaken into life ; ' and then, within
less than half the time of a single generation, turn round upon the
men who have been so toiling, and declare that they can wait no
longer ; and that they are now convinced that some unknown and
scarcely imagined compound of the Classical and Gothic styles is the
thing to toil after and harmonize. This particular phase of impatience
may not be common ; but when we think of the variety of architectural
fashions which have now flourished within less time than was occupied
by the shortest-lived of all the old Gothic styles, we must come to the
conclusion that our architects are either much cleverer than the old
ones, or else much more impatient. At. one time Early English was
the style in vogue, for all cheap churches especially, the public or the
architects supposing that as there was no tracery to make for the win
dows it must be the easiest and cheapest of all the pointed styles. By
degrees they found out that it is probably the hardest to do well, and
very far from the cheapest if it is to be done with anything like the
mawsiveness, and depth, and number of shafts, and mouldings of the
real Early English. So, instead of learning to do it properly, or pay
ing for having it done well, there was next a run upon the latest style ;
and for a time everything was Perpendicular, varied occasionally with
the most distant extreme of Norman, which was supposed to be a
simple, easy, and neat style for small village churches ; and being
often executed in white brick, and the stone-work always done with
the precision of the modern Perpendicular, the result was certainly
such as to justify any degree of impatience in flying away from that

1859.]               on Modern Gothic Architecture.                       57
mode of building as rapidly as possible. By degrees the contest
seemed to settle itself between the Flowing or late Decorated, and the
Geometrical or early Decorated styles, and the early one gradually
prevailed ; and I am certainly far from complaining of that victory.
But now that it is gained, have we made the proper use of it ? The
other four styles were one by one dismissed, or abandoned, not so
much because people were dissatisfied with the genuine old specimens
 of them, but because the new ones were manifestly defective ; and is
not the same thing now taking place with the Geometrical ? Never
 mind whether you agree with me that it was the best of the old ones,
 but assume whichever you like to have been the best : still the same
question may be asked, was that best style ever fairly tried by modern
architects who had really mastered its principles and spirit, before it
was thrown aside to try something else ? If it was, let them tell us
     A few
wiiere       years
        we are     ago the
                to find camespecimens.
                              in the marble
                                          I confess I do not
                                              and colour     knowimported
                                                          mania,    them.
principally by Mr. Ruskin from Venice ; a magnificent discovery for
the architects, but not so certainly for architecture just at present ; for
the apparently inevitable effect of a rage for colour seems to be that
it makes people more careless about form than ever ; and no one I
think will say that the knowledge of architectural form and pro
portion is in such a highly advanced state that we can afford to let it
take its chance for a few years while we are speculating in some other
 element of beauty. I am far from objecting to the introduction of
 marble shafts, or granite pillars, wherever people like to pay for them :
 but if they fancy that a building otherwise bad, feeble, and in short,
 ungothic, will be made into a good one, capable of giving lasting satis
 faction or pleasure, by putting in a certain quantity of marble instead of
 stone, they will be mistaken, and will find that the choir of Selby, and
 the nave of St. Alban's, and fifty other whitewashed churches, are still
 perversely admired, while all their beautiful colours are despised. A
fortiori, the same is true of painting ; for marble being composed by
 nature is sure not to be bad in itself, whereas painting has an unlimited
 capacity for badness in itself, and unfitness for its place besides. The
 Lady Chapel at Chester is just disclosing a pleasing prospect for our
 cathedrals, if the painting mania lasts a few years, and is cultivated
 with the same moderation as we usually display in following whatever
 happens to be the fashion. For, to begin with, they are painting and
 gilding some of the arches in the style of that splendid daub in the
 Crystal Palace on the copy of a door at Rochester, which at any rate is
 directly contrary to Mr. Ruskin's apparently correct remark that in
 nature colour never follows the lines of form, but rather runs across
 them ; to say nothing of its hiding the stone entirely, and making it no
 better than plaster. But they have far surpassed this ; for the wall
 itself is painted stone colour, and marked out into an uncommonly
 good imitation of our old friend the churchwarden style of the Geor
 gian era; only to redeem it from that character, a red Aries, cp; is
 painted on every joint, of course of the most uniform and exact pattern ;
 from which the beholder is to understand that these very stone-like

58                          Mr. E. B. Denison,                    [Feb. 11,
divisions are not intended for sham 'stones at all, but are only " sug
gestive of construction," and he cannot fail to admire it besides as a
refined and highly inventive specimen of architectural polychromatics.
I know perfectly well that Mr. Scott's last book indicates that there
is some old authority for something of this kind. There always is for
the worst things that are done. And considering the discrimination
with which the one ridiculous or feeble example is generally selected
for imitation out of a hundred good ones, the eclectic theory (which is
one of the latest fashions of the season) seems likely to introduce us to
      verynot
someI am       sure that
            striking     I know
                     novelties   what that imposing, but only plagiarised
                               indeed.
phrase, " the architecture of the future" means ; and even those who
are fondest of using such pieces of cant magniloquence have not always
a very distinct apprehension of their own meaning ; but I am tolerably
certain that if it means a style of architecture which is to last as long as
the shortest of the old styles, or to have any chance of being treated
with respect, or looked at with satisfaction when the future has become
the past, as all the genuine styles of old still are, it must be something
very different from what is contemplated by our present seers. Vitru-
vius, the great authority on the classical styles, is quoted by Evelyn as
saying that among the twelve things which an architect ought to know
is astrology. I wonder from what signs it is divined that a new archi
tecture, to be celebrated in future ages as the Victorian style (for so it
has been already christened by persons who are too impatient even to
postpone that ceremony till the usual time), is so near the ascendant
now. I cannot help thinking that we are more likely to glide into a
new style (if there is ever to be one again deserving the name) by learn
ing first to stand a little more firmly on the old ground, from which
most people now agree that we must take our start, before we are in
such a hurry to take it. If the new style is to be a composite one, it
is not very likely to be developed except by men who show by their
works that they are thoroughly master of the others from which it is to
be compounded. We are a little too ready to assume that a knowledge
of dates and facts and measures, and all the history of architecture,
(which is probably greater now than ever,) is a proof of a practical
mastery of principles : but knowledge is not necessarily power, in spite
     The last cause
of competitive         of dissatisfaction with modern Gothic building
                  examinations.
which I have to notice is of just the opposite kind to that of impatient
running after novelties, whether " antiquated novelties," or novelties of
invention, which I have been complaining of just now. It is too often
forgotten that architecture is not archaeology, nor ecclesiology either ;
and many foolish things are set down to the credit or discredit of Gothic
architecture, which it has nothing in the world to do with, except that
somebody has chosen to embody his own antiquarian or ecclesiastical
fancies in a Gothic building. I fully appreciate the obligations of
Gothic architecture to the archaeologists, who saved many a fine build
ing from being burnt into mortar like the greater part of that most

  1859.]                  on Modern Gothic Architecture.                              59
 beautiful of ruins, St. Mary's Abbey at York, at a time when almost
 everybody thought, as Lord Palmerston and his adherents still do, that
  Gothic architecture was a relic of barbarism. And the modern advance
 of architecture in the only style which has advanced is undoubtedly due
 in a great degree to the ecclesiologists. But for all that we cannot
 afford to let either of them be our masters. Architecture is the art of
 erecting new buildings for use and beauty ; even Mr. Ruskin, with all
 his love of decoration, puts use and fitness for its purpose as the first
 condition to be satisfied by a building, though of course not the only
 one. Archaeology (so far as it relates to our business) deals with the
 preserving of old buildings ; a very good, but a very different thing;
 and ecclesiology is obviously more different still ; and at any rate it
 has nothing to do with civil architecture, about which the fight happens
 to be just now ; for our opponents say that we have carried the ecclesi
 astical and eleemosynary position, even the Protestant Dissenters
 having now joined us in it; the Romanists alone seem to be discovering
 that the architecture of Rorne after all suits their purposes the best,*
 and it is remarkable that their modern Gothic buildings are seldom
     I think
 among         therefore
          the best  specimens
                            that everybody
                                   ; there arewho
                                                manyfeels
                                                       better    dissenting
                                                              interested      the pro
                                                                          in chapels.
gress of architecture ought to resist all attempts to overwhelm and
choke it by either ecclesiastical or antiquarian pedantry. There is
nothing like a real example : so there is a certain city where the
people of common sense are just now protesting against a scheme for
building a set of new stalls within the line of almost the thickest
pillars in quite the narrowest cathedral choir in England ; using there
fore less than a third of the entire width of the church for sitting
room ; and all for the sake of indulging a vision of four and twenty
canons all of a row, who it is hoped will some day occupy them ; and
when they do, it is supposed they will not look so imposing if a couple
of pillars are allowed to intersect the array as if it is perfectly con
tinuous. And yet the people who do these things talk about the
adaptability of Gothic to all forms and all uses. How do they expect
anybody to believe it, who is inclined to disbelieve it, when they give
him such advantages ? And how are others to fight their battle for
them, when they dare not stir a step for themselves to do what would
be rational, convenient, and beautiful, (if well done,) because they
     Thatnois precedent
" know                      for itI? call
               a case of what         " the pedantry of ecclesiology. Here is
another of archaeology, perhaps in the most ridiculous form in which it
ever presented itself. The well known tower of St. Mary's, Taunton,
       A paragraph
has*ceased           to thisEtiam
              to exist.      effect has
                                     periere
                                        been going
                                             ruinceround       newspapers
                                                     : forthenot              the fabric
                                                                  only wasonthe   autho
rity of Dr. Newman ; and it has long appeared to me that nothing could be more
natural, as all the authorities agree that Gothic architecture never took any real
root in Italy. But these results are a singular end of all the nonsense we used to
hear about Gothic being " essentially Popish." We shall see whether pronouncing
it essentially barbarous answers any better.

  60                          Mr. E. B. Denison,                  [Feb. 11,
 too ruinous to stand, but the individual stones were too much decayed to
 be rebuilt. Otherwise it would have been a proper case for mere resto
 ration, within the dominion of archaeology, and out of that of architec
 ture in its proper sense, which implies the designing of something
 new. Now, although this tower was a fine one for its age, it was of the
 very worst G othic age ; and although, from the effects of time, and its
 size, and general elegance of outline, it was on the whole beautiful, still
 its faults were so notorious and glaring that they have always been
 admitted even by the writers who have most celebrated it. It is
 enough to say that the buttresses were feeble in projection, the arrange
 ment of the four and twenty windows the most monotonous of all the
 towers in England—in fact it could not possibly have been more so ;
 the upper part looked top-heavy, and the decoration of it was of the
 most unimaginative character. Yet two of our first architects are
 now employed to build up a copy of this tower exactly as it was ; or
 as near as they can make it. For as in all copies, of course the faults
 will be more apparent and the beauties less. Even if that were not
 certain, still the defects of the old tower are precisely those which will
 be more glaring in a new copy of it ; because the monotonousness of
 this late perpendicular style is always strikingly aggravated by restora
 tion in new stone ; as is painfully apparent at St. Mary Redcliffe, where
 one can hardly believe that the old work ever was like the new, which
 is, or at least professes to be, exactly copied from it. The new tower
 will therefore inevitably not look like the old one, and will inevitably
 look worse. And for this of course the architects will be blamed,
probably by the foolish people who have insisted on or acquiesced in
the rebuilding as much as anybody. And they will deserve it. If
nobody at Taunton has the sense to know, they have, that the idea of
regarding a new copy of an old building as an antiquity is an absurdity
below the reach of ridicule. They cannot but know that the copy,
however good, will be no copy, because it cannot resemble what the
old tower has appeared to every person who ever set eyes upon it for
the last two hundred years, and probably much longer, and that people
who are silly enough to expect it must be deceived. They will
deserve the blame of the inevitable failure for another reason too ;
because they are descending from the position of architects to that of
mere clerks of the works, having only to see that the builder copies a
certain model, not designed by them, but by another architect in the
time of Henry VII., and a model worse than either of them could
     Theifprecedent
design                 of Doncaster enables me to say this with confidence
            left to himself.
respecting one of those architects ; and I have no doubt about it with
regard to the other, Mr. Ferrey. That case was a far more trying one
than Taunton, for the old Doncaster tower was much earlier in date and
absolutely faultless for its style ; indeed it was the well known beauty
of the tower which raised the wonderful subscription of nearly £40,000
for the rebuilding of the church, the rest of which was poor enough, as
everybody could perceive when the tower was no more. But for all
that, we ultimately determined to change the style in the new tower,

   1859.]                 on Modem Gothic Architecture.                         61
   as I had expected from the beginning that we should when the superi
   ority of the geometrical ^r early decorated style had shown itself in
   the body of the church ; and you have seen that certainly no favour
   able critic admits that the new tower is superior to the old one. It is
   however very singular, and it may be another warning to the Taunton
   people, that there is one point in which it has miscarried, and that is
   just the one in which we were assured that the old arrangement had
   been followed most exactly ; but it turned out, when the failure was
   perceived, too late, that the clerk who had professed to measure the
   ruins had just left out one critical measure ; which was accordingly
'» has made
   filled         the*new
          up in the          of pinnacles
                      crowntower  by a guesstoo; and
                                                  wide,
                                                     that   the tops
                                                        as guess     wrong,
                                                                 was of       and
                                                                        the later
   towers generally were, but as the earlier and better one of old Don-
   caster church was not. If then a tower of the best age of the per
   pendicular style could be improved where the design was avowedly
   altered (retaining however the same general outline and character),
   and has only come short of the old one where no alteration was in
    tended, it will be a strange thing indeed, if a tower of the worst per
    pendicular age could not be still more improved when it has become
    necessary to rebuild it. And further I say that the wilful refusal to
    endeavour to improve it because improvement is alteration, is as
    monstrous an instance as could be conceived of architecture being
    over-ridden by a sham archaeological pedantry, and no ridicule can be too
           for either
   greatSuch            causes
               are thethose      require
                            whowhich, as it,
                                          I think,
                                             or those whoretarded
                                                    have           and toare
                                                            condescend         it.
                                                                           do still
    retarding the efficient revival of what was for four centuries and more
    the architecture of all kingdoms north of the Alps, which had any ;
    the only architecture which ever was in them, indigenous, progressive,
    universal ; serving for all purposes, and adapting itself equally well to
    all ; fettered by fewer restrictions than any architecture that the world
    has seen ; capable perhaps yet of expansion beyond what was then
    thought of when the wants of mankind were fewer, but of expansion
    on its own principles, and not (as I believe) on the principles of that
    other architecture, which served to bridge over the gap from the
    archless styles of the " pre-scientific ages," but was itself absorbed in
    the infinitely greater capacity of the pointed arch styles, and has never
    been able to advance since : reappearing indeed when the decay of
    Gothic principles, and the absence of all power of artistic invention,
    left an opening for it, but always going on upon the same dead level of
    heavy uniformity and pompous dulness, sometimes rather better and
    sometimes rather worse, as the leading architect of one age happens to
    be better or worse than of another ; harmonising with no face of nature
    where nature has a face to show, and tolerating no individuality where
    it has not, but sinking the thing which each man calls his house in a
    monotonous array of windows and pilasters, which may begin and end
    anywhere ; incapable of any effect without the aid of great size, and
    even then not knowing how to rise with it except by mere repetition
    of features of no beauty by themselves. Is the best window in St.

62          Mr. Denison, on Modern Gothic Architecture.           [Feb. 11,
Paul's, or in " the street of palaces," to be compared with any common
three-light window built 600 years ago, or apen with a good modern
one of the same style revived ? For it is now shown that good modern
ones in this style can be built ; and they can be built of any size you
    I think
want,  and initany
                is shown
                   number,           these two
                          too,andby almost     provincial churches which I
                                           any position.
have referred to so often for that reason, that " the hidden principles
and lost harmonies," which Mr. Petit has lately given up looking for
in despair, are not too deeply sunk to be recovered by those who have
the patience to seek them where they were lost, instead of rambling
      them of
afterSome        unknown
            intoyou,            say, came here believing that the old
                      I dareregions.
Gothic ways have been thoroughly explored already, that the great
Gothic revival is progressing charmingly, and that the time is fully
come when it should be carried forward into those other unknown
regions where the architecture of the future is waiting to be disclosed.
If so, I hope your faith has had a shake. And on the other hand,
those who have been in the habit of condemning Gothic architecture—
on other grounds, I mean, than from mere shallow ignorance and
flippancy—may possibly be led to reflect whether a great deal of what
you are justly dissatisfied with has any right to be called Gothic
architecture at all, and is not rather a flimsy modern figment, a kind
of painted skeleton of Gothic without either flesh or spirit. I cannot
forget how a great man, whose name you will recognise immediately,
said to me, while he was living among the wretched modern Gothic
of the new buildings at Cambridge, on my complaining of the new
University Library being Italian, and Italian of almost unrivalled
badness—" Gothic architecture is obsolete ;" but soon after, when he
was translated into the shadow of the great cathedral with which his name
will ever be associated, he became one of the warmest admirers and
the most zealous and successful restorer of the real Gothic architecture
which he then saw before him. Some of that restoration is so well
done, that it is not easy to distinguish the new work from the old, and
so it is in some other places. That it is not so in all, and that build
ings are continually erected (even where there is not the excuse of
stinginess) in which Gothic principles are pretended to be followed, but
are really set at defiance, is manifestly not the fault of Gothic architec
ture, but of architects.                                      [E. B. D.]

1859.]            Dr. Alison on certain Auditory Phenomena.                          63
                    WEEKLY
  Charles Wheatstone,      Friday,Esq.
                                    EVENING
                                      February
                                         F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                                        1859.
                                                  18,MEETING,         in the Chair.
                      Somerville Scott Alison, M.D.
     [Through the On         certain Auditory
                         indisposition                Alison, the subject of the
                                           of Dr. Phenomena.
discourse, of which the following is an abstract, was kindly laid before
the Members by Dr. Tyndall.]
    Certain auditory phenomena, bearing upon the correlation of the
 ears, and possessing some interest, have been recently made out by the
 employment of a double stethoscope, which has been called the differ
 ential stethophone, contrived by Dr. Scott Alison.* This instrument,
 (see p. 64) like the first double stethoscope, viz., that of Dr. Leared, is
applied to both ears, and has the self-adjustment of that of Dr. Camman of
New York. It consists of two tubes for the two ears respectively, each
 independent of the other except for purposes of adjustment, manual
management, and convenience of application. Each tube consists
again of two parts, a tube part and a cup or sound-collecting aperture.
The cup, made of mahogany or other freely vibrating wood, is about
one inch in diameter at its mouth, and about one-eighth of an inch in
 diameter at its proximal extremity. The tube near the cup is made of
flexible wire, and is covered with silk ; the part nearer the ear is made
of metal, and at the aural extremity is furnished with an ear-knob of
ivory for insertion into the cavity of the external ear. The bore of
the knob and of the metal part of the tube is about one-eighth of an
inchAn     diameter. possessing the same acoustic value may be made at
       in instrument
much less expense than that above described. A piece of india
rubber tube, about 18 inches long, having a bore of one-fifth of an
       It isdiameter,
inch* in               may that
             to be observed, haveforfitted
                                     the differential
                                            upon onestethophone        ear-knob,
                                                        extremitytoanhave           and
                                                                          its properties
made available, it is necessary that both ears of the observer should be alike in
acuteness.

64                          Dr. Scott Alison,                    [Feb. 18,
upon the other a sound-collecting cup. Two of these, held together
by means of a ring of ivory or steel, will make an excellent differential
   The differential
stethophone          stethophone was designed
              or phonoscope.
with the view of collecting different sounds
from two parts of the body at the same time,
and conveying them separately to each ear.
It formed in reality a stethoscope for each
ear, and it differed from all binaural or
double stethoscopes hitherto employed, which
collected sound through one aperture or
cup only. Though the old binaural ste
thoscopes could not be made differential in
struments, the differential stethophone might
be made a binaural stethoscope, simply by
placing the two sound-collecting cups at the
same part of the chest. When this is done,
the same auditory result is obtained as when
the simple binaural stethoscope is employed,
viz. a full sound and a distinct auditory sensa
tion, fuller than when one ear only is em
ployed. The advantages sought by means
of the differential stethophone were, 1st, to
give facility in comparing the intensity of
the fine breath sound of the lung at two dif
ferent parts of the chest at the same time ;
and 2nd, to ascertain with exactitude the
relative commencement and termination of
two sounds generated at different parts of the
thorax ; which hitherto was impracticable :
for, as is obvious enough, it is not possible to
have one ear at the same moment at two dif
ferent parts or to have the two ears in the
same plane, which however is now virtually
effected by the differential stethophone. The second object was fully
obtained ; but the first was not secured when the two ears were simul
taneously employed, though by using the two ears in succession this
great advantage of comparing the intensity of one part with the in
tensity of another was fully gained. It was found that the weak or
defective respiratory sound of one part produced no sensation in the
ear to which it was conveyed when the stronger sound of another part
     communicated
was This              to the
           failure of the    other ear.instrument, though disappointing at
                          differential
 the moment, has led to the ascertaining of an important acoustic prin
 ciple and to the practical application of it in medicine, viz. that a
 major impression made on one ear will prevent all consciousness or
 perception of a minor impression made at the same time on the other ear,
 by the same sound ; and that an impression on one ear which produces
 a distinct sensation may be made to produce no sensation whatever, by

I
  1859.]                on certain Auditory Phenomena.                         65
  conveying at the same time a major impression of the same sound to
  the other ear : the sensation obtained through the latter ear totally
  destroying or obliterating all sensation of the same sound in the other
  ear. By the same sound is meant the sound proceeding from the same
  body, as a watch, a bell, or from two bodies of the same kind, as two
       Major impressions
  tuning-forks                   oneand
                 of the sameonsize       note.
                                      earprevent   sensations of minor impres
  sions on the other ear only in the case of the same sound, and not in
  the case of sounds of a different character, unless indeed the major
  sound happens to be very intense and deafening. 'Therefore the loud
  sound of one watch and the weak sound of another watch may be
  distinctly heard in the two ears, one in one ear only and the other in
  the other ear only, provided that one ear be favoured with a major
  impression of one watch, and the other ear be favoured with a major
  impression of the sound of the other watch. In this case, the stronger
   impression of either watch nullifies in a - sensorial sense the weaker
   impression ; and as the strong impression of one watch is made in one
  ear, and the strong impression of the other watch is made upon the
  other ear, one watch is heard in one ear and the other watch is heard
       Theother.
   in the   principle of restriction of hearing of the same sound to that
   ear on which a major impression is made is illustrated in respiration.
   The ear connected with a part where the respiration is weak fails, as
   has been already stated, to convey any sensation, while the ear con
       Thewith
   nected        a part represents
             diagram     where the the
                                     respiration
                                         sounds isoccurring  alternately
                                                    strong produces        in two
                                                                      sensation.
   sides of the chest in a consumptive patient. The dark spots represent
   the sounds. The right side Iihs the Inspiration strong, the Expiration
   faint. The left side has the Inspiration weak, the Expiration coarse.
                      Healthy.                       Unhealthy.
                Eight Side of Chest.              Left Side of Chest.
           Inspir. 1.          |                                Inspir. 1.
           Inspir. 1.2.
           Expir.               |                     |         Expir. 1.
                                                                Inspir. 2.
            same 2.
       TheExpir.    principle may be made to perform             Expir. 2. part in
                                                      | an important
   the diagnosis of "diseases of the heart, accompanied by murmur. If
   the two cups of the stethophone be applied at two points of the area
   of a murmur differing in intensity, the sound is heard by that ear only
   connected with the point where the murmur is more intense. Now
   as the source of a murmur is determined by the point of its greatest
   intensity, it must be obvious that a ready mode of diagnosis is offered.
      Vol. III. (No. 29.)                                                *

66                            Dr. Scott Alison,                  [Feb. 18,
If there be a material difference at the two spots examined, sound is
heard only by that ear connected with the more intense point. The
test is absolute ; for in one ear there is no hearing, and in the other
there is hearing. There is consequently no room for error in judgment
as to degree, as in the case of consecutive observations with one ear
       with
only,The     the ordinary
          human            stethoscope.
                   ear being  capable of hearing many sounds at the same
moment, (if one be not extremely intense,) and as the principle so to
speak of restriction of hearing to the favoured ear holds in the case of
all, it follows that if one can be favoured with a major impression of
fifty sounds, they shall all be heard through that ear, and through that
ear o-nly. And if some of these fifty sounds be carried in major inten
sity to one ear and some in major intensity to the other ear, some of
these sounds will be exclusively heard through one ear, and some
exclusively through the other ear ; a division of sounds thus virtually
taking place. Indeed, if we possessed fifty ears, and if of fifty sounds
one could be carried in a major intensity to each of these fifty ears,
each of the fifty sounds would be heard exclusively through one ear,
     each ear
i.e. This   apparent
               would division
                      hear one of
                                sound  exclusively.
                                   sounds   may be effected by placing a
watch upon a musical box. If both cups of the stethophone be placed
so as to receive sound from these bodies equally well, both sounds will
be perceived through both ears, and if one cup be placed nearer these
two bodies than the other cup, both sounds will be heard in the ear con
nected with this cup ; but if one cup be held a little nearer the musical
box than the other cup, and if this other cup be held a little nearer
the watch, i.e. if one cup be a little favoured in respect of one sound
ing body, and the other cup be a little favoured in respect of that of
the other sounding body, the musical box will be heard through that
ear only which is favoured in respect of it, and the watch will be heard
exclusively through that ear that is favoured in respect of that body.
When two murmurs occur at the heart, one at the base and another at
the apex, possessing as they usually do different characters, (say one
being " blowing " and the other being " rasping,") and they blend
together, they may be thus sensorially separated by placing one cup at
the base, and the other at the apex, points of major intensity of the two
     Of therespectively.
murmurs      amount of difference which shall suffice to render one ear as
it were sensationless and to effect a monopoly of sensation in the
other, it is difficult to speak with great precision. The difference
must be considerable, but need not be very great. In the case of a
watch, if one cup be placed fully on the watch, and the other one-
third or one-half off it, sensation is limited to the ear connected with
the first ; if the cup wholly on the watch be now moved off the watch,
but kept within half an inch of it, sensation is limited to the other ear ;
and if the cup half or one-third off the watch be now moved wholly off it,
to the distance of an inch or more, sensation is again transferred to the
other ear. Transitions of sensation may be thus indefinitely carried

 1859.]               on certain Auditory Phenomena.                      67
 on from one ear to the other. This corresponds with ordinary audi
 tion : for if we draw a circle around the head in the plane of the
 horizon, which may be called an acoustic circle, we shall find that on
 carrying a sounding body round it, binaural sensation is procured only
so long as the body is within about 10° on either side of a line drawn for
 wards and backwards at right angles with the transverse line of the head.
 In the case then of such a circle we have distinct binaural sensation
limited to a region of about 20° in front and 20° behind. The inter
 mediate arcs are the regions of uno-aural sensation ; it thus appears
that in ordinary audition a moderate superiority in respect of intensity
     The intensity
 of sound  gives a monopoly
                     of sound of
                               in hearing
                                   the ear to one ear.
                                           which   has served to give it a
 monopoly of hearing to the disadvantage of the other ear, has in the
 foregoing observations been chiefly obtained by greater proximity of
one cup of the stethophone to the sounding body over the other ; but
 this may be procured by other means. A superior mode of con
 duction in respect of one ear over the other, or of one cup of the
stethophone over the other, when the ears and the cups are similarly
placed in respect of the sounding body, will give a like intensity. A
solid rod in the case of one ear, while the atmosphere is the only
medium of communication in the case of the other, in respect of a
sound of a solid body, will suffice to give the monopolizing intensity.
In the same way it has been recently ascertained by Dr. Scott Alison,
that water placed at the distal extremity of a hearing tube will give
an restrict
to          hearing
    advantage        to that ear favoured
                of intensification or of more
                                            with
                                               perfect conduction,
                                                 its aid,          sufficient
                                                          and to render sen-
sationless the ear connected with the sounding body by means of a
hearing tube having no water at its extremity to intensify or economize
sound by superior conduction. A ring of water between the edge of
                                                                 f2

  68                          Dr. Scott Alison,                    [Feb. 18,
  the hearing tube and the solid sounding body will suffice for this result.
 The restriction of hearing to one ear is perfect, although the conditions
  of the ears and of the two limbs of the differential stethophone are
  precisely alike, with the exception of the ring of water. As we form
  our notions of sounding bodies being on our right hand or on our
  left, by perceiving through which ear auditory sensations are ac
  quired, and as water under the circumstances gives an augmentation
 of sound sufficient to restrict to one ear, an aural illusion may be
 produced by having two hearing tubes of equal length and of the same
 conditions brought in contact with two windows respectively, and
 placing under the cup of one of them a thin bag of water, which may
 be called a hydrophone. A church bell or a barrel organ will be
 heard only through the ear connected with the window having the
 water bag upon it, although these sounding bodies may be nearer the
 other window. The mind is led to believe that the sounding bodies
 are nearer the window which is the more distant from them.
       In the case of some few sounds, the influence of water in modifying
 their tone is so great, that virtually a sound different in kind is
 heard. Thus, a watch, in Dr. Alison's possession, gives simply a short
ticking sound to that ear connected with one cup of the differential
stethophone held in the air ; and imparts a full soft tick, or rather tack,
and a musical bell sound to the other ear connected with the other cup
of the instrument placed upon the thin bag of water lying on the
watch. The sound of the watch is so modified by the different media,
that as it were two different sounds are obtained, a sharp tick and a
full soft tack, and though the watch-sound is conveyed in greater
intensity to one ear than- to the other, it is heard in both ears. No loss
of sensation takes place, as in the case of the same sounding body,
sounding through the same medium. The reason of this exception to
the law of auditory obliteration, so to speak, is found in the fact
that the sound is no longer one, but has become virtually two, by
being conveyed through two different media, and it has been already
stated that a major impression sensorially nullifies a minor in the case
of its own sound only and of no other. The fine bell sound has been
simply made audible by passing through water. It is probable that
the double hearing of some persons which has been commented upon by
physicians has been due to a difference in the two ears involving a
disagreement in the media through which sounds have had to pass.
The double hearing referred to has consisted of hearing the sounds of
the same sounding body, very different in character in the two ears ;
the sounds in one ear being soft and in the other sharp, and so on.
Perhaps, likewise, certain sounds inaudible in one ear have been
rendered audible in the other, as in the case of the fine bell sound above
referred to, by passing through better media. It is to be observed,
that in order to have a sensation in this manner in both ears the sound
must not preponderate greatly in one. *
      In the case of sounds conveyed to the ear through the bones of the
head, a restricting intensity may be procured by closing the aperture of
the external ear, as has been observed and commented upon by Mr.

1859.]                on certain Auditory Phenomena.                        69
Wheatstone. A tuning-fork placed upon the middle of the forehead is
heard in that ear only that is closed. The closure prevents the escape
of sound, and promotes resonance to an extent sufficient to give the
restricting intensity. This restriction of hearing to the closed ear in
the case of sounds communicated through the bones of the head may
be imitated by an analogous closing of the apertures of the differential
stethophone. Sounds communicated in equal intensity to both limbs
of the stethophone at some point between the closed apertures and the
ear-knobs are heard louder than when the apertures are open ; and if
one aperture only be closed, the sounds are heard in that ear only that
is connected with the closed aperture. The wetted cotton of Mr.
Yearsley—really a cotton and water membrane— and the gutta-percha
membrana tympani of Mr. Toynbee, thus applied, greatly increase
sounds conveyed to the stethophone at points between the closed aper-
turesand the ear knobs. By closing one aperture with wetted cotton,
and the other with gutta-percha, the comparative value of these appliances
so far as intensification of sound communicated in the manner under
consideration, may be tested. Both of these appliances have been found
extremely beneficial in cases of deafness proceeding from perforate
membrana tympani. It would appear that it is by some closure of the
passages of the ear in persons partially deaf of one ear, that these per
sons hear sounds communicated through the bones of the head, in that
ear only that is deaf ; a fact ascertained in an extensive enquiry instituted
     When
by the      one cup
         author,      that
                 and of thehad
                            differential
                                been previously  observed
                                         stethophone           a few cases.
                                                     is heldindecidedly nearer
a sounding body than the other cup, the sound is perceived, as it were,
in the ear connected with the nearer cup ; but if the further cup be
brought somewhat towards the sounding body, so as to obtain more
sound, and to be more upon a par with the other cup, the sensation
changes its seat and is felt less in the ear and more towards the centre
of the head, or the spot mid-way between the two ears. This centri
petal character of sensation is more marked as the two cups attain to a
parity ; and when this is fully accomplished sensation is located at a
central spot. If the cup, which was at first further from the sounding
body, be now gradually brought nearer than the other cup, a further
transition of sensation is produced ; it leaves the central spot and moves
towards the other ear, and becomes exclusively located there, as
it was exclusively located at the first part of the experiment in the other
ear. By alternately and rapidly bringing the cups nearer the sounding
body, this movement of sensation may be rendered very striking.
    Lastly, the differential stethophone affords an unfailing test of the
existence of differences of intensity of sounds communicated by different
bodies, solid, liquid, or gaseous. If consecutive trials be required on
two bodies, this is done by using the two cups in succession, the
necessary movements being effected without changing the position of
the head, and with only a very little motion of the fingers. The con
trast is readily made, and the difference, if any, with facility discovered.
If both limbs of the instrument be simultaneously employed, and if the
difference in the amount of the same sound conveyed to the instrument

70                      Professor Faraduy                       [Feb. 25,
be material, an absolute test is procured at once ; for, as has been
already explained, no sound will be heard in one ear, and a full sound
will be heard in the other. For example, a musical box placed upon
the banks of the Serpentine, is heard in that ear which is supplied with
that limb of the stethophone (an elongated one) whose cup is immersed
in the river, and not at all in that connected with that limb whose cup
is held upon the ground. In the same way this test of restriction of
hearing to one ear, or of uno-aural hearing, is available for deciding
upon the comparative acoustic value of different arrangements. If
we desire for instance to know whether surrounding a glass with
water and another with air, both filled with water and previously
being equal in communicating sound to the stethophone, gives a
difference of sound, the fact is immediately made known. The ear
connected with the limb of the stethoscope immersed in the glass
surrounded with water hears nothing, while the ear connected with the
glass surrounded   withFriday,
                WEEKLY  air hasEVENING
                                February
                                a distinct sensation.
                                                1859.
                                           25,MEETING,      [S. S. A.]
       II.R.H. The Prince Consort, K G. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                        Vice-Patron, in the Chair.
                Professor Faraday, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                 Oft Schonbein's Ozone and Antozone.
 Ozone has already been before the members of the Royal Institution on
 two occasions: on the 13th June 1851, when Schonbein's early views
 of it were given, and on the 10th June 1853, when the results of
 MM. Frtimy and E. Becquerel, obtained by passing the electric spark
 through dry oxygen, were described ; and also the opinion of Schonbein
 respecting the entrance of ozone as such (and not as simple oxygen)
 into combination. Since then, Schonbein has been led to the belief
 that oxygen can exist in a third state, as far removed by its properties
 from ordinary oxygen in the one direction as ozone is in the other ;
 and therefore, in a certain sense antagonistic to ozone. This substance
 he names antozone, and believes that it also enters into combination,
 retaining, for the time, its special properties. Hence there is not
 merely ozone and antozone, but also ozonideand antozonide compounds.
 Thus, permanganic acid, chromic acid, peroxides of manganese, lead,

  1859.]             on Schonbein's Ozone and Antozone.                 71
 cobalt, nickel, bismuth, silver, &c., form a list of bodies containing
 more or less of ozone in combination ; and the characters of ozone,
 and of these bodies because of the ozone in them, is that they are
 electro-negative to the antozonides, i.e. as copper to zinc ; they evolve
 chlorine from chlorides ; they cannot generate peroxide of hydrogen ;
 and they render blue the precipitated tincture of guaiacum. On the
 other hand, oxywater and the peroxides of potassium, sodium, barium,
 strontium, and calcium, form a list of substances containing antozone.
 These bodies are electro-positive to the former ; they cannot evolve
 chlorine from hydro-chloric acid, or the chlorides ; they evolve the
 peroxide of hydrogen when treated either by oxy-acids or even the
 hydro-chloric acid, and they not only do not render blue the white
 precipitated guaiacum, but they restore that which has been rendered
 blue by ozone to the white or colourless condition. Now when two
 ozonides or two antozonides are put together, with the addition of
 water or an indifferent acid, they mingle but do not act on each other ;
 but if one body from each list be associated in like manner, they
 mutually act, oxygen is evolved from both, and ordinary oxygen is
set free ; or rather, as Schonbein believes, ozone separates from one
 body, and antozone from the other ; and these uniting produce the
 intermediate or neutral oxygen. Thinard, who discovered the per
oxide of hydrogen, showed that the peroxide of silver, when brought
into contact with it, not only caused the separation of part of the
oxygen of the fluid, but also itself lost oxygen, that element leaving
both bodies and appearing in the gaseous state. This experiment,
with others of a like nature, and many new ones, were referred to and
made in illustration of Schonbein's views. As to the independent
existence of oxygen in these two new and antithetical states, ozone
has been so obtained, i.e. out of combination, and independent of any
other body ; but antozone has not as yet afforded this proof of its
possible separate condition. Oxywater is the compound in which it
seems nearest to a free condition. As Schonbein's view includes the
idea that oxygen in these two states can retain their peculiar properties
when out of combination, and have them conferred otherwise than by
combination, and as ozone does fulfil these conditions and does exist in
the independent state, so it is important that antozone should be
     In relation
pursued           to this until
          by experiment    subject
                                it gives
                                    the view     result.
                                         a like of  Mr. Brodie should be
referred to, respecting the condition of certain elements at the moment
of chemical change, on which he published a paper in the Phil. Trans,
for 1850, p. 759, and another in the Chemical Society's Journal in
1855. He assumed oxygen as capable of existing in two states ; the
particles being polarized to each other by the action of associated
particles, and for the moment in the relation of oxygen and hydrogen
to each other ; he also made many numerical experiments for the
purpose of obtaining the equivalent action of the oxygens assumed to
be in these opposed polar states.
                                                               [M. F.]

72                           Professor Tyndall,                       [March 4<
                 WEEKLY   Friday,   March 4, 1859.
                                 EVENING          MEETING,
   Sir Roderick I. Murchison, D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                       John Tyndall, Esq. F.R.S.
                PROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, ROYAL INSTITUTION.
                  On the Veined Structure of Glaciers.
If a transparent colourless solid be reduced to powder, the powder is
white : familiar illustrations of this fact were brought forward at the
commencement of the discourse : specimens of transparent rock crystal
and of the substance pounded, of solid glass and of glass in powder, of
rock salt and common culinary salt were exhibited. A glass jar, par
tially filled with a solution of carbonate of soda, with a little gum
added to give it tenacity, presents, on the addition of a little tartaric
acid, the appearance of a tall white column of foam. In all these
cases, the whiteness and the opacity were due to the intimate and irregu
lar admixture of a solid or a liquid with air ; in like manner the white
ness of snow was due to the mixture of air and transparent particles of
 ice.This snow falls upon mountain eminences, and above the snow
 line each year leaves a residue ; the substance thus collects in layers,
 forming masses of great depth. The lower portions of such masses are
 squeezed by the pressure of the mass above them, and a gradual ap
 proach to ice is the consequence. The air is gradually expelled
      the transparency
 and Nevertheless,       ice the
                     the of   in the
                                  substance
                                     upper glacier
                                              augments    in proportion
                                                       region   always contains a
 large amount of the air originally entrapped in the snow; this air is
 now distributed through the solid in the form of bubbles, which give
 the ice a milky appearance. Thus at the upper part of a glacier the
 ice is white and more or less opaque ; while, at its lower extremity, as
 almost every tourist knows, it is blue and transparent. The transition
 from one state to the other is, in most cases, not a gradual change
 which takes place equally throughout the entire mass ; the white ice,
 on the contrary, of the middle glacier region is usually striped by

1859.]              on the Veined Structure of Glaciers.                 73
veins of a more transparent character than the rest of the mass ; the
transparency being due to the fact that the air which gives to
the ice its whiteness has by some means or other been wholly or
partially ejected from the veins. These veins partake of the blue
colour of transparent ice, and, contrasted with the white ice in which
they are imbedded, often give to the substance a most beautiful
laminated appearance ; vast portions of many glaciers consist of this
     The object
laminated    ice. of the discourse was to offer an explanation of this
     Thestructure
veined                 glacier
           theory ofof the        which perhaps first presents itself to the
                           veinsice.
mind, and which is still entertained by many intelligent Alpine explo
rers, is that the veining of the middle glaciers is simply a continuation
of the bedding of the n«$ve" ; that not only do the annual snow-falls
produce beds of great thickness, but every successive fall tends to
produce a layer of less thickness, which layers, or rather the surfaces
separating them, ultimately appear as the blue veins. This theory, it
was admitted, demanded the most serious consideration : on the exposed
sections of the neVe1 the lines of stratification were very manifest, and
exhibited in many cases appearances closely resembling that of the
veined structure. Indeed, it was with a view to examine this subject
more closely, that the speaker withheld his observations on the structure
of the Mer de Glace made in 1857, and betook himself once more to
the mountains during the summer of 1858 ; his desire being- to settle
once for all the rival claims of the only two theories which then
deserved serious attention, namely those of pressure and of strati
 fication.
      In pursuance of this idea, he first visited the lower glacier of
 Grindelwald, one of the most accessible, and at the same time most
 instructive in the entire range of the Alps. Ascending the branch of
 this glacier which descends from the Schreckhorn, the Strahleck, and
 the Finsteraarhorn, he came to the base of an ice-fall which forbade
 further advance. Quitting the glacier here, he ascended the side of
 the flanking mountain, so as to reach a point from which the fall, and
 the glacier below it, were distinctly visible ; and from this position he
 observed the gradual development and perfecting of the structure at
 the base of the fall. On the fall itself no trace of the transverse
  structure was manifest ; but where the glacier changed its inclination
 at the bottom, being bent upwards so as to throw its surface into a
  state of intense longitudinal compression ; where, moreover, it had to
  bear the thrust of the descending mass behind, the blue veins first
 made their appearance. The base of the fall was a true structure mill,
  where the transverse veins were manufactured, being afterwards sent
  forward, giving a character to portions of the glacier which had no
      The
  share     their formation.
         in speaker  afterwards examined the fall from the opposite side of
  the valley, and corroborated his observations. It is difficult, in words,
 to convey the force of the evidence which this glacier presents to the
 mind of the observer who sees it ; it seems in fact like a grand labora

74                           Professor Tyndall,                      [March 4,
tory experiment made by Nature herself with especial reference to the
point in question. The squeezing of the mass, its yielding to the force
brought to bear upon it, its wrinkling and scaling off, and the appear
ance of the veins at the exact point where the pressure begins to
manifest itself, left no doubt upon the speaker's mind that pressure and
structure stood to each other in the relation of cause and effect, and
that the stratification could have nothing to do with the phenomenon as
hereHe   afterwards crossed the Strahleck, descended the glaciers of the
      exhibited.
Aiir, crossed the Grimsel, and examined the glacier of the Rhone.
This glacier has also its grand ice-fall. In company with Professor
Ramsay he climbed in 1858 the precipices which flank the fall at the
Giimsel side. In company with Mr. Huxley, he had in 1856 ascended
the heights on the Furca side of the fall. What he has stated regard
ing the Grindelwald ice-fall is true of that of the Rhone ; the base of
the cascade is the manufactory of the structure; and, as all the ice has
to pass through the mill, the entire mass of the glacier from the base
    Hefall
of the      downwards
         afterwards   descended
                         is beautifully   laminated.
                                   the valley   of the Rhone to Viesch, as
cended the Egs>ishorn, and remained for eight days in the vicinity of
the great Aletsch glacier—the noblest ice-stream of the Alps. A
highly intelligent explorer had adduced certain phenomena of the
Aletsch glacier as an evidence aaainst the pressure theory of the veined
structure ; and the speaker did not think himself justified in quitting
the place until he had perfectly satisfied himself that the glacier not
only presented no phenomena at variance with the pressure theory, but
    He subsequently
exhibited                seemed fatal
           some which proceeded      to toZermatt,
                                            the theory    stratification.
                                                    andofspent ten days on the
Eiffelberg, exploring the entire system of glaciers between Monte Rosa
and the Mont Cervin. These glaciers exhibit, perhaps, in a more
striking manner than any others in the Alps, the yielding of glacier
ice when subjected to intense pressure. The great western glacier of
Monte Rosa, the Schwartze glacier, the Trifti glacier, the glaciers of
St. Theodule, are first spread out as wide and extensive neVes over the
breasts of the mountains. They move down, and are finally forced
into the valley containing the trunk, or Gorner glacier. Here they are
squeezed to narrow stripes, which gradually dwindle in width until
they form driblets, not more than a few yards across. From the
Gorner-grat, or from the summit of the Riffelhorn, these parallel strips
of glacier, each separated from its neighbour by a medeal moraine,
    The astructure
present              of these
           most striking       instructive
                          and glaciers         carefully examined, and in all
                                         wasappearance.
cases as the observer travelled from regions where the pressure was
feeble to regions where it was intense, the ice changed from a state
almost, if not entirely, structureless, to a state in which the veining was
exhibited in great perfection. Each glacier where it met the opposing
mass in the trunk valley, and was pressed against the latter by the
     In behind
thrust  a formerit, exhibited
                    discourse ahebeautifully
                                   had adduced     proofs structure.
                                               developed   that the Glacier du

1859.]               on the Veined Structure of Glaciers.                     75
G<5ant was in a state of longitudinal compression ; he had also shown
that the seams of white ice which intersect this glacier are due to the
filling up of the channels of glacier streams by snow, and the subsequent
compression of the substance. Here then we have a vast ice-press
which furnishes us with a test of the pressure theory. Both in 1857
and 1858, the speaker found many of these seams of white iceinte-
sected by blue veins of the finest .and most distinct character, their
     The direction
general              beingconsidered
          speaker next      at right angles
                                        the objections
                                             to the direction    might
                                                          which of       be made
                                                                   pressure.
to his conclusions by an advocate of the theory of stratification ; refer
ring to the notions of M. Agassiz as to the turning up of the strata so
as to expose their edges at the surface, and also to the acute remarks
and arguments of Mr. John Ball. He admitted that these remarks
might well tend to cast a doubt upon the pressure theory, by sug
gesting a possible, though extremely improbable, solution of the
     Henceinhis
question,      harmony
                 strong desire
                          with the
                                to discover    stratification.
                                   theory ofsome    crucial phenomenon which
should set this question for ever at rest, and leave no room for doubt,
even on the minds of those who never saw a glacier. On Wednesday,
the 18th of August, he was fortunate enough to make this discovery
       the ice-field
uponThis              spreads out as an almost level plain at the base of
           Furgge glacier.
Mont Cervin. The strata pile themselves one above the other without
disturbance, and hence with great regularity. The ice at length reaches
a brow which forms the termination of a lower valley, shutting up the
latter as a cul de sac ; and down this brow it is precipitated, forming in
its descent four great terraces. Huge blocks of ice stand, like rocking
stones, upon the topmost ledge, and numbers, which have fallen, have
been caught by the other ledges and occupy very threatening positions :
the base of the fall is cumbered with crushed ice, and large bouldere of
     substance
 the On          haveofbeen
          the faces      the cast
                              terraces
                                  a considerable     linesdown
                                        horizontal way          the glacier. are
                                                            of stratification
shown in the most perfect manner. Here and there the exertion of a
powerful lateral squeeze is manifest, causing the beds to crumple, and
producing uumerous faults. Examining the fall from a distance through
 an opera glass, the speaker thought he could discover lines of veining
running through the strata, at a high angle, exactly as the planes of
 cleavage often run at a high angle to the bedding of slate rocks. The
surface of the ice was, however, weathered ; and he was unwilling to
 accept an observation upon such a cardinal point with a shade of doubt
 attached to it. Leaving his glass with his guide, who was to give
 warning should the blocks overhead give way, he advanced to the wall
 of ice, and at several places, cut away with his axe the weathered
superficial portions. Underneath he found the true veined structure,
     He afterwards
running                right angles
           nearly at climbed    the glacier
                                     to the planes
                                             to the of  stratification.
                                                     right, and, as he ascended,
still better illustrations of the coexistence of the structure and the
strata than those which he had observed upon the terraces exhibited
 themselves. The ice was greatly dislocated, and on the faces of the

76                               Professor Tyndall,                    [March 4,
crevasses the beds were shown with the veins crossing them. The
idea that the veins could be due to the turning up of the strata is plainly
     The speakerwith
irreconcileable             these observations.
                      subsequently     visited the Mer de Glace, and its tribu
taries, and found the same key applicable to their phenomena. The
transverse structure of the Glacier du Geant is formed at the base of
the series ; that of the Talefre branch of the Mer de Glace at the base
of the Talefre ice-fall, where the change of inclination and the thrust
from behind develop the requisite longitudinal compression. He has
already had occasion to remark upon the peculiar dipping of the struc
ture, and the scaling-oflf of the protuberances, which are effects of the
same cause. These phenomena are exhibited at the base of all the ice
     He divided,
 cascades   visited by     the speaker.
                      finally,   the principal kinds of structure into three ; as
      1st, :—
 follows    Marginal structure, developed by pressure due to the swifter
      2nd,ofLongitudinal
 motion                         the glacier.
               the centre of structure,    due to mutual pressure of two tribu
 tary glaciers ; the structure here is parallel to the medial moraine
 which        Transverse
      3rd,divides             structure, produced by pressure due to change of
                     the tributaries.
 inclination and to the longitudinal thrust endured by the glacier at the
 baseThe        ice-fall.then entered upon the physical analysis of the manner
        ef anspeaker
 in which the pressure produced the veins. When a liquid is heated,
 the attraction of the molecules operates against the action of heat,
 which tends to tear them asunder ; at a certain point the heat triumphs,
 the cohesion is overcome, and the liquid boils. But supposing we
 assist the attraction of the molecules by the application of an external
 pressure, the difficulty of tearing them asunder will be increased, more
 heat will be required for this purpose, and we say that the boiling
 point   of the of
      Spheres     liquid
                     sulphur
                           has were
                               been exhibited,
                                     elevated by   the pressure.
                                                 which  had been cast in a mould ;
 these, on cooling, contracted so as to leave a large space hollow within
 each sphere ; the same occurred, though in a less degree, with lead and
 most other substances. Conceive the sphere replaced in the mould, and
 the latter heated : to liquefy, it is necessary that the sulphur, or the
 lead, should swell. Here, as in the former case, the swelling of the
 substance is opposed by the attraction of its molecules ; but with a cer
  tain amount of heat this attraction is overcome ; we reach the fusing
 point of the solid. But suppose we assist the molecules by external
 pressure, a greater amount of heat will then be necessary to tear them
 asunder : and we say the fusing point has been elevated by the pressure.
 Reference was made to the researches of Mr. Hopkins and Mr. Fair-
      Butinthe
 bairn,           speaker
              which   this also
                            reasoning
                                  exhibited    sphere of bismuth,
                                        was aexperimentally       and showed that
                                                             verified.
 this metal expanded during its solidification ; hence, in order to liquefy
 a sphere of bismuth, the substance must contract : the molecules must
  arrange themselves more closely together. Heat produces this con

 1859.]            on the Veined Structure of Glaciers.                    77
traction ; and it is manifest that external pressure in this case assists
the heat, instead of opposing it, and that to fuse the metal, under pres
sure, a less amount of heat will be necessary : hence the fusing point of
 bismuth is lowered by the pressure. Now ice is a substance which
 behaves in this respect exactly like bismuth ; it contracts on being-
 liquefied, and if we subject it to pressure it will liquefy under'w320 Fahr.
—in its case also the melting point is lowered by pressure. Reference
 was made to the theory of Mr. James Thomson, and the experiments
     SupposingWm.
 of Professor           a prism which
                  thenThomson,    of solid
                                         boreiceupon
                                                  at 32°  question.
                                                     this to be subjected to
 pressure. . This pressure reduces its melting point, say for the sake of
simplicity to 31° ; what must be the consequence ? The ice possesses a
temperature higher than its new melting point, and the excess of heat
which it possesses is applied to the liquefaction of a portion of it.
This effect was experimentally exhibited before the audience. A
prism of ice was placed between the surfaces of a small hydraulic press,
and the prism was illuminated by the bright beam of an electric lamp.
The beam had been previously sifted of its heat by sending it through
a solution of alum, so that the light passed afterwards through the ice
without melting it. By means of a convex lens placed in front of it,
a magnified image of the prism of ice was cast upon a screen, and when
the pressure was gradually applied, lines were observed drawing them
selves across the pressed mass in a direction at right angles to the
pressure : these lines the speaker had proved by strict examination to
be the edges of flat spaces in which the ice had been liquefied by the
     The speaker's theory of the blue veins then was, that the glacier,
pressure.
when subjected to intense pressure, also liquefied in flats perpendicular
to the direction of pressure : a means was thus provided for the expul
sion of the air entangled in the ice, or in other words for the production
of veins containing less of air than the general mass of the glacier. A
portion of the water would be absorbed by the adjacent bubbled ice,
and refrozen when released from the pressure ; and the veined structure
would     following experiment was referred to. A prismatic mass of
     Thefollow.
                                   FIC.I                  W
                                                         m
                                                  e.
ice was taken, the shape of which, in section, was that of abed, fig. 1,

78    Prof. Tyndall, on the Veined Structure of Glaciers.          [March 4,
The side a b was purposely left longest in order to throw the pressure
S andthat
upon        and theThe
       S', side.    result
                        mass
                           waswas
                                thatsqueezed   fig. 2 ; the
                                     shown inbetween         slabsa b,of which
                                                        the side          wood
had borne the pressure became liquefied in flats, as shown in the figure.
    Fig. 3 is a section of the portion of the Grindelwald glacier already
referred to : at the point A the glacier changes its inclination, and
pressure comes into play ; at this point the veins begin to be found,
and in a very short distance reach perfection. A comparison of both
diagrams at once suggests their relationship.
                                                                   [J. T.]

 ] 859.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                                         79
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                 Monday, March 7, 1859.
William
were   duly Pole,
               elected
                   The
                   John
                   Joseph
                   James
                   Francis
                   Arthur
                   Henry
                   Hall
                   Thomas
                   Frederick
                    Philip
                    Howard
                    Benjamin
                    William
                          Esq.
                           Members
                            Earl
                             Rokeby
                             Pearson,
                               Nasmyth,
                               Charles
                               Bateman,
                               Warwick
                                Montefiore,
                                John
                                 Le
                                  B.
                                  Warburton
                                  De
                                   M.A.
                                    Leigh
                                    Hardwick
                                    ofBreton,
                                      Baskett,
                                        laEdward
                                          Price,
                                          Ashburnham,
                                           in
                                           of
                                            Esq.
                                            Hardwick,
                                             Rue,
                                               F.R.S.
                                               Smith,
                                               the
                                               Esq.
                                                Hunt,
                                                 theEsq.
                                                    Esq.
                                                     Esq.
                                                      Chair.
                                                      Johnson,
                                                      Esq.
                                                      Elphinstone,
                                                       Royal
                                                       Russell,
                                                        M.A.
                                                           Esq.
                                                           Treasurer
                                                              F.R.G.S
                                                              Esq.
                                                                 and
                                                                 F.R.S.
                                                                  Institution.
                                                                   B.A.
                                                                    Esq.
                                                                     Esq.Esq. L.S.
                                                                               M.P.
                                                                             and    Vice-President,
                                                                                     &c.
                                                                                   M.A.
wereThe    following
       admitted      Members
                   John   Presents
                             DerbyofAllcroft,
                                           the Royal
                                           were          Esq.
                                                            Institution.
                                                     announced,        and the thanks of the
Agricultural
Members
Astronomical
Boosey,
Bell,
Arts,
Editors—The
British
   From
   TheJacob,
      Society
        Mechanics'
        Journal
        Artizan
        Engineer
        Athenaeum
        Practical
         Architects,
         Messrs.
             returned
              Esq.
              Society
               Society,
               of—Journal
                Medical
                 for
                  of
                  (the
                   for
                   Mechanic's
                     M.R.t.—Pharmaceutical
                     Gas-lighting
                      for
                      Feb.
                       Magazine
                       Institute
                        of
                        Feb.
                        Publishers)—The
                           Feb.
                           for
                            England,
                            Circular
                              1859.
                               for
                          Royal—Monthly
                                1859.
                                 the
                                  1859.
                                   of—Proceedings
                                   Journal
                                    for
                                    Jan.
                                      same
                                      for
                                       Royal—Journal,
                                        for
                                         Feb.
                                          fol.
                                       4to.1859.
                                            4to.
                                            Feb.
                                             Feb.
                                               for
                                                :—
                                                 1859.
                                                  Notices,
                                                    1859.
                                                    Feb.
                                                     1859.
                                                      8vo.
                                                  MusicalJournal
                                                          for
                                                           8vo.
                                                           1859.
                                                             World
                                                             Jan.
                                                              4to.
                                                               8vo.
                                                               Jan.1859.
                                                               Feb.  4to.
                                                                      1859.
                                                                      No.
                                                                    forforFeb.
                                                                            Feb.
                                                                            42.8vo.
                                                                                 1859.
                                                                                   8vo.
                                                                                   1859. 8vo.
                                                                                4to.       4to.
                                                                                          1858.

80                    Dr. Odling, on Magnesium, Calcium,                   [March 11,
      A. Wurtz.
Faraday,             No.D.C.L.
             Professor,              Paris, 1859.
                          5. 8vo.F.R.S.—Repertoire      de Chimie, par C. Barreswil und
   Kiinigliche Preussischen Akademie, Berichte, Nov. and Dec, 1858. 8vo.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXVII. No. 1, 8vo. 1858.
     Quarterly
Geological         Journal, No. 57. for
              Society—Proceedings                1858 and Jan. 1859. 8vo.
                                       8vo.Dec.1859.
      Economized.
Glassford,              8vo. (the
               C. F. Esq.         Author)—London Sewage: Shall it be Wasted or
                               1858.
Howlett, S. B, Esq. (the Author")—Table for Mountain Barometers.
        Philosophical
LeedsTrade.              Society—J. P. Crawford, Esq. F.R.S.—On China and its
                 8vo. 1858.
   Sir J. P. Herschel—On Sensorial Vision. 8vo. 1858.
   Chr. Tremblav—Comets, their Constitution and Phases. 8vo. 1859.
Leighton, John, Esq. F.S.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Library : Books and Bind
     ing. A Lecture. 8vo. 1859.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, Supplement No. 1, 8vo. 1899.
     Transactions, Vol. XXII. Part 3. 4to. 1859.
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, Feb. 1859.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series) for Feb. 1859. 8vo.
Novello, Mr. {the Publisher)—The Musical Times for Feb. 1859. 4to.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographie. 1859. Heft 1. 4to. Gotha, 1859.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 79, 80. 8vo. 1859.
Royal Society— Proceedings, No. 33. 8vo. 1858.
South Yorkshire Viewers' Association—First Annual Report. 8vo. 1858.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 1. 8vo. 1859.
Taylor, Alfred S. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—On Poisons. 2nd Edition.
      16to.Rev.1859.
Taylor,          W. F.R.S. -Jf..R.      Anecdotenjager. 8vo. 1858.
Vereins zur Befbrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Nov. and Dec. 1858. 4to.
 Wilson, Thomas, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—An Enquiry into the Origin and
      Intimate Nature     of Malaria. EVENING
                      WEEKLY            8vo. 1858. MEETING,
                                Friday, March 11, 1859.
  Charles Wheatstone, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                               William Odling, M.B.
The On        Magnesium,
        majority          SECRETARY
                     of the    metals
                                Calcium,
                                      TOknown
                                          THELithium,
                                                   at the and
                                                CHEMICAL   SOCIETY.
                                                                their Congeners.
                                                           beginning   of the present
century were observed to occur naturally in the earthy or oxidised
state. The alkalies and earths proper, from their many analogies to
the metal-yielding earths, were long suspected to be the oxides of
certain unknown metals, whose tendencies to maintain the oxidised
condition were stronger than those of any metals which had up to

1859.]                 Lithium, and their Congeners.                        81
that time been isolated. This conception was first verified by Sir
Humphrey Davy in 1807, and has since been abundantly realized.
From their characteristic property of neutralizing acids to form salts,
the earths and alkalies received the name of bases, and the metals
eventually extracted from them became known as basic or basylous
metals. Some of these metals, particularly those obtained from mag
nesia, lime, and lithia, have only of late been procured in quantities
     The highly
sufficient  to allow
                  basylous
                      of a demonstration
                            and the commercial       properties.
                                            of their metals are alike obtained
by three principal processes, namely electrolysis, precipitation by means
of another metal, and reduction by charcoal at a red or white heat.
     a. Electrolysis.—Very many metallic compounds, when submitted
to the action of a galvanic current, are decomposed, with a deposition
of metal upon the negative pole of the battery. Although a cheap
electrolytic process has been devised for the extraction of copper from
its ores, yet, altogether, electrolysis is too expensive to admit of employ
ment for the mere separation of the commercial metals. It is, however,
largely applied in the fine and useful arts for the production of different
metals in certain required forms, as in the well-known operations of
electrotyping, electroplating, &c. The liquid stale, which is an
essential condition for electrolysis, is usually obtained by dissolving
the metallic compound in water ; but for procuring the highly basylous
metals, this means does not succeed, inasmuch as these metals cannot
exist in contact with water. The basylous metals seem indeed to be
deposited upon the negative pole ; but, simultaneously with their pro
duction, they are acted upon by the water of the solution, and thereby
converted into the state of caustic alkali. The liquid condition is con
sequently attained by means of fusion. Certain salts of the basylous
metals, usually the chlorides, from their ready fusibility, are melted in
suitable crucibles, and then submitted to electrolysis ; this is the only
mode by which the metals calcium and lithium are obtainable.
     /3. Precipitation of one metal by another.—This process is largely
employed on a manufacturing scale. At the mines of Freyburg, me
tallic silver is obtained by agitating chloride of silver with scrap iron.
The iron enters into combination with the chlorine, and turns out the
silver. At theRayal Mint, silver is obtained -by immersing plates of
copper into solution of sulphate of silver. At the Cornish mines, con
siderable quantities of copper are annually obtained by immersing
pieces of iron in solutions of copper. These processes are performed
in the wet way. As an example of the dry way, we may adduce the
metal antimony, which is made commercially by fusing sulphide of
antimony with scrap iron. The iron turns out the antimony and unites
with the sulphur. Similarly the metals aluminium and magnesium are
prepared by fusing their respective chlorides with metallic sodium ;
the sodium unites with the chlorine and turns out the aluminium or
magnesium. To obtain metals by this process of substitution, it is
ordinarily necessary that the metal used to expel another must be more
basylous than the metal expelled ; hence it is that sodium is required
for the production of magnesium. With the exception of potassium,
   Vol. III. (No. 29.)                                               g

82               Dr. Odling, on Magnesium, Calcium,           [March 11,
which is much more expensive, sodium is the most basylous of the
metals ; it even serves to displace the quasi-metallic grouping of
hydrogen and nitrogen, known as ammonium. Amalgam of sodium,
introduced into a solution of chloride of ammonium, forms chloride of
sodium and amalgam of ammonium. But these most highly basylous
metals, potassium and sodium, afford remarkable exceptions to the law
that basylous metals replace less basylous metals. Thus, although
when sodium is heated with hydrate of iron, the sodium expels the iron,
as might be anticipated, yet when hydrate of sodium and iron borings
are heated together, a reverse action takes place, and the iron turns
 out the sodium, as in Gay-Lussac's process for the production of that
metal. This reciprocity of results is only an extreme instance of a
tolerably general law. In a similar manner, though mercury displaces
silver from argentic nitrate, yet silver displaces mercury from mercu-
rous nitrate. Though copper displaces silver from argentic sulphate,
yet silver displaces copper from cupric sulphate. Though cadmium
displaces copper from cupric chloride, yet copper displaces cadmium from
cadmic chloride, &c. &c. Some of these results appear to depend oti
Brodie's law of homogeneous affinity : thus, when cadmium is deposited
upon copper, we have the reaction,
                + -         +-            + -         + -
               Cu Cu + Cd CI = Cd Cu + Cu CI
     y. Reduction by charcoal. —This is the most usual means adopted
for the production of metals on a manufacturing scale. Brunner's
process for obtaining potassium and sodium is an exact counterpart of
the commercial process for obtaining zinc ; in each case the metal is
evolved in the gaseous state, or distilled, from a heated mixture of its
carbonate with charcoal. The same reciprocity exists between sodium
and charcoal as between sodium and iron. Thus carbon decomposes
oxide and carbonate of sodium to form carbonic oxide or anhydride
(acid). But sodium heated in carbonic oxide or anhydride liberates
carbon, and forms oxide or carbonate of sodium. Indeed chemical
re-actions are not absolute but conditional ; under reversed condition
     Magnesium.—Chloride
we obtain   reversed results. of magnesium is the source from which the
metal is usually obtained. Becquerel succeeded in procuring octahedral
crystals of magnesium by the electrolysis of a solution of chloride of
magnesium. But the metal is preferably obtained by electrolysing the
fused salt. Matthiessen employs a common tobacco-pipe for the
purpose : the bowl is filled with fused chloride of magnesium, or rather
with a mixture of chloride of magnesium and chloride of potassium,
which is more easily prepared than the pure salt. The negative pole,
to which the magnesium attaches itself, consists of an iron wire passing
through the pipe-stem. The positive pole consists of a pointed piece
of gas-carbon dipping into the fused mixture of salts. Magnesium is
 however obtained most abundantly by heating its chloride with me
 tallic sodium, as before referred to. The sodium turns out the mag

 1859.]              Lithium, and their Congeners.                     83
nesium, which collects in globules that may be melted together under a
flux of low density. Magnesium is a solid metal of a silver-white colour.
Its appearance contrasts favourably with that of-aluminium, which has
a decided bluish tinge. The freshly cut surface of metal is highly lus
trous ; it does not tarnish in dry air, and acquires only a film of oxide
in moist air. Magnesium is but very slowly acted upon by pure cold
water. It decomposes boiling water somewhat rapidly with evolution
of hydrogen. Its specific gravity is 1 • 75. It is about one and a half
times lighter than aluminium, and is indeed the lightest of all metals
that are permanent in the air. One cubic inch of platinum balances
 12J cubic inches of magnesium, and only 8£ cubic inches of aluminium.
At ordinary temperatures magnesium is somewhat brittle, and may be
readily cut or filed. It is neither very malleable nor very ductile ;
but, ai an increased temperature, may be hammered into plates, and
drawn or rather pressed into wire by Matthiessen's process. The
metal is placed in a small hollow steel cylinder, having a hole drilled
in its anterior face. Through this hole the metal is forced in the form
of wire, by means of a press, acting through the intervention of an
iron piston, fitting into the hollow of the cylinder. Magnesium is
readily volatile ; so much so indeed, as to allow of its being purified
by distillation in an atmosphere of hydrogen. It is a highly com
bustible metal, and burns brilliantly in air or oxygen, with a pure
white flame. A magnesium wire, ignited at one end, will continue to
burn through its entire length. Magnesium corresponds closely in its
properties with zinc, and through zinc approximates to cadmium. The
atomic weight of zinc is the mean of the atomic weights of magnesium
and cadmium ; and the atomic volume of zinc is the mean of the
     Calcium.—This
atomic                 metal does
         volumes of magnesium        cadmium.
                                 andnot result from the action of sodium
upon chloride of calcium, but is obtainable only by the electrolysis of
that salt, rendered a conductor by fusion. It is a solid metal, of a
somewhat yellowish colour. It is highly lustrous, but tarnishes quickly
in the air, and gradually becomes converted throughout into oxide of
calcium, or lime. It decomposes cold water rapidly with evolution of
hydrogen. Its specific gravity is 1-58. It is moderately hard,
malleable, and ductile. It has not been volatilized. When heated to
redness in the air, it burns with a scintillating flash ; but, in con
sequence of its want of volatility, does not inflame. Calcium bears to
its congeners, strontium and barium, relations similar to those which
magnesium bears to its congeners zinc and cadmium ; save that the
members of the calcic family are associated rather by an equality, and
those of the magnesian family by a gradation of properties. The
atomic volume and atomic weight of strontium are respectively the
means of the atomic volumes and atomic weights of calcium and
barium. Despite many points of resemblance, the differences between
calcium and magnesium are well marked. Thus magnesium and zinc
are volatile and inflammable metals, permanent in the air, scarcely
acted upon by cold water, and obtainable by treating their respective
chlorides with sodium. Calcium is neither volatile nor inflammable,
                                                             g2

 84               Dr. Odling, on Magnesium, Calcium,            [March 11,
 is quickly oxidised in the air, is rapidly acted upon by water, and is
 not obtainable by treating its chloride with sodium. The hydrate of
 calcium is soluble in water, the hydrates of magnesium and of zinc
 insoluble. Hydrated chloride of calcium, when heated, evolves
 water, but the hydrated chlorides of magnesium and zinc evolve
     Lithium acid,
 chlorhydric          &c. sparingly distributed element. It occurs native,
                is a very
 in proportions varying from 3 to 12 per cent., in certain complex
silicates, fluorides, and phosphates ; and is obtained in the metallic
form by the electrolysis of fused chloride of lithium. The specific
gravity of lithium is 0-59. With the-exception of bodies in the gaseous
state, it is the lightest substance in nature. It floats upon every known
liquid. One cubic inch of platinum balances 36$ cubic inches of
lithium. Lithium is a white-coloured lustrous metal, rapidly oxidised
 by exposure to the air. It is softer than lead, and may be cut with a
 knife, or squeezed between the fingers. It is readily obtained in the
form of wire, by Matthiessen's process. It melts at 180°C, and at a
higher temperature volatilizes. When heated to redness in the air,
lithium takes fire, and burns with a brilliant, highly luminous, white
flame, that is in curious contrast with the crimson colour which its
compounds impart to the flame of ordinary combustibles. The pre
sence of lithium in any substance is usually ascertained by means of
this crimson-coloured flame, which, however, is altogether irrecog-
nizable in the presence of even a small quantity of sodium salts, owing
to the intense yellow-coloured flame which they produce. Cartmell
has recently pointed out a ready mode of detecting the lithium colora
tion, even in the presence of a large excess of sodium salts, namely by
viewing the flame through a layer of the blue solution of sulphate of
indigo, which completely cuts off the yellow rays due to the sodium,
but allows the uninterrupted transmission of the crimson rays due to
the lithium. Gradational relations, similar to those of magnesium,
zinc, and cadmium, exist between lithium, sodium, and potassium. In
the solubility of its carbonate, in its degree of oxidisability, and in
many other properties, sodium is strictly intermediate between its two
congeners. De la Rue has observed, that metallic sodium from its
inferior degree of oxidisability, may be preserved unacted upon in an
aqueous solution of caustic soda. The atomic weight and atomic
volume of sodium are respectively the means of the atomic weights
     atomic volumes
and Lithium             of lithium
               undoubtedly         and to
                              belongs     the same family as sodium and
                                       potassium.
potassium. Like these two metals it is soft, readily fusible and
volatile, highly oxidisable, and of lower specific gravity than water.
Moreover, its hydrate and carbonate are sensibly soluble in water.
But having regard to the totality of its characters in the free and com
bined states, and particularly to the properties of its hydrate, carbonate,
and phosphate, it appears that the analogies of lithium to calcium and
magnesium respectively, are scarcely less marked than are its relations
to the true alkaline metals. It seems, indeed, as if the metals
lithium, calcium, and magnesium stood upon the same level, and that

 1859.]               Lithium, and their Congeners.                     85
 while the gradation of lithium, sodium, and potassium, diverged in one
 direction, the gradation of magnesium, zinc, and cadmium diverged in
 Or, wePotassium.
 another. Sodium.
             Lithium.
         might  say, that, as regards
                                Barium.
                                Strontium.
                                Calcium.
                                       their properties,
                                                       Zincum.
                                                         potassium,
                                                         Cadmium. barium,
                                                     Magnesium.
 and cadmium, are highly specialized forms, while lithium, calcium, and
 magnesium are degraded or general forms, which, from the comparative
 absence of special characters, approximate to one another. The sums
 and means of the atomic volumes of the three groups of elements are
 shown below. Mg. Zn. Cd. . . . Sums.      14-2           4-7
                                                         Means.
               Ca. Sr. Ba. .       .  .    24 9           8-3
               Li. Na. K. .       .   .    37 4          12-4
The atomic volume of the calcic 3)76-5     25-5 is observed
                                        family            8-4to be exactly
                                                      3)25-4
intermediate between those of the lithian and magnesian families.
Similar relations exist between the atomic weights of the three
    When, irrespective of these curious numerical relations between the
groups.
different elements and groupings of elements, we find the groups
characterized by distinctive but correlated properties, and the members
of the groups associated by community of characters, and separated by
gradational differences only, we perceive that the possession, by each
element, of its own special properties, is not an accidental endowment,
but is a necessary result of the development of one general compre
hensive plan.                                                   [W. O.]

86       Rev. W. Mitcliell on a New Method of rendering        [March 18,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 18, 1859.
Charles Wheatstone, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                    Rev. Walter Mitchell, M.A.
 On a New Method of rendering visible to the Eye some of the more
    abstruse problems of Crystallography, hitherto considered only as
     Mathematical Abstractions.
The unpopularity of crystallography "may be attributed to the dif
ficulties so many people, especially those who have not had a good
mathematical training, meet with in attempting to master the concep
tion of forms involving some of the principles of solid geometry. To
a certain extent this may be removed by a well-arranged system of
solid models: thus the first three propositions of the 15th book of
Euclid, " the inscription of a regular tetrahedron in a cube, of a
regular octahedron in the tetrahedron, and of the octahedron in the
cube," may be demonstrated to the eye by a dissected cube, illustrating
the natural cleavage of fluor spar. Indeed the cleavage of a cube of
tfuor spar is a natural demonstration of the three principal propositions
    There
of the  last are
             bookmany
                  of Euclid's
                         propositions       Geometry.
                               Elementsofofcrystallography  which require
some mechanical means beyond that of the use of solid models to make
them appeal to the eye for clearer perception. The most perfectly
symmetrical solid forms of the crystallographer belong to the cubical
or tessular system. There are seven different kinds or orders of forms
belonging to this system, perfectly symmetrical ; four of which admit
of an infinite variety of species. These forms are associated in nature
as well as in their mathematical relations to each other. They are
found in crystals of the same substance, either in their simple forms or
else associated in combination with each other, in the different faces of
a compound crystal ; thus the cube, the octahedron, and the rhombic
dodecahedron, are found as simple crystals of the diamond, or faces
parallel to all three or two of them, may be discovered on a more
    The natural
complex            crystal.
           three forms   we have just enumerated, the cube, the regular
octahedron, and the rhombic dodecahedron, may be considered as the
permanent or limiting forms of the cubical system ; they admit of no
varieties ; their angles, whether those of the inclination, of adjacent
faces, or of the planes constituting their faces, are invariable ; they are

1859.]    visible some of the abstruse problems of Crystallography.        87
also limiting forms. Between the octahedron and the rhombic dodeca
hedron we may conceive an infinite number of varieties of the three-
faced octahedron, passing from the form of the octahedron to that of
the rhombic dodecahedron ; similarly, the octahedron and the cube are
limiting forms of an infinite series of twenty-four-faced trapezohedrons,
and the cube and rhombic dodecahedron of a series of four-faced cubes.
The forty-eight-faced scalenohedron or the six-faced octahedron is a
         represent
formTovarying       to the
                within the limits
                           eye the    passage
                                  of all       of all the varieties of these
                                         the others.
forms between their respective limits is the object of the mechanical
contrivance which is the subject of this paper. A skeleton or armillary
sphere is constructed of iron wire, so as to mark out the principal
zones of the sphere of projection of the forms of the cubical system ;
three circles are united at right angles to each other, so as to represent
eight equilateral spherical triangles, each of whose sides are arcs of
90°. The six points where the arcs cross each other are the poles of
the six faces of the cube ; the lines joining each pair of opposite poles
represent the cubical axes, each axis being perpendicular to two faces
of the cube which can be inscribed in the sphere. Each arc is now
bisected. These twelve points of bisection are the poles of the rhombic
dodecahedron ; the lines joining the opposite pairs of these poles are
the rhombic axes, each of these axes being perpendicular to two faces
 of the rhombic dodecahedron inscribed in the spheres, or inscribed in
 the cube inscribed within the sphere. Let each of the eight equilateral
 spherical triangles be divided into six equal and similar spherical
 triangles by arcs, joining the angle of each triangle with the centre of
 its opposite side ; the armillary portion of the sphere is now completed.
 The point within each of the eight equilateral spherical triangles,
 formed by the intersection of the three arcs by which it is divided, is the
 octahedral pole. There are of course eight of these ; the lines joining
 the opposite pairs of these poles are the octahedral axes, each one
 being perpendicular to two opposite faces of the regular octahedron
 inscribed in the sphere, or in the cube inscribed within the sphere. If
 we now join each pole of the octahedron with the three poles of the
 octahedron in the three adjacent equilateral spherical triangles by
 straight wires, and do this symmetrically for the eight poles, we shall
 then have the edges of the cube inscribed within our armillary sphere.
 The octahedral axes joining the opposite solid angles of this cube and
      rhombicthis
 the Within          passing through
               axesskeleton  cube we thenowcentres
                                             inscribe
                                                    of each opposite
                                                       a regular     edge.
                                                                  octahedron,
 using elastic strings for its edges, by uniting the point where each
 cubical axis passes through the face of the cube, with the similar
 points on the two adjacent faces. Each face of the octahedron is
 therefore represented by an equilateral triangle of elastic cord. We
 now suppose each side of the eight equilateral triangles to be bisected.
 Every angle of the eight equilateral triangles is joined to the bisection
 of its opposite edge, by another series of elastic cords. We have now
 an octahedron inscribed, in the cube inscribed within our armillary
 sphere. Every face of the octahedron having marked upon it, the

  8              Rev. W, Mitchell, on Crystallography.             [March 18,
 traces formed by an imaginary plane passing through the zones of the
 sphere and its centre. It will now be seen that the cubical axes join
 the opposite solid angles of the octahedron ; the rhombic axes, the
 bisections of its opposite edges ; while the octahedral axes pass through
 the intersections of the elastic cords, which join each solid angle of the
     The points
 octahedron   withwhere
                   the centres
                         the elastic
                                of thecords  opposite
                                       edgesmeet, and totheit. octahedral axes
 pass through the faces of the octahedron are now fastened to cords.
 These cords are made to run round pulleys and are united together, so
 that by pulling them simultaneously, the points uniting, every one of
 the three elastic cords which are described on the the face of the
 inscribed octahedron can be made to travel uniformly and symmetri
 cally along each of the octahedral axes from the face of the octahedron
 to the solid angle of the circumscribing cube. Another series of cords
 are united to each of the four elastic cords, which meet at the point
 bisecting each of the edges of the inscribed octahedron. These, by a
 similar contrivance, are made to draw these points along the rhombic
axes. The instrument is now completed. By simply pulling the
 eight cords united together, which cause the elastic cords to ascend the
octahedral axes, the inscribed octahedron passes through every form of
the three faced octahedron till it reaches the limiting form of the rhom
bic dodecahedron. Each three-faced octahedron being inscribed within
     cube,
the In      similar manner,
         a inscribed               pulling the cords, running along the
                     within thebysphere.
rhombic axes in combination with those running along the octahedral
axes, all the other forms are shown as passing within their prescribed
limits. As soon as the cords are loosened, the elastic bands immediately
resume the form of the inscribed octahedron. In addition to these
forms, the instrument also can be made to demonstrate the passage of
all the hemihedral forms of the cubical system with inclined faces
within their limits. In this manner it was demonstrated that this
instrument can make visible to the eye all the changes and varieties of
an interesting series of forms and their mutual relations, which could
otherwise only be conceived by a considerable power of mathematical
abstraction. This armillary sphere, by some other small additions, can
be made use of for tracing out some of the most beautiful portions of
the zone-theory of the poles of crystals.
                                                                  [W. M.]

  1859.]      Dr. R. A. Smith, on Organic Matter of the Air.                 89
        Sir Henry     Holland,
                   WEEKLY  Friday,EVENING
                                    Bart.
                                     March M.D.  1859.
                                                   F.R.S. in the Chair.
                                             25, MEETING,
                Robert Angus Smith, Esq. Th.D. F.R.S.
         On the Estimation of the Organic Matter of the Air.
  After describing the opinions concerning organic matter in the air,
 and the various attempts made to estimate the amount, the speaker
 described a method of obtaining the relative quantity by means of
 mineral chameleon, permanganate of potash or soda. This mineral
 had been proposed by Forchammer, as a mode of estimating the
 organic matter in water, but it was capable of estimating quantities
 much more minute. At first the air was passed through the solution of
 chameleon, but this was not found to cause complete action. It was
 necessary that the air should remain for some time in contact with the
 solution to be decomposed. It was then ascertained that the relative
 amount of organic and other oxidisable matter in air could be found
      simple
 by aThe       metrical
          speaker         said :—In inworking
                    thenexperiment               out this idea, it has been
                                         a few miuutes.
 found that a vessel of the capacity of 80 to 1 00 cubic inches is the
most convenient. This is equal to rather less than a quart and a half
     rather
and The      more than
           solution      a litre and used
                     of chameleon          must be extremely weak, so that
                                      a half.
small quantities cannot readily be distinguished by gaslight. 600
grains of it are required to decompose 5 grains of a standard solution of
oxalic acid. The standard solution of oxalic acid is so made that
1000 grains neutralize one grain of carbonate of soda. A thousand
    To contain
grains            the solution
         preparetherefore   1 * 184
                                 a manganate
                                    grains of crystallised by heating
                                               was formed oxalic acid. nitrate
and carbonate of soda and manganese, assisted by a little chlorate of
potash. There was the most minute trace of nitrate remaining in the
solution. Perhaps chlorate of potash would have been better, but I
had no idea at the time of the difficulty afterwards found in obtaining
the same quality. A solution of this manganate was made in pure
water, and carbonic acid passed through until a reddish purple shade
was obtained. It was then tested by oxalic acid, adding three or four
drops of pure sulphuric acid. The purest water obtainable was added
to dilute it to the proper amount. This often failed ; and I have some
times for a whole week failed to obtain the proper solution. Although
I call it permanganate, it is not entirely so ; it is a mixture of man-

 90                          Dr. R. Angus Smith,              [March 25,
 ganate and permanganate. A permanganate of the strength described
 has a dingy appearance and uncertain colour. I do not doubt that a
 pure permanganate of a suitable strength may be obtained pleasant to
 work with. There is some difficulty in obtaining pure water for pre
 paring the solution. If allowed to stand for some time with a man-
      Theitsolution
 ganate                 chameleon is apt to change, although slowly, even
            becomesofpurified.
 when it is hermetically sealed in a glass tube. The solution described
 had become nearly colourless when sealed up hermetically for about
 three months. It is found readily to change when it is exposed to
 air by frequent removal of the stopper of the bottle containing it.
 Its strength must be tested occasionally ; and if it differs from the
 standard, a calculation must be made for its reduction. The
 strength of the permanganate solution is extremely small. A few
 grains of the ordinary solutions of manganese used will make some
 thousand grains of the solution here employed. The reason of this
 lies in the extremely small amounts of organic matter found in even
      worstvessel
 the The     air. used is simply a bottle, with a perforated stopper,
 through which pass two tubes. To one of these a stopcock is attached,
 to the other a clasp or stopcock. The standard size proposed is 100
 cubic inches ; and to this all the experiments have been reduced ; the
 vessels actually used contain between 80 and 100 cubic inches of air.
 The stopcock is of glass, or of hard caoutchouc, which is still better.
When the bottle is to be filled with the air to be tested, the stopper is
removed, and the pipe of an exhausting pump is inserted, reaching to
the bottom of the bottle. The pump is made like a cylindrical bellows
of about 8 inches long when stretched out, and about 4 in diameter,
and is compressible into the thickness of about two inches. The sides
are made of thin Mackintosh cloth. By the use of the pump the air
of the vessel is removed, and the external air of course enters. A few
strokes of the pump are sufficient, i.e. from 6 to 10. After ten strokes
I perceive no change, and am inclined to think that it is an unnecessary
number. The test liquid is poured into a graduated tube or burette,
containing somewhat more than will be required. A portion is then
poured into the tube which passes through the stopper, and the stop
cock is opened to allow it to pass. Small quantities are used ; when
it has entered the bottle, the liquid is made to spread over the sides,
and time given it to be exposed to the action of the air ; it is found
that in five or six minutes a decided epoch is attained from which to
           comparative
dateIntheorder           action.
                 to see the colour the liquid must be allowed to trickle
down the sides of the vessel, and collect itself at one point of the cir
cumference at either end of the cylindrical part of the bottle. This
part must be raised up to the level of the eye so that the longest axis
may be presented to the sight, and thereby the deepest shade of colour.
It requires some time to accustom oneself to the sight of such a small
amount of colour ; but when it is once well observed, it will be found to
be a method which will admit of the greatest precision. The first few

1859.]       on the Estimation of the Organic Matter of the Air.               91
drops which are poured in will probably be decolorised at once ; a few
drops more must then be added ; if they become decolorised a few more
must be used ; and so on until there is a perceptible amount of colour
remaining. When this occurs, the experiment is concluded. The
amount of the reagent used is then read off from the graduated mea
sure. If the liquid be of the proper strength, and the bottle the re
quired size, the number of grains gives the comparative quantity at
once. Sometimes the amount of organic matter is so small that there is
no appreciable action, on even the smallest amount of solution by one
vessel of air. In this case it is necessary to fill the bottle several times.
The mode of doing this is apparently extremely rude, but the results
are such as not to demand a finer method at present. A finer method,
of course would need little ingenuity to contrive. At present I merely
remove the stopper and fill again with air as before. During the period
of filling the vessel the surface of the liquid is reduced to its smallest
amount, and the change it undergoes is either inappreciable, or so
     In analysing
constant               affect
            as not tothe       thethis
                          air in       manner, it is found that a decided result
                                    results.
is attained in about five minutes. Sometimes the result is decided in
one : that is, there is a termination to the rapid action. This
peculiarity is probably to be explained by the following experiments.
If we pour decomposing matter on the permanganate solution, it is
rapidly destroyed. If the matter be not in a state of decomposition the
     These
action         different
         is much          results promise a mode of dividing the organic
                    slower.
matter of the air into classes according to its quality. These facts are
mentioned merely as germs of a future inquiry. In large towns where
coals, containing much sulphur, are burnt, the sulphurous acid takes
the oxygen of the chameleon, and an apparently large amount of
organic matter results. This sulphurous acid is of itself an impurity,
      We measure
perhaps     as hurtfulbyasthis
                            somemeans
                                   kindsthe
                                          of organic
                                              amount of   oxygen needful for the
                                                       matter.
oxidisable matter of the atmosphere, and all such matter is impurity,
in some places entirely organic, in others, such as towns, mixed with
      Some gases.
inorganic     of the principal results obtained by this method were as
follows :
RELATIVE QUANTITIES OF ORGANIC AND OTHER OXIDISABLE MATTER
                                   IN THE AIR OP*
          „
    Manchester     (average
                   All   „ ofW.
                        Saints,   E.
                                   131wind
                                      wind,
                                        experiments)
                                             (37
                                             less experiments)
                                                   smoky (33   . . .
                                                           . expts.)     52
                                                                         52*4
                                                                         49 -19
     * A few of these results were published in the " Athenaeum " during last
 summer. The present numbers are somewhat higher, being reduced, for the sake
 of uniformity, to correspond to a vessel of 100 cubic inches.

   92                         Dr. R. Angus Smith,                  [March 25,
      Manchester,All Saints, E. wind, above 70° Fahr.( 1 6 expts.)    58 • 4
           „             „     below     „      (21 experiments)      48 0
           „       In a house kept rather close                       60*7
     In a pigstye uncovered                                          109"7
     Thames at City, no odour perceived after the warmest
           weather of 1858                                            58 -4
     Thames at Lambeth                                                43 * 2
         „       Waterloo Bridge                                      43*2
     London in warm weather (six experiments) . . . .                 29-2
           „ after a thunderstorm                                     12- 3
             „
     In the fields S.
                    N.ofofManchester
                           Highgate, wind from London        . .      13*7
                                                                      12 "3
     Fields during warm weather in N. Italy                            6-6
     Moist fields near Milan                                          18" 1
     Open sea, calm (German Ocean, 60 miles from Yarmouth)             3"3
     Hospice of St. Bernard, in a fog                                  2*8
     Forest
     Lake
     N. Lancashire
            Lucerne
             at Chamouni                                       about   2-8
                                                                       1-4
                                                                      same
       The first experiments undertaken were in Manchester, and the
  average amount obtained was in the city about 50, gradually diminish
  ing in moving towards the country until it was found in the fields at
  13 ; on passing a sewer stream about a mile from the outskirts, the
 amount rose to 83. The atmosphere on the Thames was not measured
 whilst at its worst, but immediately afterwards ; when however it had
 ceased to affect the senses of most persons at least, the amount was very
 high, viz., 58. I was anxious to know how far the Thames affected
 the atmosphere of London, and tried some experiments : the result
 was that the influence appeared to cease almost immediately ; the fact
 of a block of houses standing in the way was enough to prevent the
 influence ; when at the worst this may not have been the case ; to
 arrive at the other side of the block, the vapour would generally
 require to rise high, so that it would become mixed with a great deal
 of air. The amount obtained in a few trials in the streets of London
 was 22 to 34 ; going on to Highgate, the numbers sank from 33 to 24 ;
 on descending the north side of Highgate-hill a distinct change was
 perceived, the numbers being 18 ; the wind meantime was blowing
from the city : the few experiments made in the fields in summer gave
 10 to 12. The numbers 6 to 18 were obtained in Switzerland
and Lombardy. The moist fields around Milan gave 18; when the
water passes off the rice fields, producing the unhealthy season, I do
not doubt that the amount will be much higher. It was not convenient
for me to stay, nor to go farther to places distinctly infected with mal
aria. I was desirous of trying it in some of the hovels of the Vallois
and the Val d'Aosta, but the weather being fine, and the people living
much out of doors, the enquiry was not encouraging. The few ex
periments made did not give very striking results, whereas the lower
parts of our own towns gave results most decided : I imagine the cause

1859.]      on the Estimation of the Organic Matter of the Air.                   93
of this to be that a drier air does not allow the offensive matter to rise
so readily. This fact has many ramifications, but it will explain
several difficulties in our sanitary science. It is with the assistance of
    Moisture
moisture        the organic
           that itself, as may matter
                                  be supposed,
                                        is conveyed    into
                                                    does          air. any action
                                                          nottheproduce
on the test ; one of the lowest numbers obtained was on the German
Ocean, about 60 miles from land ; the day was calm and clear. In
the straits of Dover, when the wind was blowing briskly from the
German Sea, the amount obtained was very high, but as there was a
slight spray the experiments were disregarded. About 8000 feet high
on the Alps, a dense fog showed also one of the smallest amounts
obtained ; the ground was entirely bare rock, and could not give out
organic matter. The amount was 2 * 8.
    The influence of height was very decided. In the higher grounds
of Lancashire, near Preston, the numbers being from 2 to 4. A wind
blowing down from the Mer de Glace gave rather more than at a
lower point, although coming down the hill ; a dry pine forest in the
neighbourhood, although very fragrant, did not appear to raise the num
       few hasty
ber.A The           experiments
             influence   of the seamade
                                     and ofinheight
                                               the hothouses     at Kew
                                                       seem equally        led me to
                                                                        decided.
believe that there was less increase there than might have been ex
pected, the amounts obtained being less than in London, but more than
outside the houses, where it was cooler. At the same time weeks
or months should be given, when only hours were allowed for the
    The influence of heat appears to be to increase the amount, when
experiments.
      is moisture
thereThe                of dryness seems to be towards diminishing the
          influencepresent.
    The influence of great
amount.                  rain in      hasweather,
                                coldhot                 some
                                           not beentotried  yet.extent of course a
cooling influence but chiefly a means of washing the air, seems most
decided. After a thunderstorm and shower at Camden-square, the
    The influence
number,                    our towns,
          which wasofpreviously           fell to 12.our smoky towns, is most
                                     31, especially
decided also ; it is easy to tell by this test, when in the outskirts of a
    A whether
town,            the wind iswas
       distinct difference      blowing
                                   alwaysfrom
                                            found     town orthe
                                                 thebetween           country.
                                                                 thefront  and back
of Manchester houses : a similar difference obtained when a room had
been inhabited for some time, and the difference was of course very
marked when the smell of a sewer came into the house. I had a good
    It must of
opportunity        remembered
               beobserving    this in
                                    that
                                       mythe
                                           laboratory
                                               numberslast    year.
                                                          given   for some places
were obtained on one day of the year only, and we must be careful not to
draw too many conclusions : we have yet to learn what kind of organic
matter is wholesome and what is unwholesome. I believe that this is
the next great point to be attended to ; at present we are only be
coming able to ascertain the gross amount. I feel this caution to be
needful, lest the numbers should be used to prove too much.

94 Dr. R. A. Smith, on the Organic Malterlof the Air. [March 25,
    At an early opportunity all the experiments made will be published ;
but we may already see the range of the action of this test to be so
great as to make it promise to be of some practical as well as scientific
value. Dr. Southwood Smith has observed that the facts on which
sanitary economy are built are exceedingly difficult of comprehension
by a large number of people, because the cause of the evil cannot be
brought directly under the observation ; if however any plan were
invented of showing that these dreaded emanations existed even when
the senses could not perceive them, belief would be easily gained, and
the requisite carefulness would then take place. If the method ex
plained be found to be no more valuable than this, it will at least not
     We may among
be reckoned            useless discoveries.
               hope, however,   that it will be found to prove not only that
much of that which we have already known is true, but that many
other now hidden things are true also ; we may find that every wind
will have attached to it its mark of unwholesomeness with respect to
this test, and that every season also will have its co-efficient. It may
also be found that changes of season or of condition of the air will be
ascertained with much more certainty, delicacy, and rapidity than now.
We may even hope to find some premonitory symptoms of disease in
the atmosphere before it affects the human body ; the exciting cause
itself existing long before it has been able to take effect, so that useful
precautions may be made in time, and an efficient defence prepared.
At the same time no proof whatever has yet been given that a plague
or any infectious disease can be estimated by it, although reason has
been given for such an expectation, whilst the air over different fields
     Butenough
differs             promise some
          what istoabundantly      knowledge
                               established         miasm.clear to the eye is
                                             andof made
that the air of our large cities is sufficiently impure to account for
much of their unhealthiness, and the air of our hills and seas and lakes
sufficiently pure to account for its salubrity. It is to be hoped that
greater consequences will follow in proper time ; although this itself was
needed to set at rest some questions which have cooled the enthusiasm
of many in the cause of sanitary reform.                       [R. A. S.]

1859.]            Mr. Maskelyne on the Crystal Molecule.                           95
                  WEEKLY           EVENING
                             Friday,                MEETING,
                                        April 1, 1859.
    Sir Roderick I. Murchison, D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
                   Nevil Story Maskelyne, Esq. M.A.
 On the Insight hitherto obtained into the Nature of the Crystal
                 Molecule by the instrumentality of Light.*
The horizon of man's view extends in two directions. The one is
turned towards the infinitely vast, and carries his eye into the regions
of space, spanning distances that leave his world a speck in creation. The
other direction along which he strains his gaze, is into the infinitesimal ;
and the microcosm of the crystal is the region it must traverse before
it can reach the ultimate units of material consistence, which form the
centres of chemical force. That region, however, is to be explored by
the reason rather than by the eye, for the minutest thing cognisable
by the microscope is left far behind in the first step taken downwards
intoIn      crystal world.
      thea crystal   there exists a complete regularity of arrangement and
of the distribution of its powers of resisting, of transmitting, or of con
verting and modifying any forces that may solicit it. Of this, to a
great extent, the external symmetry of its facettes is an expression.
But the physical properties of the crystal afford the most perfect
     The different
evidence    of it. varieties of symmetry, exhibited by outward crystal
       In thisare
line* shape,      found
               notice a larger
                          to indicate,
                                space iswith
                                          givenmuch  precision,and
                                                to preliminary     other details than
                                                                a correspondingly
could be devoted to them in an hour's discourse. This was felt to be necessary,
partly because the speaker entered more on these points than he had intended in
the scheme of his discourse ; and having done so it is his wish to give a clear state
ment of them : partly too because the subsequent views for which he is much
indebted to the conversations and private letters of his friend Professor Grailich,
are more intelligible to a general audience by the help of such preliminary expia
tions. He believes they may render a beautiful subject—which must be difficult,
and cannot be popular in the childish sense of the word—sufficiently intelligible, by
patient study, to be interesting to persons such as those who did him the honour of

96                   Mr. Maskelyne on the Crystal Molecule.                               [April I,
ordered arrangement in the physical properties of the various crystals
thatThe     definition
       illustrate        of the terms crystallographic axes, parameters, indices, and
                     them.
morphological axes being necessary for elucidating what was to follow, were
given. Thus crystallographic axes are geometrical directions, determined by the
intersections of any three planes of the crystal. They are taken as axes of co
ordinates, and called severally :c y ami z, and such are chosen as express in the most
simple and smallest numbers the relations of all the planes of the crysial to one
another. These relations are indicated by the Law of Crystallography, viz., by
this, that a plane parallel to any facette will cut these axes at certain definite relative
distances, measured from the centre at which the axes cross, and controlled by the
principle to be next enunciated. Certain of such planes can always be found in
every crystal species for which the ratios of these distances are simpler than in
any others. The distances for such particular planes are called the parameters of
that species, and their values are generally indicated by the letters a b and c, which
represent the distances measured severally along the axes x y and z. The ratios
of these parameters cannot be expressed (except, of course, where they are equal)
by any rational numbers. In this respect they bear some analogy to the chemical
    Now every
equivalents        facette
               ; thus  ; btopaz
                     a in  :onc any
                                : :the\.\
                                       topaz0.5284
                                               crystal: 0.47698
                                         parameters      must cutapproximately.
                                                         are        the axes at distances, the ratios
of which are represented by very simple fractions of these numbers, such as
                                                 i i i &o.
    Hence any facette represented by the form (423) will be parallel to a plane
                       cutting the axes x y z in points whose distances along these axes
             "         are found by the proportions i a along axis x : i 6 along axis y :
                       \ c along the axis z. Just as by the law of definite propor
                       tions in chemistry, if the equivalent of iron be taken as 28.042
                       We have
                       and          28.042
                             of oxygen       8. . . . iron + 8 oxygen, forming one oxide of iron,
    4, 2, 3, are the indices             . 042 facette,
                              2 x of28 that                +3x8
                                                . . . iron and   by the
                                                                      oxygen
                                                                         symbol   (423)another
                                                                               forming           do.
                                                                                         is indicated
a group of eight facettes which the law of symmetry of the system requires, and
which will, therefore, be found on every complete topaz crystal that carries one of
these facettes of that form. The indices are generally indicated by the letters
hit, which, therefore, express rational numbers, while the parameters a b c
     The (where
always             unequal ) express
           term morphological      axis was      definednumbers.
                                            irrational      as an axis round which the facettes
are symmetrically arranged, but which is not necessarily a crystallographic axis
        in the
(e.g.,The       rhombohedron).
            terms  elasticity, and axes of elasticity, were next explained— the former
term as implying a power of counter-resistance to any force tending to displace
the particles of the crystal (e.g., the compressing force of a blow, or any vibration,
such as sound, &c.), the axes of elasticity being those directions in the crystal
along which alone the displacement and the counter resistance opposed to it by the
crystal, coincide and operate in the same line. A force acting in any other
direction is met by counter-forces distributed along the directions of these axes
     These definitions being explained, the speaker entered on a short illustration
of elasticity.
of the laws of crystallographic symmetry in crystals, exhibiting, by means of
diagrams, their general morphological relations, so far as was necessary for the
subsequent discussion, and pointed out the analogy in complex crystal forms,
withThe     symmetry of certain
       therepresentation                floral typesand
                            of the magnitude                 directions of the axes of elasticity in
                                                        of form.
each crystalline system was shown to be possible by means of one of three solid
     These, in the c3se of the octahedral system—from the mutual convertibility
figures.

 1859.]                         as investigated by Light.                                     97
 of every axis of elasticity iu it—were shown to be represented by a sphere. No
 moreThe      said of this
        waspyramidal        rhombohedral systems were morphologically associated, by
                        andsystem.
 the fact of each having one morphological axis, round which a perfect symme'ry
 reigned—though crystallographic laws ranged the facettes in multiples of 4
 round the axis of the first, and of 3 round that of the second. The elasticity in these
crystals was represented by a spheroid —prolate ( called negative), or oblate (called
     The prismatic
 positive),             as the was
             accordingsystem   elasticity
                                    represented,
                                          was greater
                                                  as regarded  its elasticity,
                                                       in an axial             by an direction.
                                                                   or an equatorial   ellipsoid,
     The whose
 a figure   obliqueaxes
                      systems,
                         are all also
                                 unequal,   though rectangular.
                                       approximately     represented by ellipsoids, were
      Theselater.
 discussed      preliminary statements having been gone through, the speaker
entered on the question of the internal molecular arrangement of the
crystal, and first briefly reviewed what has been established regarding
the physical relations of crystals.
      He introduced the name of Professor Grailich, of Vienna, in con
nection with this subject as one who, with his pupils, had worked over
the whole of this large field of research, and had both added much to the
facts themselves, and contributed greatly towards the* extension of the
theoretical views that must be called in to explain them. Some of the
more recent of these results of Professor Grailich and his collaborateur,
      Viktor
Dr. The          von Lang,made
             experiments       formed hitherto
                                          the chief
                                                 to determine
                                                     subject matter      of what
                                                                   the action       a crystal
                                                                                 offollowed.
upon different physical powers, were then reviewed and shown to lead
to the general conclusion that there is a very close relation between its
morphological (and therefore geometrical) symmetry and its physical
      The mechanical elasticity possessed by the crystal in its different
properties.
directions, may be examined through its cohesion, as indicated by its
cleavage, its hardness, its acoustic properties, &c.
      The Cleavage, where it exists in a crystal, invariably occurs in
the direction of actual or of (in obedience to the great crystallographic
law), possible crystal-planes, and is furthermore found to follow planes
represented by very simple indices. Besides this relation between the
direction in which the crystal splits and its crystallographic form, there
is also exhibited a remarkable relation between the degrees of facility
in which the substance yields to the cleaving force and the symmetry
of the crystal. Such crystals as have equal parameters exhibiting equal
facility of cleavage in three directions ; such as have two only exhibit
equally easy cleavage in two directions.
      The Hardness of a crystal also varies on its different facettes, and
in different directions on the same facette ; and it would seem to be a
general law that the greatest hardness is exhibited in a direction and
on a plane at right angles to that of cleavage, and that the hardness
graduates in its degree in proportion as the plane experimented on
tends to coincide with that plane. [Frankenheim, Franz, Grailich
and Pekarck.]
      The Acocstic characters of a crystal are of an analogous kind.
So far as they have been investigated they seem to follow the law of its
      Vox. II. (No. 29.)                                                           H

98               Mr. Maskelyne on the Crystal Molecule                           [April 1 ,
symmetry. Thus rhombohedral crystals exhibit a triple acoustic sym
metry round the morphological axis ; and the axes of acoustic elasticity,
appear to coincide with the crystallographic axes, i.e., with the intersec
tions of the planes of the fundamental rhombohedron. In some cases the
the acoustic characters of the crystal (indicated by the tones produced,
as also by the lines into which finely sprinkled particles arrange them
selves on a plate of the substance when set vibrating by a violin bow),
seem to provide a more subtle means of investigating its elastic struc
ture than the coarser methods of cleavage and hardness [Savart's
Experiments—this is especially exemplified in the case of quartz],
and crystal acoustics would, in this respect, seem to offer a fertile field
for investigation.
     In the Magnetic relations of the several parts of a crystal much
has been done [Faraday, Plucker, Tyndall and Knoblauch, Grailich
and Von Lang]. The results of Professors Tyndall and Knoblauch
have been completely confirmed and extended by Grailich and Von
Lang, who have added to their results a large series of magne-crystal-
line determinations, and expressed them by a nomenclature at once
comprehensive and concise. Tyndall and Knoblauch have shown that
the intensity of the dia-magnetic (i.e., equatorially tending), or of the
paramagnetic (i.e., axially tending) action, depends on the density of
the substance along particular directions. The Vienna observers
prove that isomorphous bodies, of similar (dia- or para-) magnetic kinds,
have a similar magnetic set ; and that those of opposite kinds (one of
para- the other of dia-), magnetic nature, comport themselves in ways
precisely inverse to one another, and that thus the magnetic orien
tation* depends upon the different relative densities of the crystal
along   different
     There    is evidently
                   crystallographic
                              here a qualitative
                                           directions in   it. (an axial or an equa
                                                        action
torial set) which is to be distinguished from the amount of energy,
of this setting or directive force, in various directions of the crystal.
The former depends on the chemical nature of the substance ; the
    * By
latter    orientation
        solely            implied the arrangement.
                on theis crystalline      directions in space, relatively to some given
directions, ofany axes (whether crystallographic, magnetic, acoustic, optic, thermic, or
any other). Thus if a b c indicate the order of magnitude of the parameters of a tri-
metric crystal, say one of aragonite, and these are fixed in position, a, for instance,
                    being vertical, b horizontal, running from right to left, and c hori
                    zontal, running from front to back, the magnetic orientation ofsuch
                    a crystal is found to be such that the line c has the strongest tendency
                    to stand equatorially. Aragonite is a diamagnetic substance, and
                    this, together with its orientation, is designated by Professor
                    Grailich by the symbol $ (c a b) which serves to indicate that the
                    lines of greatest, mean, and least magnetic action are in the order
cab, the greatest crystallographic axis being that of least magnetic action fand
therefore in this diamagnetic substance also that of greatest molecular density),
while the mean and least crystallographic axes are respectively the least and the
mean of the magne-crystalline axes. The magnetic orientation of the mineral
staurolite, which is a para-magnetic substance, is expressed by <n (a c b), so that
here the same axis is the direction at once of the greatest crystallographic
parameter and of the greatest magnetic action, i.e., the axis of greatest density,

1859.]                   as investigated by Light.                             99
     The passage of Electricity through crystals has been studied
[Wiedemann, Senarmont, Knoblauch], and given general results indica
tive of analogy with those obtained in respect to the transmission of
light and heat ; while the remarkable development by heating or
cooling a crystal, of electric tensions on parts of it morphologically
polar to each other [analogue and antilogue poles in terminally-polar,
and also central-polar pyro-electricity—Riess and Rose, Karsten
Pasteur, &c.] indicates that here, as in magnetically polar sub
stances, and as in the alterations in volume effected by change
of temperature, the powers that, so to say, reside in the crystal, and of
which its crystalline form is the outward expression, are potent to
modify the character and the amount of the tensions induced by the
natural forces, which we call electricity, magnetism, and heat, and
that those powers have thereby a direction or localisation imposed on
them in accordance with the crystalline structure.
     Heat, indeed, must be viewed in more than one modo operandi.
As radiant heat ; in the influence of the crystal upon its forward pro
pagation ; in its polarisation, absorption, or transmission by {i.e. the
diathermanence of) the crystal, we have to associate it intimately
with light, to view it in short, as light endowed with longer wave
     As heat of temperature (intensity of thermic excitement) we must
length.
follow up its action on crystals as an agent causing increase of volume,
and therewith inducing a series of concomitant results of the highest
interest. In this respect it affords one of the most instructive means
at our disposal for the examination of crystal structure. Upon this
Professor Grailich and Dr. Viktor Von Lang have brought mathema
tical analysis to bear ; and by showing that the increase of temperature,
while changing the relative values of the parameters of a crystal, never
alters the irrational character of those parameters, have given to
Mitscherlich's beautiful and well-known results a new significance, as
Von Lang has also done with Rudberg's investigation on the change
in the action of aragonite on light induced by a change of temperature.
They have shown that all which is symbolised by the indices (the
general symbol (A k I), in a crystal—its symmetry, and therefore its
system —remains unaltered : the lengths of the parameters may vary,
the inclination of a leaning axis in the oblique systems, may change by
change of temperature, but the principle which Grailich establishes
as the " Law of Conservation of Zones," remains presiding over the
general crystal form, so that it is impossible for a crystal, by the mere
agency of a changing temperature, to drift from one system into
another.*
while the mean and least parameters are the directions respectively of the least
and mean magne-crystalline set.
    * Thermic axes are those directions in a crystal along which it is altered, by
change of temperature, only in linear dimensions They are are fixed crystallo-
graphic directions. Every other crystallographic line that can be drawn through
the crystal, changes not in length only, but also in direction relatively to these
axes.
                                                                  U2

100             Mr. Maskelyne on the Crystal Molecule                   [April 1,
    But it is to Light that we are to look as the most subtle instrument
for aidmg our reason in scrutinizing the inner nature, or most intimate
structure of the molecular system, which we call a crystal. It seems
a true prerogative of light to do this. The frequent transparency,
and the varied colours in different directions of so many crystals ; and
the changes which the light is subject to within the crystal, its polarisa
tion, absorption, fluorescence, and the other modifications it undergoes,
all point to this most subtle agency as a discriminative power the best
     In any
adapted                systems under consideration, the light, on entering a
          forofourthepurpose.
crystal, is, except along certain directions, divided and polarised. The
two polarised rays into which it becomes thus divided pursue new and
different paths in the crystal, each ray differing from the other in the
velocity of its propagation, the crystal retarding the progress of the
ray vibrating in one plane, more than it does the ray vibrating in a
plane polar to this. The spheroids, or ellipsoids of elasticity before
alluded to present admirable geometrical expressions for the degree
and relative amounts of the retardations effected, and for the direc
tions of the planes of vibration thus induced by the crystal on the
waves of light. Without entering into an explanation of the polarisa
tion of light, or its precise relations to the directions of optical elasticity
in the crystal, it was deemed enough to remark that parallel to one
direction the sections of the spheroid are circles, and that the ( locus
of, or) line formed by the consecutive centres of these circles is the
morphological as well as the optical axis of all crystals belonging to
those systems, whose elasticity can be represented in magnitude and
direction by a spheroid (the pyramidal—rhombohedral.) In the pris
matic, (and approximately in the clinohedric systems,) whose elasticity
is represented by an ellipsoid, there are two circular sections that may
     In either
be made         case the
           through      lines
                           centre
                               perpendicular    to these
                                   of the ellipsoid       circles are the " optic
                                                     of elasticity.
axes " of these systems, that is to say, are directions along which a ray
goes with only one velocity, and is, therefore, not broken up and
polarized ; as can be demonstrated by a very simple geometrical con
struction. The spheroidally elastic systems have, therefore, one optic
axis—one only direction along which light passes unchanged (uniaxial
systems). The systems whose optical elasticity is represented by ellip
soids have two such directions (biaxial systems). Moreover, in the
latter the plane of these can be readily shown to lie necessarily in the
same plane as contains the greatest and least axis of the ellipsoid, i.e.
     greatest
theThe          meanleast
        first and             of the
                        lineaxis     optic axes in biaxial crystals, is the line
                                  of elasticity.
bisecting the acute angle formed by the optic axes. In prismatic
crystals it is, according as the mean elastic axis is proportionately
small or large, either the greatest axis of optical elasticity (optically
negative crystal), or the least (an optically positive crystal). The
second mean line is the axis bisecting the obtuse, angle, formed by the
optic axes. The law of the prismatic system regarding the position of
the optic axes for different colours, appears to be that the first mean

     J 859.]                     as investigated by Light.                                  101
     line of the optic axes is the same for every colour, in any given crystal
     species, but that the angle of the optic axes for each colour may be
     different. Furthermore, in this system, the axes of optical elasticity,
     and the mean lines, as well as the planes containing the optic axes,
          A beam
     coincide       of polarized
               in direction           the morphological
                               with light    was employedaxes.  to throw on a screen the
    stauroscopic phenomena produced in sections of crystals, cut perpen
     dicularly to their optic axes, or to the first mean lines of these; and,
     by the use of absorbing coloured glasses, the different optic axes were
     shown to diverge more for some colours than for others in the prismatic
,«  system.
        Thus Rochelle salt exhibits the centres of the rings or brushes as far
    more divergent for the red rays than for blue, while in aragonite the
    converse is the case, though not in so eminent a degree. Mellate of
    ammonia (and Brookite also) exhibit (as shown by Grailich) the
    wonderful fact of a divergence of the red rays with the optic
    axes in the plane x z, while the optic axes for the blue rays lie in
    the plane y z, and those for green, converge at the centre, into a
          The more
    uniaxial   system.complicated phenomena exhibited by sections of crystals
    belonging to the clinohedric (oblique and anorthic) systems were next
    made the subject of illustration, partly by diagrams and in part too by
    experiment. In the monoclinohedric (the singly leaning prismatic
    system), there is one plane of morphological symmetry, and it con
    tains the two crystallographic axes that are inclined to each other ; the
    third is called " the axis of symmetry," and is the only true crystal
    lographic axis in this system, that is fixed by morphological condi
   tions. The laws of the distribution0a»<£ of the dispersion of the optic
    axes in this system, as given by Angstrom [Beer's Hohere Optik,
    and Grailich's Translation of Professor Miller's Crystallography],
   are—lst,That this morphological axis is also one axis ofpolarisation* for
    all colours, without dispersion (i.e., without any divergence of the
   directions of vibration of the rays for different colours) ; but that
    the other two axes of polarisation are rectangular axes, and are
   dispersed for0 different colours differently in the plane of symmetry ;
   and 2ndly [Angstrom], there are three different cases peculiar to this
   system possible : gypsum illustrates one of these, that namely, in which
   the morphological axis is the second mean line, and the axes of
   the blue and red rays stand to each other in the positions of
   B R B R.
         Borax illustrated another of these cases, where the planes of the optic
   axes for the blue and for the red were so dispersed in the plane of
   the         mean
                asof
   symmetry
        *first
         Finally,
          The use      line.
                   Adularia
                    tothe
                        beword  illustrates
                            crossed
                                 axis thus      R position
                                                     B
                                            : the    jj instead
                                       of polarisation          of
                                                          theofmorphological
                                                                 theaxis
                                                                      optic
                                                                         of elasticity,
                                                                                    in which
                                                                             axes,axis  being
                                                                                        in this
   case is afterwards explained.

102            Mr. Maskelyne on the Crystal Molecule                   [April 1,
the planes containing them, for each colour, cross the plane of sym
metry, and the morphological axis is the second mean line, the first
mean lines being dispersed for each colour along the plane of symmetry.
This position is that of ^
    Thus far the conformity between crystalline symmetry and the
distribution of optical elasticity, would seem sufficiently near to bring
the latter into the same category with the elasticity exhibited by the
crystals under the solicitation of less subtle forces. But a nearer view
     Forphenomena
of the               goesthat
         all the results   far to
                                haddispel
                                      beenthis expectation.
                                            previously reviewed, an explana
tion more or less complete may be found in a simple hypothesis ; namely
this, that the centres of gravity of the crystal-molecules are always
arranged in planes which represent either actual or possible facettes :
while the relative distances of molecule from molecule are the same
in the same direction, but different for different directions. To disturb a
molecule so as to move it out of its plane, would be to destroy the
integrity of the molecular system. Magnetic orientation would only indi
cate the lines of greater or less distance between the molecules ; increase
of thermic intensity (temperature), too, only causes a greater interval
between the molecules without altering the crystallographic relations
of the planes they lie in — albeit that this increase of interval is
different in different directions. These, and, in all probability also,
the other as yet less elaborated results of physical experiment, are
thus explicable as dependent on the disposition of the mass centres of
the molecules, and are so capable of being rendered subordinate to
the fundamental law of crystallography.
     lint the hypothesis above sketched in outline fails to explain a
series of facts which Light reveals to us, and which show that the
optical properties of a crystal cannot be directly dependent on the
   Firstly. The
arrangement        the molecules.
               of action  of increased Among
                                          temperature           crystal, while
                                               these areonthea following  : — it
alters the volume of the crystal, does so by changing the values of the
parameters, changing thereby too the refractive powers of the substance.
As such refractive powers vary generally inversely as the amount of
elasticity and directly as the density of the light-transmitting medium
varies, we might expect the variations in the parameters and
refractive indices and also in the axes of elasticity to follow pari passu
with the changes in the molecular density in different directions as the
erystal becomes expanded : nothing of the kind occurs. The axes
of optical elasticity vary indeed (in aragonite for instance), but their
orientation is quite dissimilar from that of the altered crystallographic
axes ; i. e., the directions of the greatest mean and least carameters
of the heated crystal, which measure its physical density, entirely differ
from the corresponding directions of the greatest mean and least of
     new axes
the 2ndly.     of speaker
             The           elasticity.
                   optical had  already alluded to the remarkable fact of the
crossing of the planes of the optic axes for different colours in mellate

1859.]                      as investigated by Light.                             103
of ammonia, brookite [Grailich], and other crystals, sutfn as at a
high temperature, glauberite [Brewster, Descloiseaux], and gypsum
[Mitscherlich]. It is strange to think that thus in one and the same
substance there should co-exist a principal direction of vibration of a
different order {e.g. the a axis for the red, with the b axis for the
     3rdly.forAgain,
violet),       differentthecolours
                            prolificinlabours
                                        one and     Grailich,
                                                of the          direction.
                                                         same and    his pupils, have
established a most interesting and important law regarding isomorphous
substance^ viz. this : that the optical similarity between any series of
isomorphous bodies frequently diminishes in proportion as the isomor
                     phous chemical substances, not common to the
                     different bodies, preponderate over those which are
                     common to them.
                          The crystallographic orientation of the form com
                      mon to the isomorphous group of the following sub
                      stances, is expressed by the parameters in the order
                      of their magnitude, a b c.
     In sulphate of potash the optical elasticity is expressed by the
symbol a c b ; in sulphate ofammonia by b a c ; in chromate of potash,
            +                                           +
of the
by      b ; the order
    a c different         ofthe letters
                    magnitudes,    as expressed
                                          indicating      each
                                                    byinthe     case(athe
                                                             letter       orientation
                                                                       being  greater
than b and b than c), and as compared with the directions in space of
     originalthecrystallographic
the Thus                            parameters
                   chemical substance              a b c.overrules the crystalline
                                             entirely
arrangement in impressing on the crystallized body an optical elasticity ;
so that we are driven to seek the fundamental cause of optical cha
 racter, not in the arrangement of molecules, but in the inner nature,
     How, then,
constitution,        are these
                 structure       results, discordant as they are with crys
                            of these.
tallographic facts, to be reconciled with that general harmony between
morphological symmetry and crystallo-optical phenomena, which we
haveTo   this question,
       already             the answer
                 in part accepted    ? is not readily found. It is, however,
the more probable view, that the chemical units of matter (of the nature
of which we are profoundly ignorant, and are without even analogies
to guide us ; but which the atomic theorists, assume to be compounded
of atoms in some form of geometrical arrangement, and clustered to
gether in chemical groups), form the basis ofthe crystalline system : that
these are ordinated (with the ether of the mathematical theory) in higher
groups which form the ultimate crystal-units-of-mass, or crystal mole
cules—but that the form and internal arrangement of the molecule
bears a close analogy, and a general identity of symmetry, with the
form       the crystalunits
    Theof chemical       of which
                              of mass
                                    it is we
                                           the can   at anymass-unit.
                                               constituent    rate treat as distinct
mechanical units with centres of gravity, and centres of volume
 (probably distinct), and endowed with powers that cannot be the same
in different directions. These then would thus upbuild the molecular

 104            Mr. Mashelyne on the Crystal Molecule,             [April 1,
 units of mass of the crystal, and would be arranged in the interior of
 those molecules in a manner closely analogous to the arrangement of
the molecules in the crystal itself ; which, as was before stated, may be
looked on (at any rate as an illustration to the mind of crystallo-
physical facts) as so co-ordinated in direction as that every plane iu
which a series of the centres of gravity of the molecules lies, must be
(an actual or a possible) crystal plane. The mysterious ether assumed
and adopted by the undulatory theory plays its part within the mole
         theenshrouds
culesOnand    one hand,itsthen,
                           constituent
                                axes, such
                                       chemical unitsofof acoustic
                                           as those       mass. * elasticity,
of magnetic induction, or thermic axes, belong to the crystal as a
whole, depending for their magnitude and direction on the statical con
dition and the relative arrangement of the molecules inter se. The
axes of optical elasticity on the other hand will be the axes of elasticity
of the molecule itself, that is, of the ether within it. But the elasticity
of the ether, as exhibited by the velocity with which a ray is propa
gated in it along its different directions is controlled by the action of
the reposing ponderable units (or atoms at rest) on the ether particles
in motion. As long as the directions in which the ether is constrained
to vibrate, by reason of this perturbing action - its axes of elasticity—
are continuous throughout the crystal (as will be the case if the
neighbouring molecules are arranged inter se in the same symmetry as
the ether particles in any one of the molecules, so that the neighbour
ing molecules do not distract those directions by a perturbing action
oblique to theirs,) so long will the influence of the material particles be
confined to the exercise of a constraint on the velocity of each wave,
whatever its length, i.e., colour ; but it will not cause any dispersion
of these. This condition of coincidence in direction of thev crystal
line and molecular axes occurs only in the rectangular systems ;
and in the biaxial ones, therefore, only in the Prismatic system.
But the coincidence is confined to direction, neither the magnitude of
the axes, nor their orientation (as had been shown) presenting any
     In the oblique systems there is no reason to assume the obliquity in
identity.
the molecule as of the same inclination as that of the inclined axes of
the crystal. Thus these two sets of oblique axes cannot coincide in
direction. Hence the perturbing influence of the ponderable matter
operates, by reason of this want of coincidence, in directions other than
those of the axes of the individual molecule, and extends its results to
the directions of vibration, that is to say, effects the dispersion of these
directions for different colours. In fact, for any light-wave now to
traverse the crystal without being broken up, it must take directions
neither coincident with the axes of elasticity of the molecule, nor with
the crystalline axes. These directions will have different orientation
for different colours), and, not being coincident with the thermic
axes, will vary with the temperature. They will be rectangular axes
— axes of a polarisation-ellipsoid, different for each colour—and will
indicate the directions of the principal planes of polarisation, which
must be normal to each other, and will also prescribe the limits of the

   1859.]                       as investigated by Light.                                 105
   wave surface. They are the resultant axes of polarisation before
        But this
   alluded           they have
               to ; subject  enters
                                  no here
                                      statical
                                            intosignificance
                                                  the domain of     mathematical
                                                                in the  crystal. analysis.
   Indeed, though experiment has effected much, and mathematical inter
    pretation more, for the establishment of the laws that control the
   difficult phenomena exhibited by oblique crystals, the subject is still
    one in which much has to be done, especially in determining the
    trueThe       of elasticity
           axeslast              in theseon,crystals.
                     subject touched           and that briefly, was the impossibility
    of explaining the growth of a crystal by any architectural view, like
~» thataddition,
   the    of Haiiy,one      byone,
                       i.e.by   any asview
                                         it were,
                                             that supposes      the crystal
                                                     of molecules,     endowed     only with
                                                                              developed    by
   forces acting at minute distances and depositing themselves by virtue
   of these alone in their position. The facts connected with the growth
   of aThe          in its mother-liquor
          crystalsimultaneous       productionpoint of
                                                     to quite      different conclusion.
                                                            the acorresponding      facettes,
   however minute they may be, and however complicated the crystal form,
   upon the opposite ends or parts of it, and in the precise positions
   where symmetry requires them, needs for its explanation something akin
   to an instinct in the molecules, if we are to suppose them so to deposit
   themselves, as that their deposition is independent of influences extend
        Hemihedrism
   ing atSoonce
              too how
                   over are
                         the  the
                              whole
                           points  infinite
                                    tocrystal,
                                        the same
                                             numbers  to ofthetesselated
                                                 andresult.*              crystalline
                                                               mother liquid            fragit.
                                                                                investing
   ments that interpenetrate without any symmetrical orientation so many
   crystals [Leydolt's Etching Experiments on Quartz, Apophyllite, &c.]
         Finally,
   without           the forms
               interfering    withoftheir
                                       crystals,
                                            general      of fluor
                                                   sayform,           explained
                                                               to bespar,  or of ?calc spar,
    from the same mine, are similar, while those met with in a neighbour
   ing locality, where the conditions of deposit were different, are different
   from these. The typical forms of barytes as found in Cumberland,
   or in Auvergne, Schemnitz, &c. are different for each locality, and
   so are often the hornblendes that occur in different rocks. Over large
   extents of country a mineral (e.g. the augite of Southern Tyrol) will
   present constantly the same combinations of crystalline form. Salt is
   deposited in cubes from its simple aqueous solution,—in octahedra
   when that solution contains uric" acid ; and alum presents the form of
            all these
    theIncube           alumina
                 when cases,        is presentindeed,
                               therefore,—       in excess.in every case—the growth of
   a crystal is an inexplicable thing, so long as we endeavour to trace its
   cause to powers residing in and confined to the molecules. A crystal,
   like a plant, is developed in a medium, and as the plant owes the
   special peculiarities of its individual form, notwithstanding the seem
       * Grailich
   ingly    perfect connects
                      freedomhemihedrism
                                  of its growth,            special circumstances
                                                (i.e theto development                 in the
                                                                         of only the alternate
   planes required by the symmetry of the system of a crystal) with a difference in
   position of the centres of gravity and centres of volume in th,e molecules.—(Private
   J.etler.j

106                      General Monthly Meeting.                   [April 4,
soil, the air, the weather during that growth ; and its general similarity
to other plants of its kind, to the organic laws that controul the con
ditions of its species ; so must the crystal be considered as the result
of many co-operating influences, including those of the foreign consti
tuents of the mother liquid, those of temperature and other physical
conditions, and involving the principle that the molecules, whether
those deposited, or those about to become so, affect and are affected by
— and that to considerable distances—the whole of the formed and
     It would
forming        be matter.
          crystal  as useless to expect to explain the growth of a crystal
without some such view as this, as to endeavour to account for the
growth or outward form of a particular plant by the development of
     In closing
a single  leaf. the remarks made in this discourse upon the theoretical
bearings of crystallo-physical and especially optical investigation, on
our views of the structure and constitution of crystals, the speaker
could only allude to the important practical services they have already
rendered to mineralogy, especially in the able hands of M. Descloi-
seaux in Paris, who has been enabled to determine several mineralogical
                  means. Monday,
species by theirGENERAL               April 4, 1859.
                                MONTHLY           MEETING,[N. S.-M.]
William Pole,Sir        Thomas
                     Esq.,  M.A. inFowell
                                    the
                                     F.R.S.
                                         Chair.
                                              Treasurer
                                             Buxton,      and Vice-President,
                                                       Bart.
                    John Stuart Glennie, Esq.
                    Herbert William Hart, Esq.
                    James Hopgood, Esq.
                    John Henry Le Marchant, Esq.
                    Arthur Giles Puller, Esq.
                    Charles Ratcliffe, Esq. F.S.A. F.L.S.
                    Thomas
                      Members
were duly electedWilliam      B.
                              Salmon,
                                  of
                                  Baskett, Royal
                                      the Esq.      and
                                              Esq. Institution.
                    Hall Rokeby
 were admitted Members                 RoyalEsq.
                              of thePrice,     Institution.

1859.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                          107
    The following Letter from Sir Henry Holland, Bart. V.P.R.T.
to the Secretary was read : —
                                              " Brook Street, April 4th, 1 859.
    " Mr dear Sir,—As I may be unable to attend the Board of
Managers to-day, will you let me ask you to be the medium of a pro
posal, which I trust will be accepted, as an expression of my earnest
desire to contribute, in some degree, to maintain the Royal Institution
in the high position it holds among the scientific institutions in
England ?
    " Two or three years ago notice was taken of the expediency of
adding to and replacing in parts the apparatus belonging to the
Institution. In reference to this important object, I now propose to
pay over to the Treasurer for the present year £40, and to continue
the same every succeeding year of my life ; this sum being appropriated
to the purchase or renewal of apparatus, under such arrangement as it
may seem good to the present Board of Managers to direct. The only
suggestions I venture to offer are, that the Professors of the Royal
Institution should have an official part in the appropriation, and that
the term of apparatus should be taken in its largest sense : as including
whatever relates to the uses of the Laboratory and to the requirements
of the Lectures, which have so greatly tended to sustain the character of
the Royal Institution,                               me, dear
                                            BelieveYours       Sir,
                                                          veryH.  Holland.
                                                                faithfully,
     " P.S.—Let me add a line further to say, that if there were found to
be any practical convenience in the immediate application of a larger
sum to the purposes in question, I shall gladly bring into the present
 year the payment of the next also."
   The Rev. John Barlow, M.A ,
          Secretary S.I. Sfc.
         Whereupon, it was Resolved—
     That the special thanks of the Members of the Royal Institution be
 offered to Sir Henry Holland for a gift so valuable in itself, and so
 calculated to advance both the scientific character and the popular
     The Special
 usefulness          Institution.
             of theThanks      of the Members were returned to The Duke
 of Northumberland, for his present of Mr. McLauchlan's Works on
 " Roman Remains in the North of England ;" to M. II. Sainte-
 Claire Deville, Hon. M.R.I, for his present of his work " De
 l'Aluminium ; " and to Miss Elizabeth Twining, for her presents of
 her magnificent works, " Illustrations of the Natural Order of Plants,"
 (160 coloured plates, with letter-press descriptions ; handsomely bound
     Thevolumes
 in two     Secretary
                    folio)announced
                            ; and her "that
                                         Lectures  on Plants."
                                            the following   arrangements had
       made Lectures
 beenSeven                 on the after
              for the Lectures           EasterFacts
                                    General     :— and Leading Princi
 ples of Geological Science, by Professor John Morris.

108                            General Monthly Meeting.                       [April 4,
     Seven Lectures on the Seven Periods of Art, by Austen
Henry Layard, Esq
     Seven Lectures (in continuation) on Modern Italian Litera
ture,         J. P. Lacaita,
     Thebyfollowing       PresentsEsq.   were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
   From
Arts,  Society of—Journal for March 1859. 8vo.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 259. 8vo. 1858.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, March 1859. 8vo.
liayerische Akademie der IVissenschaften—Abhandlungen. Band VIII. Abth. 2.
     4to. 1858.
   Aunalen der Koniglichen Sternwarte bei Munchen. Band X. 8vo. 1858.
   Meteo. ologische Beobachtnngen, Munchen, 1825-37. 8vo. 1857.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for March 1859. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for March 1859. 4to.
British Architects, Institute of—Proceedings for March 1 859. 4to.
 Chambers, Geo. F. Esq, M.R.I.— Mitchell's Newspaper Press Directory. 8vo. 1859.
 Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 44. 8vo. 1859.
Deville, H. Sainte- Claire, Hon. M R.I. (the Author)—De 1'Aluminium : ses Pro-
     prietes, sa Fabrication et ses Applications. 8vo. Paris, 1859.
   The Journal
        Mechanics'
        Engineer
         Athemcum
Editors—The
         Practical
         ArtizanMedical
                 of
                 forfor
                    Mechanic's
                      Gas-Lighting
                      for
                       March
                        March
                          March
                       Magazine
                            Circular
                               1859.
                                 1859.
                                  Journal
                                   for
                                   1859.
                                       for
                                        March
                                       for4to.
                                           fol.
                                            March
                                            March
                                             4to.
                                             for 1859.
                                                     1859.
                                                     1859.8vo.
                                                  March      8vo.
                                                             4to. 4to.
                                                          1859.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Repertoire de Chimie, par C. Barreswil und
     A. Wurtz. No. 6. 8vo. Paris 1859.
   Akademie der Wissenschaften,Wien—Mathematisch-Naturwissen. Classe : Denk-
     schriften. Band XIV. 4to. 1858. Sitzungs-Berichte. Mai 1857 zu Juni
     1858. 8vo.
   Almanach,    1858. 12mo.
     Akademie,
   Festreden        der 29,
               bei Oct.       1857. 4to.
                          feierlichen           i857. des Universitutsgebaudes durch die
                                         Uebernahme
     Band V. der1853.
   J;ihrbu6h                 Central-Anstalt
                     K. K.4to.    1858.           fur Meteorologie und Erdmagnetesmus.
   Physikalske Meddelelser ved Adam Arndtsen, &c. 4to. Christiania, 1858.
   Memorie dellaReale Accademia delle Scienze di Torino. TomoXVII. 4to. 1858
   Report on the Teneriffe Astronomical Experiment of 1856, by Professor C.
     Piazzi Smyth. 4to. 1858.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXVII. No. 2. 8vo. 1859.
Geneve, Socie"te"de Physique—Mémoires, Tome XIV. Partie 2. 4to, 1858.
Geological Society—Proceedings for March 1859. 8vo.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. III. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1859.
     Lunatic
Halsmell,      Asylums,Esq.—Reports
            Edmund,        for 1859. 8vo.   of the Visitors of the Hanwell and Colney
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for March 1859. 8vo.
Nimello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times, for March 1859. 4to.
Auriliitmberland, The Duke of, K.G. F.R.S. President R.I.—Henry Mac Lauch-
     lan, Esq. Memoir written during a Survey of the Roman Wall through
     Northumberland and Cumberland, 1852-54. With Charts. 8vo. and fol. 1853.
   Memoir written during a Survey of the Watling Street from the Tees to the
     Scotch Border, in 1850-1. With Charts. 8vo. and fol. 1852.
Vetermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilnngen auf dem Gesammtgebietc der
     Ueographie. 1859. Heft 2. 4to, Gotha, 1859.

1859.]          Prof. Owen on Recent and Fossil Mammalia.                        109
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 81. 8vo. 1859.
     dessous a Aubes
Rachmaninow,              Author)—Note
                 M. (thePlanes.            sur la Théorie de la Roue Hydraulique on
                                  4to. 1858.
     Jan.George,
Scharf,                  (the Secretary)— Catalogue of the National Portrait Gallery,
           1, 1859.Esq.8vo.
TSvining, Miss Elizabeth (the Author)— Illustrations of the Natural Orders of
     Plants, arranged in Groups ; 160 Coloured Plates, with Descriptions. 2 vols,
     fol. 1849-55.
   ShortJames,
 Yates,         Esq.onF.R.S.
          Lectures                12mo. 1858.J. S. Porter: On the Metrical System
                        Plants. M.R.I.—llev.
     of Weights and Measures.        8vo. April
                              Tuesday,      1859. 12, 1859.
       Conclusion of the Twelfth Lecture of a Course
                             " On Fossil Mammals,"
                                            BY
                              Richard Owen, F.R.S.
                FULLERTAN PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY, ROYAL INSTITUTION, ETC.
   Summary of the Succession in Time and Geographical Distribution
                       of Recent and Fossil Mammalia. "*
Having thus recounted the chief steps which have been made in the
restoration of the extinct quadrupeds of Australia, I conclude the
physiological deductions from this class of organic phenomena, and the
selection of topics, which seemed to me to be best adapted for the pre
sent Fullerian course. In the discourse of to-day, as in the preceding
one on South American extinct mammals, you could not fail to be
struck with the forcible and cumulative evidence which they supplied in
proof of the law that with extinct as with existing mammalia, particular
forms were assigned to particular provinces, and that the same forms
were restricted to the same provinces at a former geological period as
they are at the present day. That period, however, was the more recent
     In carrying
tertiary   one.        back the retrospective comparison of existing and
extinct mammals to those of the eocene and oolitic strata, in relation to
their local distribution, we obtain indications of extensive changes in
the relative position of sea and land during those epochs, through the
degree of incongruity between the generic forms of the mammalia
which then existed in Europe, and any that actually exist on the great
natural continent of which Kurope now forms part. It would seem,
indeed, that the further we penetrate into time for the recovery of
extinct mammalia, the further             webymust
                                   * Printed           go into space to find their
                                                 Request.

  110                         Professor Otoen,                     [April 12,
 existing analogues. To match the eocene palaeotheres and lophiodons
 we must bring tapirs from Sumatra or South America ; and we must
 travel to the antipodes for myrmecobians, the nearest living analogue
      Onamphitheres
 to the   the problemand   the extinctionofofour
                        of spalacotheres         ooliticIstrata.
                                               species     have little to say ;
 and of the more mysterious subject of their coming into being, nothing
 profitable or to the purpose, at present. As a cause of extinction in times
 anterior to man, it is most reasonable to assign the chief weight to those
 gradual changes in the conditions affecting a due supply of sustenance
 to animals in a state of nature which must have accompanied the
 slow alternations of land and sea brought about in the aaons of geo
 logical time. Yet this reasoning is applicable only to land animals ; for
 it is scarcely conceivable that- such operations can have affected sea-
     There are characters in land-animals rendering them more obnoxious
 fishes.
 to extirpating influences, which may explain why so many of the larger
 species of particular groups have become extinct, whilst smaller
 species of equal antiquity have survived. In pioportion to its bulk is
 the difficulty of the contest which the animal has to maintain against
 the surrounding agencies that are ever tending to dissolve the vital
 bond, and subjugate the living matter to the ordinary chemical and
 physical forces. Any changes, therefore, in such external agencies as
 a species may have been originally adapted to exist in. will militate
against that existence in a degree proportionate to the size which may
characterise the species. If a dry season be gradually prolonged, the large
mammal will suffer from the drought sooner than the small one ; if such
alteration of climate affect the quantity of vegetable food, the bulky
herbivore will first feel the effects of stinted nourishment ; if new
enemies be introduced, the large and conspicuous animal will fall a
prey while the smaller kinds conceal themselves and escape. Small
quadrupeds, moreover, are more prolific than large ones. Those of
the bulk of the mastodons, megatheria, glyptodons, and diprotodons,
are uniparous. The actual presence, therefore, of small species of
animals in countries where larger species of the same natural families
formerly existed, is not the consequence of degeneration—of any
gradual diminution of the size—of such species, but is the result of
circumstances which may be illustrated by the fable of the " Oak and
the Reed ;" the smaller and feebler animals have bent and accommo
dated themselves to changes to which the larger species have suc
   That species should become extinct appears, from the abundant
cumbed.
evidence of the fact of extinction, to be a law of their existence *
whether, however, it be inherent in their own nature, or be relative
and dependent on inevitable changes in the conditions and theatre of
their existence, is the main subject for consideration. But, admitting
extinction as a natural law which has operated from the beginning of
life on this planet, it might be expected that some evidence of it should
occur in our own time, or within the historical period. Reference has been
made to several instances of the extirpation of species, certainly, pro-

1859.]              on Recent and Fossil Mammalia.                          Ill
bably, or possibly, due to the direct agency of man ; but this cause
avails not in the question of the extinction of species at periods
prior to any evidence of human existence ; it does not help us in the
explanation of the majority of extinctions, as of the races of aquatic
     Within the
invertebrata       vertebrata
              andlast   century which
                                 academicians
                                        have successively    passed away.
                                                  of St. Petersburg   and good
naturalists have described and given figures of the bony and the
perishable parts, including the alimentary canal, of a large and peculiar
fucivorous Sirenian—an amphibious^ animal like the Manatee, which
Cuvier classified with his herbivorous Cetacea, and called Stelleria
after its discoverer. This animal inhabited the Siberian shores and the
mouths of the great rivers there disemboguing. It is now believed to
be extinct, and this extinction seems not to have been due to any special
quest and persecution by man. We may discern, in this fact, the
operation of changes in physical geography which have, at length, so
affected the conditions of existence of the Stelleria as to have caused
its extinction. Such changes had operated, at an earlier period, to the
extinction of the Siberian elephant and rhinoceros of the same regions
and latitudes. A future generation of zoologists may have to record
the final disappearance of the Arctic buffalo (Ovibos moschatus).
Fossil remains of Ovibos and Stelleria show that they were contem
     The of
poraries  Great
             Elephas
                 Auk primigenius
                         (Alca impennis,    L.) seems tichorrhinus.
                                     and Rhinoceros       to be rapidly verging
to extinction. It has not been specially hunted down, like the dodo
 and dinornis, but by degrees has become more scarce. Some of the
 geological changes affecting circumstances favourable to the well-
 being of the Alca impennis, have been matters of observation. A
 friend,* who last year visited Iceland, informs me that the last great
 auks, known with anything like certainty to have been there seen,
 were two which were taken in 1844 during a visit made to the high
 rock called " Eldey," or " Meelsoekten," lying off Cape Eeykianes,
 the S.W. point of Iceland. This is one of three principal rocky islets
 formerly existing in that direction, of which the one, specially named
 from this rare bird, ' Geirfugla Sker,' sank to the level ofthe surface of the
 sea during a volcanic disturbance in or about the year 1830. Such
 disappearance of the fit and favourable breeding-places of the Alca
 impennis must form an important element in its decline towards extinc
 tion. The numbers of the bones of Alca impennis on the shores of
 Iceland, Greenland, and Denmark, attest the abundance of the bird in
 former times. A consideration of such instances of modern partial or
 total extinctions may best throw light, and suggest the truest notions,
      Ascauses
 of the         of ancient
           to the            extinctions.
                    successions,    or coming in, of new species, one
 might speculate on the gradual modifiability of the individual ;
 on the tendency of certain varieties to survive local changes, and thus
 progressively diverge from an older type ; on the production and
                          <U+2666>John Wolley, junr., Esq., F.Z.S.

 211                              Professor Owen,                         [April 12,
 fertility of monstrous offspring ; on the possibility, e.g., of a variety of
 auk being occasionally hatched with a somewhat longer winglet. and
 a dwarfed stature ; on the probability of such a variety better adapting
 itself to the changing climate or other conditions than the old type—
 of such an origin of Alca tarda, e.g. ;—but to what purpose ? Fast
 experience of the chance aims of human fancy, unchecked and un-
 guided by observed facts, shows how widely they have ever glanced
        fromthe
 awayUpon           goldofcentre
               thesum             of truth.which, in the present course I have
                           the evidence,
 had the honour to submit to you, I have affirmed that the successive
 extinction of Amphitheria, Spalacotheria, Triconodons, and other
 mesozoic forms of mammals, has been followed by the introduction
 of much more numerous, varied, and higher-organised forms of the
     There
 class, duringare,     tertiary periods.
                  the however,     geologists who maintain that this is an
 assumption, based upon a partial knowledge of the facts. Mere
 negative evidence, they allege, can never satisfactorily establish the
 proposition that the mammalian class is of late introduction, nor prevent
 the conjecture that it may have been as richly represented in secondary
 as in tertiary times, could we but get evidence of the terrestrial fauna
 of the oolitic continent. To this objection I have to reply : iu the
 palaeozoic strata, which, from their extent and depth, indicate, in the
 earth's existence as a seat of organic ltfe, a period as prolonged as
that which has followed their deposition, no trace of mammals has
been observed. It may be conceded that, were mammals peculiar to
 dry land, such negative evidence would weigh little in producing
conviction of their non-existence during the Silurian and Devonian
aeons, because the explored parts of such strata have been deposited
from an ocean, and the chance of finding a terrestrial and air-breathing
creature's remains in oceanic deposits is very remote. But, in the
present state of the warm-blooded, air-breathing, viviparous class,
no genera and species are represented by such numerous and widely
dispersed individuals, as those of the order Cetacea, which, under the
guise    allfishes,
     In of          dwell,
              cetacea   the and
                             skeleton
                                 can only   live,ossified,
                                        is well             and the vertebrae are
                                                  in the ocean.
very numerous : the smallest cetaceans would be deemed large
amongst land mammals ; the largest surpass in bulk any creatures
of which we have yet gained cognizance : the hugest ichthyosaur,
iguanodon, megalosaur, mammoth, or megathere is a dwarf in com
     During
parison    withthe     modernin whale
                  theperiod      which of wea have
                                                hundred
                                                      proof      in length.
                                                           feetthat  Cetacea have
existed, the evidence in the shape of bones and teeth, which latter
enduring characteristics in most of the species are peculiar for their
great number in the same individual, must have been abundantly
deposited at the bottom of the sea ; and as cachalots, grampuses, dolphins,
and porpoises are seen gambolling in shoals in deep oceans, far from
land, their remains will form the most characteristic evidences of
vertebrate life in the strata now in course of formation at the bottom
of such oceans. Accordingly, it consists with the known characteris-

 1859.]                on Recent and Fossil Mammalia,                            113
 tics of the cetacean class to find the marine deposits which fell from
 seas tenanted, as now, with vertebrates of that high grade, contain
      the fossil
 ing The          evidences
           red crag   of ourofeastern
                                the order
                                       counties     abundance.
                                           in vastcontains   petrified fragments
 of the skeletons and teeth of various Cetacea, in such quantities as to
 constitute a great part of that source of phosphate of lime for which
 the red crag is worked for the manufacture of artificial manure.
 The scanty evidence of Cetacea in cretaceous beds seems to indicate
 a similar period for their beginning as for the soft-scaled cycloid and
 ctenoid fishes which have superseded the ganoid orders of mesozoic
     We cannot doubt but that had the genera Ichthyosaurus, Pliosaurus,
times.
or Plesiosaurus, been represented by species in the same ocean that was
tempested by the Baltenodons and Dioplodons of the miocene age, the
bones and teeth of those marine reptiles would have testified to their
existence as abundantly as they do at a previous epoch in the earth's
history. But no fossil relic of an enaliosaur has been found in tertiary
strata, and no living enaliosaur has been detected in the present seas :
       like are
andInthey        consequently
            manner               negative
                      does such held  by competent
                                          evidence weigh
                                                       naturalists
                                                             with me   beproof
                                                                    to in         of
                                                                            extinct.
the non-existence of marine mammals in the liassic and oolitic times. In
the marine deposits of those secondary or mesozoic epochs, the evidence
of vertebrates governing the ocean, and preying on inferior marine verte
brates is as abundant as that of air-breathing vertebrates in the tertiary
strata ; but in the one the fossils are exclusively of the cold-blooded rep
tilian class, in the other of the warm-blooded mammalian class. The Ena-
liosauria, Cetiosauria, and Crocodilia, played the same part and ful
filled similar offices in the seas from which the lias and oolites were preci
pitated, as the DelphinidcB and Balcenidce did in the tertiary, and still
do in the present seas. The unbiassed conclusion from both negative and
positive evidence in this matter is, that the Cetacea succeeded and
superseded the Enaliosauria. To the mind that will not accept such
conclusion, the stratified oolitic rocks must cease to be monuments or
     So far, however,
trustworthy                     condition
               records ofastheany  generalofconclusion
                                               life on thecan
                                                            earth  deduced
                                                               be at           from
                                                                     that period.
the large sum of evidence above referred to, and contrasted, it is
against the doctrine of the Uniformitarian. Organic remains, traced
from their earliest known graves, are succeeded, one series by another,
to the present period, and never re-appear when once lost sight of in
the ascending search. As well might we expect a living Ichthyosaur
in the Pacific, as a fossil whale in the Lias : the rule governs as strongly
in the retrospect as the prospect. And not only as respects the Ver-
tebrata, but the sum of the animal species at each successive geological
     Nothas
period          the distinct
          thatbeen   extinction
                             andofpeculiar
                                   such forms   or species
                                            to such        was sudden or simul
                                                     period.
taneous : the evidences so interpreted have been but local : over the
wider field of life at any given epoch, the change has been gradual ;
and, as it would seem, obedient to some general, but as yet, ill-com
prehended law. In regard to animal life, and its assigned work on
   Vol. III. (No. 29.)                                                    i

114                               Professor Owen,                         LApril 12,
this planet, there has, however, plainly been an ascent and progress in
     main.
the Although      the mammalia, in regard to the plenary development of
the characteristic orders, belong to the Tertiary division of geological
time, just as " Echini are most common in the superior strat*;
Ammonites in those beneath, and Producti with numerous Encrini
in the lowest "* of the secondary strata, yet the beginnings of the class
manifest themselves in the formations of the earlier preceding division
     No one, save
of geological     time.a prepossessed Uniformitarian, would infer from the
Lucina of the permian, and the Opis of the trias, that the La-
mellibranchiate Mollusks existed in the same rich variety of develop
ment at these periods as during the tertiary and present times ; and no
prepossession can close the eyes to the fact that the Lamellibranchiate
          negative evidence
haveOnsuperseded                 Orthisina, Theca,
                      the Palliobranchiate              Producta, or Spirifer are
                                                bivalves.
believed not to exist in the present seas : neither are the existing genera
of siphonated bivalves and univalves deemed to have abounded in
permian, triassic or oolitic times. To suspect that they may have then
existed, but have hitherto escaped observation, because certain
Lamellibranchs with an open mantle, and some holostomatous and
asiphonate Gastropods, have left their remains in secondary strata, is
not more reasonable, as it seems to me, than to conclnde that the pro
portion of mammalian life may have been as great in secondary as in
tertiary strata, because a few small forms of the lowest orders have
made    their appearance
     Turning      from a inretrospect
                                 triassic and   oolitic
                                             into            time to the prospect
                                                     pastbeds.
of time to come, — and I have received more than one inquiry
into the amount of prophetic insight imparted by Palaeontology—
I may crave indulgence for a few words, of more sound, perhaps,
than significance. But the reflective mind cannot evade or resist the
tendency to speculate on the future course and ultimate fate of vital
phenomena in this planet. There seems to have been a time when life
      not ;most
was Our             may, therefore,
            theresoaring     speculations
                                        be a still
                                              period   when
                                                    show      it will cease
                                                           a kinship           be. :
                                                                      to ourtonature
 we see the element of finality in so much that we have cognizance of,
 that it must needs mingle with our thoughts, and bias our conclusions
     The end
 on many          of the world has been presented to man's mind under
            things.
 divers aspects :—as a general conflagration ; as the same, preceded by
 a millennial exaltation of the world to a Paradisiacal state,—the abode
         the guide-post
 of aIfhigher   and blessedofrace     of intelligences.
                                 Palaeontology     may seem to point to a course
ascending to the condition of the latter speculation, it points but a very
   * A way,
short         and in of
        generalisation     WILLIAM
                        leaving    it we SMITH'S,
                                          find ourselves        a wilderness
                                                      justlyinregarded        of con-
                                                                        by EDWAED
FOEBES and other philosophical Naturalists as of higher importance than the
identification of strata by species.

 1859.]                 on Recent and Fossil Mammalia.                       115
jecture, where to try to advance is to find "ourselves " in wandering
 mazes   lost."
      With   much more satisfaction do I return to the legitimate deduc
          the survey
 tionsInfrom   the phenomena
                       which I have
                                we have
                                      taken     the present
                                          hadin under review.course of lectures
 of the genesis, succession, geographical distribution, affinities, and
 osteology of the mammalian class, if I have succeeded in demonstrat
ing the perfect adaptation of each varying form to the exigencies, and
 habits, and well-being of the species, I have fulfilled one object which
 I had in view, viz., to set forth the beneficence and intelligence of
      Creative
 the If           been able to demonstrate a uniform plan pervading the
         I havePower.
osteological structure of so many diversified animated beings, I must
 have enforced, were that necessary, as strong a conviction of the unity
     If, Creative
 of the               striking changes of form and proportion which have
          in all the Cause.
passed under review, we could discern only the results of minor
modifications of the same few osseous elements,—surely we must be
the more strikingly impressed with the wisdom and power of that
Cause which could produce so much variety, and at the same
time such perfect adaptations and endowments, out of means so
     For, in what have those mechanical instruments,—the hands of
simple.
 the ape, the hoofs of the horse, the fins of the whale, the trowels of
the mole, the wings of the bat,—so variously formed to obey the
behests of volition in denizens of different elements—in what, I say, have
they differed from the artificial instruments which we ourselves plan with
foresight and calculation for analogous uses, save in their greater
complexity, in their perfection, and in the unity and simplicity of the
     Everywhere
elements                 organic tonature
            which areinmodified     constitute
                                          we these
                                                see the
                                                     several locomotive
                                                         means              sub
                                                                 not onlyorgans.
servient to an end, but that end accomplished by the simplest means.
Hence we are compelled to regard the Great Cause of all, not like
certain philosophic ancients, as a uniform and quiescent mind, as an
all pervading anima mundi, but as an active and anticipating
     By applying the laws of comparative anatomy to the relics of
 intelligence.
extinct races of animals contained in and characterizing the different
strata of the earth's crust, and corresponding with as many epochs in
the earth's history, we make an important step in advance of all pre
ceding philosophies, and are able to demonstrate that the same per
vading, active, and beneficent intelligence which manifests His power
in our times, has also manifested His power in times long anterior to
     records
the But        of our existence.
           we likewise,   by these investigations, gain a still more important
truth, viz., that the phenomena of the world do not succeed each other
with the mechanical sameness attributed to them in the cycles of the
epicurean philosophy ; for we are able to demonstrate that the different
epochs of the history of the earth were attended with corresponding

116         Prof. Owen on Recent and Fossil Mammalia.
changes of organic structure ; and that, in all these instances of change,
the organs, as far as we could comprehend their use, were exactly those
best suited to the functions of the being. Hence we not only show
intelligence evoking means adapted to the end ; but, at successive
times and periods, producing a change of mechanism adapted to a
change in external conditions. Thus the highest generalizations in the
science of organic bodies, like the Newtonian laws of universal matter,
lead to the unequivocal conviction of a great First Cause, which is
    Unfettered
certainly         by narrow restrictions,—unchecked by the timid and
           not mechanical.
unworthy fears of mistrustful minds, clinging, in regard to mere
physical questions, to beliefs, for which the Author of all truth has
been pleased to substitute knowledge,—our science becomes connected
with the loftiest of moral speculations ; and I know of no topic more
fitting to the sentiments with which I desire to conclude the present
    If I believed,—to use the language of a gifted contemporary, that
course.
the imagination, the feelings, the active intellectual powers, bearing on
the business of life, and the highest capacities of our nature, were
blunted and impaired by the study of physiological and palaeontological
phenomena, I should then regard our science as little better than a
moral sepulchre, in which, like the strong man, we were burying our
    Butand
selves      thosewearound
         surely      must all
                           us in
                              believe
                                 ruins of    firmly
                                        tooour  own in   the immutable attri
                                                      creating.
butes of that Being, in whom all truth, of whatever kind, finds its
proper resting-place, to think that the principles of physical and moral
truth can ever be in lasting collision.*
                                                                   [R. O.]
              * Sedgwick, Address to the Geological Society, 1831.

        i^ogal Institution              of <&xtat        Britain.
       Sir Henry     Holland,
                 WEEKLY  Friday,
                               EVENING
                                  Bart.
                                   AprilM.D.   1859.
                                               F.R.S. in the Chair.
                                           8, MEETING,
                       James Paget, Esq. F.R.S.
                      On the Chronometry of Life.
The design of the discourse was, to illustrate the law that the processes
of organic life are regulated with a regard to time, as exact as that
which is observed by them in respect of size and weight and quantity
of material employed in them ; and to show that such an observance
of time is characteristic of life, depending essentially on properties
inherent in the living bodies themselves, and not on conditions external
     Laws indicating the limitation of the organic formative processes,
to them.
in respect of quantity, are evident in the facts that, in the ordinary
conditions in which each living being is found, it and all its parts have
appropriate size and weight and mutual proportion. These may,
indeed, be modified by the variations of external conditions, or by
events that are of the nature of accidents : but the range of possible
variations is, in nearly all cases, comparatively narrow ; and the
boundaries are soon reached, in which changes of external conditions
     An instance
become             of a corresponding
         incompatible   with life.      limitation of the organic processes
in regard to time might be noted in the natural duration of each
creature's life. It is, indeed, not possible to assign any exact number
of hours, days, or years, as the constant limit of life in any species ;
but it is enough to prove a law of time, as limiting the total duration
 of the organic processes in each, when we see that, in man, and. in
other species, the length of life, when not diminished by disease or
 violence, is as fixed as the natural weight or stature is, and that the
term of life is marked by changes whose source is inherent in the living
body. Watching these changes in the senile degenerations of the
 human body, it is evident that life does not cease, naturally, because
 of any change in the external conditions of living ; and that the body
is not, with advancing years, gradually worn out, as if there were a
 gradual consumption of a store of material or of force ; but that, as, at
a set time, the development of the body ceases and growth goes on,
    Vol. III. (No. 30.)                                           k

  118                               Mr. Paget,                              [April 8,
  and then growth ceases and the body is only maintained in its perfec
  tion, so, after a time of such maintenance, the method of the formative
  processes in the body changes, it slowly degenerates, and through de
  generacy dies. And all these stages are, alike, natural, constant,
  timely ; all, too, are together, characteristic of life ; there is no such
      Observance
  succession         of time
               of events        traced
                         to bemay,    again,
                                        in any    notedof in
                                             be form          thematter.
                                                           dead     formative pro
  cesses concerned in any of the organs whose changes mark the divisions
  of a life into its chief periods ; e.g. in the teeth. Considering merely
  the conditions in which the teeth of the first set are placed before they
  project from the gums, there appears no reason why one should be cut
  before the other, or why they should not all grow with equal speed. Yet
  while they all grow alike in regard of structure and composition, they
  have very different rules in regard to the time-rate of their formation.
  And a yet more marked instance of time-regulation is in the contrast
  of the teeth of the first set with those of the second. In all essential
  characters, except those of strength and size, the two sets are much
  alike ; yet there is the widest difference in the rates at which they are
  formed, and in their duration. The second teeth require as many years
  for their formation as the first require months ; the first live but a few
  years, the second should live as long as the rest of the body, and some
  times do so. Now there appears nothing to which, as to an efficient
  cause, this difference can be referred. Its utility and final cause can
  be discerned ; but, as to that which verily determines the rates of
  growth, and the durations of the teeth, it can only be referred to a
  First Cause ; or it may be said, as of other things subordinate to a First
 cause, that it depends on some of those properties which each living
 being inherits from its parents, and through which it results that, in
 respect of time, as well as of method and quantity, the formative
      The observation
 processes               of theare
             in the offspring    development
                                    a repetitionand
                                                  of those
                                                     changes    thetheparent.
                                                            of of       teeth affords,
 moreover, an excellent instance of the punctuality with which time-
 work is regulated in the organic processes, and of the manner in which
 several different, and really independent, processes, being set to the
 same time-rate, are made to co-operate to the end of utility in the
 economy. This is evident in the coincidence of the development of
 the teeth of the second set, with the removal of those of the first ; and
 in the coincident growth of the jaw, and all its muscles and other
 apparatus for mastication. In all of these (and the same might be
 said of any other system of organs in any species) the formation of
 every part is achieved with an admeasurement of time as precise, and
     For examples
as perfectly   designed,
                       of asorganic
                              that of processes,
                                      its shape, oradjusted    structure.
                                                     size, or to   be complete in
definite periods of time, the germination of seeds, and the hatching of
eggs, could be cited. In plants, and in cold-blooded animals, the time
varies according to temperature, yet not without evidence of a proper
time-rate ; but among birds, each species has its own time for incuba
tion, as fixed as its other specific characters. In other words, the
development of the structures of an egg into those of a young bird,

  1859.]                   on the Chronometry of Life.                       119
 appropriately fitted for life in the open air, is timed to a certain rate
 of progress ; so much work is to be done in so many days, neither
 more nor less ; and on each day its appropriate and special portion of
 the work. And it is evident that the time occupied in the process is
 determined by the inherent properties of the egg itself. For if the
 eggs of any number of species be exposed to the same heat and other
 conditions, in a hatching machine, then, as surely as the bird pro
 duced from each will be like its parents, so surely will it be hatched
 in the same time as its parents were ; in other words, the observance
 of a specific time-rate in the process of development is as exact as that
     With
 of any      thisspecific
         other            character.
                    observance   of time in the development of the young
 might be noticed that which is, commonly, coincident in the parent.
 Not to cite the example of all the mammalia, that of pigeons might be
 taken, in which, during the incubation of their eggs, the crops of the
 parents are remarkably developed, so that they may be fitted for the
 secretion of a fluid destined to make the food of their young offspring
 more suited for their sustenance. The correspondence of these time-
 rates, observed, at once, in the development of the young pigeons, and
in that of the crops of the parents, demonstrates, in both, a provision
 for chronometry in their organic processes, as clearly as the faces of
 two clocks, constantly keeping time together, would prove that they
       have some
 bothFurther,         provisionsformade
                 theapparatus               by parents
                                     chronometry         for their future young
                                                    within.
afford evidence of the time-regulation of organic processes, in so far as
those provisions seem to indicate a reckoning of the time necessary for
their completion. For example, certain turtles lay their eggs in
 hollows made in the sand, leave them there to be hatched, and at the
 time of hatching return to them for the sake of their yonng. It might
 be asked, how can these creatures, and many others in similar cases,
reckon the passage of time ? Most probably, they do not reckon it
 at all ; but just as the timely attained fitness of their organization for
preparing and filling their nests impelled them to those acts, so some
time-regulated organic processes, taking place in them after the laying of
their eggs, bring about at length a new condition, of which a dim
consciousness becomes an impulse to them to return to their nests.
Such an explanation would involve little guess-work ; for changed
organization is, manifestly, often the source of impulse to instinctive
 actions, and the parental organization does commonly change at a rate
commensurate with that of the development of the offspring. And a
 similar reference to chronometric processes in the body, might explain
many, though probably not all, other instances in which animals seem
     The aphenomena
to have                   of disease,theespecially
            power of reckoning                     in time.
                                          passage of   fevers, agues, the conse
quences ofinjuries, and many cutaneous eruptions, would afford abundant
instances of the observance of time in the organic processes. The
vaccine disease might be generally watched as an illustration, being
characterized by a vesicle at each place of insertion of the virus, which
vesicle begins to appear on the third day, and on the following days

120                             Mr. Paget,                        [April 8,
passes through changes which are as exactly regulated in time as they
are in visible characters. The changes in this vesicle are, moreover,
indicative of a coincident succession of events in, or produced by, the
virus inserted, which, in the blood of the vaccinated person, increases,
and, incorporating itself in the vesicle, reaches its highest develop
ment and greatest inoculating power on the eighth day, and then
    The vaccine might, in most essential points, be regarded as a type
degenerates.
of morbid poisons, i.e., of such as are the products of disease. Whether
inserted in the blood by inoculation, or bred therein, they commonly
occupy definite periods of time in their development, and increase, and
decline ; as with a life which is chronometric in all its phases and in its
      length.
totalThe  instances of morbid poisons would supply examples "of organic
processes timed to various numbers of days ; and many that are com
pleted in a day, or in given portions of a day, are traceable in the
events of sleep and waking in animals (and, perhaps, also in plants),
in the daily variations of the pulse, and of breathing, the returns of
hunger and thirst, the regulated times of the digestive functions, &c.
In man, indeed, consciousness and will are so concerned in some of
these functions, that they may seem to lack that regularity which
belongs to merely organic processes ; but, if studied generally, and in
other species as well as man, they all tell of such processes accomplished
with regular measurement of time, and not determined by the external
events or conditions of the day or night. Thus, for sleep and wak
ing, and the times of hunger and thirst, man's independence in regard
to day and night, or light and darkness, and the habits of different
species whose times of activity are, severally, in the early or later day,
in twilight or at night, may prove that the earth's diurnal changes are
not the causes of these diurnal peculiarities of animal life. The very
cause of sleep, and of that which is yet more mysterious, waking, may
be unknown ; but they are evidently connected and correlated with
those alternating conditions of the structures, of which men, and pro
bably all animals that sleep and wake, are conscious in the sensations
of fatigue and of refreshment. The ordinary activities of one portion
of the twenty-four hours, the activities, especially, of the muscles and
nervous centres and the souses, produce an amount of structural, or
chemical, change which is exactly repaired in rest during sleep. In
other words, the organic processes for the repair of structures changed
(as all structures are) by exercise, are adjusted to such a rate, that, in
general, and on an average, in the time of sleep, they may completely
restore the parts that are impaired in the activity of waking time.
 And so, of that replacement of substances in the several structures and
in the blood, which is the purpose of feeding ; the processes of diges
tion and of the several stages of assimilation are so timed, as to accord
     The with
exactly         minute
          mostthe        of daily taking
                   timesobservances      food. in organic processes might
                                     of time
be noted in organs that have rhythmic motions, as in hearts and breath
ing muscles, ciliae, the vacuoles of certain zoospores, as Volvox and

1859.]                  on the Chronometry of Life.                     121
Gonium. In the Croonian Lecture at the Royal Society, in 1857, the
speaker had endeavoured to prove that these and other rhythmic move
ments in plants, as well as animals, are due to corresponding time-
regulated nutrition. He had expressed his belief that "rhythmic
motion is an issue of rhythmic nutrition, i.e., of a method of nutrition,
in which* the acting parts are, at certain periods, raised, with time-
regulated progress, to a state of instability of composition, from which
they then decline, and in their decline may change their shape and
move with a definite velocity, or (as nervous centres) may discharge
nerve-force." And this would be still maintained ; but whether it were
true or not, the rhythmical nutrition of rhythmically acting muscles
would be certain. Ifnotacause, it must be a consequence of such
acting ; for it is inconceivable that the heart (for example) or the
diaphragm, or any other rhythmic muscle, should be free from waste or
impairment in its action, or from the necessity of being renovated in its
rest. Difference of mode of action could not determine a difference
in the immediate effect of action. With long exercise, muscles become
so changed that their changed state can be felt in the sensation of
weariness, and proved by chemical analysis. But the change thus
proved is only the accumulation of the changes wrought in many
muscular actions, each of which has contributed a share to the whole
amount, just as each revolution of a wheel contributes to the final wear
ing out. Similarly, every action of the heart, or of the breathing
muscles, is attended with change or impairment of composition ; but,
the impairment is repaired in the next following period of rest or
relaxation. In other words, the alternating actions in shortening, and
rests in lengthening, of the muscular fibres are correlative and
synchronous with their alternating impairments and repairs of compo
sition. The chronometry of such organic processes seems perfect ;
nutrition is in them divided, as it were, into units ; and for each unit,
there  might
     Two   results
               be reckoned
                   of this constant
                             a unit of  time.
                                     maintenance    of rhythmic muscles are
remarkable ; namely, the enormous power they are capable of exerting,
and their freedom from fatigue when only naturally acting. The latter
result is proved to depend on the constant maintenance of the muscles,
in their timely intervals of rest, by the weariness which is produced in
the same muscles when they act otherwise than rhythmically, as in the
muscles of respiration when employed in any voluntary movements, or
     The instances
in coughing          adduced
               or other           respiratory
                         violentthus             supply examples of organic
                                     far mightacts.
processes adjusted to periods of time varying from the length of human
life to less than a second. They were ajl examples of large classes of
facts, from which might be filled up the instances of observance of
other and very diverse periods of time ; and in all of them, the time-
rate is essentially determined, not by external conditions (though these
may, in some measure, modify it) but by the inherent properties of the
     In another
organic            large group of instances, those, namely, in which vital
          bodies themselves.
processes are completed, or attain some climax, in a year or in a set

122                              Mr. Paget,                           [April 8,
portion or season of a year, an independence of external conditions
appears less evident. The higher organisms, chiefly by reason of their
having in themselves the power of generating heat, may manifest their
own time-laws with comparatively little disturbance from without.
But in the vegetable world, and in the lower animals, the organic
processes are, for the most part, suspended during part of the year,
for want, chiefly, of the heat which is a necessary condition of their
activity, and the variations of which, for the rest of the year, very
greatly affect their rate. Yet even in these, there appear sufficient
indications that the times in which the processes of organic life are
accomplished depend, essentially, on the specific properties of the
     Thus,
several     under the
          organisms     same external conditions, each species observes a
                     themselves.
proper rate of its own. All the plants, for example, of a given locality
are subject to the same temperature, and other seasonal conditions ;
but their rates of living, like those of various eggs placed in the same
heat, are different ; each reaches the chief events of its life at a certain
period of the year. Variations of the seasons may affect all of them ;
but their method of succession is not thereby changed ; they observe
the same proportions in the times severally required for their organic
processes ; and this unaltering proportion indicates a time-rate specific
     each, though
for Moreover,       equally
                among       variable
                         plants,          all.numerous examples of varieties,
                                 thereinare
which differ from the general characters of their species only, or chiefly,
in regard to the times at which their vital processes are accomplished.
Such are the variations that are known as " late," and " early," among
flowers or fruits ; of which some may be propagated by seed3.
[Specimens were shown from two horse-chesnuts growing opposite to
one another by the great gate of the Kew Gardens, of which one is,
every year, three weeks earlier than the other, in all the processes of
its life ; and of varieties of Erythronium Dens Canis, from the same
gardens, the plants of which, growing side by side in the same bed,
 always present a similar difference in their times of flowering, &c,
though in all other respects alike.] It would be difficult to imagine a
variety thus marked only by a peculiarity in rate of living, if tempera
 ture, or the influence of the seasons, alone determined the rate of life
 in the species. The simplest explanation seemed to be that, as there
 may be varieties in size and number of organs, and almost all the other
 properties of a species, which together make up its specific character,
 so there may be also varieties in regard to that time-rate of the pro
 cesses of organic life which, even by this variability, is indicated as
     Again, dependent
 essentially  there are onsome
                            the properties
                                 species in of   the organism
                                               which          itself.to exist a
                                                      there seems
 singular independence of external conditions. Instances of this are
 found in the Eriogaster lanestris, and the other moths mentioned by
 Kirby and Spence. If pupae, formed in June or July, be " selected
 of the same size, and exposed to the same temperature, the greater
 number of them will disclose the perfect insect in the February follow
 ing ; some not till the February of the year ensuing, and the remainder

  1859.]                    on the Chronometry of Life.                           123
  not before the same month in the third year." (Vol. iii. p. 264.) The
  design of so singular an arrangement is, as they observe, to secure that
  insects, coming into active life in February or March, may not be
  utterly exterminated by the ungenial weather of a single season, or of
  two such seasons in succession : but the very cause of the differences
  among the pupae, in their relations to the same external conditions,
             in their own
  mustAbesomewhat            properties.
                        similar  instance of apparent complete likeness among
   seeds in all respects except that of time, is in those of a Begonia, which,
  if taken from the same pod, and all planted together, and all kept in
*    year,
  athe  sameand
        To    conditions,
            these some
                     indications
                         at various
                             will germinate,
                                       self-dependent
                                                sometimes.
                                   ofintermediate        a day, someinat the end
                                                      in time-rates                of
                                                                                lower
   organisms, might be added all the facts of another class, which show
  punctuality in the adjustment of several distinct processes. Scarcely
        [The of
   an event       life could
                instance   by which
                               be watched
                                      it waswhich   would was
                                              illustrated,      showofit.a Saxifraga,
                                                            not that
   whose stamens, like those of Parnassia, arrive at their very maturity,
   not all together, but in pairs, and in pairs bend upon the pistil, each
         risinglastly,
   pairAnd,      againthebefore
                            influence
                                 another    temperature
                                        of pair           on the rate of the forma
                                                bends down.]
   tive processes in the lower organisms is scarcely, or not always,
  greater than that of nutriment and other external conditions, is on
   their quantity. The occurrence of " good " and " bad " seasons indi
   cates the latter influence, as that of "early " and "late" seasons does
   the former. Plants of the same species growing, some in an arid, others
   in a rich soil, differ exceedingly in size ; the one are stunted, the
   others exuberant ; here nutriment modifies the quantity of formation
   as, in other instances, varieties of heat will modify its rate. But this
  being so, it may be held that as a certain average size or quantity of
   growth is a characteristic of each species, and an issue of its very
   nature, so is a certain average ,time or rate of growth. Quantity and
   rate may alike be varied by external circumstances, but the standard
   or medium of both, as well as the limits of variation compatible with
   life, are determined by the natural and inherent properties of the
        Whatever evidence these and the like facts might supply, that, in
   species.
   connexion with the seasons, the time-rates of the organic processes in
   the lower organisms are essentially dependent on the inherent proper
   ties of each organism, similar evidence might be adduced for the
   case of the higher, and especially the warm-blooded animals. In these
   the varieties of seasons have less influence in modifying the rate, as
   well as all the other measures, of life ; and the less influence, the higher
   the species, or the degree of development of the individual. Moreover,
   there are in birds some instances in which organic processes have a
   tendency to observe certain times of the year even when the seasons
   are changed. Thus among those brought from Australia to this
   country, some of the parakeets breed here in December ; the black
   swan sometimes breeds in November as well as in May ; the New

124                Mr. Paget, on the Chronometry of Life.                  [April 8,
Holland Cereopsis-goose has bred at the Zoological Gardens every
February for five or six years.* Among migratory birds, also, it has
been observed that when they are kept in confinement, and removed
from all the circumstances that might be supposed to induce or
necessitate their journeys, they yet become restless at the return of the
     In these
season           andmigration.
         for their   the like facts there appear indications of a chrono
metry in the organic processes of warm-blooded animals, which corre
sponds with that of the seasons, but is essentially independent. And, if
it be so, these might form a group of facts, in addition to those of the
diurnal variations of the organic processes, in which vital changes are
set to the same rules of time as changes of the surface of the earth, yet
have their own proper laws ; and concerning which it might be said,
that the cycles of life, and of the earth, do, indeed, correspond, but
only as concentric circles do, which are drawn round one centre, but
     not connected,
are But,   however this except
                            might
                                in design
                                    be, alland      instances
                                              themutual         of time-regulation
                                                           fitness.
cited in the discourse (all being examples of large groups of facts), would
seem sufficient to prove, that the observance of time in organic pro
cesses is as exact and as universal as that of any other measure ; that
each species has a certain time-rate for the processes of its life, variable,
but not determined, by external conditions ; and that the several phe
nomena commonly studied as the periodicities of organic life, are only
prominent instances of the law which it was the object of the discourse
to illustrate.
                                                                          [J. P.]
    * Mr. Sclater, to whom the speaker was indebted for this fact, supplied also
dates which tend to prove that the Australian parakeets, in this country, breed less
often in December than in the months from May to September, inclusive ; but even
a minority of instances of the observance of times, and a general tendency towards
it, when the force of such external conditions as those of the seasons is strong
against it, is good evidence that inherent properties are the mainsprings determining
the rates of life.

1859.]        Sir C. Lyell on the Conical Form of Volcanoes.                 125
    Sir Roderick       I. Murchison,
                  WEEKLY    Friday,
                                  EVENING
                                      April
                                          D.C.L.   1859.
                                                     F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                              15, MEETING,
                                   in the Chair
                Sir Charles
 On the Consolidation       of Lava
                                  Lyell,
                                      on Steep
                                            M.A.Slopes,
                                                    D.C.L.and  on the Origin of
                                                             F.R.S.
                        the Conical Form oj Volcanoes.
During two recent excursions made in the autumns of 1857 and 1858
to Mount Etna, Sir C. Lyell had an opportunity of examining sections
of lava-currents of known date, which had descended steep slopes, and
had consolidated thereon in tabular and stony masses, the inclination
of which sometimes exceeded 30°. This fact has an important bear
ing on the theory of " craters of elevation," it having been affirmed by
geologists of high authority, that when lavas congeal on a declivity
exceeding 5° or 6o, they never form continuous beds of compact
     Thebutorigin
 stone,            of entirely
             consist   such mountains
                                of scoriaceous
                                           as Etna     fragmentary
                                                 and and             had of old
                                                           Vesuviusmaterials.
 been referred to the cumulative effect of a long series of ordinary
 eruptions, it being seen that reiterated showers of ashes and streams of
 lava were often poured out from a permanent central vent. This
 opinion was advocated by Mr. Scrope in his work on volcanoes in 1825,
 and by Sir C. Lyell in his Principles of Geology, after his exploration
 of Vesuvius and Etna in 1828 ; both authors considering the injection
 from below of melted matter, in the shape of dykes, as part of the
      But in place
 cone-making           of this simple explanation of the phenomena, Von
                 process.
 Buch substituted the following hypothesis : that a vast thickness of
 horizontal or nearly horizontal sheets of lava and scoriae, having been
 first deposited, an expansive force operating from below, exerts a
 pressure both upwards and outwards, from a central axis towards all
 points of the^ compass, so as suddenly to uplift the whole stratified
 mass, making it assume a conical form ; giving rise at the same
 time, in many cases, to a wide and deep circular opening at the top of
      cone,
 the In      great
         all an  opening
                    volcanoes
                           calledofawhich   sections
                                     " crater         can be obtained, there are
                                               of elevation."
  some layers of compact stone, inclined at angles of 10°, 20°, and
 sometimes much higher angles, and these beds are often among the
  uppermost, or last formed of the whole series. Hence it was logically

  126                         Sir Charles Lyell                         [April 15,
 inferred, when once the law above laid down respecting the consolida
 tion of melted matter had been accepted, that every mountain contain
 ing such inclined and compact layers, must owe its conical form almost
 exclusively to the development of mechanical force exerted at the close
 of the volcanic operations, or after all the alternating lavas and scoriae
 were heaped up. The hypothesis of a sudden and violent movement
 was perhaps the more readily embraced, because it relieved its
 advocates from the necessity of making unlimited drafts on past time,
 thousands of centuries being required if lofty cones, like Mount Etna,
 are to be built up by successive eruptions of ordinary intensity. The
 magnitude also of certain craters or " calderas " (implying, probably,
 one or more great explosions, followed by aqueous erosion), and the
 occasional steepness of the dips of certain lavas, beyond that which is
 found on the flanks of ordinary cones, (many of which might have been
 assigned to local dislocation,) afforded additional arguments in favour
 of the new hypothesis. The lecturer then gave a rapid review of the
 controversy respecting " craters of elevation," stating the objections
 made to it by English and Continental writers, including the late M.
 Constant Prevost ; and he went on to observe that the principal object
 of this discourse was to show that the law laid down by M. E. de
 Beaumont, and by the late M. Dufrenoy, as governing the cooling
 and solidification of lava currents, on steep slopes, has no foundation in
 fact. Signor Scacchi had already, in 1855, seen and described a com
 pact stony lava which in that year had flowed down the flanks of
 Vesuvius from near the margin of the great crater to the base of the
 cone in the Atrio del Cavallo, having a thickness of from l£ in the
 upper to 4i in its lower part, and dipping at angles varying from
 32° to 38°. The interior of this current was laid open to view by a
 rare accident, namely, the sinking down in the same year (1855) of a
 certain portion of the north flank of the cone, whereby one side of the
 new lava stream was engulfed, and a section of the remainder rendered
 visible. Although this current had cooled on an average declivity of
 35°, it was as compact and as free from vesicles as many lavas which have
     The first
 congealed         level ground atofthe
               on exemplification        foot of Vesuvius.*
                                      a similarly  inclined stony lava of known
date on Mount Etna, described by the lecturer, and of which a pictorial
representation was given, occurs in a ravine called the Cava Grande,
near Milo, about 17 miles north of Catania, and 7 from the sea,
above the level of which it is elevated about 2000 feet. A branch of
the lava-current of 1689 descending from the Val del Bove, cascaded
over the right bank of that ravine 220 feet high, and on cooling, formed
a tabular mass more than 16 feet in thickness, inclined at an average
angle of about 35°, and concealing the face of the precipice for a width
of about 400 feet. The internal structure of this new lava has been
    * Thistosection,
exposed               by by
               viewseen      falling
                         theSignor Scacchi
                                      downinand
                                             1855,partial  removal
                                                    was looked          itsC.scoria-
                                                               for byofSir    Lyell,
in company with Signor Scacchi in 1857, and found to be totally buried and con
cealed by the lavas poured out in the early part of that year.

1859.]                on the Conical Form of Volcanoes.                 127
ceous crust on the left side ; a removal caused by the annual waste of
the steep bank of the ravine produced by the action of rain, and the
torrent which flows at the bottom. The ravine intersects alternating
beds of tuff, scoria, and lava, slightly inclined to the east, or seawards,
being a series of the older products of Etna. This new and steeply
inclined lava consists of three parallel layers, an upper fragmentary
and scoriaceous mass about 8 feet thick ; a central stony layer, 5 feet
thick ; and a lower bed consisting of thin strata of fragmentary scoriae,
in all three feet thick, but the bottom part of which is not visible.
The compact central portion is a dolerite or trachi-dolerite, containing
crystals of felspar with some olivine, and is of the ordinary specific
gravity of trap. It is divided by joints, 9 or 10 feet apart, so that
among the fragments detached by denudation, and strewed over the
sloping bank and bottom of the ravine, are angular masses of huge
size, with a fracture like that of many ancient igneous rocks. The
normal thickness of this bed of compact dolerite is 5 feet, where it
dips at 32° and 35°, but near the top where it first enters the ravine,
and where the inclination increases to 45° and 47°, the thickness is
reduced to one-half or 2\ feet ; yet when dipping at 47°, it is still not
only stony and compact, but there is no breach whatever of continuity
in the mass, and not more joints than in the less inclined portion.
This branch of the lava of 1689, which has given a new facing to part
of the right bank of the Cava Grande, exhibits but slight inequalities
on its surface, appearing almost even when contrasted with the main
current of the same date, from the surface of which many parallel and
longitudinal ridges project prominently, sometimes 40 feet above their
base, and with very steep sides sloping at angles of from 35° to 70°.
The dip of the main current is between 10° and 16° east. From this
and other examples, it is inferred that wherever the slopes are ex
cessive (between 25° and 45°) the surfaces of the cooling lavas are
less rugged than where the melted matter has congealed on more level
      Allusion was next made to some lavas which have cascaded over
ground.
 sea-cliff-s 500 feet high, between Aci Eeale and Santa Tecla. One of
these at a place called the Scalazza of Aci Reale, exhibits a longitu
dinal section of a tabular mass of stony rock 20 feet thick, inclined at
 angles of 23° and 29°, which is connected uninterruptedly with the main
 body of the same lava resting on the gently sloping platform above,
of which the sea-cliff is the abrupt termination. The above-mentioned
 highly inclined stony lava is covered as usual by a parallel layer of
scoriae (in this case 12 feet thick,) and its base consists of another bed
      Several
 of scoriae     flight thickness.
             of other  sections of modern lavas of Etna, which have not
 been disturbed in their position since the day of their formation, and
 which are inclined at angles exceeding 30° were then enumerated.
 For a detailed account of those, reference was given to a paper by the
 lecturer, recently published in the Philosophical Transactions (Part
 2 for 1858, p. 703). Among them is a current, inclined at 35°, occur
 ring in the Cava Secca, a deep valley near Zafarana ; and another

 128                         Sir Charles Lyell                    [April 15,
 reposing on the face of the great precipice at the head of the Val del
 Bove, under the sunk space called " The Cisterna." This remarkable
  current has a mean inclination of 35°, and the central stony layer is
  seven feet thick. Above and below are parallel overlying and
  underlying masses of scoriae five and seven feet thick respectively.
  The flanks of the stream have been undermined and denuded by that
  constant waste which makes the innumerable dikes to stand out in
  relief on all the precipices surrounding the Val del Bove. Perhaps,
 also, in this instance, the lateral excavation of the lava may have been
 assisted by a rush of water like that of 175o, commonly called
 Recupero's flood, which descended the same precipice, the " Balzo di
 Trifoglietto." Suggestions were then offered on the probable cause of
 that singular inundation, which swept in a few hours from near the
 summit of Etna through the Val del Bove to the sea. The Canon
 Eecupero traced its course, a few months after the event, by following
 the line of sand and boulders which it had left in its track ; and calcu
 lated that the volume of water was so great, that, had all the snows of
 the top of Etna been melted instantaneously, they could not have fur
 nished enough water for such a deluge. He, therefore, concluded
 that the water was vomited forth from the summit-crater itself. Sir
 C. Lyell conjectures that there may have been masses of ice in the
 cone during the eruption which is recorded to have accompanied the
 flood of 1755, and the ice may have been suddenly melted by hot
 vapours and injected lava. In support of this hypothesis, he mentioned
his having ascertained the continued existence, in 1858, of the same
glacier which was alluded to by him, in the first edition of his Prin
ciples of Geology, as occurring at the base of the cone, and which had
 been quarried before 1828. This mass of ice the Catanians again
quarried, four years ago, to a depth of four feet, without reaching the
bottom. It is covered by ten feet of volcanic sand, and this again by
lava. The tale of the mountaineers, who assured Recupero that the
water of the flood of 1755 was hot, may have been correct, if the origin
       assigned
hereSome         to itwas
            account       next given of the lavas of 1852-53, which were
                       be true.
still hot, and emitting columns of vapour at the time of Sir C. LyelFs
last visit. They were more voluminous, perhaps, than any ever poured
forth from Etna in historical times, except those of 1669, which over
flowed a great part of the ciiy of Catania. The narrative of the people
of Zafarana, of the manner in which the frontal wall of lava, 30 feet
high, and inclined at an angle of 37°, had crept slowly over green pas
tures and vineyards, and overwhelmed habitations in the suburbs of
that town, reminded Sir Charles of similar tales which he, had listened
to seven weeks before in the Alpine valley of Zermatt, where the great
glacier had, in the preceding spring, been pushing onwards with irresistible
force, an equally steep mound of stony fragments, forming the frontal
moraine by which green meadows, gardens, and chalets had been over
whelmed. A description was then given of the changes brought about
by the lavas of 1 852-53 in the scenery of the Val del Bove, and in that
of the lower Valley of Calanna, in the interval since 1828, when the

1859.]               on the Conical Form of Volcanoes.                      129
lecturer first visited Etna. These changes are very striking ; the fresh
currents having run from the head of the Val del Bove both in a north-east
and in a south- east direction for a distance of six miles, with a breadth in
each case of two miles, and having been piled up one over the other in
some places (as at the Portella of Calanna) to a depth of more than 100
feet. The longitudinal and nearly parallel ridges on the surface of
this new lava field are from 20 to 70 feet high ; and there is now a
black and monotonous wilderness in many places, where, in 1 828, there
wereOne   branch
       verdant     of this lava of 1852 cascaded over a precipitous
                forests.
declivity 500 feet high, at the head of the Valley of Calanna, and con
solidated at angles of 35°, 45°, and even 49°. The scoriaceous crust
having been partially washed off, the surface of a continuous crystalline
and stony mass is exposed to view, only moderately vesicular, and
having the steep inclinations above alluded to. This same
current rests on an older one, that of 1819, which passed down
the same steep cliff, and which has at some points a dip of more
      40°.structure of the nucleus of Etna, or of the oldest visible part
thanThe
of the volcano, as shown in sections in the Val del Bove, was next
treated of, and the doctrine of a double axis of eruption deduced from
the varying dip of the beds. The oldest of these beds, composed of
trachyte and trachytic tuff at the base of the lofty precipices at the
head of the Val del Bove, are inclined at angles of 20° to 30° to the
north-west, or towards the present great central axis of eruption.
Other similar beds, two miles to the south-east, in the hill of Zoccolaro,
dip in an opposite direction ; while in the north and south escarpments
of the Val del Bove, the dips are north-east and south-east respec
tively. On the whole, there is a quaquaversal dip away from some
point situated in the centre of the area called the Piano di Trifoglietto.
Here a permanent axis of eruption seems to have existed for ages in
the earlier history of Etna, for which the name of the axis of Trifoglietto
is proposed ; while the modern centre of eruption,.that now in activity,
may be called the axis of Mongibello. The two axes, which are three
miles distant the one from the other, were illustrated by an ideal sec
tion through the whole of Etna, passing from west to east through
the Val del Bove, or from Bronte to Zafarana.* Touching the relative
age of the two cones, it is suggested that the upper portion only of that
of Mongibello may be newer than the cone of Trifoglietto. The
latter, when it became dormant, was entirely overwhelmed and
buried under the upper and more modern lavas of the greater cone.
This doctrine of two centres, originally hinted at by the late Mario
Gemmellaro, had been worked out (unknown to Sir C. Lyell at the
time of his visit in 1857) by Baron Sartorius von Waltershausen,
and has been since supported in the fifth and sixth parts of his great
work, called " The       Atlas
                      * See Phil. Trans.,
                                  of Etna,"
                                          Part 2,both
                                                   for 1858, p. 740.
                                                        by arguments founded on

 130                           Sir Charles Lyell                    [April 15,
the quaquaversal dip of the beds as above explained, and by the con
vergence of a certain class of greenstone dikes towards the axis of
 Trifoglietto. Von Waltershausen has also shown that the lavas and
volcanic formations in the middle of the precipices at the head of the
Val del Bove, from the Serra Giannicola to the Rocca del Corvo
 inclusive, are horizontal and unconformable to the highly inclined beds
in the lower half of the same precipice ; or where some of the superior
beds are inclined, they dip in such directions as would imply that they
slope away from the higher parts of Mongibello. All these facts were
fully confirmed by Sir C. Lyell in his explorations of these lofty pre
     Theindouble
cipices             and of
              1857 axis      Etna was then compared to the twofold axis of
                          1858.
the volcanic island of Madeira, as observed by Mr. G. Hartung, and
the lecturer, in 1853-54 ; and it is observed that the admission of this
theory is entirely adverse to the hypothesis of craters of elevation, for
it implies that the force of upheaval plays no more than a subordinate
part in the cone-making process. Although one cone of eruption may
envelope and bury an adjoining cone of eruption ; it is obviously impos
sible that one cone of upheaval should mantle round and overwhelm
     It is,cone
another          of upheaval.
            however,    conceded that in some parts of the central nucleus
of Etna, there are lavas which dip at higher angles than can with any
probability be ascribed to the original steepness of the sloping flanks of
an active cone. Some of these instances are regarded as exceptional,
and due to local disturbance ; others may be connected with the
abundance of fissures, often of great width, which have been filled with
lava in the central nucleus of the mountain, forming dikes which are
much less frequent and sometimes entirely wanting at points remote
from the centre. The injection of so much liquid matter into count
less rents may imply the gradual tumefaction and distension of the vol
canic mass, and may have been attended by the tilting of the beds,
causing them to slope away at steeper angles than before, from the
axis of eruption. But instead of ascribing to this mechanical force, as
many have done, nearly all, or about four-fifths of the whole dip,
Sir C. Lyell considers that about one-fifth may, with more proba
     Thebealleged
bility,      assigned   as the effect
                     parallelism          such movements.
                                  andofuniformity of thickness in the volcanic
beds of the Val del Bove, when traced over wide areas, was next con
sidered ; and the lecturer remarked that neither in the northern nor
southern escarpments of the great valley, could he verify the existence
of such parallelism. Drawings exemplifying a marked deviation
from it were exhibited ; these views being taken from the northern
      southern
and The          cliffs of
            discovery      thelava
                         that             Bove. of forming continuous and
                                Val isdelcapable
tabular masses of crystalline rock on steep slopes, often exceeding 30°,
enables us henceforth to dispense with that paroxysmal and terminal
upheaval, which the advocates of " craters of elevation " legitimately in
ferred from their premises, for it was as necessary for them, so long as
the volcanic beds were assumed to have been originally horizontal, to

1859.]              on the Conical Form of Volcanoes.                   131
ascribe the whole elevation to a force acting from below, as it would have
been ifthe uppermost layers of each volcanic mountain could be assumed
to be of marine origin. In opposition to such a doctrine, Sir C. Lyell
maintains that mechanical force has nowhere played such a dominant
part in the cone-making process as to warrant our applying any other
term save that of " cones of eruption " to volcanic mountains in
    In conclusion, the lecturer gave a brief sketch of the series of geolo
general.
gical events which he supposed to have occurred on the site of Etna
since the time of the earliest eruptions, events which may have required
thousands of centuries for their development. The first eruptions are
believed to have been submarine, occurring probably in a bay of the
sea, which was gradually converted into land by the outpouring of lava
and scoriae, as well as by a slow and simultaneous upheaval of the
whole territory. The basalts, and other igneous products of the
Cyclopean Islands were formed contemporaneously in the same sea, the
molluscous fauna of which approached very near to that now inhabiting
the Mediterranean ; so much so, that about nineteen -twentieths of the
fossil species of the sub-Etnean tertiary strata still live in the adjoin
ing seas. Hence, as that part of Etna which is of subaerial origin is
newer than such fossils, the age of the mountain is proved to be,
geologically speaking, extremely modern. During the period when
the volcano was slowly built up, a movement of upheaval was gradually
converting tracts of the neighbouring bed of the sea into land, and
causing the oldest volcanic and associated sedimentary strata to rise,
until they reached eventually, a height 1200 feet (and perhaps more)
above the sea-level. At the same time the old coast-line, together with the
alluvial deposits of rivers, was upraised, and inland cliffs and terraces
formed at successive heights. The remains of elephants, and other
quadrupeds, some of extinct species, are found in these old and up
raised alluviums. Fossil leaves of terrestrial plants also, such as the
laurel, myrtle, and pistachio, of species indigenous to Sicily, have been
detected in the oldest subaerial tuffs. At first the cone of Trifoglietto,
and probably the lower part ofthe cone of Mongibello, was built up ; still
later the cone last-mentioned, becoming the sole centre of activity, over
whelmed the eastern cone, and finally underwent in itself various trans
formations, including the truncation of its summit, and the formation
of the Val del Bove on its eastern flank. Lastly, the phase of lateral
eruptions began, which still continues in full vigour.
                                                                 [C. L.]

132                               Annual Meeting.                             [May 2,
     The Annual
William                 Esq.ANNUAL
               Pole, Report    M.A.
                              Monday,
                                of inthethe
                                         F.R.S.
                                          Committee
                                           May
                                            Chair.
                                             MEETING,
                                                2,Treasurer
                                                        of Visitors
                                                    1859.             was read, and
                                                              and Vice-President,
     The statement of Sums Received shows a steady and gradual
adopted.
increase in the yearly income. The amount of Annual Contributions
of Members and Subscribers in 1858 amounted to £2109. 9s. 0d.,
being more than had been received in any previous year : the Receipts
from Subscriptions to Lectures were £739. 14*. 6d. The total Annual
Income amounted to £5060. 8s. 8d.
     On December 31, 1858, the Funded Property was £25,831. 1*. 8d. ;
and the Balance £927, with Six Exchequer Bills of £100 each. There
wereAnoList     of Books Presented accompanies the Report, amounting
            Liabilities.
in number to 132 volumes ; making, with those purchased by the
Managers and Patrons, a total of 7 1 2 volumes (including Periodicals)
added    to the were
     Thanks             voted
                  Library       to year.
                            in the  the President, Treasurer, and Secretary,
 and to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, for their services to
      Institution
 the The             during
             following        the past year.
                         Gentlemen        were unanimously elected as Officers
for the    ensuing year :—Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
       President—The
       Treasures—William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
       Secretary—Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.
                                       Managers.
 Sir
   D.C
 John  J.L.Bigsby,
      Benjamin
             President
                   Collins
                   M.D.R.S.
                         F.G.S.
                            Brodie, Bart. Frederick
                                               Lewis
                                               The
                                               Robert
                                               Rev.
                                               John  Lord
                                                     William
                                                     Percy,
                                                     Webster,
                                                      Powell,
                                                       P. Wensleydale.
                                                          Koupell,
                                                          Pollock,
                                                            M.D.
                                                              Taylor,
                                                               M.D.F.R.S.
                                                                    Esq.
                                                                     F.R.S.
                                                                       F.R.S.
                                                                         M.A. Q.C.
 Edmund Beckett Denison, Esq. Q.C.
 Col. George Everest, F.R.S.
 Sir Charles Hamilton, Bart. C B.
 Sir H. Holland, Bt. M.D. F.R.S. F.G.S.
 Henry Bence Jones, M.D. F.R.S.                Col. Philip James Yorke, F.R.S.

 1859.]         Dr. Druitt, on Houses in relation to Health.                * 133
                                        Visitors.
 John
 Rev.
 C.
 Gordon
 William
 Alexander
    Wentworth
      Charles
      George
      Charles
         Willoughby
          Gaussen,
            Henderson,
              Dodson,
              John
               Burgoyne,
                Dilke,
                    Esq.
                    Fynes
                      James
                       jun.
                       Esq. D.
                            Clinton,
                             Esq.
                             M.P.
                        M Esq.  F.S.A.Esq.
                               Gyll,  M.A. Thomas Lee, Esq.
                                              John Lubbock, Esq. F.R.S.
                                              Charles Lyall, Esq.
                                              Edmund Macrory, Esq. M.A.
                                              Sir Edwin Pearson, M.A. F.R.S.
                                              Henry Pemberton, Esq.
                                              John Bell Sedgwick, Esq.
 Richard Jennings, Esq. M.A.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, May 6, 1859.
       The Loud Wensleydale, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                              Robert Druitt, Esq.
                  MEHBER OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS, LONDON.
                       On Houses in Relation to Health.
 The speaker having alluded to the sickness, bereavement, and ruinous
expense which sometimes ensue from the wrong choice of houses by
 private individuals, and to the disorders liable to be diffused amongst
 all classes, from the unhealthy dwellings of the poor, proceeded to
 consider the subject of houses and their influence on health, under
 three heads. Under the first, he treated of deficiencies of air, light,
 warmth, and dryness, and of the maladies of degeneration to which
 they give rise, of which consumption and scrofula are types ; under
 the second, he spoke of the common typhoid fever of this country,
and of choleraic disorders, and of their origin in defective house
 drainage ; and under the third, he discussed the conditions which give
intensity and power of propagation to certain diseases, such as scarla
      and diphtherite.
tinaAmongst      the details noticed under the first head, he observed that
the ground on which a house is built should have the qualities of porosity
and firmness ; porosity is required in order that all water charged with
organic debris, which happens to penetrate it, may pass onwards and
undergo that rapid oxydation which is so happily effected by the
London gravel. Wherever the soil is deficient in this quality, or
where beds of gravel or sand come in contact with beds of clay, a
thorough subsoil drainage is as essential for the health of man, as it
is for the growth of sweet herbage. Spots can be pointed out in which
the subsoil is swampy, and where fever has prevailed in consequence.
Moreover, the land on which houses are being built around London,
is sometimes raised artificially by what is called made-earth : that is to
say, on a low, wet spot, quite undrained, are heaped all sorts of
    Voi. III. (No. 30.)                                                 i

 134 '                            Dr. B. Druitt,                        [May 6,
 rubbish, road scrapings, mud, and refuse, mixed with organic debris ;
 and over this the houses are built. Besides, the excavation of sweet
 wholesome gravel, and the filling in the vacuity with rubbish, has long
 been prevalent at the west of London,- and was much to be con
 demned ; and an instance was quoted of a house, whose rental was
 £400 per annum, built over a laystall of the last century, that is a
 pit where every kind of impurity was deposited, and now filled with
 black mould mixed with sheep bones. This earth, when dried and
 analyzed, yielded 10 per cent. of organic matter, and was as unwhole
        to build
 someWant         on as an might
              of firmness            be remedied by a solid floor of concrete,
                            old churchyard.
 after the Roman manner, which would enable houses to be built with
 less chance of settlements and cracks, which are causes of unhealthiness,
 not merely by allowing cold and damp to enter, but by permitting
 currents of fetid air to come from unknown and distant sources.
 Thin walls, too, render a house not only^xtremely cold, but unwarmable
     Passing over the grouping and position of houses, and the width of
 in winter.
 streets, which ought to be regulated by the height of the sun in winter,
 we come to the internal arrangements, and air supply. The last may
 be provided by some special ventilating apparatus; or may be left to take
 care of itself ; but even if left to itself, it will be prudent to see that the
 basement doors, and other chief apertures, are not near any source of
 contamination ; moreover, great caution should be exercised in roofing
in yards and areas with glass, as is often done, because the glass may
cover over some sources of effluvia, and bring them into the house.
ThisThe     been the
       has supply      air to of
                   of cause         apartments should be large ; diffused and
                               thefever.
not in perceptible draughts ; and warmed ; and should be so contrived
as not to attract attention : otherwise persons who are afraid of pure
air, especially servants and the poor, will speedily close up the aper
tures. The plan suggested by the Commissioners on Warming and
Ventilation was exhibited, and described as fulfilling most of these
conditions—inasmuch, as the air is warmed by the heat otherwise
wasted by the chimney, and is introduced in ascending currents ; and
care is taken that there is a channel of escape separate from the
ehimney, and that the upper part of the apartments should be the
coolest. Any plan for bringing currents of cold air to the level of the
feet, or of the bed, is to be condemned. Nothing can be a better evidence
ef the carelessness of our present system of air-supply to houses, than
the fact, that much of it comes down the chimneys when there is no
fire, bringing with it abundance of soot, and many, possibly unwhole
some,   products
     A free  supplyof of
                      imperfect
                         pure aircombustion
                                     is the sineofqua non to
                                                   organic   persons who lead
                                                           matter.
in-door lives ; inasmuch as the direct influence of close bedroom air in
producing scrofula and consumption has been proved incontestibly by
Oarmichael of Dublin ; and later, by Dr. Guy. But till people have a
sufficiency of food and clothing, it is a mockery to speak of pure air.
Man's instinct chooses foulness before hunger ; when the contact of pure

 1859.}                 on Houses in Relation to Health.                                     135
air with the lungs, and of pure water with the skin, creates an appetite
     food which
for Further         he has noonmeans
                  researches        the of     satisfying. of house air are to be
                                           composition
desired. It is evident that the amount of carbonic acid represents that
of the most volatile, and probably that of the most innoxious product
of the presence
atmospheric           of living
                 impurity.      Thebeings,
                                      speaker  andhad    made several
                                                     consequently            minimum of .
                                                                      thedeterminations
which showed how rapidly the quantity fluctuated according to the
amount of ventilation and the state of the wind. For example, in a
small room in May's Buildings, Brick-street, inhabited by two adults
and three children—                                                Volumes of Carbonic Acid
           April 20th. Noon ; family dining           ....                     vols, of air.
                                                                     in 10,00013-74
              t> 21st. yt                 n           • •        .    .        9*19
              „ 24th. Room empty, door open .               .    .    .        3-34
              „ 20th. All night        *.                                    15-97
              „ 21st.        ,                                               15-10
              „ 22nd.        „                                                12-27
          bedroom,
    In athe  Infant School-room,
           crowded,   with a window
                     unoccupied,  but
                                   Curzon
                                      open
                                      with Schools,doors
                                            attheeach  Mayfair,
                                                       end       .room.
                                                          and. windows         9*46
           closed all day, the quantity fluctuated between 5 and 7
            list of per
     The volumes         10,000 arising from cold, damp, airless and sunless
                    maladies
dwellings, is a long one, and is identical with the maladies caused by
hunger, depraved nutrition, solitude, and grief; moreover, the effects
of dark, monotonous, and decayed dwellings upon the mind must not
be overlooked, inasmuch as they produce a direct temptation to indulge
     Under theliquors.
in spirituous      second head, the speaker alluded to the great number
of modes in which a house may receive poisonous vapours from
sewers. If the house drainage has not been revised during the last
ten years, there may probably be every variety of imperfect and dilapi
dated drainage ; wells that once supplied a family with water, may
have been converted into dead wells and receptacles of filth ; and even
when a house possesses a perfect drainage system of its own, it may be
invaded by its neighbours : or the remains of old drainage systems
may have been left by the carelessness or ignorance of workmen.
Every pipe, too, of whatever sort, may be a means of bringing foul
air from sewers ; every such apparatus should, therefore, be examined
from time to time, and be regulated with philosophical precision. The
possibilities were described of the entrance of air from the public
sewers into houses ; either from stagnation and decomposition, or
through the wind which at certain times penetrates the great sewers
from the river ; then, wherever a sewer ends abruptly, the gases are
sure to be driven out of it, through the apertures in the streets made
     The effects purposes.
for ventilating     of bad house drainage, and of sewer poison, are found in
the prevalence of typhoid fever and choleraic maladies.
                                                                                12

 136         Dr. R. Druitt, on Houses in Relation to Health.            [May 6,
     The great fevers at Clapham, Croydon, Westminster, and Windsor,
were all of this sort, and traceable to this cause ; and instances were
given of illness, year after year, visiting a family, and robbing it of one
or more lives ; and when too late, the discovery made that an ancient,
unknown, and decayed sewer ran under the premises. Many such
sewers exist underground, not noticed in any map, and unknown to
the present generation of officials ; serving only as reservoirs of foul
     It is
gases,     in vain
         which        vent
                findfor thethrough
                            physician
                                    most unexpected
                                      to discuss        channels.
                                                  remedies,  whilst the patient
     Lastly,
is still      the property
         breathing   the vapours
                            whichwhich
                                   diseases havethe
                                         caused       disease. in certain quar
                                                   of lurking
ters, and then breaking out with virulence, and acquiring a self-
propagating force, was ascribed to impurity in general and to defective
drainage in particular. Scarlet fever, especially, was asserted by the
speaker to be caused ah initio, as well as to receive power of exten
sion from this source ; but the limits of, the hour did not permit him
to develop the evidence on this point. Thirteen contagious maladies,
at the least, can be produced at will ; and the speaker believed that,
in time, epidemic diseases would be found subject to human control ;
and that the surest mode of protecting the dwellings ofthe rich was to
     Diagrams
cleanse   and ventilate
                 were exhibited,
                          the dwellings
                                   showing  thepoor.
                                        of the   mortality in several parts of
the parish of St. George, Hanover-square, by which it appeared that,
out of 20,000 inhabitants of first and second class streets there died at
home, in the three years 1856, 1857, and 1858, 10-78 per thousand per
annnm ; whilst, in third and fourth class streets, there died at home, in
those three years, 20" per thousand per annum, exclusive of deaths in
hospitals and workhouses. Taking the mews separately, there died
     The mortality
at home                thousand
           15*36 per and         per annum.
                           population  of several streets during these years
was also exhibited in a diagram, which contrasted the low mortality of
purely aristocratic, and first-class business streets, with that of the nest
of low streets between Grosvenor-square and Oxford-street, where,
owing to the crowded and unventilatable state of the houses, there
is a mortality of 30 per thousand ; a mortality enhanced, of course,
by the deaths of the children who are born but cannot be reared in
such habitations.
                                                                     [R. D.]

1859.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                           137
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
      TheSecretary
    The                 announced
                            Monday, that
            Lord Wensleydale,          May
                                        Vice-President,
                                            His
                                             9, 1859.
                                                  Grace the in the   Chair. had.
                                                                  President
nominated the following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year :—
were duly elected
              The
              Flemyng
              Richard
              Peter
              William
              Sir-B.
              Charles
              Miss
              Col.
              David
              SirSir
                   Henry
                   Earl
                    Rev.
                    Lord
                    Philip
                     Geraldine
                      Dickson,
                      Members
                      Thomas
                       Chapman,
                       C.Brett,
                          Coxwell
                          Pole,
                           George
                           Stanhope,
                            John
                        William
                            Brodie,
                            Wensleydale.
                             Holland,
                              J. Esq.
                                 Yorke,
                                 Fowell
                                  Esq.
                                  Clendinning,
                                  Barlow,
                                  of
                                   Siemens,
                                    Esq.
                                    Rogers,
                                    Gyll,
                                     Bart.
                                      the
                                      D.C.L.
                                       M.A.
                                        Bart.
                                          Buxton,
                                          F.R.S.
                                          Royal
                                           Esq.
                                            M.A.
                                            D.C.L.
                                              Esq.
                                               Esq.
                                               F.R.S.
                                               M.D.
                                                F.R.S.
                                                   Institution.
                                                    F.R.S.
                                                     Bart,
                                                     and
                                                      Pres.
                                                       F.R.S.
                                                        the
                                                        Pres.Treasurer.
                                                              the
                                                              R.S.
                                                             and   Secretary.
                                                                Soc.  Antiq.
      admitted
wereThe           Alfred
                  Members
          following   Professors
                            Henriques,
                               of the
                                    were Esq.
                                          re-elected
                                       Royal          :—
                                               Institution.
William Thomas Brande, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. as Honorary Pro
        fessor of Chemistry.
John     following Esq.
    TheTyndall,              F.R.S.
                      Presents    were
                                     as Professor
                                         announced,ofand     the thanks
                                                         Natural           of the
                                                                     Philosophy.
Members returned for the same :—
  From
The Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty—Capt. T. Spratt: Investigation of the
    Effect of the Prevailing Wave-influence on the Nile's Deposits, fol. 1859.
Commissioners in Lunacy—Appendix to Twelfth Report. 8vo. 1859.

138                                General Monthly Meeting.                                     [May 9,
Airy, G. B.Institute
Actuaries,       Esq. F.R.S.
                           of—Assurance
                                   Astronomer-Royal
                                                Magazine,{the       35. 8vo. 1859.
                                                              No.Author)—Note        on Oltmann's Cal
      culation of the Eclipse of Thales. (Mem. Astron. Sec. 1858.) 4to.
   Greenwich
American      Academy
                  Observations.
                           of Arts and  1857.      4to. 1859,
                                             Sciences—Proceedings,           1856-8. 8vo.
Asiatic
 Arts, Society
           Societyof—Journal
Anonymous—Political  of Bengal—Journal,
                              Perils
                                   for inApril    No.8vo.
                                            1859.1859.          8vo. 1859.
                                                       265.8vo.1859.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, April 1859. 8vo.
Bache, Professor A. D. (the Superintendent)—United States' Coast Survey : Report
Bell,for    1856.Esq.4to.
        Jacob,          M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for April 1859. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for April 1859. 4to.
British Architects, Institute gf—Proceedings for April 1859. 4to.
Burgoyne, J. C. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Chronological Account of India.
       16to. Society--
 Chemical       1859. Quarterly Journal, No. 45. 8vo. 1859.                          •
IHlhe, C. Wentworth,jun. Esq. M.R.I.—N. Rondot, Notice du Vert de Chine et
      de la Teinture en Vert chez les Chinois: suivie de Memoires par J. Person et
           F. Michel.
    N.A.Rondot,    Rapport8vo.       Lyon,d'Art
                              au Musee         1858.et d'Industrie a Lyon. 4to. 1859.
   The
Editors—The
   St. James's
         Horological
         Engineer
         Artizan
         Mechanics'
          Athenaeum
          Practical
          JournalMedley.
                    Medical
                     for
                     offor
                       Mechanic's
                         Gas-lighting
                         for
                          April
                          Magazine
                          Journal,
                           April
                             April
                               Circular
                                 No.
                                 1 859.
                                    1859.
                                      1859.
                                       No.
                                       Journal
                                        for
                                        17.for
                                             4to.
                                             9.
                                             April
                                            forfol.
                                                8vo.
                                                April
                                                 4to.
                                                 April
                                                   8vo.
                                                   for1859.
                                                         1859.
                                                          1859.
                                                            1859.
                                                        April   1859.
                                                                  4to.
                                                               8vo.8vo. 4to.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—M. A. Masson : Application de l'Electricite
   Repertoire
   Istituto
   Konigliche
      a la Medecine.
              Veneto
                 dePreussischen
                      Chimie,
                        di Scienze,
                            8vo.parAkademie,
                                       C.&c.
                                      1857.Barreswil
                                               Memorie.
                                                      Berichte,A. Jan.
                                                          und Vol.   VII.1859.
                                                                  Wurtz.    Parts
                                                                              Nos.
                                                                                 8vo.         8vo. 1857-8.
                                                                                   16,e 7.2. 4to.    1859.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXVII. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1859.
 Geologische Anstalt, Wien—Jahrbuch : Jahrgang IX. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1858.
      Quarterly
 Geological          Journal,
               Society          No. 58. for
                         —Proceedings                      1859. 8vo.
                                              8vo.April1859.
 Geological Survey of India—Memoirs. Vol. I. Part 2. 8vo. 1858.
 Graham, Lieut.-Col. J".—Chart of Chicago Harbour and Bar. 1857.
      AsiaticA.Remedy.
 Granville,         B. M.D.2ndF.R.S.  Edition.MMJ.                Author}—The Sumbul: a New
                                                     12mo.(the1859.
   Botanical
Linnean         Supplement, No. 2.Vol.8vo.
            Society—Proceedings,                         No. 12. 8vo. 1859.
                                                 III. 1859.
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, April 1859.
Maury, M. F. Esq. (the Author)—Gales in the Atlantic—Charts.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 1. 8vo. 1859.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series) for April 1859. 8vo.
Novello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for April 1859. 4to.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographie. 1859. Heft 3, 4. 4to. Gotha, 1859.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 82, 83, 84. 8vo. 1859.
Radcliffe Trustees, Oxford—Radcliffe Astronomical and Meteorological Observa
      tions in 1857. 8vo. 1859.
 VereinsSociety—Proceedings,
Royal                                   No. 34. 8vo.in Preussen—Jan.
           zur Befbrderung des Gewerbfleisses                 1858.             und Feb. 1859. 4to.
 Yates, James, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Mining Operations of the Romans
      in Britain. 8vo. 1859.
   Memorial on Decimal Weights. 8vo. 1859.

1859.]          Mr. Hopkins on the Earth's Temperature.                  139
               WEEKLY        EVENING
                         Friday,             MEETING,
                                   May 13, 1859.
     Sib Henby Hoixand, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
            WuxiamInternal
    On the Earth's     Hopkins,     Esq. M.A.and
                                Temperature,       the Thickness
                                                 LL.D.   F.R.S. of its
If we descend beneath the Solid        Crust.
                                  surface  of the earth, and observe the
temperature at different depths, it is found that within a depth ranging
from 50 to 80 feet, the temperature changes periodically, being affected
to that depth by the heat which the earth receives from the sun at
different seasons of the year. The annual variation, however, becomes
less as the depth increases, till at the depth above mentioned it becomes
insensible. At greater depths, the temperature is invariable at each
point, but increases with the depth, at the rate, on an average, of 1° (P.),
for a depth of between 60 and 70 feet. The best observations which
have been made on this subject are those in deep mining shafts and
deep artesian wells ; the greater the depth the more completely do
anomalous influences counterbalance each other. The greatest depths
at which such observations have been made in Western Europe, are at
Monkwearmouth and Dukinfield in this country ; the Puits de
Grenelle, at Paris ; Mondorff, in the Duchy of Luxembourg ; New
Seltzwerk, in Westphalia ; and at Geneva. At the first two places the
observations were made in vertical shafts of coal mines ; the depth of
the one at Monkwearmouth being upwards of 1800 feet, and that at
Dukinfield upwards of 2000 feet; and in both cases the observa
tions were made while the workmen were sinking the shafts, and with
every precaution against the influence of any extraneous causes which
might affect the observations. The former gave an increase of 1° (F.)
for every 60 feet of depth, the latter for about every 72 or 73 feet.
The sinking of the Puits de Grenelle was superintended by Arago.
The mean increase of temperature was 1° for every 60 feet. At
Mondorff the bore was 2400, being that of an artesian well ; the
increase was 1° for 57 feet. At New Seltzwerk the artesian well,
penetrating to the depth of 2100 feet, giving an increase of 1° (F.) for
55 feet. The average of these is very nearly 1° for 60 feet. Nume
rous other observations are confirmatory of those results, though obser
vations at smaller depths present many anomalies indicating the
operation of local causes.

140            Mr. Hopkins on the Earth-s Temperature,            [May 13,
    If a sphere of very large dimensions, like the earth, were heated in
any degree and in any manner, and were left to cool in surrounding
space, it is shown, by accurate investigation, that after a sufficient and
very great length of time, the law according to which the temperature
would increase in descending beneath the earth's surface, within depths
small compared with the earth's radius, would be— that the increase of
temperature would be proportional to the increase of depth. This
coincides with the observed law, if we neglect the anomalous irregular
variations which are found to exist more or less in each locality. Now
according to this law, the temperature at the depth of 60 or 70 miles
would probably be sufficient to reduce to a state of fusion nearly all the
materials which constitute the earth's external solid envelope ; and
hence it has been concluded, that the earth probably consists of a central
molten mass, as a fluid nucleus, and an external solid shell, of not more
than 60 or 70 miles in thickness : and some geologists, desirous of ren
dering the conclusion the foundation of certain theories, have considered
     thickness
the This        even less
           conclusion, however,
                          than that
                                 rests
                                    now   reasoning in which an important
                                       onmentioned.
element is wanting. It involves the hypothesis that the conductive
power of the rocks which constitute the lower portions of the earth's
crust, is the same as that of the rocks which form its upper portion.
This conductive power of any substance measures the facility with
which heat is transmitted through it ; and it is easily proved, by accu
rate investigation, that when the same quantity of heat passes through
superimposed strata of different conductive powers, the increase of
depth corresponding to a given increase of temperature (as 1 °), is in
any stratum proportional to the conductive power. Consequently, if
the conductive power of the lower portions of the earth's solid crust be
greater than that of the thin upper portion of it through which man has
been able to penetrate, the depth to which we must proceed to arrive at a
certain temperature (as that of fusion for the lower rocks) will be pro
portionally greater. The precise nature of the rocks situated at a great
depth can only be judged of by analogy wjth those which are accessible to
us ; but those geologists who adopt the conclusion of the extreme thin
ness of the earth-s crust, will doubtless admit that its inferior part must
be of igneous origin, and must therefore be allowed to bear a certain
resemblance to igneous rocks on the surface of the earth. Mr. Hopkins
had recently made a great number of experiments on the conductive
powers of various rocks. That of the softer sedimentary rocks, which
are great absorbents of water, is very much increased by the quantity
of moisture they contain ; but taking chalk, one of the best absorbents,
its conductive power, even when saturated, is not half so great as that
of some of the igneous rocks on which Mr. Hopkins had experimented.
Calcareous, argillaceous, and siliceous substances reduced to fine
powder, stand, with reference to their conductive powers, in the order
in which they are now mentioned, the conductivity of the first being
 the least ; and when in a compact state, all that contributes to give a
 hard and crystalline character to the substance, and continuity to the
 mass through which the heat is conducted, increases the conductive

1859.]                and the Thickness of Us Crust.                   141
power. These considerations lead to the conclusion that the conduc
tivity of the inferior portions of the earth's solid crust must be much
greater, and may be very much greater, than that of the less consoli
dated and mere superficial sedimentary beds. Moreover, the tempera
ture of fusion of certain substances, as Mr. Hopkins had shown by
experiment, is much increased by great pressure ; and by analogy it
may be concluded, that such would, at least in some considerable degree,
be the case with the mineral matter of the earth's crust. The chalk is
that formation in which the most numerous and some of the best obser
vations on terrestrial temperatures have been made ; and it would seem
impossible to conclude from actual experiment and the considerations
above stated, that its conductive power can exceed one-third of that of
the inferior rocks, and may not improbably be a considerably smaller
fraction of it. Now the increase of depth in the chalk corresponding
to an increase of 1° (F.) is well ascertained to be very nearly 60 feetj
and therefore the rate of increase in the inferior rocks must probably
be at least three times as great as in the chalk, and may be very consi
derably greater still. Hence, supposing that the thickness of the solid
crust would be about 60 miles, if the conductive power of its lower
portion were equal to that of chalk, its actual thickness must probably
be at least about 200 miles, and may be considerably greater, even if
we admit no other source of terrestrial heat than the central heat here
     There is also another way of investigating the thickness of the
contemplated.
earth's crust, assuming the whole terrestrial mass to consist of a fluid
nucleus, inclosed in a solid envelope. If the earth were accurately
spherical, instead of being spheroidal, its axis of rotation would always
remain exactly parallel to itself, on the same principle as that on which
the gyroscope preserves, in whatever position it may be held, the
 parallelism of the axis about which it rotates. But the attraction of
the sun and moon on the protuberant equatorial portions of the earth's
mass causes a progressive change in the position of the earth's axis,
by virtue of which the North Pole, or that point in the heavens to
which the northern extremity of the earth's axis is directed, instead of
 being stationary, describes a circle on the surface of the heavenly
 sphere about a fixed point in it called the pole of the ecliptic with a
 radius of nearly 23£°, equal to the inclination of the equator to the
 ecliptic, or the obliquity. The whole of this revolution is completed
 in about 25,000 years ; but, as follows from what has just been stated,
 without any change, beyond small periodical ones, in the obliquity.
 A corresponding change of position must manifestly take place also in
 the position of the equinoxes, which have thus a motion along the
 ecliptic in a direction opposite to that in which the signs of the zodiac
 are reckoned, completing a revolution in the period above mentioned of
     Thisyears.
 25,000    precessional
                  It is called
                         motionthehas
                                   precession of the equinoxes.
                                      been completely  accounted for under
 the hypothesis of the earth's entire solidity, and that of a certain law
 according to which the earth's density increases in approaching its
  centre; but some years ago Mr. Hopkins investigated the problem

142         Mr. Hopkins on the Density of the Earth, fyc.           [May 13,
'with the view of ascertaining how far the observed amount of preces
sion might be consistent with the existence of a fluid nucleus. The
result was, that such could only be the case provided the thickness of
the solid shell were much greater than that which, as above stated, has
been supposed by many geologists. The numerical result was, that
the least admissible thickness of the crust must be about one-fifth of
the earth's radius ; but without assigning any great importance to an
exact numerical result, Mr. Hopkins had a full confidence in the
investigation, as showing that the thickness of the crust could not be so
small as 200 or 300 miles, and consequently that no geological theory
can be admitted which rests on the hypothesis of the crust being nearly
    Theasinfluence
as thin              of frequently
           it has been                fluiditytoonbe.the precessional motion
                        the interiorassumed
above described, is due to the difference between the motions which the
attractions of the sun and moon tend to produce on a solid mass in one
case, and a fluid mass on the other. It has been recently stated, as an
objection to this investigation, that the interior fluid mass of the earth
may move in the same manner as if it "were solid. The only reply
which could be given to such an objection was, Mr. Hopkins conceived,
that it was mechanically impossible that these motions should be the
same, though the resulting precessional motion for the solid crust,
under certain conditions, to be determined only by the complete mathe
matical solution of the problem, might be the same as if the whole mass
were solid. The effect of the attractions of the sun and moon also
depends on the ellipticity of the inner surface of the solid shell ; and it
has been said that since that ellipticity depends on the law of the
earth's density, which can only be imperfectly known, no result can be
depended on which involves that ellipticity. This was not a correct
statement of the problem. It was assumed in the solution referred to,
that the ellipticity of the inner surface would depend partly on the law
of density, and partly on the forms of the isothermal surfaces. Mr.
Hopkins had supposed it possible, at the time he was engaged in this
investigation, that a surface of equal solidity might approximate to a
surface of equal pressure ; he has now experimental reasons for believ
ing that it must approximate much more nearly to an internal surface
of equal temperature. Now for depths greater, probably much greater,
than those which have often been supposed to correspond to the thick
ness of the earth's solid crust, there is no doubt that the internal iso
thermal surfaces have a greater ellipticity than the external surface
itself; a conclusion which is independent of the law of density.
Hence, a like conclusion will hold with reference to the internal
surface of the shell, if it approximate sufficiently to the surface, of
equal temperature ; and this is the conclusion most unfavourable to the
thin shell supposed by some geologists. Restricting the interpretation,
then, of Mr. Hopkins's results to the question, whether the earth's
solid shell be as thin as some geologists have supposed, or at least
several hundred miles in thickness ? (and this is the only question of
geological importance) —Mr. Hopkins denied the validity of either of
the objections above stated.

1859.]      Dr. Gladstone on the Colours of Shooting Stars.           143
    Thus, both the modes of investigation which had been described,
lead to like conclusions respecting the least thickness which can be
assigned to the solid envelope of our globe. It must be much greater
than geologists have frequently imagined it to be.
                                                               [W. H.]
                 WEEKLY        EVENING
                           Friday,            MEETING,
                                    May 20, 1859.
  Henby Bence Jones, M.D. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
            John Hall Gladstone, Ph.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
           On the Colours of Shooting Stars and Meteors.
All are familiar with the smaller kinds of shooting stars, and most
have observed those of a larger size which shoot across the sky like a
rocket, and burst perhaps in a shower of sparks ; many persons also
have been witnesses of the grander displays called fire-balls, or bolides,
and some few have seen those bright clouds that have occasionally
appeared and rained down stones upon the earth. It is not cer
tain that all these are connected phenomena, or that there is a solid
nucleus to every shooting star; yet it is impossible to draw any
exact line of distinction, and there is every gradation between the
most striking and the most simple of these appearances. The investi
gations of scientific men have made us acquainted with many facts
relating to these bodies : thus, their direction is never perpendicular to
the earth, but more frequently almost horizontal, and though they fly
from every quarter of the heavens, the majority come from that part
 towards which the earth is at the time moving ; their velocity averages
 about 20 miles per second ; their height above the earth is, of course,
 very various, yet the more brilliant fire-balls seem to begin their
 luminous course at somewhere about 40 miles above us ; their size is
 probably small in all instances, although, from irradiation, they fre
 quently appear to present a considerable diameter ; they occur often in
 showers ; and these showers have been observed to have an annual
 periodicity. At the present time these star-showers occur generally
 about August 10 and November 13, but at the end of the 11th cen
 tury the most remarkable period was April 4 ; and those wonderful
 people the Chinese, who have kept records of showers of meteors since
 March 23, B.C. 687 (when Manasseh was ruling over Judah, and
 European history scarcely existed) tell of other periods, pre-eminent
     Thewhich
 among          is July 22.
           meteorolites  which fall from the sky are of two sorts ; the
 stony, consisting of silicate of magnesia, with more or less admixture of
 lime, potash, or soda combined with silicic acid ; and the metallic,

  144                          Dr. J. H. Gladstone,                    [May 20,
 consisting of iron, which always contains a small quantity of nickel,
 with phosphorus and sulphur, and often contains in addition cobalt,
 and zinc, tin, lead, manganese, or chromium, with carbon or chlorine.
 Other elements have also been mentioned as found in certain meteoric
 stones. Three specimens were exhibited ; a broken piece of silicate
 interspersed with metal, which fell at Triguerre, in France, and a huge
 mass of supposed meteoric iron, the property of Prof. Tennant ; and a
 fragment of a piece of iron found in Mexico, now in the Royal Insti
 tution, and which, from its chemical composition, is believed to be
      The cosmical theory is the only one capable of explaining the
 meteoric.
 known facts of these meteorites, though that is not without its
 difficulties. It supposes that in the interplanetary spaces, at least near
 the earth's orbit, there are a vast number of minute solid bodies
 revolving round the sun, either singly or in streams, and that our
 globe in its passage comes into collision with some of these, or
 periodically cuts the orbit of these streams of planetary dust. The
 small pieces of solid matter are supposed to become incandescent or
      As to
 ignited      theircolour
          by the     rapid of
                            friction
                               meteors,  we have
                                     against   the air.much information given in
 the lists of the Chinese, in those of the Rev. Baden Powell, published
 in the Reports of the British Association, and in those of M. Coulvier
 Gravier. M. Poey of Havannah has taken the trouble of arranging
all these observations according to the colour, and the month of
appearance : and the totals of his tables form the basis of the accom
panying table, in which however a little liberty has been taken with the
classification, all the recorded colours being referred to the six principal
divisions of the prismatic spectrum, and these combined with white,
and white itself. The Chinese colour observations are rather under,
and the English rather above a thousand, but for the sake of comparison
they have been reduced to that proportion.
                                        Chinese.    English.  French.
              Eed                          5-1       12-2         4
              White-Red ....               0-5          4-9       6
                                          56-8       10>5         4
                                           0-6       14-2         7
              White-Yellow . . .           0-5          1-8       1
                                           0-0         0-6        0
              White-Green . . .            0-0         0-6        1
                                           0-8       30-8         0
              White-Blue      . . .       32-7         5-4       41
                                           l'O         0-5        0
              White                        2-0       18-5         3
                     Total    . . .     100-0        100-0       67
     The very apparent dissimilarities in these three lists are capable of
more or less explanation. The Chinese mention orange (or rather

1859.]       on tfte Colours of Shooting Stars and Meteors.             145
yellowish red and reddish yellow) meteors in great numbers, but
these seem to be balanced in a great measure by the numerous observa
tions of red, pale red, and yellow, as well as orange in the English
and French lists. It should be remembered that there may be every
gradation from red through orange to yejlow, and it may be fairly
open to doubt whether the inhabitants of the Celestial empire gazing
at the stars one or two thousand years ago distinguished colours just
as their French translator would do. Again, the Chinese and French
give white-blue in great numbers ; but this is evidently the same as
the English blue. The English lists also make numerous mention of
white meteors, because in Prof. Powell's Catalogue the fact of a
meteor being white or colourless is usually noted, which is not generally
the case with either the French or the Chinese observations. The
number of French meteors classified as white-blue, is swollen by many
described by M. Coulvier Gravier as " white becoming bluish in the
     The points of similarity in the three lists are, the small number of
horizon."
green meteors—what there are occurring generally among those fire
balls that change colour ; the small number of purple ; the absence of
brown ; and the fact that the large majority of meteors exhibit some
distinctive colour. They may be generally divided into two groups,
the one blue, the other orange, inclining more or less either to red or
     If these appearances are really produced by the passage of pieces
yellow.
of stone or iron through the earth's atmosphere during its annual
course round the central orb, it is very possible that the stream of
little bodies that intersects our orbit at one time of the year may
differ in composition from those that cut our path at another period.
It occurred to the speaker that this might be evidenced by a difference
of colour during their combustion, and that the monthly tables of M.
Poey afforded
case.           the means
        On examining     the of
                              Chinese
                                determining
                                      record whether   such was
                                              it was found        the pre
                                                             thatreally the
vailing colour of a great shower of falling stars is very rarely given ;
the colour observations are almost confined to large single meteors ;
and little can be observed beyond the fact that the blue meteors are
 more numerous in comparison with the orange during the months of
 Auguat, September, October, and November, than during the rest of
 the year. M. Poey has also made the remarkable observation, that
the Chinese meteors " show a remarkable constancy of tints during a
long period of years, when an equally constant but different scale of
 colour prevails, and this for several successive periods ;" a fact that
 may possibly be due to the changes in the periodical showers already
adverted to. If, however, we turn to the monthly tables of the Eng
lish observations, we are at once struck with the marked difference in
 the relative proportions of the different colours. Thus, confining
 our attention to the months of August and November, when the
 great showers occur, we observe a difference that cannot be attributed
 to mere accident. In the following table red and white-red have been
 added together, yellow and white-yellow, blue and white-blue.

 146                        Dr. J. H. Gladstone,                   [May 20,
                                          August.  November.
                    Red .                    49        24
                    Orange                    8        23
                    Yellow                   44        16
                    Blue .                  164        30
                                            265        93
     On glancing at these numbers, we cannot fail to remark, the great
deficiency of orange meteors in August, and their comparative
abundance in November, while conversely blue meteors occur in great
 numbers during August and are comparatively rare at the later period.
 The yellow appear in about average quantity in each month as com
pared with the whole year, but the red exceed the average somewhat
in November. Hence it may be deduced, that at the autumnal period
the meteorites generally burn with a red or orange glow, while those
 which cross our orbit about the 10th of August display in combustion
a blue colour, and this is in perfect accordance with what is observed
on a closer inspection of Prof. Powell's lists. The speaker stated that
last August he had had the good fortune to witness these streaming
blue meteors passing from east to west, and leaving a phosphorescent
       in their fact
trainAnother         of interest connected with this subject, is the change
                 wake.
that is frequently remarked in the colour of a meteor during its passage.
Thus the French observations make repeated mention of falling stars
that changed from white when overhead, to bluish or reddish in the
horizon ; from white they have been also seen to change to orange-
yellow and blue-green, to reddish and bluish with a reddish train ; and
from yellowish white to orange-yellow and greenish-white, the meteor
being broken into several fragments, two of which passed from white to
the colour of red-hot iron. The changes from orange-yellow to green,
and from yellow and red to greenish-yellow have also been recorded by
M. Coulvier Gravier. The Chinese tell of the converse change from
red to white, and British observations record the passage from blue to
red ; from blue to green, and finally red ; from green to crimson ; and
from green to orange and red. The trains left by meteors during their
flight, are usually of the same colour as the meteors themselves, but not
always so ; thus red meteors have sometimes left a blue luminosity,
and conversely red sparks have frequently fallen from meteors of an
other colour. The Chinese record such instances in such terms as " at
the moment when the globe of fire fell, a flame appeared, and a score
     On turning
of little            jumped
          red starsover       British
                         the out       Association Catalogues we observe
                                  of it."
many indications of these changes of colour ; thus, in an account of a
meteor seen at Poona on Sept. 7, 1847, we read :—" Before the first
bursting the meteor was of exceeding brightness, of an intense blue
colour, and at the instant of explosion it changed into red." The
following is nearer home. A fire-ball is thus described by an observer

1859.]          on the Colours of Shooting Stars and Meteors.                147
at Lambeth :—" As it brightened it displayed the most lovely colours,
which could be distinctly traced to the radial colours produced by the
sun ; at one period green, violet (deep), pale red, &c, and their effects
through the thin stratum of clouds which were in its path were most
gorgeous." In a most graphic description, given by a lady, of a
meteor that appeared over Hampstead, we find the remarkable state
ment :—" It shot forth several fiery coruscations, and while we were
gazing at it, broke into an intensely radiant cloud. ... It cast a
most brilliant light on the houses there, brighter than moonlight, and
unlike any light I ever saw. It appeared of a blue tint on the bricks,
     there
but In       was no these
         discussing   blue light
                            reputed
                                 in the cloud
                                     facts        necessary to take into account
                                           it is itself."
certain illusions to which observers are subject. Thus, at the outset,
there is the diversity of names given to the same colour by different
persons. No two individuals, however perfect their perception of
colour, would perhaps agree in their mode of naming the colours of all
the stationary objects around them, how very likely then would they be
to disagree in naming the colour of a light which appeared suddenly
and unexpectedly in the sky, and as suddenly disappeared ! Many
instances of this discrepancy might be cited from the accounts of
observed meteors ; but the most curious instance with which the speaker
was acquainted had occurred in the descriptions of the beautiful meteor
that travelled over England on the 12th of last September, being
visible in the evening before even the daylight had disappeared. Of
the many eye-witnesses who described the phenomenon in the Times
newspaper, five mentioned its apparent colour ; of whom F.A.B. states
it to have been " green at first ;" N.R. " green, surrounded by white ;"
W. Rowlett, " white ;" and W. " vivid, whitish blue ;" while B.H.
asserts that it was " primrose." Here, however, the discrepancy is so
great as to lead us to the conviction that the meteor of Sept. 12, 1858,
was really one of those that change colour during their passage through
our atmosphere, and thus present different appearances to observers in
     It is quite
different   places.possible that a meteor may emit rays which in the aggre
gate would produce one colour, and yet may affect the observer with a
sensation of a different colour. This may arise either from absorption,
     In illustration
intensity,              of the effect of absorption Dr. Gladstone exhibited
             or contrast.
the prismatic spectrum by means of the electric lamp, and showed how
certain glasses produced a similar absorption of the rays to that which
takes place in the common phenomena of the red sun, or orange moon.
The effect of dispersion was rendered visible by the non-transmission of
the extreme blue and violet rays through water into which a little milk
had been poured. This " sky-blue " mixture, produced by a substance
itself colourless, represented the light clouds and vapours which must
frequently affect the apparent colour of meteors, and suggested a simple
explanation of the fact that of the variable meteors observed in the
misty skies of England, so many terminate in red. Smoke has much
the same effect on the spectrum as milk and water.

 148                          Dr. J. H. Gladstone,                 [May 20,
     In illustration of the effect of intensity in causing lights actually
coloured to produce very nearly the sensation of white, the electric
light, from charcoal points, was exhibited under red and blue glasses,
when it appeared dazzling and almost white ; though no white light
was really transmitted, and such objects as common paper, when
 illuminated by it, reflected the coloured radiance. This will explain
the phenomenon so frequently observed by M. Coulvier Gravier, of a
 white meteor becoming bluish or reddish as it approached the horizon ;
and also the paradox of an " intensely radiant cloud " white in itself,
but throwing a blue light on the walls of houses. In these cases it
seems highly probable that the incandescent meteors were really emit
ting coloured light, but that this colour did not become apparent till
the light was reduced either by distance, or by reflection from other
objects. In a similar manner, the fact of a yellowish meteor becoming
 more or less green as it passes away from the spectator, so frequently
noticed in the French observations, may be explained by the well-
known changes in the chromatic impressions produced by yellow rays
     In reference
according                the effect of contrast it was remarked, that every
             to theirtointensity.
lady is aware of the alteration that may be produced in the apparent
tint of any article of dress by the juxtaposition of some other bright
colour; and indeed it may be laid down as a general law that the
apparent colour of every object is affected to a greater or less degree
by the colours of all other objects seen at the same time. This remark
holds good equally of self-luminous bodies, as, for instance, the flame
of a gas-lamp, which assumes a rather bluish tint when the intensely
yellow soda flame is brought beside it. This also must be a source of
    After
error          observations
       in themaking           of meteors.for these points of difficulty and
                        due allowance
probable fallacy, we may approach the question—How far are these
chromatic phenomena in accordance with the cosmical theory ? Were
pieces of iron to be shot through our atmosphere at the rate of twenty
miles per second, there is good ground for believing that the friction
would make them red-hot, if not incandescent. An iron wire, heated in
the galvanic circuit, was observed by the speaker to emit at first princi
pally orange and green rays, but as the heat increases the true red rays
are emitted in an increasing degree, till " bright redness " is attained ;
and when combustion begins blue rays are also given forth, the general
impression being then that of a reddish whiteness. The combustion
and scintillation both of ordinary and of meteoric iron were shown in
several ways. The metallic masses which fall through the air are never
composed solely of iron, and it is difficult to say which metal or which
other constituent would be the first ignited. Nickel in combustion
displays a larger amount of green rays ; sulphur, as is well known,
burns with a blue, and phosphorus with a white flame. Two
pieces of iron pyrites, attached to the wires of a powerful galvanic
battery, when brought momentarily into contact, were ignited with a
very luminous flame, which exhibited the characters of both burning
iron and sulphur ; and on one occasion, when the experiment was tried,

1859.]     Mr. Pengelly on Ossiferous Caverns of Devonshire.           149
the lambent blue flame of the latter element was visible for some time
after the circuit was completely broken, and the ferruginous scintilla
tions had ceased. The other metals occasionally found in meteorites,
such as cobalt, zinc, or lead, will of oourse burn with their distinct
flames ; and the silicates, though incapable of combining with oxygen,
may give out an intense light when strongly heated. This was demon
strated by placing the fragment of the meteoric stone that fell at
Triguerre in the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe, when it began to fuse, and
became brilliantly incandescent. In all these observations on the
colours displayed by them there is nothing antagonistic to the idea
that these luminous meteors are produced, as some have certainly been,
by the combustion of such solid masses of metal and stone as occasion
ally strike the earth ; but we are not yet in a condition to deduce its
       The Lord
composition      WEEKLY
              from  the
                     Wensleydale,
                        colour
                   WilliamFriday,
                               Pengelly,
                                EVENING
                                of any
                                    May
                                      Vice-President,
                                       particular
                                         27,Esq.
                                              1859.
                                               MEETING,
                                                  meteor.
                                                  F.G.S.in the   H. G.]
                                                             [J.Chair.
        On the Ossiferous Caverns and Fissures of Devonshire.
 The limestone districts of Devonshire abound in caverns. These are
of three kinds, chambers, tunnels, and shafts ; their walls being either
     The
lined,  angular,
           following
                 corroded,
                      caverns  eroded.
                            or were  briefly noticed by Mr. Pengelly :—
 the Pixies' Hole at Chudleigh, the Chudleigh "Cavern," the Ug-
brooke fissures, the Ogwell Cavern, the caverns at Buckfastleigh,
 Oreston, Yealmpton, and Ansty's Cove, near Torquay ; the celebrated
 Kent's cavern, also near Torquay ; the " Ash Hole," near Brixham ; and
     In November
finally,               discovered
         the recently1837,  some waste
                                   cavernlands
                                           on Windmill-hill,  Brixham.
                                               on Windmill-hill,  Brixham,
were sold, when a small piece was bought by a dyer named Philp,
who immediately commenced quarrying, with the intention of building
 upon it. In January 1 858, the workmen came upon a hole, at first only
the size of a man's hand, but which soon became large enough to per
mit Mr. Philp to enter. He proceeded as far as fifty feet, and brought
 out bones, of which he forthwith made an exhibition, and thereby
 attracted the attention of local geologists. The cavern was speedily
 visited by Sir R. I. Murchison, Drs. Falconer and Percy, Professor
    Vol. III.
Ramsay,          (No 30.) and other eminent geologists. The
            Mr. Prestwich,                                         m Royal

  150      Mr. Pengelly on Ossiferous Caverns of Devonshire. [May 27,
  Society granted £100 as a contribution towards the expense of a
  scientific exploration of the cavern ; additional sums were quickly
  subscribed ; and a committee was formed to arrange and direct the
       Mr.ofPengelly
  course               described the structure and formation of the cavern,
             proceeding.
  and the mode of exploration adopted ; and stated that there had been
  discovered in it a very considerable number of bones of animals,
   extinct and recent (the rhinoceros, ox-tribe, horse, cave-bear, hyaena,
   &c.), and also several well marked specimens of the objects com
  monly known as " flint knives," and which are generally considered to
  be of human manufacture. Similar articles had also been found in
  Kent's Cavern, in a corresponding situation, namely, in the " bone-
  earth," with the bones of extinct and recent animals, beneath the floor
  of stalagmite. Many fossils from the Oreston fissures were placed on
  the lecture-table ; and on the wall were suspended diagrams of the
       Mr. plan
  ground         of thebriefly
            Pengelly     Brixham    cavern,his
                                explained    &c.views on the probable origin of
  caverns in general, and of the Brixham cave in particular : which he
  referred to,— 1st, The production of a line of fractures ; 2nd, The
  chemical action of acidulated water, through such fractures ; 3rd,
  The mechanical action of running water charged with rock debris,
  &c. With respect to the chronology of the cavern and its contents, the
 speaker referred to the remains of the great herbivora, as evidences of
 the place having had a tropical or sub-tropical climate at the time of
 these deposits, and considered that whatever was the antiquity of the
 bone-earth in the cavern, the human period is as ancient. He thought
 that many facts concur to suggest a re-investigation of the antiquity of
 the human race ; and he also considered it highly desirable to organise
      In thefor
 a system       the general
              course           exploration
                     of the lecture,            caverns. alluded to the various
                                        Mr.ofPengelly
 papers which had been published on the Devonshire caverns, viz. :
 Mr. Whidbey's Description of the Fissures at Oreston, near Ply
 mouth, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1817. A paper on the
 Yealmpton Caverns, by Lieut. Colonel Mudge, read before the Geolo
 gical Society of London, March 23, 1836 ; Mr. Austen's paper on the
 Bone Caverns of Devonshire, read before the Geological Society,
 March 25, 1840 ; and the Rev. Mr. McEnery's " Cavern Researches,"
 being principally a memoir of Kent's Cavern, which was long sup
 posed to be lost, but recently discovered and published by Mr. Vivian,
     Torquay.
 ofThe  following List (revised by Professor Owen) of Fossil Mammalia
      found in the Devonshire Caverns, was suspended on the Wall.
           Extinct Species.                            Recent Species.
Utsus priscus.                             Rhinolophus Ferrum - equinium — Great
Ursus spelwus—Great Cave Bear.                Horse-shoe Bat.
Hi/ana spelaa —Cave Hyaena.                Sorex vulgaris—Shrew.
                                           Meles taxus—Badger.

1859.]       Prof. Huxley on Persistent Types of Animal Life.                  151
            Extinct Species.                          Recent Species.
Maehairodus latidens.                         Putorius vulgaris—Polecat.
tagtmys spelaa—Cave Pika.                     Putorins ermineus—Stoat.
Elephas primigenius—Mammoth.                  Canis lupus—Wolf.
Rhinoceros tichorinus—Tichorine Two-          Vulpes vulgaris—Fox.
   homed Rhinoceros.                          Felis catus—Wili Cat.
Equusjbssilis—Fossil Horse.                   Arvicola amphibia—Water Vole.
Equus plicidens.                              Arvicola agrestis—Field Vole.
Hippopotamus Major—Large
Asinusfossilis—Fossil          Zebra.Hip
                        Ass or fossil         Arvicola pratensis—Bank Vole.
                                              Lepus variabilis—Norway Hare.
   popotamus.
Megaceros   Hibernicus— Gigantic Irish Lepus cuniculus—Rabbit.
                                              Cervus elephas—Red Deer.
   Deer.                                      Cervus tarandus—Rein Deer.
   antlered Deer.
Strongyloceros
      Sir Henryspelteus—Gigantic
                   WEEKLY
                      Holland,     round-
                             Friday,Bart.
                                    EVENING
                                         June Cervus
                                                3, 1859.
                                             M.D.    MEETING,
                                                     capreolus—Roe
                                                     F.R.S.          Deer.
                                                               Vice-President,
Cervus Bucklandi—Buckland's Deer.
Bison minor.
Bos longifrons—Long-fronted Ox.
                                     in the Chair.
                      Thomas H. Huxley, Esq. F.R.S.
             PROFESSOR OF NATURAL HISTORY, GOVERNMENT SCHOOL OF MINES.
The successive         the Persistent
                 On modifications      which
                                          Types       Animal
                                               theofviews        Life. geologists
                                                            of physical
 have undergone since the infancy of their science, with regard to the
amount and the nature of the changes which the crust of the globe has
 suffered, have all tended in one direction, viz. towards the establishment
 of the belief, that throughout that vast series of ages which was
 occupied by the deposition of the stratified rocks, and which may be
 called " geological time," (to distinguish it from the " historical
 time " which followed, and the " pre-geological time," which pre
 ceded it) the intensity and the character of the physical forces which
 have been in operation, have varied within but narrow limits ; so that,
 even in Silurian or Cambrian times, the aspect of physical nature must
        beenuniformitarian
 haveThis     much what it viewis now.of telluric conditions, so far as geological
 time is concerned, is, however, perfectly consistent with the notion of a
 totally different state of things in antecedent epochs, and the strongest
 advocate of such " physical uniformity " during the time of which we
 have a record might, with perfect consistency, hold the so-called
 " nebular hypothesis," or any other view involving the conception of
                                                                         m2

152                             Professor Huxley,                        [June 3,
a long series of states very different from that which we now know, and
    Thesuccession
whose     doctrine of   physicalpre-geological
                     occupied      uniformity and   that of physical progression
                                                 time.
are therefore perfectly consistent, if we regard geological time as having
     same accepted
the The                  pre-geological
            relation todoctrines     of palaeontology
                                           time as historical
                                                          are time
                                                               by no     to it. in
                                                                    hasmeans
harmony with these tendencies of physical geology. It is generally
believed that there is a vast contrast between the ancient and the
modern organic worlds—it is incessantly assumed that we are acquainted
with the beginning of life, and with the primal manifestation of each of
its typical forms : nor does the fact that the discoveries of every year
oblige the holders of these views to change their ground, appear sensibly
     Without
to affect       at all denying
           the tenacity             adhesion.
                          of their the  considerable positive differences which
really exist between the ancient and the modern forms of life, and
leaving the negative ones to be met by the other lines of argument, an
impartial examination of the facts revealed by palaeontology seems to
       that these
showThus,          differences
              of some    two hundred
                                 and contrasts
                                          knownhave   beenofgreatly
                                                  orders               not one is
                                                              plants,exaggerated.
exclusively fossil. Among animals, there is not a single totally extinct
class ; and of the orders, at the outside not more than seven per cent.
     unrepresented
are Again,                the marked
               certaininwell             forms of living beings have existed
                               existing creation.
through enormous epochs, surviving not only the changes of physical
conditions, but persisting comparatively unaltered, while other forms
of life have appeared and disappeared. Such forms may be termed
" persistent types" of life ; and examples of them are abundant enough
     Among
in both        plants, and
         the animal          the vegetable
                       for instance,          club mosses, and Coniferce, some
                                       ferns,worlds.
of them apparently generically identical with those now living, are
met with as far back as the carboniferous epoch ; the cone of the oolitic
 Araucaria is hardly distinguishable from that of existing species ; a
 species of Pinus has been discovered in the Purbecks. and a walnut
 (Juglans) in the cretaceous rocks.* All these are types of vegetable
 structure, abounding at the present day ; and surely it is a most
 remarkable fact to find them persisting with so little change through
       vast epochs.
 suchEvery    subkingdom of animals yields instances of the same kind.
 The Globigerina of the Atlantic soundings is identical with the cre
 taceous species of the same genus ; and the casts of lower Silurian
 Foraminifera, recently described by Ehrenberg, assure us of the
 very close resemblance between the oldest and the newest forms of
 many of the Protozoa.
     Among the Ccelenterata, the tabulate corals of the Silurian epoch
 are wonderfully like the millepores of our own seas, as every one may
 convince himself who compares Heliolites with Heliopora.
     * I state these facts on the authority of my friend Dr. Hooker.—T. H. H.

 1859.]              on t/ie Persistent Types of Animal Life.                    153
      Turning to the Mollusca, the genera Crania, Discina, Lingula,
 have persisted from the Silurian epoch to the present day, with so
 little change, that very competent malacologists are sometimes puzzled
 to distinguished the ancient from the modern species. Nautili have a
 like range, and the shell of the liassic Loligo is similar to that of the
 " squid of our own seas. Among the Annnlosa, the carboniferous
 insects are in several cases referable to existing genera, as are the
 Arachnida, the highest group of which, the scorpions, is represented
 in the coal by a genus differing from its living congeners only in the
      The vertebrate
 disposition               subkingdom furnishes many examples of the same
                of its eyes.
kind. The Ganoidei and Elasmobranchii are known to have per
sisted from at least the middle of the Palaeozoic epoch to our own
times, without exhibiting a greater amount of deviation from the typical
characters of these orders, than may be found within their limits at the
     Among
present     day. the Reptilia, the highest group, that of the Crocodilia,
was represented at the beginning of the Mesozoic epoch, if not earlier,
by species identical in the essential character of their organization
with those now living, and presenting differences only in such points as
the form of the articular faces of their vertebrae, in the extent to which
the nasal passages are separated from the mouth by bone, and in the
proportions of the limbs. Even such imperfect knowledge as we possess
of the ancient mammalian fauna leads to the belief that certain of its
types,   such
      It is      as that
             difficult  to ofcomprehend
                               the Marsupialia,
                                           the meaning   of such facts
                                                   have persisted           greater
                                                                  withasno these, if
we suppose that each species of animal and plant, or each great type of
organization, was formed and placed upon the surface of the globe at
long intervals by a distinct act of creative power ; and it is well to
recollect that such an assumption is as unsupported by tradition or
     If, on the
revelation            is opposed
               as itother   hand, to
                                   wetheview
                                           general analogy Types,"
                                              " Persistent           in relation to
                                                            of Nature.
that hypothesis which supposes the species of living beings living at
any time to be the result of the gradual modification of pre-existing
species— a hypothesis which though unproven, and sadly damaged by
some of its supporters, is yet the only one to which physiology lends
any countenance—their existence would seem to show, that the amount
of modification which living beings have undergone during geological
time is but very small in relation to the whole series of changes which
they have suffered. In fact, palaeontology and physical geology are
in perfect harmony, and coincide in indicating that all we know of the
conditions in our world during geological time, is but the last term of
a vast and, so far as our present knowledge reaches, unrecorded pro
gression.                                "
                                                                   [T. H. H.]

154                          General Monthly Meeting.                          [June 6,
                   GENERAL     Monday,       June 6, 1859.
                                       MONTHLY             MEETING,
Colonel PhilipJohn                 Yorke, Graver
                        JamesBathurst                   Vice-President,
                                              F.R.S. Browne,      Esq. in the Chair.
                       Samuel Parsons, M.D. and
were duly electedWilliam  Members   Simpson,
                                   Charles
                                         of the
                                              Brett,
                                                  Esq.
                                                   Royal  C.E.
                                                           Institution.
                                                        Esq.
wasThe    following
      admitted          Letter from
                    a Member        of theJacobRoyal    Institution.
                                                    Bell,   Esq. M.R.I., was read :—
     " My dear Dr. Faraday,                           " Lcmgham Place, June 2nd, 1859.
               " I have the works of John Gould, F.R.S. from the com
mencement up to the present time. Understanding that the Library of
the Royal Institution is not provided with these works, I am desirous
of offering them as a donation. The volumes up to a certain period are
bound : and I regret my inability to include the entire works in the
same state : but I find on inquiry that three of the works are still in
progress, and therefore not yet in a state for binding. As the state of
my health gives me no prospect of living to see the works completed,*
and I could not impose on my executors an indefinite trouble and
responsibility, I have only the alternative of requesting you to accept,
on behalf        the Institution,
          " Iofremain,     my dear all  Dr.that
                                              Faraday,
                                                  it is inyours  very sincerely,
                                                           my power    to give.
                                                                   " Jacob Bell."
        Works of John Gould, F.R.S.—
   Century of Birds from the Himalaya Mountains, fol. 1832.
   Monograph of the Ramphastidre or Toucans, fol. 1st Ed. 1834. 2nd Ed. 1854.
   Monograph of the Trogonidse or Trogons, fol. 1st Ed. 1838. 2nd Ed. Part 1. 1858.
   Birds of Europe. 5 vols. fol. 1837.
   Mammals
   Birds      of Australia.
         of Australia.              fol.1-10.
                          7 vols.Parts                 1845-58. Parts 1, 2. fol. 1851-5.
                                           1848.fol.Supplement,
   Monograph of the Trochilida>, or Humming Birds. Parts 1-16. fol. 1849-58.
   Birds of Asia.of the
   Monograph            Odontophorinae,
                     Parts  1-11. fol. or      Partridges of America, fol. 1850.
                                            1850-9.
   Icones Avium. Part 2. fol. 1838.
     Resolved,—That the warmest thanks of the Members be offered to
Mr. Bell for his munificent present ; and they beg to express their
regret at the state of health of one who has so long been so earnest and
 active a Member           the decease
                  * Mr.ofBell-s            took place on June 12 following.
                                  Institution.

1859.]           Prof. Tijndall, on the Transmission of Heat.                              155
     The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same : —
   From
Lords   Commissioners
     Teneriffe   Astronomical
                           of the Experiments
                                   Admiralty—Professor          4to. 1858.
                                                     of 1856. Piazzi    Smyth's Report on the
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Nos. 57, 58. 8vo. 1857.
Anonymous—The Mutinies and the People ; or Statements of Native Fidelity,
     exhibited during the Outbreak of 1857-8. By a Hindu. 8vo. Calcutta, 1859.
Arts, Society of—Journal for May 1859. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, May 1859. 8vo.
Barlow, Rev. John, M.A. F.R.S. V.P. Sf Sec. R.I.—Rev. T. Reynolds, Iter
     Britanniarum : or, that Part of the Itinerary of Antoninus which relates to
     Britain, with a New Comment. 4to. 1 799.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for May 1859. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for May 1859. 4to.
British. Architects, Institute of—Proceedings for May 1859. 4to.
   The Journal
        Mechanics'
        Athenaeum
        Artizan
        Practical
        Engineer
Editors—The
        Horological
                Medical
                 of
                  forfor
                       Gas-Lighting
                       for
                        Magazine
                        May
                         Journal,
                          May
                           May
                    Mechanic's
                            Circular
                              1859.
                                1859.
                                 1859.
                                   No.
                                   Journal
                                    for 4to.
                                        for
                                         May
                                         10.
                                          fol.
                                        for  May
                                            4to.
                                              May
                                               for
                                                1859.
                                                 8vo.
                                                   May
                                                    1859.
                                                    1859.8vo.
                                                          1859.
                                                        1859.4to. 4to.
                                                             8vo.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—-Repertoire de Chimie, par C. Barreswil und
     A.'Wurtz. No. 8. 8vo. Paris 1859.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXVII. No. 5. 8vo. 1859.
 GeologicalSir
 Holland,       Henri/, Bart. M.D.
             Society—Proceedings         for F.R.S.
                                               May 1859.      8vo.
                                                         V.P.R.I.—U.       F. Maury's Sailing
     Directions.
Lincoln's- Inn, Hon.  8thSociety
                           Ed. 2 of—Catalogue
                                    vols. 4to. Washington,           1858-9.
                                                        of the Printed    Books in the Library.
     By W. H. Spilsbury, Librarian. 8vo. 1859.
 Mosley, Sir Oswald, Bart. M.R.I, (the Author)—A Short Account of the Ancient
     British
Newton,       Church. 16to.Journal
          Messrs.—London             1858.(New Series), for May 1859. 8vo.
Novella, Mr. Society—Journal,
Photographic          Publisher)—The
               (the WEEKLY            No.EVENING
                                             85.
                                             Musical       1859.
                                                   8vo.Times,   for May 1859. 4to.
                                                              MEETING,
                                  Friday, June 10, 1859.
            The Prince Consort, Vice-Patron, in the Chair.
                             John Tyndall, Esq. F.R.S.
                     PBOFESSOR or NATURAL rHII.OSOPIIY, ROYAL INSTITUTION.
  On tlie Transmission of Heat oj different qualities through Gases of
                                         different kinds.
Some analogies between sound and light were first pointed out : a
 spectrum from the electric light was thrown upon a screen—the spec
 trum was to the eye what an orchestra was to (he ear—the different

 156                         Professor Tyndall,                    [June 10,
colours were analogous to notes of different pitch. But beyond the
visible spectrum in both directions there were rays which excited no
impression of light. Those at the red end excited heat, and the
reason why they failed to excite light probably was that they never
reached the retina at all. This followed from the experiments of
Briicke and Knoblauch. These obscure rays had been discovered by Sir
 "VVm. Herschel, and the speaker demonstrated their existence by placing
a thermo-electric pile near to the red end of the spectrum, but still
outside of it. The needle of a large galvanometer connected with the
pile was deflected and came to rest in a position about 4.5 degrees
from zero. A glass cell, containing the transparent vitreous humour
of the eye of an ox, was now placed in the path of the rays : the light of
the spectrum was not perceptibly diminished, but the needle of the
galvanometer fell to zero, thus proving that the obscure rays of the
spectrum, to which the galvanometric deflection was due, were wholly
     Reference
absorbed        was
           by the  humours
                     made toofthe    eye.
                                the excellent  researches of Melloni. In a
simple and ingenious manner he had proved the law of inverse squares
to be true of radiant heat passing through air, and the eminent
Italian inferred from his experiments that for a distance of 18 or 20
feet, the action of air upon radiant heat was totally inappreciable.
This is the only experimental result now known regarding the trans
mission of radiant heat from terrestrial sources through air ; with
regard to its transmission through other gases it was believed that
    It was,
we were       however,
          without        very desirable to examine the action of such
                    any information.
media—desirable on purely scientific grounds, and also on account of
certain speculations which had been basedupon the supposed deportment
of the atmosphere as regards radiant heat. These speculations were
originated by Fourier ; but it was to M. Pouillet's celebrated Memoir,
and the recent excellent paper of Mr. Hopkins, to which we were
indebted for their chief development. It was supposed that the rays
from the sun and fixed stars could reach the earth through the
atmosphere more easily than the rays emanating from the earth could
get back into space. This view required experimental verification, and
the more so, as the only experiment we possessed was the negative
     of Melloni,
one The           to action
          energetic  which of
                            reference
                               the solidhasand
                                             been  already
                                                liquid     made. into which
                                                       compounds
the element hydrogen enters, suggested the thought that hydrogen gas
might act more powerfully than air, and the following means were
devised to test this idea. A tube was constructed, having its ends
stopped air-tight by polished [plates of rock-salt held between suitable
washers, which salt is known to be transparent to heat of all kinds ; the
tube could be attached to an air-pump and exhausted, and any
required gas or vapour could be admitted into it. A thermo-electric
pile being placed at one end of the tube, and a source of heat at the
other, the needle of an extremely sensitive galvanometer connected
with the pile was deflected. After it had come to rest, the air was
pumj ed from the tube, and the needle was carefully observed to see

1859.]          on the Transmission of Heat through Gases.              157
whether the removal of the air had any influence on the transmission
of the heat. No such influence showed itself—the needle remained
perfectly steady. A similar result was obtained when hydrogen gas
     used instead
was Thus           of air.
           foiled, the speaker put his questions to Nature in the follow
ing way : a source of heat, having a temperature of about 300° C, was
placed at one end of the tube, and a thermo-electric pile at the other—
a large deflection was the consequence. Round the astatic needle,
however, a second wire was coiled, thus forming a so-called differential
galvanometer ; a second pile was connected with this second wire, so
that the current from it circulated round the needle in a direction
opposed to that of the current from the first pile. The second pile
was caused to approach the source of heat until both currents exactly
neutralised each other, and the needle stood at zero. Here then we
had two powerful forces in equilibrium, and the question now was
whether the removal of the air from the tube would disturb this balance.
A few strokes of the air-pump decided the question, and on the entire
removal of the air the current from the pile at the end of the tube
predominated over its antagonist from 40° to 50°. On readmitting the
air the needle again fell to zero ; thus proving beyond a doubt that the
     The same
air within       method
            the tube  intercepted
                           was applied
                                  a portion    the radiant
                                        withofother        heat. with most
                                                    gases, and
remarkable results. Gases differ probably as much among themselves
with regard to their action upon radiant heat as liquids and solids do.
Some gases bear the same relation to others that alum does to rock-
salt. The speaker compared the action of perfectly transparent coal-
gas with perfectly transparent atmospheric air. To render the effect
visible to the audience, a large plano-convex lens was fixed between two
upright stands at a certain height above a delicate galvanometer.
The dial of the instrument was illuminated by a sheaf of rays from an
electric lamp, the sheaf being sent through a solution of alum to sift it
of its heat, and thus avoid the formation of air-currents within the glass
shade of the instrument. Above the lens was placed a looking-glass,
so inclined that the magnified image of the dial was thrown upon a
screen, where the movements of the needle could be distinctly observed
by the whole audience. Air was first examined, the currents from the
two piles being equilibrated in the manner described, the tube was
exhausted, and a small but perfectly sensible deflection was the result.
It was next arranged that the current from the pile at the end of the
tube predominated greatly over its antagonist. Dry coal-gas was now
admitted into the tube, and its action upon the radiant heat was so
energetic, the quantity of heat which it cut off was so great, that the
needle of the galvanometer was seen to move from about 80° on one
side of zero to 80° on the other. On exhausting the tube the radiant
heat passed copiously through it, and the needle returned to its first
     Similar differences have also been established in the case of vapours.
position.
As representatives of this diverse action, the vapour of ether and of
bisulphide of carbon may be taken. For equal volumes, the quantity

  158            Prof. Tyndall, on the Transmission of Heat.              [June 10,
 of heat intercepted by the former is enormously greater than that inter
      To by
 cepted             latter.
           testthethe  influence of quality, the following experiment was
 devised. A powerful lime light was placed at one end of the tube,
 and the rays from it, concentrated by a convex lens, were sent through
 the tube, having previously been caused to pass through a thin layer of
 pure water. The heat of the luminous beam excited a thermo-electric
 currentneutralised
 being     in the pile by    the end
                          at the  current
                                      of thefrom
                                              exhausted   tube ;pile,
                                                  the second           this current
                                                                  and coal-gas   was ,
 admitted. This powerful gas, however, had no sensible effect upon the
 heat selected from the lime light ; while the same quantity of heat,
 fromThe     bearing source*,
        an obscure                experiment
                         of this was             upon the action of planetary
                                      strongly affected.
 atmospheres is obvious. The solar heat possesses, in a far higher
 degree than that of the lime light, the power of crossing an atmo
 sphere ; but, and when the heat is absorbed by the planet, it is so
 changed in quality that the rays emanating from the planet cannot get
 with the same freedom back into space. Thus the atmosphere admits
 of the entrance of the solar heat, but checks its exit ; and the result is
     In the to
 a tendency        accumulate
                admirable     paper
                                 heatofatM.
                                          thePouillet   already
                                               surface of         referred to, this
                                                           the planet.
 action is regarded as the cause of the lower atmospheric strata being
warmer than the higher ones ; and Mr. Hopkins has shown the possible
influence of such atmospheres upon the life of a planet situated at
 a great distance from the sun. We have hitherto confined our
 attention to solar heat ; but were the sun abolished, and did stellar
heat alone remain, it is possible that an atmosphere which permits
advance, and cuts off retreat, might eventually cause such an accumu
lation of small savings as to render a planet withdrawn entirely from
the influence of the sun a warm dwelling-place. But whatever be the
fate of the speculation, the experimental fact abides— that gases absorb
radiant heat of different qualities in different degrees ; and the action
of the atmosphere is merely a particular case of the inquiry in which
the speaker was at present engaged.t
    * The quantity of heat is measured by the amount of the galvanometric     deflec
                                                                         [J. T.]
tion which it produces ; its power of passing through media may be taken as a
test of quality.
    f While correcting the proof of this abstract, I learned that Dr. Franz had
arrived at the conclusion that an absorption of 3 ' 54 per cent. of the heat passin g
through a column of air 90 centimeters long takes place ; for coloured gases he
finds the absorption greater ; but all colourless gases he assumes show no marked
divergence from the atmosphere.— Poggendorff's Annalen, xciv. p. 337.

1859.]              Prof. Faraday on Phosphorescence, fyc.                  159
                 WEEKLY          EVENING
                            Friday,               MEETING,
                                     June 17, 1859.
       Thb Lord Wensley/dale, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 Professor Faraday, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                   On Phosphorescence, Fluorescence, fyc.
The agent understood by the word "light," presents phenomena so
varied in kind, and is excited to sensible action by such different
causes, acting apparently by methods differing greatly in their physical
nature, that it excites the hopes of the philosopher much in relation to
the connexion which exists between all the physical forces, and the
expectation that that connexion may be greatly developed by its means.
This consideration, with the great advance in the experimental part
of the subject which has recently been made by E. Becquerel, were
the determining causes of the production of this subject before the
     The well
members         known
           of the   Royal
                        effect
                           Institution
                               of light on  radiating
                                         in the           occasion.
                                                 presentfrom  a centre, and ren
dering bodies visible which are not so of themselves, as long as the
emission of rays was continual—the general nature of the undulatory
view, and the fact that the mathematical theory of these assumed
undulations was the same with that of the undulation of sound, and of
any undulations occurring in elastic bodies, were referred to as a starting
position. Limited to this effect of light it was observed that the
illuminated body was luminous only whilst receiving the rays or un
    But superadded occasionally to this effect is one known as phos
dulations.
phorescence, which is especially evident when the sun is employed as the
source of light. Thus, if a calcined oyster-shell, a piece of white paper,
or even the hand, be exposed to the sun's rays and then instantly placed
before the eyes in a perfectly dark room, they are seen to be visible
after the light has ceased to fall on them. There is a further philosophi
cal difference, which may be thus stated ; if a piece of white oyster-
shell be placed in the spectrum rays issuing from a prism, the parts
will, as to illumination, appear red, or green, or blue, as they come
under the red, green, or blue rays : whereas if the phosphorescent
effect be observed, i.e. that effect remaining after the illuminating rays
are gone, the light will either be white, or of a tint not depending
upon the colour of the ray producing it, but upon the nature of the
    The ray
substance     which
           itself, andcomes
                       the same
                              to the  all the
                                  for eye      an ordinary case of visibility,
                                            in rays.
may be considered as that which, emanating from the luminous body,

160                            Professor Faraday,                       [June 17,
has impinged upon the substance seen, and has been deflected into a
new course, namely towards the eye ; it may be considered as the
same ray, both before and after it has met with the visible body. But
the light of phosphorescence cannot be so considered, inasmuch as
time is introduced ; for the body is visible for a time sensibly after it
has been illuminated, which time in some cases rises up to minutes, and
perhaps hours. This condition connects these phosphorescent bodies
with those which phosphoresce by heat, as apatite and fluor-spar ; tor"
when these are made to glow intensely by a heat far below redness, it
is evident that they have acquired a state which has enabled them for
a time to become original sources of light, just as the other phospho
rescent bodies have by exposure to light acquired a like state. And
then again there is this further fact, that as the fluor spar which has
been heated, does not phosphoresce a second time when reheated,
still it may be restored to its first state by passing the repeated dis
     Then
charge      the electric
         of follows   on (inspark
                              the addition
                                  over it, asofPearsall    effect)
                                                effect to has      the phenomena
                                                               shown.
offluorescence, and the fine contributions to our knowledge of this
part of light by Stokes. If a fluorescent body, as uranium glass, or a
solution of sulphate of quinine, or decoction of horse-chestnut bark are
exposed to diffuse day-light, they are illuminated, not merely abundantly
but peculiarly, for they appear to have a glow of their own ; and this
glow does not extend to all parts of the bodies, but is limited to
the parts where the rays first enter the substances. Some feeble
flames, as that of hydrogen, can produce this glow to a considerable
degree. If a deep blue glass be held between the body and the rays
of the sun, or of the electric lamp, it seems even to increase the effect ;
not that it does so in reality, but that it stops very many of the luminous
ray, yet lets the rays producing this effect pass through. By using
the solar or electric spectrum, we learn that the most effectual rays are
in most cases not the luminous ones, but are in the dark part of the
spectrum ; and so the fluorescence appears to be a luminous condition
of the substance, produced by dark rays which are stopped or consumed
in the act of rendering the fluorescent body luminous : so they produce
this effect only at the first or entry surface, the passing ray, though the
light goes onward, being unable to produce the effect again ; and this
effect exists only whilst the competent ray is falling on to the body, for
it disappears the instant the fluorescent substance is taken out of the
     When
light,       E. light
        or the        shut offattacked
                  Becquerel     from it. this subject he enlarged it in every
direction.* First of all, he prepared most powerful phosphori ; these
being chiefly sulphurets of the alkaline earths, strontia, baryta, lime. By
treatment and selection he obtained them so that they would emit a
special colour : thus, seven different tubes might contain preparations
which exposed to the sun, or diffused day-light, or the electric light,
should yield the seven rays of the spectrum. The light emitted
           * Annates de Chimie et de Physique, 1859, tome lv. p. 1.

 1859.]             on Phosphorescence, Fluorescence, Sfc.                161
 generally possessed a lower degree of refrangibility than the ray causing
 the phosphorescence; but in some instances he was able to raise the
 refrangible character of the ray emitted to that of the exciting ray.
 liy taking a given preparation, and raising it to different temperatures,
 he caused it to give out different coloured rays by the single action of
 one common ray ; this variation in power returning to a common
 degree as the temperatures of the phosphori became the same in all.
..He showed that time was occupied in the elevation of the phosphores
 cent state by the ray ; and also that time was concerned in various
 degrees during the emission of the phosphorescent ray : that this time,
  which in many cases was long, might be affected, being shortened by
  the action of heat, and then the brilliancy of the phosphorescence for
  the shortened time was increased. He showed the special relation of
  the different phosphori to the different rays of the spectrum, pointing
  out where the maximum effect occurred ; also that there were the
  equivalents of dark bands, i.e. bands in the spectrum, where little or
       These phosphori was
  110 phosphorescence            many of them highly fluorescent. Thus, if
                          wereproduced.
  one of them was exposed to the strong voltaic light, and then placed
  in the dark, it was seen to be brilliantly luminous, gradually sinking in
  brightness, and ultimately fading away altogether : but if it were held
  in the rays beyond the violet end of the spectrum (the more luminous
  rays being shut off ) it was again seen to be beautifully luminous, but
  that state disappeared the instant it was removed from the ray. Now
  this is fluorescence, and the same body seemed to be both phosphorescent
  and fluorescent. Considering this matter, and all the circumstances
  regarding time, Becquerel was led to believe that these two luminous
  conditions differed essentially only in the time during which the state
  excited by the exposure to light continued ; that a body being really
  phosphorescent, but whose state fell instantly, was fluorescent, giving
  out its light while the exciting ray continued to fall on it, and during
  that time only ; and thata phosphorescent was only a more sluggish,
  body, which continued to shine after the exciting ray was withdrawn.
   To investigate this point he invented the phospkoroscope ; an apparatus
  which may vary in its particular construction, but in which discs or
   other surfaces illuminated by the sun or an electric lamp, might, by
   revolution, be rapidly placed before the eye in a dark chamber, and so
   be regarded in the shortest possible space of time after their illumina
   tion. By such an apparatus Becquerel showed that all the fluorescent
   bodies were really phosphorescent ; but that the emission of light
        An extensive
   endured               veryofshort
             only for aseries        time.
                                 experimental illustrations upon the foregoing
   points was made with fine specimens of phosphori, for which the speaker
   was indebted to M. Becquerel himself. The phosphoroscope employed
   consisted of a cylinder of wood, one inch in diameter and seven inches
   long, placed in the angle of a black box with the electric lamp inside,
   so that three-fourths of the cylinder were external, and in the dark
   chamber where the audience sat, and one-fourth was within the box, and
   in the full power of the voltaic light. By proper mechanical arrange

162              Prof. Faraday, on Phosphorescence, fyc.           [June 17,
merits this cylinder could be revolved, and the part wjiich was at one
instant within, rapidly brought to the outside, and observed by the
audience. As the cylinder could be made to revolve 300 times in a
second, and as the twentieth part of a revolution was enough to bring a
sufficient portion of the cylinder to the outside, it is evident that a
phosphorescent effect which would last only the 1 -3000th or even the
 1 -6000th of a second might be made apparent. All escape of light
between the moving cylinder and the box was prevented by the use of
     The attached
properly              was first
           cylinder black        supplied with a surface of Becquerel's
                            velvet.
phosphori. The effect here was, that when by rotation the part
illuminated was brought outside the box it was found phosphorescent.
If the cylinder continued to rotate it appeared equally luminous all
over, and when the rotation ceased, or the lamp was extinguished, the
light gradually sank as the phosphorescence fell. Then a cylinder
having a surface of quinine or aesculin was put into the apparatus.
Whilst the cylinder was still it was dark outside ; but when revolving
with moderate velocity it became luminous outside, ceasing to be so
the moment the revolution stopped. Here the fluorescence was evi
dently shown to occupy time ; indeed, the full time of a revolution :
and taking advantage of that, the self-shining of the body was separated
from its illumination within, and the fluorescence made to assume the
character of phosphorescence. Another cylinder was covered with
crystals of nitrate of uranium, a hot saturated solution having been
applied over it with a fine brush. The result was beautiful. A
moderate degree of revolution brought no light out of the box ; but
with increased motion it began to appear at the edge. As the rapidity
became greater, the light spread over the cylinder, but it could not be
carried over the whole of its surface. It issued as a band of light
where the moving cylinder left the edge of the box, diminishing
in intensity as it went on, and looking like a bright flame, wrapping
round half the cylinder. When the direction of revolution was re
versed, this flame issued from the other side ; and when the motion of
the cylinder was stopped, all the phenomena of fluorescence or phospho
rescence disappeared at once. The wonderfully rapid manner in which
the nitrate of uranium received the action of the light within the box,
      threw
and The     off its light,
          electric   phosphorescence
                           even when the
                                      outside,
                                          discharge is in rarefied
                                               was beautifully     media, or
                                                                shown.
as a feeble brush, emits a great abundance of those rays, which produce
the phenomena of fluorescence ; but then if these rays have to pass
through common glass they are cut off, being absorbed and destroyed
even when they are not expended in producing fluorescence or phos
phorescence. Arrangements can however be made in which the
advantageous circumstances can be turned to good account with
such bodies as Becquerel's phosphori or uranium glass. If these be
enclosed within glass tubes, having platinum wires at the extremities,
and which are also exhausted of air and hermetically sealed, then the
discharges of a Ruhmkorff coil can be continually sent over the phos
phori, and the effects both fluorescent and phosphorescent be beauti

1859.]                  General Monthly Meeting.                        163
fully shown. The <U+FB01>rst or immediate light of the body is often of one
colour, whilst on the cessation of the discharge the second or deferred
light is of another; and many variations of the effects can be pro
duced.
    In connexion with rare<U+FB01>ed media it may be remarked, that some of
the tubes by Geissler and others have been observed to have their
rare<U+FB01>ed atmospheres phosphorescent, glowing with light for a moment
or two after the discharge through them was suspended. Since then
Becquerel has observed that oxygen is rendered phosphorescent, i.e.
that it presents a persistent effect of light,>when electric discharges are
passed through it. I have several times had occasion to observe that a
<U+FB02>ash of lightning, when seen as a linear discharge, left the luminous
trace of its form on the clouds, enduring for a sensible time after the
lightning was gone. I strictly veri<U+FB01>ed this fact in June, 1857, record
ing it in the “Philosophical Magazine,”* and referred it to the phos
phorescence of the cloud. I have no doubt that that is the true
explanation.    Other phenomena, having relation to <U+FB02>uorescence and
phosphorescence, as the di<U+FB01>'erence in the light of oxygen and hydrogen
exploded in glass globes, or in the air, were referred to, with the
expression of strong hopes that Becquerel’s additions to that branch of
science would greatly explain and extend them.
                                                                [M. F.]
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, July 4, 1859.
      COLONEL PHILIP JAMES YORKE, F.R.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                Thomas Harlin, Esq. M.A.
               James Merryweather, Esq. M.R.C.E. and
               James Watney, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to His Royal
Highness the PRINCE CONSORT, for his present of the works of Kuhl
mann and Von Fuchs on Water-Glass, which have been translated and
printed for private circulation, by command of His Royal Highness;
and to Sm JOHN RENNIE, for his present of his work on the Break
water in Plymouth Sound.
                  * Philosophical Magazine, June, 1857, p. 506.

 164                              General Monthly Meeting.                          [July 4, 1869.
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same ; viz.
    From
 H.R.H. The Prince Consort—F. Kuhlmann on the Applications of Water-Glass
       (Soluble Alkaline Silicate) in the Aits. 8vo. 1859.
    Dr. J. Von Fuchs, on the Manufacture, Properties, and Application of Water-
       Glass.
 LordsPelusium
         Commissioners
                8vo.
                  and Farama.
                          1859.         fol. 1859.
                             of the Admiralty—Capt.              T. Spratt on the True Position of
      by Algebra.
 Secretary  ofStatefor       Ramchundra.
                       ByIndia—A         Treatise8vo.        1859. of Maxima and Minima, solved
                                                       on Problems
 Government of Canada—Geological Survey, Report for 1857. 8vo. 1858.
 Anonymous—Reports on Newcastle and Welsh Coal. 8vo. 1859.
 Arts, Society of—Journal for June 1859. 8vo.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, June 1859. 8vo.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I.—Pharmaceutical Journal for June 1859. 8vo.
 Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for June 1859. 4to.
   Proceedings,
 Boston   Society ofVol.
                      Natural
                           VI. Nos.      11-22.U.S.—Journal,
                                   History,           8vo. 1857-8.   Vol. VI. No. 4. 8vo. 1857.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Proceedings for June 1859. 4to.
 Crookes, ff. Esq. (the Editor)—The Photographic News, Vol. I, 1858-9. 8vo.
      Vegetable
 Dresser,         Kingdom.
           Christopher,             8vo. Author)—Unity
                            Esq. (the        1859.                in Variety, as deduced from the
   The Engineer
         Athenaeum
         Journal
         Artizan
         Practical
Editors—The
         Mechanics'
                 Medical
                  for
                   ofMechanic's
                        Gas-Lighting
                        June
                        Magazine
                     forfor June
                           June
                              Circular
                               .1859.
                                  1 859.
                                     1859.
                                      Journal
                                       for 4to.
                                            June
                                            for
                                             fol.4to.
                                           for    June
                                                   June
                                                   for
                                                     1859.
                                                        June
                                                         1859.8vo.
                                                          1859.   8vo.
                                                                   4to. 4to.
                                                               1859.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Repertoire de Chimie, par C. Barreswil und
      A. Wurtz.Preussische
   Konigliche        No. 9. 8vo.            Paris 1859.
                                    Akademie,         Berichte, Marz zu Mai, 1859. 8vo.
Geological Society—Proceedings for June 1859. 8vo.
 Geologische Anstalt, Wien—Jahrbuch, 1858. Nos. 3 and 4. 4to. 1859.
Mendicity Society, The—Forty-first Report. 8vo. 1859.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for June 1859. 8vo.
Novello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for June 1859. 4to.
Perigal, Frederick, Esq. (the Author)—Chart of the Navy of Great Britain, 1859.
Photographic
      Plymouth
Rennie,         Society—Journal,
                  Sound,
          Sir John,     F.R.S.          1848.
                               fol.M.R.I, No, (the       8vo. 1859.
                                                  86. Author)—       Account of the Breakwater in
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. 148. Part2. 4to. 1859.
Scoffern, John, Esq. M.B. (the Author)—The Manufacture of Sugar. 8vo. 1849.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 2. 8vo. 1859.
 Vereins zur Befbrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Marz und April 1859. 4to.

          i&ogal tettitttwn of Cteat Britain.
                                              1859.
  William Pole,            Esq.
                     GENERAL Monday,
                                  M.A.MONTHLY
                                           November
                                            F.R.S. Treasurer    1859.
                                                           7, MEETING,and Vice-President,
                          Thomas Harlin,           Chair.M.A. and
                                         in the Esq.
wereThe     Presents
        admitted          James
                            received
                       Members       Watney,
                                      of since
                                          the Eoyal
                                                  Esq.last
                                                 the          Meeting were laid on the
                                                         Institution.
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same ; viz.
 Her Majesty's Government (through Sir R. I. Murchison)—Geological Survey of
From
     the United Kingdom : Annual Report. 8vo. 1859.
   Memoirsfor: British
Secretary        India—Maps
                         OrganicofRemains.
                                      the IndianMonograph
                                                  -Survey, Nos.     4to. 25,1859.
                                                               I. 24,         26, 38, 39, 40 41
     47, 54,
Colonial      55, 57, 67,
          Secretary's    Office,
                            68, 73,
                                 New74,Zealand—Lecture        on the
                                         88, 89, 102, 103, 108,           112. of Auckland-
                                                                    111,Geology
Actuaries,
Asiatic
Arts,
Agricultural
     New
Astronomical
      Society
         Society
            Zealand.
             Institute
               Society
                Society,
                of—Journal
                   cf Bengal—Journal,
                        of
                         By
                        of—Assurance
                          Royal—Memoirs,
                            England,
                              Dr.
                               forF.July-Oct.
                                       Hochstetter.
                                        Royal—Journal,
                                          Magazine,
                                           Nos.Vol.
                                                 271,XXVII.
                                               1859.  272.
                                                      fol.
                                                      No.
                                                        8vo.
                                                           No.
                                                           36.1859.
                                                               8vo.
                                                                 42.
                                                                  4to.
                                                                  8vo.1859.
                                                                          1859.
                                                                       8vo.1859.1859.
  Proceedings,
Basil              Vol. XVIII.
       JVaturforschende              8vo. 1859.
                            Gesellschqft—Verhandlungen.           Theil II. Heft 2, 3. 8vo
     1859.Academy ofSciences, Royal—Discourses at the Centenary of the Academy
Bavarian
     &c. 4to. 8vo.
  Almanach.         1859. 1859.
  Annuaire,
Belgique,      1859. Royale
           Academic      16mo. de—Bulletin des Sciences. 1858. 8vo. Bruxelles, 1859.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for July-Oct. 1859. 4to.
British Architects, Institute of—Proceedings for Nov. 1859. 4to.
British Association— Report of the Meeting at Leeds. 8vo. 1859,
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, Nos. 46, 47. 8vo. 1859.
     Conveyancing
Colyar,                by Registration
          A. Esq., M.R.I.—R.          R. Torrens
                                          of Title.: On         South Australian
                                                     8vo.theAdelaide.        1859. System of
   Vol. III. in Lunacy—Thirteenth
Commissioners        (No 31.)                Annual Report. 8vo. 1859.                n

] 66                               General Monthly Meeting.                                [Nov. 7,
Editors—Artizan for July-Oct 1859. 4to.
   Athenaeum
   Engineer
    Horological
    Journal
    Atlantis,
    Mechanics'
    Medical
    Practical
    St.
    RevueJames's
             Photographique,
               of
               Circular
                No.
                 for
                 Mechanic's
                  for
                   Gas-Lighting
                   Magazine
                    Journal,
                    Medley,
                      July-Oct.
                      4.July-Oct.
                           8vo.
                            for Nos.
                                Journal
                                July-Oct.
                                  for
                                   Nos.
                                    1859.
                                     Juillet-Oct.
                                      1859.
                                       July-Oct.
                                       for
                                        12-15.
                                           July-Oct.
                                            forfol.
                                          19,    4to.
                                                  July-Oct.
                                                  1859.
                                                20. 8vo.
                                                      1859.
                                                       8vo.
                                                        1859.
                                                          1859.
                                                            1859.
                                                               8vo.
                                                               1859.
                                                               1859.
                                                            8vo.   4to. 4to.
                                                                 8vo.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S —Repertoire de Chimie, par C. Barreswil et
       A.-Wurtz. Nos. 9-12. 8vo. Paris, 1859.
    Konigliche Preussischen Akademie, Berichte, Juni zu Juli, 1859. «8vo.
 Franklin Institute oj Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXVII. No. 6 ; Vol. XXXVIII.
       Nos. 1, 2, 3.
 Gautier et De la Rive, MM. (the Authors)—Rapports sur les Travaux de la
       Societé de Physique de Geneve. 1857-9. 4to.
    Proceedings,Society,
 Geographical                    5. 8vo. 1859.Vol. XXVIII. 8vo. 1859.
                       Nos. 4,Royal—Journal,
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, Nos. 59, 60. 8vo. 1859.
 Glasgow Philoiophical Society—Proceedings. Vol. IV. Part I. 8vo. 1859.
       Kingdom.
 Grinsled,    John, Esq         1859.
                        8vo. (the    Author)—The Finance of the Railways of the United
 Gyll,1859.
 Hamel,     Dr. J.W.(the
          Gordon         J. Esq.
                               Author)—Historical
                                      M.R.I, (the Author)—A             of the Electric
                                                             Account Tractate             Telegraph.
                                                                                  on Language.    8vo.
        16mo. 1859.
 Horticultural     Society—Proceedings. Nos. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1859.
 Institut Imperial de France—Memoires presented par divers Savans a l'Acadcmie
        des Sciences. Vol. XV. 4to. 1858.
        Russie,
 Kupffer,          T. (leetDirecteur)—Annales
              A. 1856;        Compte Rendu,U857.de 4to.              1858. Physique Centrale de
                                                              l'Observatoire
 Leeds Philosophical Society—Report, 1858-59. 8vo.
 Linnean Society—Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 14. 8vo. 1859.
 Liverpool -Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings*. No. XIII. 8vo. 1859.
 Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, July-Oct. 1859.
        Gaal Sciat
 Macrory,      E., Esq.        or the Irish People.
                       Iber ; M.R.I.—The            ChroniclesTranslated
                                                                 of Eri, from      the HistoryMSS.
                                                                            being Phoenician        by
                                                                                                of the
        O-Connor. 2 vols. 8vo. 1822.
 Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 2. 8vo. 1859.
        Society.Sir R.
 Mwchison,            May,    F.R.S.,8vo.
                          I., 1859.      Sfc. (the Author)—Address to the Royal Geographical
 Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for July-Oct. 1859. 8vo.
  Novello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for July-Oct. 1859. 4to.
  Pelermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
        Geographie. 1859. Heft 5-9. 4to. Gotha, 1859.
  Photographic Society—Journal, Nos, 87-90. 8vo. 1859.
           Society—Proceedings,
 Royal Society                            No. 36. 8vo.Vol.1859.
                     of Literature—Transactions,                  VI. Part 1. 8vo. 1859.
  Royal Society of Tasmania—Meteorological Observations at Hobarton for 1856-7-8.
        4to. 1859. Acade~mie Imperialedes Seeinces—Bulletin, Vol. XVII. 1859.
  St. Pelersbourg,
     Berichte.
  Saxon                  Sciences,
           Society 2ofParte.               1859.
                                   8vo.Leipsic—Abhandlungen.             4 Parts. 4to. 1859.
  Scottish Society of Arts (Royal)—Transactions. Vol. V. Part I. 8vo. 1859.
  Smithsonian institution, Washington—Smithsonian Contributions. Vol. X. 4to.
         1858. for 1857. 8vo. .1858.
     Reports

1859.]                          General Monthly Meeting.                                   167
      2 vols,Society—Journal,
Statistical     fol. Madrid,
              Society  of Spain—Censo
                                  1859.
                                    Vol. XXII.
                                           y Nomenclator
                                                   Part 3. de         1859.
                                                              8vo.la Poblacion   de la Espafia.
Taylor,
      8vo. Rev.
Sylvester,     J. Esq.
            J.1859.William,
                         (the Author)—Outlinesof
                              F.RS., M.R.I, (the Lectures
                                                        Author)—On       Partition
                                                                 on the the        of Numbers.
                                                                             Education   of the
      Blind ; and on the Establishment of a College. 16mo. 1859.
   Sketch of the Life of J. W. Klein ; and on the Relation of the Blind to the
      World around them; by J. W. Klein; translated by the Bey. William
      Taylor. 16mo. 1859.
   C. Carton, Les Etablissements pour les Aveugles en Angleterre. 8vo. Bruges,
       1838.
      &c. Professor,
Tyndatl,     Part I. (from
                         F.R.S.Phil.
                                  (theTrans.)
                                       Author)—On       1859.
                                                 4to. the  Physical Phenomena of Glaciers,
        Albert, Esq.,
 Way,Hodgson                4to. F.S.A.—History
                  Hinde.M.A.,       1858.             of Northumberland. Part I. By J.
 fereins zur Befbrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Mai und Juni. 1859. 4to.
 Yorkshire (West Riding) Geological and Polytechnic Society—Proceedings, 1858.
   8vo. Society of London—Transactions. Vol. IV. Part 6. 4to. 1859.
Zoological
    Proceedings,
       Two William,
Banting,     Photographs
                     1859.
                        Esq.—Specimens
                             of
                             Partthe2.Same.      an Acacia Tree struck by Lightning ; and
                                        8vo. of 1859.
       Phenomena
 Gore,The     Special
         George,      of Botation
                    Esq.—Apparatus
                          ThanksbyofOrdinary
                                          with
                                          the Members
                                                Three
                                                   Heat.Metallic      returned
                                                             were Balls           to Samuel
                                                                            for exhibiting  the
 Leigh Sothebt, Esq. for the liberal present of his valuable work,
 Principia : Typographica : The Block-books, or Xylographie Delineations of Scrip
 entitled
       ture History, issued in Holland, Flanders, and Geimany during the Fifteenth
       Century. With a Supplement on the Block-books in the BibHotheque Imperiale
                       vols. Monday,
      at Paris. 3GENERAL                  MONTHLY
                               4to. 1858-9.                    1859.
                                            December 5, MEETING,
 William Pole, Thomas      Esq. M.A.   Richards
                                          inF.R.S.
                                             the Chair.
                                                    Andrews,
                                                       Treasurer      and Vice-President,
                                                                   Esq.
                          George March Harrison, Esq.
                          Andrew Halley Knight, Esq.
                          Hon. Augustus Henry Vernon,
                          Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq. M.A.
                          Alfred Smee, Esq. F.R.S., and
 were duly electedWilliam    Members       of theEsq.
                                       Swann,        Royal Institution.
                                                                                    n2

168                              General Monthly Meeting.                            [Dec. 5, 1859.
     The Secretary announced that the following Arrangements had
beenSix    Lectures
        made      for theon Lectures
                                the Variousbefore Easter,Forces 1 of      :—
                                                                    860Matter         (adapted to a
Juvenile Auditory) by Professor Faraday, D.C.L. F.R.S, &c.
Fullerian Professor of Chemistry, E.L To be delivered in the Christ
       Vacation,
masTwelve               1859-60.
                   Lectures     on Fossil Birds axd Reptiles, by Professor
Owen.Twelve Lectures on Light, including its Higher Phenomena,
      Ten Lectures
by Professor                 on the Relations of the Animal Kingdom to
                        Tyndall.
theThe      Presents
        Industry              received
                         of Man,        by since
                                               Dr. Edwin             Meeting were
                                                         the lastLankester,         M.D.laid    on the
                                                                                            F.R.S.
 Actuaries,
 Arts,
 From Society
table,           the
                   of—Journal
         andInstitute  thanks
                          of—Assurance
                                 of
                                  forthe       Magazine,
                                                1859, 8vo.
                                       Nov.Members            No. 37. for
                                                            returned               same ; viz.
                                                                         8vo. the1859.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 10. 8vo. 1859.
 Boosey, Messrs.
 Bombay               {the Publishers)—The
           Geographical       Society—Transactions,  MusicalVol.   XIV.for 8vo.
                                                                World               1859. 4to.
                                                                            Nov. 1859.
      Promoting
 Breltell,                Fine Arts in the
            Thomas,tieEsq.—Thomas                United
                                             Smith,     Recollections
                                                            Kingdom, of    the British
                                                                        1805-59.             1800. for
                                                                                     8vo.Institution
 British Architects, Institute of—Proceedings for Nov. 1859. 4to.
 Chambers,
      8vo.Meteorological
British        1851-59.
               G. F. Esq. Society—First,
                               M.R.I.—R. Jameson's Second, Third,          of Mineralogy.
                                                                 SystemFourth,                   3 vols.
                                                                                  and Eighth Reports.
      8vo.Royal
 Dublin        1816.Society—Journal, No. 15. 8vo. 1859.
 Editors—Artizan, for Nov. 1859. 4to.
    Journal
    Practical
    Engineer
    Revue
    Medical
    Mechanics'
    Athenaeum
    Horological
            Photographique,
              ofCircular
                 for
                 Mechanic's
                  Gas-Lighting
                   for
                    Magazine
                     Journal,
                      Nov. for
                        Nov.1 859.
                              1859.
                               No.
                               Journal
                                Nov.
                                forNov.
                                     Nov.
                                     16.
                                      fol.
                                    for 4to.
                                         Nov.
                                           for
                                       1859.1 8vo.
                                              859.
                                              1859.
                                                 Nov.
                                                   8vo.1859.
                                                      8vo.
                                                  1859.  1859.
                                                            4to. 4to.
                                                         8vo.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Repertoire de Chimie, par C Barreswil et
         Du Moncel,Nos.
    Th.A.Wurtz.               13, 14.
                          Exposé         8vo. Paris 1859.
                                    des Applications        de l'Electricite. 4 vols. 8vo. Paris,
       1856-9.
  Franklin   Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXVIII. No. 4.
  Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 6. 8vo. 1859.
  Glaisher, James, Esq. F.R S.—Various Meteorological Papers. 8vo. 1856-8.
 Hamilton, Capt.A. M.R.I. —Lepsius, Denkm"aler aus iEgypten. Letzte Lieferung.
      fol.
       Newton
 Manning,     1859.
              Frederick,
                  and of his   Statue
                            Esq.        at Grantham, 1859.of the Birthplace of Sir Isaac
                                   M.R.I.—Photographs
  Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—-The Geologist, Nov. 1859.
  Newton, .Messrs.— London Journal (New Series), for Nov. 1859. 8vo.
  Novello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for Nov. 1859. 4to.

I860.]              Professor Tyndall,on the Electric Discharge.                                 169
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor) —Mittheilungen auf dem Gesanimtgebiete des
     Geographic 1859. Heft 10. 4to. Gotha, 1859.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 91. 8vo. 1859.
   Places
RoyalBySociety
           theof Rev.
                  5345
                   of London—Transactions,
                           E. Robinson.
                       T.Stars, observed from 8vo. Vol.
                                                    1828
                                                      1859.
                                                          to 1854, at
                                                         CXLIX.        the1.Armagh
                                                                     Part              1859.
                                                                               4to. Observatory.
   Catalogue
     8vo.of the
Trustees          ofBritish
               1859.  Orthopterous
                              Museum—List
                                        Insects. of Part     with
                                                    BooksI. of     Plates. inBytheJ. Reading-room.
                                                                Reference             O. West-wood.
     4to. 1859.
   Catalogue      of the Coleopterous Insects in Madeira. By T. V. Wollaston. 8vo.
     1857. of
  Catalogue       of Hispid*.
                     Batrachia Salientia.
                                   By J. S. Baly.
                                                By Dr.8vo.     1858.
                                                         A. Gunther.      Plates. 8vo. 1858.
   Catalogue of Apodal Pish. By Dr. Kaup. Plates. 8vo. 1856.
   Guide to the Systematic Distribution of Mollusca. By Dr. J. E. Gray. 8vo.
      1857. of Mammalia and Birds of New Guinea. By J. E. and G. R. Gray.
   Catalogue
     8vo.
   List        1859.
         of Lepidopterous        Insects. By P. Walker. Parts 9 to 18. 12mo. 1856-9.
   Catalogue of Hymenopterous Insects. By F. Smith. Parts 5, 6, 7. 12mo.
         of Homopterous Insects. By F. Walker. Supplement. 12mo. 1858.
   List1857-9.
   Catalogue of Coleopterous Insects. Part 9. By C. Bohemian. 12mo. 1859.
   Catalogue of Neuropterous Insects. By Dr. Hagen. Parti. 12mo. 1858.
     Smith. 12mo.
   Catalogue       of British   Fossorial Hymenoptera, Formicida;, and Vespidae. By F.
                             1858.
   Catalogue of Colubrine Snakes. By Dr. A. Gunther. 12mo. 1858.
   Catalogue of Birds. By G. R. Gray. Part 8 ; Sect. 2. 12mo. 1859.
   Catalogue of Mazatlan Shells. By P. Carpenter. 12mo. 1857.
United
 Vereins
Sir   12mo.
      Benjamin
          Service
   Catalogue
           zur Befbrderung
                  of
                  1857.
                     Institution—Journal,
                     Auriculidse,
                        WEEKLY
                        Collins  Friday,
                                 des  Brodie,
                                     Proserpinids,
                                      Gewerbjleisses
                                            EVENING
                                             January
                                               No.1860.
                                                   Bart.
                                                      and
                                                       in 20,
                                                     10.   8vo.
                                                           Preussen—July
                                                           Truncatellid*.
                                                            President
                                                                MEETING,
                                                                 1860.
                                                                   1859. oftheByRoyal
                                                                             und    Dr. L.1859.
                                                                                   Aug.     Pfeiffer.
                                                                                                 4to.
                                                                                           Society,.
                             Vice-President R.I. in the Chair.
                                John Tyndaia, Esq. F.R.S.
                   PROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY IN THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
           the Influence
TheOnintention                   of Magnetic
                        of the speaker       was toForce
                                                       bringonbefore
                                                                  the Electric
                                                                        the meeting      a series of
                                                                                   Discharge.
experiments illustrative of the constitution of the electric discharge and

170               Professor Tyndall, on the Influence of             [Jan. 20,
of the action of magnetism upon it. The substance of the discourse
was derived from the researches of various philosophers, its form being
     1. Thetoinfluence
regulated               of the transport
               suit the requirements       of particles
                                       of the  audience.was first shown by an
experiment suggested, it was believed, by Sir John Herschel, and per
formed by Professor Daniell. The carbon terminals of a battery of
40 cells of Grove were brought within one-eighth of an inch of each
other, and the spark from a Leyden jar was sent across this space.
This spark bridged with carbon particles the gap which had previously
existed in the circuit, and the brilliant electric light due to the passage
    2. battery
of the           current image
        The magnified            of the coaldisplayed.
                          was immediately      points of an electric lamp was
projected upon a white screen, and the distance to which they could be
drawn apart without interrupting the current was noted. A button of
pure silver was then introduced in place of the positive carbon, a
luminous discharge four or five times the length of the former being
thus obtained. The silver was first observed to glow, and afterwards
to pass into a state of violent ebullition. A narrow dark space was
observed to surround one of the poles, corresponding probably with
the dark space observed in the discharge of Ruhmkorff's coil through
     3. The
rarefied      action of a magnet upon the splendid stream of green light
          media.*
obtained in the foregoing experiment was exhibited. A small horseshoe
magnet of Logemann was caused to approach the light, which was
bent hither and thither, according as the poles of the- magnet changed
their position : the discharge in some cases formed a magnificent green
bow, which on the further approach of the magnet was torn asunder,
and the passage of the current thereby interrupted. It was Davy
who first showed the action of a magnet upon the voltaic arc. The
transport of matter by the current was further illustrated by a series
of deposits on glass obtained by Mr. Gassiot from the continued dis
     4. Aof an
charge          inductionfrom
            discharge      coil. RuhmkorfFs coil was sent through an
attenuated medium ; and the glow, which surrounded the negative
electrode was referred to. One of the most remarkable effects hitherto
observed was that of a magnet upon this negative light. Pliicker had
shown that it arranges itself under the influence of the magnet exactly
in the direction of the magnetic curves. Iron filings strewn in space,
and withdrawn from the action of gravity, would arrange themselves
     An aelectric
around     magnetlampexactly
                         wasinplaced
                                 the manner
                                      upon its   backnegative
                                              of the           light. magnet
                                                        ; a horseshoe
was placed horizontally over its lens, and on the magnet a plate of
glass : a mirror inclined at an angle of 45° received the beam from the
lamp, and projected it upon the screen. Iron filings were scattered on
the glass, and the magnetic curves thus illuminated were magnified,
   * Mr. Faraday noticed this dark stripe while the speaker was making his pre
paratory experiments.

I860.]         Magnetic Force on the Electric Discharge.                     Itl
and brought to clear definition upon the screen. The negative light
above referred to arranges itself, according to Pliicker, in a similar
    5. The rotation of an electric current round the pole of a magnet,
manner.
discovered by Mr. Faraday in the Royal Institution, nearly forty
years ago, was next shown ; and the rotation of a luminous current
from an induction coil in an exhausted receiver by the same magnet
was also exhibited, and both shown to obey the same laws. This
    6. Into
beautiful    a circuit was
           experiment  of 20devised
                                 cells aby
                                         large la Rive.
                                           De coil    of copper wire was intro
duced, and when the current was interrupted, a bright spark, due to
the passage of the extra current, was obtained. „ The brightness and
loudness of the spark were augmented when a core of soft iron was
placed within the coil. The disruption of the current took place
between the poles of an electro-magnet ; and when the latter was
excited, an extraordinary augmentation of the loudness of the spark
was noticed. This effect was first obtained by Page, and was for a
      thought
timeBut           denote
         Rijketohad  showna new     a paper, of
                               in property             electricofcurrent.
                                              thetheinterest      which is by no
means lessened by the modesty with which it is written, that the effect
observed by Page is due to the sudden extinction of the primary spark
by the magnet ; which suddenness concentrates the entire force of the
extra current into a moment of time. Speaking figuratively, it was the
concentration of what, under ordinary circumstances, is a mere push,
        The contact-breaker
into7.a sudden  kick of projectile    energy.
                                  of an  induction coil was removed, and a
current from five cells was sent through the primary wire. The ter
minals of the secondary wire being brought very close to each other,
when the primary was broken by the hand, a minute spark passed
between the terminals of the secondary. When the disruption of the
primary was effected between the poles of an excited electro-magnet,
the small spark was greatly augmented in brilliancy. The terminals
were next drawn nearly an inch apart. When the primary was broken
between the excited magnetic poles, the spark, from the secondary
jumped across this interval, whereas it was incompetent to cross one-
fourth of the space when the magnet was not excited. This result was
also obtained by Rijke ; who rightly showed, that in this case also the
augmented energy of the secondary current was due to the augmented
speed of extinction of the primary spark between the excited poles.
This experiment illustrated in a most forcible manner the important
influence which the mode of breaking contact may have upon the
    The of
efficacy    an induction
          splendid          obtained from the discharge of RuhmkorfPs
                   effects coil.
coil through exhausted tubes were next referred to. The presence of
the coil had complicated the theoretic views of philosophers, with
regard to the origin of those effects ; the intermittent action of the
contact-breaker, the primary and secondary currents, and their mutual
reactions, producing tertiary and other currents of a higher order, had

 172                Professor Tyndall, on the Influence of         [Jan. 20,
 been more or less invoked by theorists, to account for the effects
 observed. Mr. Gassiot was the first to urge, with a water battery of
 3500 cells, a voltaic spark across a space of air, before bringing the
 electrodes into contact : with the self-same battery he had obtained
 discharges through exhausted tubes, which exhibited all the pheno
 mena hitherto observed with the induction coil. He thus swept away a
 host of unnecessary complications which had entered into the specula
           theorists
 tions8.ofOn         upon occasion,
              the present             through the kindness of Mr. Gassiot,
                           this subject.
 the speaker was enabled to illustrate the subject by means of a battery
 of 400 of Grove's cells. The tension at the ends of the battery was
 first shown by an ordinary gold-leaf electroscope ; one end of the
 battery being insulated, a wire from the other end was connected with
 the electroscope ; the leaves diverged ; on now connecting the other
 end of the battery with the earth, the tension of the end connected
 with the electrometer rose, according to a well-known law, and the
      9. A large
 divergence          receiveraugmented.
               was greatly     (selected from Mr. Gassiot's fine collection),
 in which a vacuum had been obtained by filling it with carbonic
 acid gas, exhausting it, and permitting the residue to be absorbed by
caustic potash, was placed equatorially between the poles of the large
electro-magnet. The jar was about six inches wide, and the distance
between its electrodes was ten inches. The negative electrodes con
sisted of a copper dish, four inches in diameter, the positive one was a
          the 16th of this month an accident occurred to this jar. Mr.
brassOnwire.
Faraday, Mr. Gassiot, and the speaker had been observing the dis
charge of the nitric acid battery through it. Stratified discharges
passed when the ends of the battery were connected with the electrodes
of the receiver ; and on one occasion the discharge exhibited an extra
ordinary effulgence ; the positive wire emitted light of dazzling bright
ness, and finally gave evidence of fusion. On interrupting the circuit,
the positive wire was found to be shortened about half an inch, its
metal having been scattered by the discharge over the interior surface
of the    The receiver in this condition was placed before the audience
      10.tube.
in the position mentioned above.; When the ends of the 400-cell
battery were connected with the wires of the receiver, no discharge
passed; but on touching momentarily with the finger any portion of
the wire between the positive electrode of the receiver and the positive
pole of the battery, a brilliant discharge instantly passed, and continued
as long as the connexion with the battery was maintained. This
experiment was several times repeated : the connexion with the ends
of the battery was not sufficient to produce the discharge, but in all
cases the touching of the positive wire caused the discharge to flash
     Previous
through         to the fusion of the wire above referred to, this discharge
           the receiver.
usually exhibited fine stratification : its general character now was

 I860.]        Magnetic Force on the Electric Discharge.               173 .
that of a steady glow, through which, however, intermittent lumin
ous gushes took place, each of which presented the stratified
     11. On exciting the magnet between whose poles the receiver was
appearance.
placed, the steady glow curved up or down according to the polarity
of the magnet, and resolved itself into a series of effulgent transverse
bars of light. These appeared to travel from the positive wire along
the surface of the jar. The deflected luminous current was finally
     12. When the
extinguished.by        action of
                  the circuit      themagnet.
                               of the  magnet was made and immediately
interrupted, the appearance of the discharge was extremely singular.
At first the strata rushed from the positive electrode along the upper
surface of the jar, then stopped, and appeared to return upon their
former track, and pass successively with a deliberate motion into the
positive electrode. They were perfectly detached from each other ;
and their successive engulphments at the positive electrode were so
slow as to be capable of being counted aloud with the greatest ease.
This deliberate retreat of the strata towards the positive pole was due,
no doubt, to the gradual subsidence of the power of the magnet.
Artificial means might probably be devised to render the recession of
the discharge still slower. The rise of power in the magnet was also
    After the
beautifully    current by
            indicated   hadthebeen
                                deportment  of the current.
                                    once quenched,   as long as the magnet
remained excited, no discharge passed : but on breaking the magnet
circuit, the luminous glow reappeared. Not only then is there an
action of the magnet upon the particles transported by an electric
current, but the above experiment indicates that there is an action of
the magnet upon the electrodes themselves, which actually prevents
the escape of their particles. The influence of the magnet upon
the electrode would thus appear to be prior to the passage of the
    13. The discharge of the battery was finally sent through a tube,
current.
whose platinum wires were terminated by two small balls of carbon :
a glow was first produced ; but on heating a portion of the tube con
taining a stick of caustic potash, the positive ball sent out a luminous
protrusion, which subsequently detached itself from the ball ; the tube
becoming instantly afterwards filled- with the most brilliant strata.
There can be no doubt that the superior effulgence of the bands
obtained with this tube is due to the character of its electrodes : the
bands are the transported matter of these electrodes. May not this be
the case with other electrodes ? There appears to be no uniform flow
in nature ; we cannot get either air or water through an orifice in a
uniform stream ; the friction against the orifice is overcome by starts,
and the jet issues in pulsations. Let a lighted candle be quickly
passed through the air ; the flame will break itself into a beaded line
in virtue of a similar intermittent action, and it may be made to sing,
so regular are the pulses produced by its passage. Analogy might
lead us to suppose that the electricity overcomes the resistance at the

174                           Professor Owen, on the                         [Jan. 27,
surface of its electrode in a similar manner, escaping from it in
tremors ; the matter which it carries along with it being broken up
                      liquidFriday,
into strata, as aWEEKLY       vein isEVENING
                                       January
                                       broken into      MEETING,
                                                         1860.
                                                   27,drops.*                [J. T.]
       Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. F.E.S. Vice-President,
                                      in the Chair.
                        Professor Owen, D.C.L. F.E.S.
                FDLLERIAN PROFESBOR OF PHY6IOLOGY IN THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
        On the Cerebral System of Classification of the Mammalia.
The speaker commenced with a brief review of the principal systems
which naturalists had proposed for the Classification of the Mammalia,
dwelling more particularly on the following, viz. :—that which, on the
ground of certain generalisations in the ' Historia Animalium,' had
been attributed to Aristotle ; on the scheme published by Ray, in his
 ' Synopsis Methodica Animalium Quadrupeduum, 1693 ' ; on the
classification adopted by Linnaeus in the 12th edition of the ' Systema
Naturae, 1766'; and on that in the 2nd edition (1829) of Cuvier's
' Regne Animal.'
      The Aristotelian generalisations on the structures and characters
of the locomotive organs, as well as those on the dentition, of the
' Zootoka,' had continued to be used as the groundwork of the primary
division of the mammalian class to the time of Cuvier. The chief
merit of Ray's system was its exemplification of the principle of the
 subordination of characters, or of their different values as applicable
to groups of different degrees of generalisation. The great step in
advance made by Linnaeus, was his accurate definition of the class, and
 his perception of the significant outward character which suggested the
      Cuvier, adopting
appropriate      term which          class hasprimary
                             thetheLinnaean                divisions, ' Unguiculata'
                                                 since retained.
 ' Ungulata,' and ' Muticata,' or ' Cetacea, ' subdivides them into more
 naturally defined orders, according to various characters afforded by
 the dental, osseous, generative, and locomotive systems, which his great
      That heterogeneous
 anatomical      knowledge had ordermade
                                       which   Linnaeus—
                                           known      to him.prepossessed in favour of
        Mr. Gassiot
the *easily          has shownoutward
               recognisable      that a single
                                         character
                                                discharge
                                                       by of the Leyden
                                                          which         jar produces the
                                                                  he distinguished   the
 stratification. May not every such discharge correspond to a single draw of a
 violin bow across a string ?

I860.]           Cerebral System of the Class Mammalia.                        175
class—had characterised by the ' Mammce pectorales bince : dentes
primores incisores : superiores iv parelleli,' was shown, by the correla
tion of anatomical distinctions with the threefold modification of the
limbs of the Primates, to be divisible into as many distinct orders.
The hands on the upper limbs alone, and the lower limbs destined to
sustain the trunk erect, characterised the order Bimana, the equivalent
of the Linnaean genus Homo. The genus Simia of Linnaeus, with
hands on the four extremities, became the order Quadrumana of
Cuvier. The genus Vespertilio with the ' manus palmatae volitantes '
formed the group Cheiroptera, answerable to the Dermaptera of
Aristotle.
   Ray had pointed out certain viviparous quadrupeds with a multifid
foot as being ' anomalous species,' instancing as such ' the tamandua,
the armadillo, the sloth, the mole, the shrew, the hedgehog, and the
bat.' The first three species are associated with the scaly ant-eaters
(Manis) of Asia and Africa, with the Australian spiny ant-eaters
{Echidna), and with the more strange duck-moles ( Ornithorhynchus)
of the same part of the world, to form the order Edentata of Cuvier,
which answers to that called Bruta by Linnaeus, if the elephant and
walrus be removed from it. The rest of Ray's ' anomalous species '
exemplify the families Cheiroptera and Insectivora of the Cuvierian
system, in which they are associated with the true Carnivora in an
order  calledhad
     Cuvier        early noticed
               ' Carnassiers,' answering
                                    the relation
                                            to the of    the of
                                                      Ferce     Linnaeus. pouched
                                                              Australian
mammals, as a small collateral series, to the unguiculate mammals of
other parts of the globe ; he discerned many relations of mutual
affinity in their osseous structure, and he grouped them together under
the name Marsupialia, to form a family of the ' Carnassiers ' in the
first edition of the ' Regne Animal ' : and he raised them to the rank
of an order in the 2nd edition, where they terminate the carnassial or
carnivorous series of the Unguiculata, possessing the three kinds of
     The hoofed animals (Ungulata, " animaux a sabots ") are binarily
teeth.*
divided into those that do, and those that do not, chew the cud ; the
former constituting the order Pachydermata, the latter that of
     The third primary group or subclass of Mammalia is indicated, but
 Buminantia.
without receiving any name distinct from that of the single order
 Cetacea exemplifying it in the Cuvierian system—an order which
would be equivalent to the Mutica of the Linnaean system, save that
the Manatee which Linnaeus placed in the same group as the elephant
is associated with the whale in the Regne Animal.
     Important as was the improvement which the Mammalian system
of Cuvier presented on previous systems, the progress of anatomical
and physiological knowledge, mainly stimulated by the writings and
                        See page soon
example of Cuvier * himself,            began
                                  15, Table            Cuvier.
                                            No.toII.,make   felt the defects of his

176                         Professor Owen, on the                     [Jan. 27,
system. These, indeed, were early suggested by the results of the
application of the characters employed by Cuvier in the formation of
the primary and secondary groups of the class ; the sloth, for example,
was placed above the horse, the mole above the lynx, and the bat above
the dog : even the Ornithorhynchus paradoxus—shown by accurate
anatomical scrutiny to be the most reptilian of the mammalian class—
takes precedence of the colossal and sagacious elephant in the Cuvierian
    The question of the truly natural and equivalent primary groups
scheme.
of the class had been kept in view by the speaker whenever oppor
tunities occurred of adding to the knowledge of the anatomy of the
mammalian class, and especially when engaged in dissecting any of
the rarer forms which died at the gardens of the Zoological Society of
    The facts
London,             acquired
          and insowhich"   the structure
                                 graduallyofimpressed
                                              the brain acould  be unravelled.
                                                            conviction  that the
modifications ofthe cerebral organ were those which most truly indicated
    primarytogroups
the Prior      the year     1 836,
                        of the     the brain in Mammalia was supposed to
                                mammalia.
differ from that in all other vertebrate animals by the presence of the
large mass of transverse white fibres, called ' corpus callosum,' by the
anthropotomist ; which fibres, overarching the ventricles, and diverging
as they penetrate the substance of either hemisphere of the cerebrum,
bring every convolution of the one into communication with those of
the other hemisphere, whence the other name of this part—the ' great
commissure.' In that year Prof. Owen discovered that the brain of
the kangaroo, the wombat, and some other marsupial quadrupeds,
wanted the ' great commissure ; ' and that the cerebral hemispheres
were connected together, as in birds, only by the ' fornix ' and ' anterior
commissure.' Soon afterward, he had the opportunity of determining
that the same deficiency of structure prevailed in the Ornithorhynchus
and Echidna. Since many other modifications of structure, more or
less akin to those characterizing birds and reptiles, were found to
be associated with the above oviparous type of brain, together with
some remarkable peculiarities in the economy of reproduction, he
then had suggested that the Mammalia might be divided into ' placental'
and ' implacental.'
    Impressed, however, with the fact that such binary division, like
that which might be based upon the leading differences of dentition,
was too unequal to be natural, and other modifications of the mam
malian brain being found to be associated with concurrent conditions
of other organs, the speaker had subsequently proposed a four-fold
primary division of the Mammalia, based upon four leading types or
    The first
conditions  of the
                 or cerebral
                      lowest structure
                                modification   is that
                                          in that  class.in which the^ cerebral
hemispheres of small relative size and simple exterior, are connected
    The only
together  secondby isthethat
                         anterior
                              in which
                                    commissure    and fornix.
                                          the great    commissure or 'corpus
callosum ' is superadded, without any other advance in the develop

I860.]            Cerebral System of the Class Mammalia.                      177
ment of the hemispheres ; which are exteriorly smooth, or with few
     The third and
convolutions,         notinextended
                 is that     which thebackward
                                          cerebralover   the cerebellum.
                                                    hemispheres    show, with the
corpus callosum, an increased size, extending backward more or less
upon th§ cerebellum, and, save in a few cases in which the size of the
     The fourth
mammal     is small,
                   modification
                      having theexhibits,
                                   exterior with   all convoluted.
                                              surface   the preceding complica
tions, a marked and sudden augmentation in the relative and absolute
size of the cerebral hemispheres, which now extend above and beyond
the cerebellum, and have a posterior lobe, with a posterior horn of the
lateral ventricle, and a ' hippocampus minor,' and which have the
grayThe   mammals
       exterior  matterexemplifying
                         increased bythenumerous
                                             lowest types   of brain,
                                                      and deep        were called
                                                                 convolutions.
Lyencefha:la,* from the comparatively loose or disconnected state of
the cerebral hemispheres : they are unguiculate : some have the ' optic
lobes ' simple, others partly subdivided ; the lobes being then called
     The Lyencephala
 ' bigeminal   bodies.'      with simple optic lobes are 'edentulous' or
without calcified teeth, and are devoid of external ears, scrotum,
nipples, and marsupial pouch : they are true ' testiconda : ' they have
a coracoid bone extending from the scapula to the sternum, and also
an epicoracoid and episternum as in Lizards : they are unguiculate
and pentadactyle, with a supplementary tarsal bone supporting a
perforated spur in the male. The order so characterized is called
' Monotremata,' in reference to their single excretory and generative
outlet. It includes two genera—Echidna and Ornithorhynchus.
 Of the first, the species are terrestrial, insectivorous, chiefly myrmeco-
phagous, having the beak-like slender jaws and long cylindrical tongue
of the true anteaters ; but they are covered, like the hedgehog, with
spines. Of the second genus, the species are aquatic, with a flattened
 beak, like that of a duck, which is used in the anserine manner to
 extract insects and worms from the mud : but they are clothed with
 a close fine fur like that of a mole, whence the name ' duck-mole ' by
 which these anomalous quadrupeds are commonly known to the
 colonists. Both genera of Monotremes are strictly limited to Australia
  and Tasmania.
    "The Ltencephala with divided optic lobes, forming the 'corpora
 bigemina ' and ' quadrigemina ' of anthropotomists, have teeth, and with
 rare exceptions, the three kinds, viz. incisors, canines, and molars.
 They are called the Marsupialia, because they are distinguished
 by a peculiar pouch, which, in the female, contains the nipples and
 shelters the young for a certain period after their birth : both sexes
 have the marsupial bones in common with the Monotremes ; a
 much varied denition, especially as regards the number of incisors,
 but usually including four true molars ; and never more than three
  premolars : the angle of the lower jaw is more or less inverted.
                            Kvui, to loose ; eyKeipaXo;, brain.

178                          Professor Owen, on the                   [Jan. 27,
    With the exception of one genus, Didelphys, which is American,
all the known existing Marsupials belong to Australia, Tasmania,
New Guinea, and its adjacent isles, where the order is represented by
the genus Cusctts only. The grazing and browsing Kangaroos are
rarely seen abroad in full daylight, save in dark rainy weather* Most
of the Marsupialia are nocturnal. Zoological wanderers in Australia,
viewing its plains and scanning its scrubs by broad daylight, are
struck by the seeming absence of mammalian life ; but during the brief
twilight and dawn, or by the light of the moon, numerous forms are
seen to emerge from their hiding-places and illustrate the variety of
marsupial life with which many parts of the continent abroad. We
may associate with their low position in the mammalian scale the
prevalent habit amongst the Marsupialia of limiting the exercise of
the faculties of active life to the period when they are shielded by the
    The second
obscurity          type of brain, is exemplified by the mammalia which
            of night.
constitute the order Rodentia, Insectivora, Cheiroptera, and Bruta :
they are grouped together, in the cerebral scheme of classification,
under the name Lissencephala,* having reference to the smooth
    The Rodentia
unconvoluted            areofcharacterized
                 exterior      the brain.     by two large and long curved
incisors in each jaw, separated by a wide interval from the molars ;
the teeth being so constructed, and the jaw so articulated, as to effect
the reduction of the food to small particles by acts of rapid and
continued gnawing, whence the name of the order. The orbits are
not separated from the temporal fossae. The male glands pass peri
odically from the abdomen into a temporary scrotum, and are asso
ciated with prostatic and vesicular glands. The placenta is commonly
discoid, but is sometimes a circular mass (Cavy), or flattened and
divided into three or more lobes (Lepus). The Beaver and Capybara
are the giants of the order, which chiefly consists of small, numerous,
prolific and diversified unguiculate genera, subsisting wholly or in
part on vegetable food. Some Rodents, e. g. the Lemmings, perform
remarkable migrations, the impulse to which, unchecked by dangers
or any surmountable obstacles, seems to be mechanical. Many
Rodents build very artificial nests, and a few manifest their con
structive instinct in association. In all these inferior physical
manifestations we are reminded of Birds. Many Rodents hibernate
like Reptiles. They are distributed over all continents. About two-
    The
thirds     the known from
       of transition   speciesthe
                                of Mammalia
                                   Marsupials belong
                                                 to thetoRodents,   seems
                                                            the Rodent    to be
                                                                       order.
made by the Wombats ; but the Marsupials graduate more closely by
the smaller Opossums to the Insectivora. This term is given to the
order of small smooth-brained Mammals, including the Hedgehogs,
Moles, and Shrews, the molar teeth of which are bristled with cusps,
and are associated with canines and incisors : they are unguiculate,
                        \l<T?bs, smooth ; eyicctpaXos, brain.

I860.]           Cerebral System of the Class Mammalia.                   179
plantigrade, and pentadactyle, and they have complete clavicles.
Like Rodents, they are periodical testiconda, and have large prostatic
and vesicular glands : like most other Lissencephala, the Insectivora
have a discoid or cup-shaped placenta. They do not exist in South
America and Australia ; their office in these continents is fulfilled by
Marsupialia : but true Insectivora abound in all the other continents
      theirorder
and The            Cheiroptera,
             contiguous  islands. with the exception of the modification
of their digits for supporting the large webs that serve as wings,
repeat the chief characters of the Insectivora : a few, however, of
the larger species are frugivorous and have corresponding modifications
     Theteeth
of the         andremarkable
            most    stomach. examples
                                The mammae      are pectoral torpid
                                            of periodically          Mammals
                                                             in position.
are to be found in the terrestrial and volant Insectivora. The frugi
vorous Bats differ much in dentition from the true Cheiroptera, and
would seem to conduct through the Colugos or Flying Lemurs,
directly to the Quadrumanous order, from which, in Buffon's
hypothesis of degeneration, they might be derivatives. The Chei
     The are
roptera        cosmopolitan.
           order  Bruta, called Edentata by Cuvier, includes two genera
(Myrmeeophaga and Manis) which are devoid of teeth ; the rest
possess those organs, which, however, have no true enamel, no fangs
 or roots, are never displaced by a second series, and are very rarely
 implanted in the premaxillary bones. All the species have very long
and strong claws. The ischium as well as the ilium unites with the
sacrum ; the orbit is not divided from the temporal fossa. The Three-
toed Sloths (Bradypus) manifest their affinity to the oviparous
 Vertebrata by the supernumerary cervical vertebrae supporting false
ribs and by the convolution of the windpipe in the thorax ; and the
unusual number—three and twenty pairs—of ribs, forming a very
long dorsal, with a short lumbar, region of the spine, in the Two-toed
 Sloth (Cholcepus), recalls a lacertine structure. The same tendency
to an inferior type is shown by the abdominal testes, the single cloacal
outlet, the low cerebral development, the absence of medullary canals
in the long bones in the Sloths, and by the great tenacity of life and
long-enduring irritability of the muscular fibre, in both the Sloths and
     The order Bruta is but scantily represented at the present period.
 Ant-eaters.
 One genus, Manis or Pangolin, is common to Asia and Africa ; the
 Orycteropus is peculiar to South Africa ; the rest of the order, con
sisting of the genera Myrmecophaga, or true Anteaters, Dasypus or
     Having defined
 Armadillos,            the orders
                and Bradypus     or into
                                    Sloths,
                                         which   the Lissencephala
                                             are confined            were sub
                                                          to South America.
divided, the speaker adduced his evidences of the more truly natural
 character, notwithstanding the differences of form, structure, and habits,
 of this primary group, than could be affirmed of the ' Unguiculata ' of
the Linnaean and Cuvierian systems and summed up, in recapitulation,
 the following as amongst the more remarkable indications of their
affinity to the Oviparous Vertebrata in particular orders or genera of

 180                      Professor Owen, on the                        [Jan. 27,
the subclass. Such, e. g., were the cloaca, convoluted trachea, super
numerary cervical vertebra and their floating ribs, in the Three-toed
Sloth ; the numerous trunk-ribs in the Two-toed Sloth ; the irrita
bility of the muscular fibre, and persistence of contractile power in
the Sloths and some other Bruta ; the long, slender, beak-like
edentulous jaws and gizzard of the Anteaters ; the imbricated scales
of the equally edentulous Pangolins, which have both gizzard and
gastric glands like the proventricular ones in birds ; the dermal bony
armour of the Armadillos like that of loricated Saurians ; the quills
of the Porcupine and Hedgehog : the brilliant iridescent colours of
the fur of the Cape-mole ( Chrysochlora aurea) ; the proventriculus
of the Dormouse and Beaver ; the prevalence of disproportionate
development of the hind limbs in the Rodentia ; coupled, in the
Jerboa, with confluence of the three chief metatarsals into one bone,
as in birds ; the keeled sternum and wings of the Bats ; the aptitude
of the Cheiroptera, Insectivora, and certain Rodentia to fall, like
Reptiles, into a state of true torpidity, associated with a corresponding
faculty of the heart to circulate carbonized or black blood :—these,
and the like indications of coaffinity with the Ltenoephala to the
Oviparous air-breathing Vertebrata, had mainly prevailed with
Professor Owen against an acquiescence in the elevation of different
groups of the Lissencephala to a higher place in the Mammalian
series, and in their respective association, through some single charac
ter, with better-brained orders, according to Mammalogical systems
which, at different l imes, have been proposed by zoologists of deserved
reputation. Such, e. g., as the association of the long-clawed Bruta
with the Ungulata, and of the shorter-clawed Shrews, Moles, and
Hedgehogs, as well as the Bats, with the Carnivora ; of the jSloths
with the Quadrumana ; of the Bats with the same .high order; and
of the Insectivora and Rodentia in immediate sequence after the
Linnean ' Primates,' as in the latest "published ' System of Mamma
   So far
logy,' from
          as atheir
                distinguished
                    ordinal affinities
                              French are   known, the most ancient Mam
                                        author.
mals, the fossil remains of which have been found in secondary strata,
are either ly- or liss-encephalous, and belong either to the Marsupialia
    TheInsectivora.
or the    Mammals exemplifying the third type of brain, were called
Gyrencephala,* in reference to the commonly unvoluted exterior of
the cerebral hemispheres : but the more general character was the
larger proportion of these parts, as exemplified in the small smooth-
    The Monkeys
brained             and Lemurs.
          G trencephala    are primarily subdivided, according to modifi
cations of the locomotive organs, into three series, for which the Lin
nean terms may well be retained ; viz., Mutilata, Ungulata, and Un-
    These limb-characters
guiculata,  the maimed, the canhoofed,
                                    onlyand
                                          be the
                                             rightly
                                                  clawed    series.to the gyren-
                                                        applied
cephalous subclass ; they do not indicate natural groups, save in that
                 * yvj iw, to wind about ; iyY.k<t>a.-Ms, brain.

  I860.]            Cerebral System of the Class Mammalia.                    181
  section of the Mammalia. To associate the Ltexcepbala and Lissbn-
  cephala with the unguiculate Gyrencephala into one great primary
  group, appeared to the speaker to be a misapplication of a solitary
  character, akin to that which would have founded a primary division
  on the discoid placenta or the diphyodont dentition. No one had
  proposed to associate the unguiculate Bird or Lizard with the ungui
  culate Ape ; and it was but a little less violation of natural affinities
  to associate the Monotremes with the Quadrumanes in the same pri
  maryThe   three primary
         (unguiculate)    division
                             divisions
                                   of the  the Gtrencephala
                                       of Mammalian     class. were of higher
  value than the ordinal divisions of the Lissencephala ; just as those
  orders were of higher value than the representative families of the
  Ltenoephala.
      The Mutiktta, or the maimed Mammals with folded brains, are so
 called because their hind limbs seem as it were, to have been ampu
 tated ; they possess only the pectoral pair of limbs, and those in the
 form of fins : the hind end of the trunk expands into a broad, horizon
 tally flattened, caudal fin. They have large brains with many and
 deep convolutions, are naked, and have neither neck, scrotum, nor
      The first
 external    ears. order, called Cetacea, are either edentulous or mono-
 phyodont, and the latter have teeth of one kind and usually of simple
 form. They are ' testiconda,' and have no ' vesiculae seminales.' The
mammae are pudendal ; the placenta is diffused ; the kidneys are much
subdivided ; the arterial system is remarkable for vast and complex
 ' piexuses,' covering the spinal chord and lining the intercostal spaces,
forming a reservoir of arterial blood : the external nostrils—single or
double—are on the top of the head, and called spiracle or, blow
holes.' They are marine, and, for the most part, range the wide
oceans ; though with certain geographical limits as respects species.
 The ' right whale- of the northern hemisphere (Baltena mysticetus)
is represented by a distinct species (Balcena australis) in the southern
hemisphere : the high temperature of the waters at the equatorial zone
 bars the migration of either from one pole to the other. True Cetacea
feedThe    fishes ororder,
       on second               animals.
                      marinecalled   Sirenia, have teeth of different kinds,
incisors which are preceded by milk-teeth, and molars with flattened
or ridged crowns, adapted for vegetable food. The nostrils are two,
situated at the upper part of the snout ; the lips are beset with stiff
bristles ; the mammae are pectoral ; they are ' testiconda,' but have
vesiculae seminales. The Sirenia exist near coasts or ascend large
rivers ; browsing on fuci, water plants, or the grass of the shore.
There is much in the organization of this order that indicates its nearer
affinity to members of the succeeding division, than to the cetaceous
order. The Dugongs (Halicore) inhabit the Eed Sea, the Malayan
Archipelago, and the soundings of the Australian coasts ; the Manatees
     In the Ungvlata
(Manatus)                 the shores
               frequent the    four limbs
                                      of tropical
                                           are present, but and
                                                  America         portion of the
                                                             thatAfrica.
     Vol. -III.      (No. 31.)                                         o

182                        Professor Owen, on the                      [Jan. 27,
toe which touches the ground is incased in a hoof, which blunts its
sensibility and deprives the foot of prehensile power. With the limbs
restricted to support and locomotion, the Ungulata have no clavicles :
the fore leg remains constantly in the state of pronation, and they feed
     A particular order, or suborder, of this group is indicated by fossil
on vegetables.
remains of certain South American genera, e. g. Toxodon and Nesodon,
with long, curved, rootless teeth, have a partial investment of enamel, and
with certain peculiarities of cranial structure : the name Toxodontia
     A secondforremarkable
is proposed                    all themost
                  this order, order,    representatives
                                              of the members
                                                          of which   are extinct.
                                                                 of which   have
also passed away, is characterized by two incisors in the form of long
tusks ; in one genus (Dinotherium) projecting from the under jaw, in
another genus (Elephas) from the upper jaw, and in some of the
species of a third genus (Mastodon), from both jaws. There are no
canines : the molars are few, large, and transversely ridged ; the
ridges sometimes few and mammillate, often numerous and with every
intermediate gradation. The nose is prolonged into a cylindrical
trunk, flexible in all directions, highly sensitive, and terminated by a
prehensile appendage like a finger : from this peculiar organ is de
rived the name Pboboscidia given to the order. The feet are penta-
dactyle, but the toes are indicated only by divisions of the hoof; the
     Elephants
placenta         are dependent
          is annular              chieflyareupon
                       ; the mammae               trees for food. One species
                                              pectoral.
now finds the conditions of its existence in the rich forests of tropical
Asia ; a second species in those of tropical Africa. These are all
      now remain
thatNumerous        of theoforder
                  species          Proboscidia.
                              Mastodon     and Elephant roamed in pliocene
 times in warm and temperate latitudes of America and Europe. At
 a later or pleistocene period, a huge elephant, clothed with wool and
 hair, obtained its food from hardy trees, such as now grow in the 65th
 degree of north latitude ; and abundant remains of this Elephas pri-
 migenius (as it has been prematurely called, since it was the last of our
 British elephants) have been found in temperate and high northern
 latitudes in Europe, Asia, and America. This, like other Arctic ani
 mals, was peculiar in its family for its longitudinal range. The Musk
 Buffalo was its contemporary in England and Europe, and still lingers
     Both
 in the    the proboscidian
        northernmost           andAmerica.
                         parts of   toxodontal orders of Ungvlata may be
 called aberrant : the dentition of the latter, and several particulars of
the organization of the Elephant, indicate an affinity to the Rodentia ;
the cranium of the Toxodon, like that of the Dinothere, resembles that
     TheSirenia
 of the              its remarkable
           typicalin Ungulate         modifications.
                                 quadrupeds      were divided by the speaker,
 according to the odd or even number of the toes, into Perissodac-
 TriA and Artiodactyia : the single hoof of the horse, the triple hoof
 of the tapir, exemplify the first : the double hoof of the camel, the
     The characters
 quadruple  hoof of ofthethese
                           hippopotamus,
                               primary divisions
                                             exemplify    given,
                                                    werethe      and illustrated
                                                             second.

 I860.]             Cerebral System of the Class Mammalia.                    183
in detail. The subdivisions of the orders Perissodactyla and Artio-
    A well-marked,
dactyla   were next pointedand at out.the present day extensive, subordinate
group of the Artiodactyles, is called Ruminantia, in reference to the
second mastication to which the food is subject after having been
swallowed ; the act of rumination requiring a peculiarly complicated
form of stomach. The Ruminants have the ' cloven foot,' i.e. two hoofed
digits on each foot forming a symmetrical pair, as by the cleavage of a
single hoof: in most species there is added a pair of small supple
mentary hoofed toes. The metacarpals of the two functional toes
coalesce to form a single ' cannon-bone,' as do the corresponding me
tatarsals. The camel-tribe have the upper incisors reduced to a single
pair ; in the rest of the ruminants, the upper incisors are replaced by a
callous pad. The lower canines are contiguous to the six lower inci
sors, and, save in the Camel-tribe, are similar to them, forming part of
the same terminal series of eight teeth, between which and the molar
series there is a wide interval. The true molars have their grinding
surface marked by two double crescents, the convexity of which is
    Many
turned        fossil inArtiodactyles,
         inwards        the upper andwithoutwards
                                              similar  molars,
                                                    in the        jaw. to have
                                                           underappear
differed from the Ruminants chiefly by retaining structures which are
transitory and embryonic in most existing Ruminants, as, e.g. upper
incisors and canines, first premolars, and separate metacarpal and meta
tarsal bones ; these are among the lost links that once connected more
intimately the Ruminants with the Hog and Hippopotamus. The
speaker, pursuing the retrospect of the twofold division of Gyrencephala
as represented in the tertiary geological series, remarked that it was
interesting, in relation to the needs of mankind, to find that, whilst
some groups of U^sulata, e.g. the Perissodactyles and omnivorous
Artiodactyles had been gradually dying "out, other groups, e.g. the
Ruminants, had been augmenting in genera and species. Most inter
esting also was it to observe, that in existing Ungulates there is a more
specialized structure, a further departure from the general type, than
in their representatives of the miocene and eocene tertiary periods : and
that such later and less typical Mammalia did more effective service
by virtue of their adaptively modified structures. The Ruminants, e.g.,
more thoroughly digest and assimilate grass, and form out of it a more
nutritive and sapid kind of meat, than did the antecedent more typical
      less monodactyle
and The                     Horse was a better
            specialized non-ruminant               and swifter beast of draught
                                           Herbivora.
and burthen than its tridactyle predecessor the miocene Hipparion
could have been. The nearer to a Tapir or a Rhinoceros in structure,
the further would an equine quadruped be left from the goal in con
     The with
tending          a modern
           geological         Racer. of the existing hoofed mammalia was
                          distribution
      touched
nextThe          upon, and contrasted
           Unguiculata,         as restricted
                                           withinthat
                                                   theofcerebral  system
                                                         the extinct forms.of the
Mammalia, form the third division of the Gyrencepeala, They enjoy
a higher degree of the sense of touch than the Ungulata through the
                                                                      o2

 184                         Professor Owen, on the                        [Jan. 27,
 greater number and mobility of the digits and the smaller extent to
 which they are covered by horny matter. This substance forms a
 single plate, in the shape of a claw or nail, which is applied to only one
 of the surfaces of the extremity of the digit, leaving the other, usually
      lower,thesurface
the All                    are ' diphyodont,'*
                 speciespossessed                   and the teeth have a simple
                                   of its tactile faculty.
 so called.
     The firstofWith
 investment        enamel.
                  order, the
                          Carnivora,
                               exceptionincludes
                                             of a few    Seals of
                                                     the beasts        incisors
                                                                 theprey,         are
                                                                            properly
 and3 in
3g—^   usually
           number  exhibiting        -yj^j>
                                a full
                     ; the canines        ^and  perfect
                                             always       development
                                                     longer  than the other    teeth,
                                                                           as lethal
weapons ; the molars graduate from a trenchant to a tuberculate form,
 in proportion as the diet deviates from one strictly of flesh, to one of a
more miscellaneous kind. The clavicle is rudimental or absent ; the
 innermost digit is often rudimental or absent ; they have no vesiculae
    The Carnivora
 seminales   ; the teatsareare
                            divided,
                               abdominal     ; the placenta
                                        according            is zonular.
                                                   to modifications   of the limbs,
 into ' pinnigrade,' ' plantigrade,' and ' digitigrade ' tribes. In the
 Pinnigrades (Walrus, Seal-tribe) both fore and hind feet are short, and
 expanded into broad, webbed paddles for swimming, the hinder ones
 being fettered by continuation of integument to the tail. In the
 Plantigrades (Bear-tribe) the whole or nearly the whole of the hind
foot forms a sole, and rests on the ground. In the Digitigrades (Cat-
 tribe, Dog-tribe, &c.) only the toes touch the ground, the heel being
 muchThe    principle of the more specialized character of actual organisa
         raised.
        receives
 tionsThe            Felis and in
            generaillustration   Machairodus,
                                    the genetic history
                                                   with their
                                                           of the  presentand
                                                               curtailed       other
                                                                            order.
 wise modified dentition and their strong short jaws, become, thereby,
 more powerfully and effectively destructive than the eocene Hycenodons
 and miocene Pterodons, with their numerically typical dentition and
 their three carnassial teeth oh each side of the concomitantly prolonged
          the most
 jaws,In could         been. carnivorous Gyrencephala the paw is per
                 havestrictly
 fected as an instrument for retaining and lacerating a struggling prey
 by the superadded elastic structures for retracting the claws and main
 taining them sharp. We next find in the unguiculate limb such a
 modification in the size, shape, position, and direction of the innermost
 digit that it can be opposed, as a thumb, to the other digits, thus con
 stituting what is properly termed a ' hand.' Those Unguiculates which
 have both fore and hind limbs so modified, form the order Quad-
                                         2 2            1 1              3 3
 bumana. Most of them have 7j—^ incisors, -=—T canines, -—r broad
tuberculate molars, and premolars in variable numbers ; all have per-
    * See Philosophical Transactions, 1850, p. 493; and Art. 'Odontology,' Encycl.
Britannica, 1858.

I860.]             Cerebral System of the Class Mammalia.                         185
feet clavicles ; pectoral mammae ; vesicular and prostatic glands ; a
discoid, sometimes double, placenta. The Quadrumana have a well-
     The threefold
marked                 geographical
           Strepsirhines     are thoseaswith
                                          well curved
                                                as structural  division.
                                                        or twisted   terminal nos-
                                                        3 3      2 2
trils, with much modified incisors, premolars T—- or , —- in number,
and molars with sharp tubercles : the second digit of the hiud limb has
a claw. This group includes the Galagos, Pottos, Loris, Aye-Ayes,
Indris, and the true Lemurs ; the three latter genera being restricted
to Madagascar, whence the group diverges in one direction to the con
     The
tinent      Africa, exhibited
        ofspeaker     in the otherdrawings
                                    to the Indian
                                             by Joseph    Wolf, of an Aye-Aye,
                                                      Archipelago.
(Cheiromys Madagascariensis) which had been recently transmitted,
well preserved in spirits, to the British Museum. lie pointed out, by
comparison of its brain with that of a similarly sized Rodent, its
combination of a type of cerebral organ truly gyrencephalous in the
proportions of the hemispheres, and in the pattern of the few convolu
tions, with a dentition so similar to that ofa Rodent as to have deceived
Gmelin and Cuvier in regard to its ordinal position in the mammalian
class. The equally remarkable modification of the hands was pointed
out, concurring with the dentition in enabling the Aye-Aye to extract
its favourite food, the larvae of Coleoptera, burrowing in hard wood,
fromThe       hiding-places.
       theirPlatyrhine    Quadrumana are those with the nostrils subter-
                                            3 3
minal and wide apart ; premolars g                 in number, the molars, with
blunt tubercles ; the thumbs of the fore-hands not opposable or want-
      ; theCatarhine
tingThe                 Quadrumana
             tail in most  prehensile ;have
                                          theythe
                                                arenostrils    to South
                                                     peculiaroblique        approxi
                                                                      andAmerica.
mated below, and opening above and behind the muzzle : the pre-
molars are -—- in number ; the thumb of the fore-hand is opposable.
                Ll Li
They are restricted to the Old World, and, save a single species on
the rock of Gibraltar, to Africa and Asia. The highest organized
family of Catarhines is tailless, and offers in the Orang, Chimpanzee,
      Gorilla, rigidly
and Climate              limitsapproach
                  the nearest                     human
                                the rangetoofthethe        type. latitudinally :
                                                     Quadrumana
creational and geographical causes limit their range in longitude.
Distinct genera represent each other. in the same latitudes of the New
andThe      Worldsand
      Old fourth         highest
                      ; and  also,type
                                   in a of
                                         great
                                           the degree,
                                                Mammalian      brainand
                                                         in Africa           at once,
                                                                      risesAsia.
and without transitional rudiments of the hippocampus minor, hinder
horn of lateral ventricle, or concomitant lobe of cerebrum protruding
backward beyond the cerebellum, to that marvellous structure which
is peculiar to our own species. The sole representative of the Archen-
cei-uala,* is the genus Homo. His structural modifications, more
                     * ap%0), to over-rule ; iyx.t<j>oi\os, brain.

186                       Professor Owen, on the                     [Jan. 27,
especially of the lower limb, by which the erect stature and bipedal
gait are maintained, are such as to claim for Man ordinal distinction
on merely external zoological characters. But his psychological
powers, in association with his extraordinarily developed brain, entitle
the group which he represents to equivalent rank with the other
primary divisions of the class Mammalia founded on cerebral characters.
In this primary group Man forms but one genus, Homo, and that genus
but one order, called Bimana, on account of the opposable thumb being
restricted to the upper pair of limbs. The mammas are pectoral. The
    Man ishas
placenta     a single,
                only a sub-circular,
                       partial covering
                                      cellulo-vascular,    is not body.
                                           of hair, whichdiscoid   merely pro
tective of the head, but is ornamental and distinctive of sex. The
dentition of the genus Homo is reduced to thirty-two teeth, by the
suppression of the outer incisor and the first two premolars of the
                 2—2
typical series. on           of both jaws,
                   each side1—1         2—2the dental3—3formula00 being :—
              i 2—2- , c. 1—1 ', r   p. 2—2', m. 3-3 = 32.
All the teeth are of equal length, and there is no break in the series ;
they are subservient in Man not only to alimentation, but to beauty
     to speech.
and The   human foot is broad, plantigrade, with the sole, not inverted
as in Quadrumana, but applied flat to the ground ; the leg bears
vertically on the foot ; the heel is expanded beneath ; the toes are
short, but with the innermost longer and much larger than the rest,
forming a ' hallux * or great toe, which is placed on the same line
with, and cannot be opposed to, the other toes ; the pelvis is short,
broad, and wide, keeping the thighs well apart ; and the neck of the
femur is long, and forms an open angle with the shaft, increasing the
basis of support for the trunk. The whole vertebral column, with its
slight alternate curves, and the well-poised, short, but capacious sub-
globular skull, are in like harmony with the requirements of the erect
     The widely-separated shoulders, with broad scapulae and complete
position.
clavicles, give a favourable position to the upper limbs, now liberated
from the service of locomotion, with complex joints for rotatory as well
as flexile movements, and terminated by a hand of matchless perfection
of structure, the fit instrument for executing the behests of a rational
intelligence and a free will. Hereby, though naked, Man can clothe
 himself, and rival all natural vestments in warmth and beauty ; though
defenceless, Man can arm himself with every variety of weapon, and
become the most terribly destructive of animals. Thus he fulfils his
 destiny as the supreme master of this earth, and lord of the lower
 Creation-
                                                                    [E. O.]
     The Discourse was illustrated with drawings of type species of
quadrupeds, by Joseph Wolf, and by numerous diagrams, including
the subjoined tables of classification.

["0981                                                        [neqaeag mazs<U+FB01>'g jb 9111 swig mymuwnm                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    LSI
                                                                                                                                                                                                    ethat
                                                                                                                                                                                                     the
                                                                                                                                                                                                    alone
                                                                                                                                                                                                     xitwith
                                                                                                                                                                                                        nare
                                                                                                                                                                                                         covered
                                                                                                                                                                                                         rand iogtmui0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                              digits
                                                                                                                                                                                                           ecmWith
                                                                                                                                                                                                           together,
                                                                                                                                                                                                           adhering
                                                                                                                                                                                                          tso        meosnt,                                                        athe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    animals
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   cat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  rand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     all
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     rpornwhich
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  least    oirous ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Many,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       aiarevcgroup                           {Muzzle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             head
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             rounded,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             tribe;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              short,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Feline                slender
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   body,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   short
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  eand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   xlong
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    smaller
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    tThe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     raseaonesmities,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HARE.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               pspecies
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                hall
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 tribe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 which
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 large,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 yastTwo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  areivvery
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      orous,
   TO
   AANIMALS,
    CFVOOF
   RAY.   RVD-IFPOANRGTOEUDS
        IUTABLE                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ein
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             nails,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Lwith
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              obtuse
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              covered
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Eand
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                foot,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Pmargin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 of
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hvisible
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   areAat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NT.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    subsist
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    insects
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     matter
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in:on
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         sor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ectivorous,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    vegetable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         being
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         nails
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          other,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          each
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          from
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          separable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           distinct
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            digits
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            With
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               easure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              msome
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Canine
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Muzzle
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           long,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             as
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tribe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      tribe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Weasel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Vermiue"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      larger
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ones
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      with
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             wtheir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ofrom
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               raninemn,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Gm'-enus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             form.  like
                                                                                                  SHEEP,
                                                                                                  the
                                                                                                  OX,
                                                                                                   in
                                                                                                   Peras
                                                                                                      sistent, or
                                                                                                  Goa'r,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      incisor
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       where
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Careompres ed,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      teeth
                                                                                                                     Srrsc.
                                                                                                                     the
                                                                                                                      Decasiduous,
                                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                                                                  anocnuos,
                                                                                                                                                  QPuOaPdas
                                                                                                                                                HIthe    OrTiAsMUuSl.cate,
                                                                                    that
                                                                                    with
                                                                                     Ruareminants
                                                                                    horns,                                                                                                                                                            Arms,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Depasres ed,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      in
                                                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                                                   RNot
                                                                                                                                    umasinants,
                                                                                                                                   Hon.
                                                           Ass,
                                                            Hossn,
                                                            the
                                                            Solas
                                                               idipedows,
                                                           ZEBRA
                                                                                                                oror
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   or
                               animals
                                Vaare,—
                                  iordvriupaerdosus
                             quhairy
                                                                                                                                                                                         the
                                                                                                                                                                                         in
                                                                                                                                                                                         Bi<U+FB01>d,
                                                                                                                                                                                           oras
                                                                                                                                                                                        CAMEL,
                                                                          Bisulcate,
                                                                         which
                                                                            are                                                                                                                  are
                                                                                                                                                                                                which
                                                                                                                                                                                           {Multi<U+FB01>i
                                                                                                                                                                           feet
                                                                                                                                                                           whose
                                                                                                                                                                           Ungareuiculate,
                                                                                                                                                                           either
                                                    and
                                                    these
                                                    Ungulate,
                                                   either

                                                                                                               a3<§,[Seal.Is                           I" pss o S &                                                                                                                                                 P3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ornithorhynehus.
                             EXAMPLE,                         Marmoset.                    (Hedgehog.                               Phalanger.                                                       Armadil o. Auteater.
                                                                         Lemur.                                             Opos um. Kangaro .Wombat.                                                                                   Echidna. Elephant.fnog.                                          Dujiong.
                                                                                                Shrew.[Mole.1                                                                                                                                                                   { Sheep. Whale.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Tapir.Horse.
TO MAND
CAOFORDERS
    THE
    UABCVMOLIRAEDSLIREN.SGA,
  STABLE                                    Man. Ape.                                 Bat.                       Bear. Dog.                                Rat. nare. Sloth.
                             ORGFEANMUISL.Y
                                                                                                                                                                                    I   laviculata
                                                                                                                                                                                      cNon-                     Myrmecophaga
                                                                         Strepsir hina                                              Phalangista PhascolomysI                                                                                  Monotremata {Prcboscidia
                                                  Catar h.ina Platyr hina Cheirop.tera Insectivo.ra                         {Didelphys            Macropus
                                                                                                                                                           C l a v i c u l  a t a
                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBradypus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     .
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Ordinar.ia Solidun.gula HeIrbivora O\              rdinaria
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Vast/.pus
                                            Homo.
                                                              QuADRUMANA                                                                  Ma\,u.iaxia                                                                                                                                      |  RUMINANTIA
                                                                                                       Cau.ania1                                                          ,cWa0intihpnoeusat.                   oiWrni0ctiphsxortu"at.
                                            ^Bimna
                                                .                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IMCUoTrIoLrAa.TAa
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Waur1mvist'iern.s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Cby
                                                                                                        teeth.
                                                                                                        of
                                                                                                 With kind"
                                                                                                 three
                                                                                                                                         fUNGUICULATA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N'ULATA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   U<
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAM ALIA,

                                  00 ©"                                                                                           or                                                                                                                                             I!                                                                                                                         00
                                                                                                                                                                          T                    <3>
TABLE
ORDERS
SMCUTO
THE
AND
OF  AEYBCMRSLEOTARBSEDLMEIAS.NL',
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Armadil o. Rou,et e.                                                                                                   Phalanger.                          Duck-mole.
                                                                             Marmoset.                                                                                Elephant.                                                                                                 Anteater.                               Hedgehog.                                     Wombat. Kangaro . Opo,um. Echidna.
                                                                                         Lemur.                                                                                                     Sea-cow. Dugong.Porpoi"e.Whale.
                                                                                                                                       Sheep.Hor"e. Tapir.                                                                                                                                                                        Shrew. Hare.
                                                      Man. Ape.                                      Dog.Bear. Seal. Hog.                                                                                                                                 Sloth.                                     Bat. Mole.                                           Rat.
                                     FOBGABMINLUYS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Omithorhynchus
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Noni-claviculat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBradypodidaDasypodida                                                                                                                        Entomophaga
                                                                   atarhi.na Pla<tyr.hina {Digitigrada
                                                                  CI
                                                                                       | Strepsirhina Plantig.radaPin ig.rada \Buminan.tia Soj lidun.gula\Multun.gula \         Dinotherium                                          Dej         alcenidcB l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       lphi.nidBa\                                                   Insectiv.ora Erin<acei.dm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     \                                                   Clavicul.ata Bhizop.haga Carpophaga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         \
                                                                                                                             O(
                                                                                                                              mnivo.ra                                                               M a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                         I a h i
                                                                                                                                                                                                               . s   H aIl i c o.r e                                             [EdentuljaFrugiv.ora ITalp.ida [Soric.ida                                                       Poephaga                            Echidn.a
                                                                                                                                                                       (Elep.has To(xodo.n Ne(
                                                                                                                                                                                             sodo.n
                                                       Homo.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       I Mo.tnormaora
                                                                             QCADBDM.ANA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ma,rc.iap.na
                                                      CHENCEPHAL.
                                                    ARBiona
                                                                                           .1 Unguicu.lata
                                                                                                                                                              Ungul.ata                                                      MuVtilata
                                                                                                                                                             GYRENCEPHALA                                                                                                                                  LIS ENCEPHAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LYENCEPHALA.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MAM AL.IA

190                            Mr. Field,                         [Feb. 3,
                 WEEKLY         February 3,MEETING,
                       Friday,EVENING         I860.
 Rev. John Barlow, M.A.inF.R.S.         Vice-President and Secretary,
                                 the Chair.
                   Fbederick Field, Esq. F.R.S.E.
                On the Mineral Treasures of the Andes.
Owing to the great extent of country, the difficulty of access in many
parts, and the comparatively few labourers in the field of science,
much of the mineralogy of the district, bounded on the east by. the
Cordilleras, and on the west by the Pacific Ocean, remains to be in
     European enterprise and capital have, however, incidentally effected
vestigated.
much. The miner, finding a ready purchaser in the smelter or mer
chant for his ores and other mineral productions, traverses the hills
and mountains in quest of the treasures his country supplies, bringing
them into the various ports on the coast for sale. It necessarily
happens that he meets occasionially with some minerals of which he is
not cognizant ; but from their high specific gravity, metallic lustre, or
other physical appearances, he deems them to be not wholly destitute of
value. Thus, oftentimes, independent of purely scientific research,
many curious natural compounds are brought to light, which other
wise perhaps might have lain for ages hidden in the deep recesses of
     The chief wealth of the Andes, in a monetary point of view, consists
the hills.
of copper and silver minerals. Gold, although extensively dissemi
nated, never occurs in very large quantities in one particular spot. The
copper and silver mines on the contrary, yield those metals in very
    The
great      copper ores may be divided as follows:—1. Those minerals
        abundance.
which consist of native copper, in a nearly pure condition, or combina
tions of the metal with oxygen, and the oxides combined with carbonic,
silicic, phosphoric, and vanadic acids, as well as with chlorine, in the
mineral atacamite. 2. Minerals consisting essentially of copper, iron,

I860.]             on the Mineral Treasures of the Andes.                     191
and sulphur. 3. Combinations of copper with arsenic, or with arsenic
and In    the first
      sulphur,       division and
                 or antimony         sulphur.many interesting varieties. The
                                are found
native copper of Chili, found not only in the higher ridges of the
Cordilleras, but also comparatively near the coast,'is remarkable for its
purity. In the district of Andacollo, a few leagues east of Coquimbo,
it occurs in large masses, containing sometimes merely traces of
foreign matter, among which gold is generally recognized. The red
and black oxides are found associated with the metal, the former in
larger quantity, in fine crystals belonging to the regular system, and
having a clear ruby colour. The black oxide, hitherto considered a
rare mineral, has quite recently been observed in the extreme north of
Chili,         fibrous mass,
      Theas acarbonates   of somewhat
                               copper abound
                                          resembling    hornblende.
                                                    extensively   in the Andes,
although no true malachite has yet been discovered, at least which
will bear comparison with the specimens met with in Russia, Australia,
and the west coast of Africa. The silicates, black, blue, and green are
 abundant ; the two last varieties are termed llanca, by the miners ; they
 do not occur crystallized, but in masses, sometimes assuming the
 botryoidal form. A rare double silicate of manganese and copper has
 also been obtained, easily soluble in hydrochloric acid, even in the
 cold, with evolution of chlorine. This mineral is called by the miners
      The dephosphates
 " metal       carbon" fromof copper,
                               its striking
                                         Tagilite
                                            resemblance
                                                   (4 Cu O,    P Os, 3 Hcoal.
                                                           to ordinary    O) and
 Liebethenite (4 Cu O, P 05, H O) have only lately been described.
 They were discovered in a mine in Tambillos, near Coquimbo. A
 very rare double phosphate of lime and copper occurs in the same dis
 trict 2 (6 Cu O, P 05) + 10 (3 Ca 0,PO„ + Ca CI) ; it is found
      Atacamite
 associated         apatite initslarge
              with derives         name   from the locality
                                       blueish-green   crystals.in which it was
 originally discovered, the desert of Atacama. It has been recognised
 as far south as Coquimbo, although only occasionally. Nearly all the
 mines in the district north of Copiapo, on the confines of Bolivia,
 yield this mineral. It consists of Cu CI, 3 Cu O + 4 H O. Berthier
 analyzed a specimen from Cobija, containing six atoms of water.
 Atacamite was produced artificially in some smelting works in Chili,
 in very large quantities. Pounded oxide of copper, the product of
 calcined regulus in a fine state of division, gradually accumulated upon
 the base of a horizontal chimney close to the sea. The floor of the
 chimney had not been bricked, but consisted simply of sand impreg
 nated with the alkaline chlorides and sulphates. The hot oxide of
  copper, partially protected by additional layers of dust from the
  furnace, by long contact with the sand became converted, after the
 lapse of some months, into sulphate and oxy-chloride of the metal.
 More    than three
      Double     sulphides
                      tons were
                            of copper
                                   accidentally   :—Disulphide
                                        and ironobtained            of Copper ex
                                                           in this manner.
  ists very often in a state of great purity, containing sometimes
  79 5 of metal, with scarcely a trace of iron. The proto-sulphide is

 192     Mr. Field, on the Mineral Treasures of the Andes.             [Feb. 3,
 rarer, being generally associated with sulphate of lime in intimate
 mechanical union. The " Cobre Anilado " of the mines is a soft
 indigo-blue coloured mineral, which by long digestion in water loses
 its sulphate of lime, the residue consisting of tolerably pure proto-
 sulphide (Cu S). Immense masses of what is usually termed blue
 sulphide of copper, but which is really a double sulphide of that metal
 with iron, occur in Tamaga, a district lying between Valparaiso and
Coquimbo. The pure mineral contains about 56 of copper, 23 of sul
     The
 phur,    ordinary
        and         yellow pyrites (Cu2 S, Fea Sa) and peacock ore abound
             21 of iron.
     ArsenidetheofAndes.
throughout           Copper—Domeykite.—This mineral is interesting,
being somewhat similar to condurite, analyzed by Mr. Faraday iu 1826,
and subsequently by Dr. Blyth in 1 848. The compound investigated
by these chemists, however, was a mixture of arsenite of copper, in
conjunction with the arsenide. Domeykite does not contain arsenious
       but is simply
acid,Algodonite       expressed
                 contains  more bycopper
                                     the formula
                                          than theCu   6 As.and is composed
                                                    former,
of 12  atoms of copper and
     Guayacanite.—This        one ofvery
                           mineral,       similar to enargite, is found in only
                                      arsenic.
one locality in Chili, very high up in the Cordilleras, the mine being
for a great part of the year, quite inaccessible. It consists of 3 Cua 8,
As S5, or three atoms of disulphide of copper united to one atom of
pentasulphide of arsenic. Arsenic is generally found combined with
three atoms of sulphur, when in combination with the sulphides of
most metals. The state of pentasulphide in this instance, makes the
     Vanadiate
mineral          of Copper,
          peculiarly         in union with vanadiate of lead, exists in the
                      interesting.
" Mina Grande," near Coquimbo. It has a brownish earthy appear
       and contains
ance,Silver           generallya from
             Minerals.—For         long13time
                                           to 16
                                              theper cent. of vanadic
                                                   principal,          acid.the
                                                              and indeed
only great source of silver in Chili was from the province of Coquimbo,
the district in which the mines were situated being about fifty miles
distant from the coast. The rich silver mines of Chanarcillo, in
Copiapo, were discovered about the year 1835 by Juan Godoy, a wood
cutter. Sleeping on the hill, after a hard day's toil, he kindled a small
fire, and in the morning he discovered underneath the embers a bright
metallic surface, which he mistook for lead, but which proved to be
silver. The locality has yielded enormous riches since that time.
Besides native silver, the chloride, two or three varieties of chloro-
bromide, the bromide and iodide have been discovered, as well as the
dark and light vosiclers (3 Ag S + S b Sa) a (3 Ag S + As Sa) the
sulphide Ag S, Polybasite, and a variety of other interesting appear
     Arquerite, named from Arqueros, the district in which it is found,
ances.
consists of Ag 6 Hg. For a long time, with the exception of the
liquid amalgam discovered by Del Rio, in Mexico, it was considered
the only native amalgam of silver. M. Domeyko, to whom the

 I860.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                             193
mineralogy of South America owes so much, has however described at
least six native amalgams.
                      Ag„          Hg.
                      Ag7          Hg* = Age ng + Ag Hg.
                      Ag5          Hga.
                      Ag.          Hg,.
                      Aga          Hg, = 2 Ag Hg + Ag Hgs.
                      Ag.          Hg.
     Mercury has been found pretty abundantly in many parts of the
    A curious
Andes,                 cinnabar. of this metal with arsenic, sulphur, anti
          chiefly ascombination
mony, and copper also exists, and may be termed mercurial fahlerz.
Resulting from the oxidation of this mineral, the singular natural com
bination, constituting ammiolite, is found, which consists essentially of
    Time
oxide         sulphide
       and alone         of antimony
                     prevented      a description
                                           with oxide     many
                                                      of and      other important
                                                              sulphide  of mercury.and
interesting minerals, the production of the Andes and the mountains
in the vicinity.
William          GENERAL
              Pole,    Esq.   Matthew
                           Monday,
                                 M.A.MONTHLY
                                        inF.R.S.
                                          February
                                           the
                                           Bell,Chair.
                                                    Treasurer
                                                   Esq.    1860.and Vice-President,
                                                       6, MEETING,           [F. F.]
                              James Butler, Esq.
                              Robert Lush, Esq. Q.C. and
                        Members
were duly elected Captain     John James
                                       Morgan,
                                        of theDrew,
                                                 Royal
                                                  Esq. Esq.    and
                                                          Institution.
wereThe     SpecialMembers
        admitted        Thomasof
                      Thanks        ofWilson,
                                        the
                                         the Members
                                                 Esq.Institution.
                                             Royal       were returned to William
Salmon,
   New
     Plates.)
Botanical  Works
             Esq.
         Illustrations
                2 vols.
                   M.R.I,
                   of R.offol.
                           J.theThornton,
                                  1807.
                                for  the following
                                   Sexual   M.D. viz.ofPresent
                                            System      Linnaeus.: (Many Portraits and
  Botanical Extracts, or the Philosophy of Botany. 3 vols. fol. 1810.

194                                 General Monthly Meeting.                                      [Feb. 6,
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
Governor-General
From  Part 1. 8vo. of 1859.  India— Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India. Vol. II.
The French Minister of Public Instruction—Documens Inedits sur FHistoire de
       France: Lettres Missives de Henri IV. (1603-6). Tome VI. 4to. 1853.
   Papiers d'Etat de Cardinal de Granvelle. Tome IX. 4to. 1852.
Actuaries, Institute of—Assurance Magazine, No 38. 8vo. 1859.
Arts, Society of—Journal for Nov. Dec. 1859 ; Jan. 1860. 8vo.
Asiatic Society of Bengal— Journal, No. 273. 8vo. 1859.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 2, 1860. 8vo.
  Instructions
      8vo. G.
Beauclerc,    1858.  Esq.theM.S.
                   for        Observation
                                    I.—Observations
                                                 of Mars in          the Report
                                                                on 1860:                    Commission
                                                                            by G. ofB.theAiry,"         on
                                                                                                F.R.S. &c.
      Harbours
Botfield,  Beriah,  of Refuge
                         Esq.F.R     S. M.R.I,8vo.
                                  Enquiry.                  Author)—Stemmata Botevilliana : Me
                                                      (the 1860.
      morials of the Families of De Boteville, Thynne, and Botfield. 4to. 1858.
Boosey, Messrs. the (Publishers)—The Musical World for Nov. Dec. 1859; Jan.
      1860. George
Chambers,      4to. F. Esq. M.R.I.—W. Brodie : Pitcairn Island, and the Islanders
   State
      in 1850.
          of Parties,
   Church-Rate       16mo.
                      Papers,
                          January1858.1, 1860.
                                1851.       8vo. 8vo. 1860.
Cobb, Rev. John W. B.A. (the Author)—Two Lectures on the History and Anti
      quities of Berkhamstead, Herts. 8vo. 1855.
Dublin Geological Society—Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1859.
Dublin Society, Royal—Journal, Nos. 11 and 14. 8vo. 1859.
Dresser, Christopher, Esq. (the Author) —Rudiments of Botany. 8vo. 1859.
Editors—Artizan
  Journal
  Horological
  Bulletin
  Engineer
  Mechanics'
  Athenaeum
  Medical
   St.
   Practical
   Revue   Photographique,
             of
             de
              Circular
        James'sfor
               Mechanics'
                Gas-Lighting
                 for
                 Magazine
                  laJournal,
                   Medley.
                     Nov.
                       Society
                        Nov.
                        forofNov.
                              Nov.
                               Dec.
                                Nos.
                                Journal
                             Dec.for
                                 deNo.
                                    1859
                                    Nov.
                                    Dec.
                                     for
                                     Vaudoise.
                                      Nov.
                                      1859
                                      Dec.
                                       17,
                                        21.
                                          Nov.
                                           ; for
                                             Dec.
                                             1859
                                             18.
                                              ;Dec.
                                               1859
                                                8vo.
                                                 Jan.
                                                 Nov.
                                              Jan.Dec.
                                                   ;8vo.
                                                    1859
                                                     1860.
                                                      1859
                                                      ;Jan.
                                                       No.
                                                        Jan.
                                                        1860.
                                                         Dec.
                                                         1859
                                                         1859.
                                                           ; 44.
                                                             ;1859-60.
                                                              1860.
                                                               Jan.
                                                                1860.
                                                                Jan.
                                                                fol.
                                                                  ;1859;
                                                                    Jan.
                                                                      8vo.
                                                                      1860.
                                                                    4to.
                                                                       1860.
                                                                         4to.
                                                                          8vo.
                                                                           1860.
                                                                           Jan.
                                                                              1859.
                                                                               8vo.
                                                                                  1860.
                                                                                    4to. 4to.
                                                                                 8vo.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Repertoire de Chimie, par C. Barreswil et
      A. Wurtz. 8vo. Dec. 1859.
   Ko"nigliche Preussischen Akademie, Berichte, Aug.-Nov., 1859. 8vo.
Franhlin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXVIII. Nos. 5, 6.
Horticultural Society—Proceedings, Nos. 4-8. 8vo. 1859.
   Proceedings,
Irish                 Vol. VII. Part 1-8. Vol.
        Academy, Royal—Transactions,                  8vo.XXIII. 1858-9.Part 2. 4to. 1859.
Jablonowski'schen Gesellschaft, Leipzig.—Preisschrifte VII. 8vo. 1859.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 15. 8vo. 1859.
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—-The Geologist, Nov. Dec. 1859; Jan.
      1860.W. M.D. (the Author)—On Chronic Alcoholic Intoxication. 16mo. 1860.
Marcet,
National Lifeboat Institution—Journal, Nos. 24-26. 8vo. 1857.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for Nov. Dec. 1859; Jan. 1860.
North8vo.of England Institute of Mining Engineers—Transactions, Vol. VII. 8vo.
       1859.
Novello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for Nov. Dec. 1859 ; Jan. 1860.
      4to.

I860.]      Prof. Huxley, on Species and Races, and their Origin.            195
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilnngen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographic 1859. Heft 11, 12. 4to. Gotha, 1859.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 92, 93. 8vo. 1859.
ScottishSociety—Proceedings,
Royal                           No. 37. 8vo. 1859.Vol. V. Part 3. 8vo. 1859.
          Society of Arts (Royal)—Transactions.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXII. Part 4. 8vo. 1859.
 Vereins zur Befbrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Sept. und Oct. 1859. 4to.
 Vienna Imperial Geological Institute—Jahrbuch X. No. 2. 8vo. 1859.
     Ansprache von W. Haidinger, Nov. 22, 1859.
   M. Homes, Fossilen Mollusken des Tertia?r-beckens von Wien. 4to. 1859.
 Volpicelli, Professor P. (the Author)—Sugli Elettrometri Memoria. 4to. Roma,
United   Service Institution—Journal, No. 11. 8vo. 1860.
      1858.
 Washington Observatory, U.S.—Nautical Monographs. No. 1. 4to. 1859.
 Wells, T. Spencer, Esq. M.R.I.—Eight Cases of Ovariotomy. 8vo. 1859.
 Wilton, Thomas, Esq. (the Author)—Jottings on Money (and on Wages.) 8vo.
      1853, and seq.
   Ordonnances    et Instrvction povr les Changevrs. foL Anvers, 1633. (With
                      Coins).
      Engravings ofWEEKLY            February 10,MEETING,
                           Friday, EVENING            1860.
      Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. F.K.S. Vice-President,
                                             Huxley, F.R.S.
                      Professor inT.theH.Chair.
The speaker openedOn Species      and Races,
                            his discourse   by and
                                                stating     Origin.
                                                     theirthat its object was to
place the fundamental propositions of Mr. Darwin's work " On the
Origin of Species by Natural Selection," in a clear light, and to con
sider whether, as the question at present stands, the evidence adduced
     Afterfavour
in their                or is not, conclusive.
              someis,preliminary      remarks, in the course of which the
speaker expressed his obligations for the liberality with which Mr.
Darwin had allowed him to have access to a large portion of the MSS.
of his forthcoming work, the phenomena of species in general were
considered—the Horse being taken as a familiar example.                     The
distinctions between this and other closely allied species, such as the
Asses and Zebras, were considered, and they were shown to be of two
kinds, structural or morphological, and functional or physiological.
Under the former head were ranged the callosities on the inner side of
the fore and hind limbs of the Horse—its bushy tail, its peculiar

196                        Professor T. H. Huxley,                  [Feb. 10,
larynx, its short ears, and broad hoofs : under the latter head, the fact,
that the offspring of the horse with any of the allied species is a
hybrid, incapable of propagation with another mule, was particularly
     Leaving open the question whether the physiological distinction
mentioned.
just mentioned is, or is not, a universal character of species, it is in
dubitable that it obtains between many species, and therefore has to be
     The species
accounted            any theory
             for byEquus          of their
                            cuballus,       separated from all others, is the
                                       thusorigin.
centre round which a number of other remarkable phenomena are
grouped. It is intimately allied in structure with three other members
of the existing creation, the Hyrax, the Tapir, and the Ehinoceros ;
and less strait, though still definite bonds of union connect it with
every living thing. Going back in time, the Horse can be traced into
the Pliocene formation, and perhaps it existed earlier still ; but in the
newer Miocene of Germany it is replaced by the Hippotherium, an
animal very like a true Equus, but having the two rudimental toes in
each foot developed, though small. Further back in time, in the
Eocene rocks, neither Equus nor Hippotherium have been met with,
nor Rhinoceros, Tapirus, or Hyrax ; but instead of them, a singular
animal, the Palceotherium, which exhibits certain points of resemblance
with each of the four existing genera, is found. The speaker pointed
out that these resemblances did not justify us in considering the
Palceotlierium as a more generalized type, any more than the resem
blance of a father to his four sons justifies us in considering him as of
     The generalized
a more    geographicaltype    than theirs.
                          distribution  of the Equidce was next considered ;
and the anomalies and difficulties it offers were pointed out ; and lastly
the variations which horses offer in their feral and their domesticated
     The questions
condition,            thus shown to be connected with the species Horse,
              were discussed.
are offered by all species whatever ; and the next point of the discourse
 was the consideration of the general character of the problem of the
origin of species of which they form a part, and the necessary con
     So far
ditions       as solution.
          of its the logic of the matter goes, it was proved that this pro
blem is of exactly the same character as multitudes of other physical
problems, such as the origin of glaciers, or the origin of strata of mar
 ble ; and a complete solution of it involves— 1. The experimental
determination of the conditions under which bodies having the
characters of species are producible ; 2. The proof that such condi
       are doctrine
tionsAny              operative
            actually of          in nature.
                        the origin   of species which satisfies these require
ments must be regarded as a true theory of species ; while any which
does not, is, so far, defective, and must be regarded only as a hypothesis
whose value is greater or less, according to its approximation to this
     It is Mr. Darwin's peculiar merit to have apprehended these logical
standard.

I860.]         on Species and Races, and their Origin.                      197
necessities, and to have endeavoured to comply with them. The
Pigeons called Pouters, Tumblers, Fantails, &c., which the audience
had an opportunity of examining, are in his view, the result of so
many long-continued experiments on the manufacture of species ; and
he considers that causes essentially similar to those which have
given rise to these birds are operative in nature now, and have in past
times been the agents in producing all tlje species we know. If
neither of these positions can be upset, Mr. Darwin's must be regarded
as a true theory of species, as well based as any other physical theory :
      require,
theyAfter      therefore,
            pointing   out the
                            the most
                                 remarkable    differences
                                     careful and                structure and
                                                   searchingin criticism.
habits between the Carrier, Pouter, Fantail, Tumbler, and the wild
Columba livia, the speaker expressed his entire agreement with Mr.
Darwin's conclusion, that all the former domesticated breeds had
arisen from the last-named wild stock ; and on the following
grounds—1. That all interbreed freely with one another. 2. That
none of the domesticated breeds presents the slightest approximation
to any wild species but C. livia, whose characteristic markings are at
times exhibited by all. 3. That the known habits of the Indian
variety of the Rock Pigeon (C. intermedia") render its domestication
easily intelligible. 4. That existing varieties connect the extremest
modifications of the domestic breeds by insensible links with C. livia.
5. That there is historical evidence of the divergence of existing breeds,
      the Tumbler,
e.g. The   speaker then
                     from analyzed
                           forms lessthe
                                       unlike   C. livia.
                                          process   of selection by which the
domesticated breeds had been produced from the Wild Rock Pigeon ;
and he showed its possibility to depend upon two laws which hold good
for all species, viz., 1. That every species tends to vary. 2. That
variations are capable of hereditary transmission. The second law is
well understood ; but the speaker adverted to the miscomprehension
which appears to prevail regarding the first, and showed that the
variation of a species is by no means an adaptation to conditions in the
sense in which that phrase is commonly used. Pigeon-fanciers, in fact,
subject their pigeons to a complete uniformity of conditions ; but while
 the similarly used feet, legs, skull, sacral vertebrae, tail feathers, oil
gland and crop undergo the most extraordinary modifications ; on the
 other hand, the wings, whose use is hardly ever permitted to the choice
 breeds, have hitherto shown no sign of diminution. Man has not as yet
 been able to determine a variation ; he only favours those which arise
     It must bei.e.
 spontaneously,       are determined
                   admitted                unknownaconditions.
                              that, by byselection,     species may be made
 to give rise experimentally to excessively different modifications ; and
 the next question is, Do causes adequate to exert selection exist
 in nature? On this point, the speaker referred his audience to
 Mr. Darwin's chapter on the struggle for existence, as affording ample
     There can
 satisfactory    be that
              proof  no question
                          such adequate
                                   that just
                                          natural
                                             as man    cherishes
                                                   causes          the varieties
                                                           do exist.
 he wishes to preserve, and destroys those he does not care about ; so
    Vol. III. (No. 31.)                                                p

 198                      Professor T. H. Huxley,                    [Feb. 10,
 nature (even if we consider the physical world as a mere mechanism)
 must tend to cherish those varieties which are better fitted to work
      There seems
 harmoniously       to the
                 with  be noconditions
                               doubt then, that modifications
                                       she offers,                 the rest. in
                                                   and to destroyequivalent
 extent to the four breeds of pigeons, might be developed from a
 species by natural causes ; and therefore, if it can be shown that these
 breeds have all the characters which are ever found in species, Mr.
 Darwin's case would be complete. However, there is as yet no proof
 that, by selection, modifications having the physiological character of
 species (i.e. whose offspring are incapable of propagation, inter se)
 haveNo   doubt
       ever  beenthe
                   produced
                      numerous      a common
                              fromindirect      stock. brought forward by
                                            arguments
 Mr. Darwin to weaken the force of this objection are of great weight ;
 no doubt it cannot be proved that all species give rise to hybrids
 infertile, inter se; no doubt (so far as the speaker's private convic
 tion went), a well conducted series of experiments very probably
 would yield us derivatives from a common stock, whose offspring should
 be infertile, inter se : but we must deal with facts as they stand ; and
 at present it must be admitted that Mr. Darwin's theory does not
 account for all the phenomena exhibited by species ; and so far, falls
        of being a satisfactory
 shortNevertheless                expressed his sense of the extremely high
                    the speakertheory.
value to be attached to Mr. Darwin's hypothesis ; and, avowing his own
 conviction that the following it out must ultimately lead us to the
 detection of the laws which have governed the origin of species, he
 concluded his discourse in the following words, which he wishes to be
 added in full to the very brief preceding account of his view of Mr.
 Darwin's argument : —
     " I have endeavoured to lay before you what, as I fancy, are the turn
ing points of a great controversy ; to render obvious the mode in which
the vast problem of the origin of species must be dealt with ; and so
far as purely scientific considerations go, I have nothing more to say.
But let me beg you still to listen, to a last word respecting the un
scientific objections which I constantly hear brought forward, on the
part of the general public, against such doctrines as those we have
been discussing. For this is a matter upon which it is of the utmost
importance that men of science and the public should come to an under-
stiinding. I have heard it said, that it is presumptuous for us to attempt
to inquire into such matters as these ; that they are problems beyond
the reach of the human understanding. Do you remember what was the
reply of the old philosopher to those who demonstrated to him so
clearly the impossibility of motion ? ' Solvitur ambulando,- said he,
and got up and walked. And so I doubt not that one of these days
either Mr. Darwin's hypothesis, or some other, will get up and walk,
and that vigorously ; and so save us the trouble of any further dis
cussion of this objection.
     " Another, and unfortunately a large class of persons take fright
at the logical consequences of such a doctrine as that put forth by

  1 860.]         on Species and Races, and their Origin,                    199
  Mr. Darwin. If all species have arisen in this way, say they — Man
  himself must have done so ; and he and all the animated world must
  have had a common origin. Most assuredly. No question of it.
      " But I would ask, does this logical necessity add one single difficulty
  of importance to those which already confront us on all sides whenever
  we contemplate our relations to the surrounding universe ? I think
  not. Let man's mistaken vanity, his foolish contempt for the material
  world, impel him to struggle as he will, he strives in vain to break
 through the ties which hold him to matter and the lower forms of life.
      " In the face of the demonstrable facts, that the anatomical difference
 between
 ence      man and
        between       extreme
                 the the  highest
                               types
                                  of the
                                      of Quadrumana     is less order
                                         the Quadrumanous             ; that,
                                                                than the      in :
                                                                         diffej-
 the course of his development, man passes through stages which corre
 spond to, though they are not identical with, those of all the lower
 animals ; that each of us was once a minute and unintelligent particle
 of yolk-like substance ; that our highest faculties are dependent for
 their exercise upon the presence of a few cubic inches more or less of
 a certain gas in one's blood ; in the face of these tremendous and
 mysterious facts, I say, what matters it whether a new link is or is
 not added to the mighty chain which indissolubly binds us to the rest
 of the universe ? Of what part of the glorious fabric of the world has
 man a right to be ashamed—that he is so desirous to disconnect him
 self from it ? But I would rather reply to this strange objection by
 suggesting another line of thought. I would rather point out that
perhaps the very noblest use of science as a discipline is, that now and
then she brings us face to face with difficulties like these. Laden with
 our idols, we follow her blithely—till a parting in the roads appears,
and she turns, and with a stern face asks us whether we are men
 enough to cast them aside, and follow her up the steep ? Men of
science are such by virtue of having answered her with a hearty and
unreserved, Yea ; by virtue of having made their election to follow
science whithersoever she leads, and whatsoever lions be in the path.
Their duty is clear enough.
     " And, in my apprehension, that of the public is not doubtful. I have
said that the man of science is the sworn interpreter of nature in the
high court of reason. But of what avail is his honest speech, if
ignorance is the assessor of the judge, and prejudice foreman of the jury ?
I hardly know of a great physical truth, whose universal reception has
not been preceded by an epoch in which most estimable persons have
maintained that the phenomena investigated were directly dependent
on the Divine Will, and that the attempt to investigate them was not
only futile, but blasphemous. And there is a wonderful tenacity of
life about this sort of opposition to physical science. Crushed and
maimed in every battle, it yet seems never to be slain ; and after a
hundred defeats it is at this day as rampant, though happily not so
mischievous, as in the time of Galileo.
     " But to those whose life is spent, to use Newton's noble words, in
picking up here a pebble and there a pebble on the shores of the great
                                                                    p2

200                 Prof. Huxley, on Species and Races.            [Feb. 10."
 ocean of truth—who watch, day by day, the slow but sure advance of
 that mighty tide, bearing on its bosom the thousand treasures where
 with man ennobles and beautifies his life— it would be laughable, if it
 were not so sad, to see the little Canutes of the hour enthroned in
 solemn state, bidding that great wave to stay, and threatening to
 check its beneficent progress. The wave rises and they fly ; but unlike
 the brave old Dane, they learn no lesson of humility : the throne is
 pitched at what seems a safe distance, and the folly is repeated.
     " Surely, it is the duty of the public to discourage everything of this
 kind, to discredit these foolish meddlers who think they do the Almighty
 a service by preventing a thorough study of his works.
     " The Origin of Species is not the first, and it will not be the last, of
the great questions born of science, which will demand settlement from
 this generation. The general mind is seething strangely, and to those
 who watch the signs of the times, it seems plain that this nineteenth
century will see revolutions of thought and practice as great as those
which the sixteenth witnessed. Through what trials and sore contests
the civilized world will have to pass in the course of this new reforma
tion, who can tell ?
     " But I verily believe that come what will, the part which England
may play in the battle is a grand and a noble one. She may prove to
the world, that for one people, at any rate, despotism and demagoguy
are not the necessary alternatives of government ; that freedom and
order are not incompatible ; that reverence is the handmaid of know
ledge ; that free discussion is the life of truth, and of true unity in a
nation.
     " Will England play this part ? That depends upon how you, the
public, deal with science. Cherish her, venerate her, follow her
methods faithfully and implicitly in their application to all branches of
human thought; and the future of this people will be greater than the
fast.
     " Listen to those who would silence and crush her, and I fear our
children will see the glory of England vanishing like Arthur in the
mist ; they will cry too late the woful cry of Guinever :
                  ' It was my duty to have loved tlie highest;
                    It surely was my profit, had I known ;
                    It would have been my pleasure had I seen.'"
                                                               [T. H. H.]

I860.]             Professor Calvert, on Calico- Printing.             £01
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 17, 1860.
              John Webster, M.D. F.R.S. in the Chair.
                 Professor F. Crace Calvert, F.R.S.
      On the Influence of Science on the Art of Calico-Printing.
Calico printing has partaken of the general progress of the manufac
turing arts ; and this can be easily understood when it is remembered
that it is based upon three distinct branches of knowledge—mechanics,
art, and chemistry. Not being acquainted with machinery, I shall
not attempt to describe the various mechanical improvements and
machines which have been introduced ; but shall confine myself to
stating that ever since 1815, the period at which it was first extensively
applied in the printworks of Lancashire, machinery has gradually
supplanted hand labour, and thereby immensely decreased the cost of
production, at the same time that it has improved the beauty and pre
    Pencilling
cision           and Block-Printing.—During
        of the results obtained.                     the early part of this
century, the production of designs upon calico was performed by
means of hand-blocks, made of sycamore or peartree wood, two or
three inches thick, nine or ten inches long, and about nine bfoad. The
face of the block was either carved in relief into the desired pattern,
like ordinary woodcuts ; or the figure was formed by the insertion edge
wise into the wood of narrow slips of flattened copper wire, and; the
patterns were finished by the hand labour of women with small brushes
called pencillings. Owing to a strike amongst the block-printers in
1815, to resist the threatened introduction of machinery, great efforts
were made on the part of the employers to render themselves indepen
dent of hand labour ; and the result has been the gradual introduction
of cylinder printing. Without entering into the intricate details of
the steps by which the art of engraving has been carried to its present
high degree of perfection, I shall simply give an outline of the succes
     improvements alluded
sive Engraving.—The              kind of roller used was made by bending a
                          first to.
sheet of copper into a cylinder, soldering the joint with silver, and then
     The second
engraving          improvement
             upon the                surface thus
                       continuousconsisted        obtained. the pattern on
                                               in producing
copper cylinders obtained by casting, boring, drawing, and hammering.
In this case, the pattern is first engraved in intaglio upon a roller of

202           Mr, Crace Calvert, on the Influence of Science             [Feb. 17,
softened steel, of the necessary dimensions. This roller is then hard
ened and introduced into a press of peculiar construction, where, by
rotatory pressure, it transfers its design to a similar roller in the soft
state, and the die being in intaglio, the latter, called the " mill," is in
relief. This is hardened in its turn, and by proper machinery is made
to convey its pattern to the full-sized copper roller. This improve
ment alone reduced the cost of engraving on copper rollers many
hundreds per cent. ; and, which is of far greater importance, made
practicable an infinite number of intricate engravings which could
never have been produced by hand labour applied directly to the
    A further improvement was made by tracing with a diamond on
roller.
the copper roller, covered with varnish, the most complicated patterns
    The combination
by means     of excentrics,ofand       engraving
                                millthen etching. with the tracing and etching
processes naturally followed, adding immensely to the resources of the
     Another
engraver           printer in production
             anddevelopment                       the designs.
                                of this artof isnovel  tracing of patterns on the
surface of rollers, which has been effected by machines constructed on
the principle of the pentagraph. Although this invention dates from
    But
1834,     if it
       still  mechanical
                 is only of art
                            latehas
                                  yearsgreatly   has been
                                         that itassisted      engraver, chemistry
                                                         thesuccessfully applied.
has rendered him equally important services, by enabling him to
abandon costly and cumbrous modes of impressing by force the designs
on the cylinder, substituting for them a great number of etching pro
cesses. By some of these processes, as by every other addition to the
resources of the engraver, an entirely new and beautiful class of en
    A very
graving         recent improvement
          is produced,    unattainable is by highly
                                              any other  known means.
                                                      interesting  in a scientific
point of view. It is the application of galvanism to the diamond
tracer. By combining the galvanic action with the excentric motion,
most beautiful and delicate engravings can be produced. This is
effected by tracing the pattern with a varnish on a zinc cylinder,
which is so placed in the engraving machine, that as a needle passes
over its surface, and comes in contact with the zinc, the galvanic current
is established, and by simple machinery, causes the diamond to trace
the corresponding pattern on the copper roller. The communication
is so rapid and so precise, that this invention of Mr. Gaiffe, of Paris,
bids fair to produce very important results. Galvanism is also made
use of, for producing effects on roller surfaces by depositing copper
    To give an idea of the extraordinary influence which the intro
thereon.
duction of machinery and improvements in engraving have had
in cheapening the cost of printed calicoes, I may state, that large
furniture patterns, such as are required for Turkish, Egyptian, and
Persian markets, into which 16 colours and shades enter, would have
cost formerly, from 30s. to 35s. per piece, because they would have
required 16 distinct applications of as many different blocks, and

I860.]                on the Art of Calico-Printing.                 203
would have occupied more than a week in printing ; whereas the
same piece can now be printed in one single operation, which takes
three minutes, and costs 5s. or 6s. So rapid is the progress of one
branch of manufacture in connexion with another,? that it has only
recently been possible to produce the rollers capable of performing
this operation, that is to say, cylinders of copper 43 inches in circum-
ferece, by 44 inches long. For light styles of printing, the time
required to print a piece of 36 yards is not more than one minute.
    Chemistrt.—But the discovery which has exercised more influence
than any other on the progress of calico printing, is the application
of chlorine gas as a bleaching agent. Previously to the employment
of this gas, (chiefly as bleaching powder) the imperfect bleaching of
a piece of calico required six weeks ; and as it had to be exposed to
the action of the atmosphere, a large surface of land was required.
Further, at that time, bleachers had to use potashes imported from
Canada ; whereas, at the present time, thanks to the progress of
chemical knowledge, not only is soda-ash manufactured in this
country ; but by the application of bleaching powder, calicos are much
better bleached in 24 hours than they were formerly by a six weeks'
exposure to the atmosphere ; and even when an extra cleaning and
whiteness is required, as for madder goods, only two days are
necessary. The aid of machinery renders possible the continuous
process ; that is to say, several hundred pieces of gray calico are sewn
together, end to end, and made to pass from one operation to another,
without any pause, until they are bleached. So rapid and economical
is this method, that the cost of bleaching a piece of calico, does
not exceed one or two pence. Chlorine, again, renders a great ser
vice to the calico-printer, by enabling him, after his madder goods
have been produced and soaped, to obtain fine whites without the
necessity of exposing them for several days in the meadows to the
action of the atmosphere. In fact, the discovery of garancine and
alizarine, and their application to calico-printing, have facilitated the
production of madder styles, at very low cost, as the whites of such
goods require no soaping, and only a little bleaching or cleaning
    Cotton has this peculiarity, as distinguished from wool and silk,
powder.
that it will not fix any organic colour, excepting indigo, without the
interposition of a mordant, which is generally a metallic oxide or salt.
The two most important discoveries in connexion with this necessity of
calico-printing were ; first, that made in 1820, by Mr. George Wood,
of Bankbridge, who found out the means of preparing calicos with
peroxide of tin, which enabled printers to produce a large variety of
prints called steam goods ; and secondly, that of Walter Crum, Esq.,
F.R.S., who in a paper presented to the British Association, at
Aberdeen, in 1859, showed that the tedious process of ageing madder
mordants] for three or four days, might] be dispensed with, by passing
the goods during a quarter of ^an hour through a moist atmosphere, at
a temperature of 80° to 100°, where the mordants absorb the required

204           Mr. Grace Calvert, on the Influence of Scierwe      [Feb. 17,
quantity of moisture, and then rapidly undergo the chemical changes
necessary to fit them for producing the black, purple, lilac, red, pink,
and chocolate colours, which the madder root will yield immediately
in the dyebeck, according to the nature of the mordant previously
             is impossible,
fixedAsinitthe  cloth.      in the brief space of an hour to convey an idea
how various colours are produced on prints, I shall confine my remarks
to illustrating the interesting fact that abstruse science has brought to
light various substances, which have lately proved valuable accessories
to the resources of the calico-printer. Thus, Dr. Prout, some thirty
or forty years ago, made the curious discovery, that uric acid possessed
the property of giving a beautiful red colour, when heated with nitric
acid and then brought into contact with ammonia. The substance
thus obtained was further examined by Messrs. Liebig and Wohler,
in a series of researches which have been considered as amongst the
most important ever made in organic chemistry ; and this substance they
called Murexide. In the course of these investigations, they also dis
covered a white crystalline substance called Alloxan. For twenty
years both these substances were only to be found in the laboratory ;
but in 1851 Dr. Saac observed that alloxan, when in contact with the
hand, tinged it red. This led him to infer that alloxan might be
employed to dye woollens red ; and further experiments convinced him
that if woollen cloths were prepared with peroxide of tin, passed
through a solution of alloxan, and then submitted to a gentle heat,
a most beautiful and delicate pink colour resulted. Subsequently
murexide was employed and applied successfully by Mr. Depouilly, of
Paris, to dyeing wool and silk, and to printing calicos, by the aid of
oxide of lead and chloride of mercury as mordants ; but the great
obstacle to its extensive use was the difficulty of obtaining uric acid in
sufficient quantity for its manufacture. The idea soon occurred to
chemists to extract it from guano ; and this is the curious source
whence the chief supply of uric acid is obtained,^ and which enables
Edmund Potter, Esq., and other printers, to produce the colour called
     Another
Tyrian    purple.example will be found in the successive scientific dis
 coveries which have led to the discovery of the recently popular
colour, Mauve. Lichens, which have been the subject of extensive
researches on the part of Robiquet, Heeren, Sir Robert Kane, Dr.
 Schunck, and especially of Dr. Stenhouse, have yielded to those
 chemists several new and colourless organic substances, which, under the
 influence of air and ammonia, give rise to most brilliant colours, and
amongst these are orchil and litmus. Dr. Stenhouse, in a most
 elaborate paper, published by the Royal Society in 1848, pointed out
 two important facts ; first, that the colour-giving acids could be easily
 extracted from the weed by macerating it in lime water, from which
 the colouring matters were easily separated by means of an acid ; and,
 secondly, the properties of certain colouring acids, which gave M.
 Mamas, of Lyons, the key which enabled him to produce commer

  _1860.]             on the Art of Calim-Printing.                    205
  cially from lichens, a fast mauve and purple which up to 1857 had
  been considered impossible of attainment.
       The commercial production, by' Mr. W. H. Perkin, of another
  purple, at the same time, is not less interesting. Some thirty or forty
  years ago, Dr. Runge obtained from coal-tar six substances; amongst
, which was one called Kyanol, which substance was thoroughly
  examined by Dr. W. A. Hofmann, who proved it to be an organic
  alkaloid, and identical with a substance known by the name of aniline.
  Owing to the subsequent study of this substance by that eminent
  chemist, and the discovery that it yielded a beautiful purple colour _
  when placed in contact with bleaching powder, his pupil, Mr. W.
  H. Perkin, was induced to make experiments, with a view to pro
  ducing commercially, a fast purple, in which he succeeded, and secured
  it by a patent in 1857. The process devised by 'this chemist is
  exceedingly simple. It-consists in oxidising aniline by means of
  bichromate of potash and sulphuric acid. I shall not attempt to give
  any further details on this subject, as they have been very ably
  described by Mr. Robert Hunt, in the Art Journal.
       More recently Mr. Renard found a method of producing also
  from aniline, by means of chlorine compounds, 9. most splendid rose
  colour, called by him Fuchsiacine ; and, within the last few months,
  Mr. David Price has also succeeded in producing from aniline, by
  the employment of peroxide of lead, either a fast purple, or a pink,
   called by him Roseine, and a fast blue, according to the mode of
  operating. All these colours require special mordants to <U+FB01>x them on
   calicos or muslins; and the beautiful specimens which I have the
   honour to lay before you I owe to the kindness of Messrs. James Black
   and 00., and Messrs. Boyd and Hamel, of Glasgow, who have <U+FB01>xed
   the last-mentioned colours by means of azotised principles, such as
   albumen, lactarine, &c.                                 ,
        I cannot give a better idea of the immense magnitude of the calico
   printing trade than by quoting the number of yards exported,
   which amounted, in 1858, to 785,666,473—and give a price value of
   £13,147,280.
        I cannot conclude without expressing, also, my thanks to Mr. WVood,
   of the <U+FB01>rm of Wood and Wright, and Mr. R. Leake, of the <U+FB01>rm of
    Lockett, Sons, and Leake, Messrs. Dalglish and Faulkners, for the
   numerous and valuable specimens which they have kindly lent me to
   illustrate my discourse ; and especially to Mr. W. Grant for the loan
   of a most interesting book, which bears the date of 1790, containing
   the patterns belonging to the late <U+FB01>rm of Sir Robert Peel, Bart.
                                                             [F. c. 0.]

 206                   Z)r. Carpenter, on the Relation              [Feb. 24,
                  WEEKLY           February 24, MEETING,
                          Friday,EVENING          1860.
      Sib Henby Holland, Babt. M.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
        William B. Carpenteb, M.D. F.R.S. F.G.S. F.L.S.
           On the Relation of the Vital to the Phytical Forces.
In every period of the history of Physiology, attempts have been made
to identify all the forces acting in the living body with those operating
in the inorganic universe. Because muscular force, when brought to
bear on the bones, moves them according to the mechanical laws of
lever-action, and because the propulsive power of the heart drives the
blood through the vessels according to the rules of hydraulics, it has
been imagined that the movements of living bodies may be explained on
physical principles ;—the most important consideration of all, namely,
the source of that contractile power which the living muscle possesses,
but which the dead muscle (though having the same chemical composi
tion) is utterly incapable of exerting, being altogether left out of view.
So, again, because the digestive process, whereby food is reduced to a
fit state for absorption, as well as the formation of various products of
the decomposition that is continually taking place in the living body,
may be imitated in the laboratory of the chemist ; it has been supposed
that the appropriation of the nutriment to the production of the living
organized tissues of which the several parts of the body are composed,
is to be regarded as a chemical action ;—as if any combination of
albumen and gelatine, fat and starch, salt and bone-earth, could make
a living man, without the constructive agency inherent in the germ
         scarcely
fromAwhich          less unphilosophical
              his fabric  is evolved.       method has been pursued by
another class of reasoners, who have cut the knot which they could not
untie, by attributing all the actions of living bodies for which physics
and chemistry cannot account, to a hypothetical " vital principle " ; a
shadowy agency, that does everything in its own way, but refuses to be
made the subject of scientific examination ; like the electricity or the
spiritual power, to which the lovers of the marvellous are so fond of
     A decided
attributing       mysterious
             the advance   hasmovements
                                been madeofinturning
                                                Physiology, however,
                                                      and tilting      by the
                                                                  tables.
introduction of the dynamical ideas furnished by physics and chemistry,

 I860.]              of the Vital to the Physical Forces.                207
into the domain of Life. The phenomena that seem altogether peculiar
to living bodies are now ranked in the category of vital actions ; they
are regarded as the results of a special form of force, which is as dis
tinct from chemical affinity or from mechanical power, as these are
from each other ; and the scientific physiologist aims to discover the
laws of its operation, just as the chemist seeks for the laws of affinity,
     Now,
or the      of allfor
        physicist      thoseofofvital
                    forms             action, there is none so universal, so
                                 motion.
fundamental, or so characteristic, as that by which the living organism
is built up—or rather builds itself up—from the germ, by the appro
priation of materials derived from external sources, and subsequently
maintains itself in its typical form during its term of life ; and the
force which effects this has been commonly designated by some distinc
tive title, such as the nisus formativus, the bildungstrieb, or the germ-
force. This force has been commonly considered to be originally
inherent in the germ, and to have been derived, like the material sub
stance of that germ, from the parental organism which produced it.
In this mode of viewing the subject, all the organizing force required to
build up an oak or a palm, an elephant or a whale, must be concen
trated in a minute particle, only discernible by microscopic aid ; and
the aggregate of all the germ-forces appertaining to the descendants,
however numerous, of a common parentage, must have existed
in their progenitor. Thus, in the case of the successive viviparous
broods of Aphides, a germ-force capable of organizing a mass of living
structure, which would amount (it has been calculated) in the tenth
brood to the bulk of 500 millions of stout men, must have been shut
up in the single individual, weighing perhaps the l-1000th of a grain,
from which the first brood was evolved. A more complete reductio ad
absurdum can scarcely be brought against any hypothesis ; and we
may consider it proved that, in some way or other, fresh organizing
force is constantly being supplied, ab externa, during the whole period
     When
of the       we carefully
        exercise            look into the question, we find that what the
                  of its activity.
germ really supplies is not the force, but the directive agency ; thus
rather resembling the control exercised by the superintendent builder
who is charged with working out the design of the architect, than the
bodily force of the workmen who labour under his guidance in the con
struction of the fabric. The agency of the germ may be regarded, like
Magnetism, as a static force ; and just as magnetism requires to be
combined with motion to enable it to develope electricity, so does the
directive agency of the germ need the co-operation of a dynamic
force for the manifestation of its organizing power. That dynamic
force, as we learn from an extensive survey of the phenomena of
life, is Heat ; the influence of which upon the rate of growth and
development, both animal and vegetable, is so marked as to have
universally attracted the attention of physiologists, who, however,
have only recognised in it a vital stimulus, calling forth the latent
power of the germ, instead of looking upon it as itself furnishing the

 208                 Dr. Carpenter, on the Relation                 [Feb. 24,
 power that does the work. It has been from the narrow limitation of
 the area over which physiological research has been commonly pro
 secuted, that the intimacy of this relationship between heat and the
 organizing force has not sooner become apparent. Whilst the vital
 phenomena of warm-blooded animals, which possess within themselves
 the means of maintaining a constant temperature, were made the sole,
 or at any rate the chief objects of study, it was not likely that the
 inquirer would recognize the influence of external heat in accelerating,
 or of cold in retarding, their functional activity. It is only when the
 survey is extended to cold-blooded animals and to plants, that the
 immediate and direct relation between Heat and Vital energy, as
 manifested in the rate of growth and development, or of other changes
      The action
 peculiar         living
           to the of Heatbody,
                           on the
                               is unmistakeably   manifested.
                                  Vegetable kingdom,    it is true, cannot be
 fully effective without Light ; but this latter force would appear to be
 concerned rather in providing the materials at the expense of which
 the plant grows, than in converting these materials into living tissue.
 Its action is limited to the surface ; and it is mainly exerted in decom
 posing the carbonic acid of the surrounding medium, and in uniting the
 carbon, (oxygen being set free) with oxygen and hydrogen, to form
 starch, chlorophyll, &c., and with nitrogen in addition to form albu
 minous compounds-. If supplied with these by other means, plants can
 grow without light ; as we see in the instances of the germinating seed,
 which lives on the store laid up by its parent in the cotyledons, and of
 leafless parasites and fungi, which appropriate materials previously pre
pared by other plants. On the other hand, the rate at which germina
tion proceeds is entirely regulated by the degree of heat to which the
seed is subjected ; and the same thing is true with regard to the rate of
development of the egg in cold-blooded animals. By the time that the
plumula of the young plant is beginning to unfold, the store of material
laid up in the seed is exhausted ; and henceforth the plant is mainly
dependent upon Light for the power of forming (at the expense of the
materials supplied by the inorganic world) those organic compounds,
without a due supply of which no further growth or development can
take place ; the continued action of Heat being required to turn these
     A note-worthy
materials             suggestion has lately been made by Prof. Le Conte
            to account.
(of South Carolina College, U.S.), with reference to the fact that in
germination a certain proportion of these organic compounds is given
back to the inorganic world, in that liberation of carbonic acid which
is a remarkable feature of the process ; and that, during the whole sub
sequent life of plants, a similar process is continually taking place to
a certain extent, even whilst the green surfaces of the plant are most
actively engaged in fixing carbon from the atmosphere, and in generat
ing organic compounds. May not the force liberated (he asks) in the fall
ofa certain portion ofthese organic products down to the lower level of
simple binary compounds, be necessary for the elevation of another
portion to the rank of living tissue ? That such is not unlikely to be

 I860.]              of the Vital to the Physical Forces.                     209
the true view of the case? would appear from the circumstance that
recent experiments have shown that, to keep up a warm-blooded
animal to its full weight, a considerably larger amount of food is re
quired than would suffice to supply the necessary waste of the body, as
determined by the loss of weight which it undergoes when food is
entirely withheld ; from which it seems quite clear that, in some mode
or other, the decomposition of a certain proportion of the food, i.e.
its descent from a higher to a lower form of chemical combination, is
     The continual
necessary            decay which
            to the conversion            going
                                of theis rest into
                                                on living
                                                    during   the life tissue.
                                                          organized    of a Plant
(by the seasonal death of its leaves, as well as by the decomposition just
adverted to) restores to the inorganic world, in the form of carbonic
acid, water, and ammonia, a large part of the materials drawn from it
in the act of vegetation ; and, with the exception of those vegetable
products which are consumed as food by animals, or which are pre
served (like timber, flax, cotton, &c.) in a state of permanence, the
various forms of decomposition which take place after death complete
that restoration. But in returning, however slowly, to the condition of
water, carbonic acid, ammonia, &c., the constituents of plants give
forth an amount of heat equivalent to that which they would generate by
the process of ordinary combustion ; and thus they restore to the inor
ganic world not only the materials but the forces, at the expense of
which the vegetable fabric was constructed. It is for the most part
only in the humblest plants, and in a particular phase of their lives,
that such a restoration takes place in the form of motion ; this motion
being, like growth and development, an expression of the vital activity
of the " zoospores " of Algae, and being obviously intended for their
     Hence we seem justified in affirming that the correlation between
dispersion.
Heat and the Vital force of Plants is not less intimate than that which
exists between Heat and Motion. The special attribute of the vegeta
ble germ is its power of effecting the metamorphosis, and of utilizing
the organizing force according to the plan of construction characteristic
     It isspecies.
of each    a consideration of no little interest, that on this view the light,
heat, and mechanical power, which we now obtain from the combustion
 of Coal, are really derived, through the vegetable life of the carboni
 ferous epoch, from the light and heat communicated to the Flora of
 that epoch by the sun ; a fact which was discerned by the genius of
 George Stephenson, before the general doctrine of the "correlation of
     The
 forces    results
        " had  beenofgiven
                      the inquiry,
                            to the world     by Mr.
                                       therefore,      far as developed in this
                                                   so Grove.
 discourse, (the forces specially concerned in producing the phenomena
 of Animal life not having been included, for want of time) are in com
 plete harmony with the great doctrine of the conservation of force,
 according to which it is no less true that nil Jit ad nihilum, than that
 nilJit ex nihilo.
                                                                   [W. B.C.]

 210                          Professor Roscoe,                       [March 2,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 2, 1860.
     Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                         Professor H. E. Roscoe,
   On the Measurement of the Chemical Action of the Solar Says.
Those portions of the solar rays which vibrate most slowly, and are
situated near the red end of the spectrum, are those which mainly
regulate the alterations of temperature on the surface of our planet.
They are, par excellence, the heating rays. They principally produce
all those motions in our atmosphere which we term winds ; they effect
those grand phenomena of distillation and deposits which we call rains ;
and the amount and distribution of those heating rays at any point on
    On a scale,
the earth's        perhaps
             surface  determines
                            less grand,
                                   the thermal
                                         but certainly   of that
                                                climatenot        important as
                                                             less point.
regards their effects, are the actions produced by the most rapidly
vibrating portion of the sun's rays ; those, namely, which are situated
near the violet end of the spectrum. These rays have been called the
chemical rays, because it is by these especially that the chemical
action of the sunlight is effected. It is in presence of these rays alone
that the plant is enabled to decompose the carbonic acid of the air, to
assimilate the carbon, restoring the oxygen for the subsequent use of
animals. Hence the amount and distribution of these rays at any given
place regulates to a great extent the character of the fauna and flora ;
    Thein measurement
gives,                    of the quantity
           short, the " chemical                 the place.
                                   climate "ofofthis solar energy, falling at
any time on a given spot upon the earth's surface, must be a subject of
primary importance in the determination of the physical history of our
globe. We fortunately possess a method, although it is only a com
parative one, for measuring the amount of effect which the heating rays
produce, that is for measuring temperature. No such mode of measure
ment for those of the solar rays which especially effect chemical action
has, up to the present time, been adopted ; not that meteorologists
have ignored the importance of the subject, but because the difficulties
which beset the establishment of a measuring instrument for chemical
action were considered to be insurmountable.

I860.]            on the Chemical Action of the Solar Rays.                       211
     The speaker remarked, that his object was to bring before his
audience the principles and mode of action of a method employed for
     measurement
the As                of theofchemical
          an illustration                  action action
                                 the chemical               of light, attention was
                                                   of light.*
directed to the fact, that when a perfectly pure mixture of exactly equal
volumes of chlorine and hydrogen gases is exposed to light, the gases
combine, producing an equal volume of hydrochloric acid gas, whilst
no such combination occurs in the dark. This combination may occur
gradually, or with great rapidity. If the chemical activity of the light
be great, the union takes place quickly, great heat is evolved, a sudden
expansion takes place, and the vessel containing the mixture of chlorine
and hydrogen is shattered by the explosion. The gradual or slow
combination may be rendered evident by allowing the hydrochloric acid
thus formed to be absorbed by water ; the consequent diminution of
       of the
bulkThis       gas accurately
            mixture   of equal volumes
                                  representing
                                             of chlorine   and hydrogen
                                                  the chemical              is used as
                                                                  action effected.
the sensitive substance for measuring the chemical action of light. It
is evolved in the perfectly pure state by the electrolytic decomposition
of strong aqueous hydrochloric acid ; and it is by this method only,
that it can be prepared. The gases thus evolved are in the exact pro
portion in which they exist in hydrochloric acid ; so that, if by any
means, we re-combine these gases, no trace of either substance will
     For behind,
remain              the whole
           the purpose     of measuring
                                uniting tothis       hydrochloric
                                              formchemical           acid.
                                                               action,  effected, not
only by solar light, but also by light from many artificial sources,
we require some instrument, which is to the chemical action of
light what the thermometer is to the heat actions ; an instrument
which will show objectively the amount of chemically active light.
We must be sure, in the first place, that our mode of measurement is a
reliable one. That, as in the case of the thermometer, equal incre
ments of volume, correspond to equal increments of heat, so, in the
new instrument, the indications, however obtained, shall be propor
tional to, and represent the amount of chemical rays emanating from,
      source.
any This    has been accomplished in the chemical photometer ; by the
help of which an accurate measurement of the chemical action of light
     The facts upon which this mode of measurement is based, may be
is effected.
summed      Exactly
        1. up  as follows
              mixed,    combine
                      equal : volumes
                                    together
                                         of chlorine    and hydrogen
                                                 on exposure             gases,
                                                                 to light,       when
                                                                              forming
        2. aThis
    * For     hydrochloric
                  combination
             detailed description
                              aciddoes
                                   ofgas.
                                      apparatus, &c. see
                                         not occur       " Photochemical
                                                     in the  dark.        Researches,"
Part 1. " Measurement of the Chemical Action of Light," hy E. Bunsen and H. E.
Roscoe.—Phil. Trans. 1857, p. 355.

212                                Professor Roscoe,                           [March 2,
        3. The quantity of hydrochloric acid thus formed is directly pro
             portional to the intensity of the incident light, and serves,
             therefore,
             thechemical
        4. The     quantityas photometer
                               a of
                                  measure
                                       hydrochloric
                                              ofisthe
                                                    an chemical
                                                        instrument,
                                                         acid thus      by
                                                                         formed,
                                                                    action  produced.
                                                                            help     which
                                                                                 ofcan     be
             accurately
     The chemical           measured.
                     photometer        consists essentially of three parts ; namely,
first, the apparatus in which the sensitive gas is generated ; secondly,
the apparatus in which the gas is exposed to the light ; and thirdly,
the apparatus in which the volume of hydrochloric acid produced in a
given   timevery
     When          numerous
              is read  off.       precautions in the management of the photo
meter are taken, it proves a most sensitive and reliable instrument.
Having thus obtained an instrument by which the chemical action of
light can be accurately measured, it only remains to graduate it. For
this purpose we require a standard of light, from which the determina
 tion is to proceed. For this comparative measurement, the possession
of a constant source of light is the first essential. This is obtained as
           Aissuing
follows1.: —          from
               flame of   pure an carbonic
                                    opening oxide
                                               of given          at a given
                                                       gas,sizeburning        rate,airis em
                                                                          in the         and
             ployed
             flame
        2. The        asamount
                 unitupon thethestandard
                                    of
                                    sensitive
                                        chemicalmixture
                                             flame.              that effected
                                                    action,ofis chlorine   and by    such a
                                                                                 hydrogen
             during
             is called
        3. The   quantity
                      oneone  ofchemical
                                  chemically
                            minute,      at the
                                              unit
                                                 distance
                                                  active
                                                     of light;
                                                             of one
                                                           light   andmetre.
                                                                         ten thousand
                                                                  producing    this action of
             many
             suchchemical
        4. The       of these
                   units    onephotometer
                                 chemical
                                    chemicaldegreeis graduated
                                                  units       light by
                                                        ofoflight.        observingto how
                                                                      correspond         one
             illustration
     As an division          of the
                         on the    scalemode
                                           of the  instrument.
                                               in which      this measurement of the
chemical action of light is employed, the speaker described the method
by which the chemical action produced by the direct solar rays has
been determined.* For this purpose, it was necessary to admit a very
small, but a known, portion of direct sun-light into the dark room
in which the instrument was placed, and to allow the insolation vessel
to be bathed in the pencil of rays thus admitted. By help of Sit
bermann's heliostate, the sun's image was reflected during the whole
day upon one spot, a small opening of known size, in the window
shutter of a dark room. The fraction of the total sun's rays thus
admitted and allowed to fall upon the chemical photometer can be
    * The fulland
calculated,         the onaction
                memoir       this subject
                                     thus effected,
                                            is to be found
                                                        observed     ; hence the
                                                              in Poggendorff's     amount
                                                                                Annal.    Kd.
cvni. p. 193. In Abstract. Proceedings Royal Society, Vol. x. p. 39, 1859.
Photochemical Researches, Part 4, by R. Bunsen and H. E. Roscoe.

 I860.]           on the Chemical Action of the Solar Rays.                          213
'of action can be found which the sun would have produced if directly
 shining upon the instrument ; a condition, impossible of course to fulfil,
 as the action would become too rapid and the whole apparatus would
     The day by
 be shattered        explosion.
                chosen    for observation of the sun's action must obviously       -    ;
 be cloudless, if we wish to obtain an idea of the relation existing between
 the chemical action and the height of the sun. Beginning the observa
 tions as near sunrise as possible, we find, for instance, on September
 15th, 1858, one of the days on which such a series of experiments was
 made, that at 7h" 9™" a.m., when the sun's zenith distance was 76° 30',
 the observed action amounted to 1 * 52. That is, in one minute the
 column of water moved through 1 52 division ; or the quantity of
 hydrochloric acid formed, when the sun stood at the height mentioned,
      representedasby
 was Gradually,               52 division
                       the1 *day  wore on,onthethe      scale. action for each minute
                                                     observed
 became larger ; until at 9h- 14m- a.m., the latest observation possible on
 the day in question, owing to the formation of clouds, the action
 reached 18*5 divisions, or was thirteen times as large as at 7h 9m. In
 the last column of the accompanying table is found the action, expressed
 in degrees of light, which would have been observed at the foregoing
 times, if the whole sunlight had been allowed to fall on the instrument.
                                           Table I.
                                                                  Total Sun's
               Hour.         Sun's Zenith.     Observed Acti<   Action in Degrees
                               Distance.           I Minute.        of Light.
             7"     9m        76°     30'            1-52             5-54
             7     26         73°     49'           4 22            15-50
             7    40          71°     37'           609             22-43
             8      0         68°     34'           7 56            27-85
             8      7         67°     30'           8-38            38 87
             8    26          64°    42'          12-48             45-85
             8    54          60°    48'          17 09             62-59
             9     14         58°     11'         18-51             67-61
     This great increase in the chemical action with the rise of the sun
in the heavens simply results from the fact that the solar rays, in pass
ing through the air, are extinguished or absorbed, lost in fact as light ;
and that as the sun rises higher above the horizon, the column of air
through which the rays pass is constantly being lessened ; consequently
       of the
moreNow,          law according
            thedirect   rays reach tothewhichearth.the direct rays of the sun are
thus absorbed in the air can be obtained from the experiments, of which
the foregoing is only an example ; hence, if the action which the sun
produces, when at a given height, is known, it is possible to calculate
the action which it would produce at any other height.                                 >
    Vol. III. (No. 31.)                                                          Q

214                              Professor JRoscoe,                           [March 2,
    That these calculated results agree very closely with the experi
mental data,—with the observed action,—is seen by comparing the
numbers in Table, No. II., expressing the observed and calculated
action.
                                      Table II.
The amount of Chemical Action effected at a point upon the Earth's
   Surface on any cloudless day, by the direct Solar Rays, depends
   alone upon the Sun's zenith distance ; or upon the height of the
   column of air through which the Rays have to pass.
               Sun-s Zenith Distance Chemical Illumination of Sun-s Direct
              at time ofObservation. Rays at the Earth-s Surface expressed
                                       in degrees of Light.
                                         Observed.           Calculated.
                    46° 8'                 93-0                96-4
                    50° 51,                89-2                85-8
                    57" 35,                63-1                67-9
                    58° llr                67-6                66-2
                    60° 48'                62-6                58-3
                    64° 42'                45-9                47-9
                    67" 30'                38-9                36-6
                    68° 34'                27-9                33-1
                    71° 37'                22-4                24-5
                    73" 49-                15.5                16-3
                    76° 30'                 5-5                  9-2
                  the law which
     KnowingProbable          error =regulates 2-7 the    absorption
                                                      degrees   of Light.of the chemical
rays, we can calculate what the action would be if there were no atmo
 sphere to diminish the power of the rays. It is thus found that if the
 sun's rays were not thus weakened, by passage through the atmosphere,
 they would produce an illumination represented by 318 degrees of
 light : or they would effect a combination in one minute, upon an un
limited atmosphere of chlorine and hydrogen on which they fell per
 pendicularly, of a column of hydrochloric acid, 35 " 3 metres in height.
 The sun's rays having passed perpendicularly through our atmosphere
to the sea's level, effect an action of only 14*4 light metres ; or nearly
two-thirds of their chemical activity has been lost by extinction and
     A largeinnumber
dispersion                  of most interesting conclusions may be drawn from
                 the atmosphere.
 the facts already noticed. Thus, for instance, we may determine the
chemical action which the solar rays will produce on the. various
planets ; for we know that the intensity of the chemical illumination
varies inversely as the square of the distance of the planet from the
 sun. The numbers in Table III., express this chemical action in
 degrees of light, and in heights of columns of hydrochloric acid called

  I860.]           on the Chemical Action of the Solar Says.                           215
  light metres. Hence, we see how much the sun's chemical action varies
  on the different planets ; the superior planets receiving so small a
  portion as to render it impossible that the kind of animal and vegetable
  life which we here enjoy can there exist.
    Table III.— Chemical Action produced by Direct Sunlight on
                                    each Planet.
                                                           Chemical Action in
                                Mean Distances.    Light Degrees.      Light Metres,
         Mercury      .             0-387            2125-0              235.4
         Venus .                    0-723              608-9              67-5
         Earth .      .    .        1-000             318-3               353
         Mars .                     1-524              137-1               15-2
         Jupiter .                  5-203                11-8               1-2
         Saturn .                   9 539                 3.5               0-4
         Uranus                   19-183                  1-0               o-i
         Neptune       .          30-040                r0-4                0-04
       Interesting conclusions can be drawn from these facts, concerning
  the distribution of the chemical rays on the surface of our earth in
  different latitudes, and at different elevations above the sea's level. The
  farther removed a situation is from the level of the sea, the higher up
I it  will atmosphere
  in the                 it is placed,
             receive. Thus,     in the the
                                         highlands
                                              greater of    Thibet,
                                                       amount         chemical
                                                                   of where            and
                                                                               cornaction
  grain flourish at a height of from 12,000 to 14,000 feet, the chemical
  action of the direct sunlight is 1$ times as great as in the neighbouring
  lowland plains of Hindostan. In the same way we can calculate for
  any point of the earth's surface whose latitude is known, the amount
  of chemical action which the direct sunlight effects at any given time
  of day or year. In Table IV. the numbers represent the chemical
        Table IV.— Chemical Action effected by Direct Sunlight in
                      One Minute on the Vernal
        A. Melville Island.                             Equinox at
                                                    E. Heidelberg.
        B. Rejkiavik, Iceland.                      F. Naples.
        C. St. Petersburg.                          G. Cairo.
        D. Manchester.
            Hour.            A.      B.        c.     D.          E.      F.          G.
      6 a.m. or 6 p.m.     o-o      o-o       0-0     o-o       o-o      0-0         0-0
       7 „ 5               o-o      0-02      0-07    022       0-38     0-89        1-74
      8 „ 4                0-07     1-53      2-88    5 85      8-02    13-31      20-12
       9 „ 3               0-67     6-62     10-74   18-71     23-99    35-88      50-01
     10 „ 2                1-86    13'27    20-26    32-91     40 94    58-46      78-61
     11 „ 1                3-02    18-60    27-55    43-34     53-19    74-37      98-33
     12 at noon            3-51    20-60    30-26    47-15     57-62    80-07     105-3
                                                                              Q2

 216      Prof. Roscoe, on Chemical Action of Solar Rays. [March 2,
 action effected by direct sunlight in one minute at the places and hours
 named on the 21st of March. Curves were exhibited, showing the
 rise of the action, with the progress of the sun through the heavens.
  By comparing the numbers in the table, it is seen how greatly this
 chemical action differs at various points on the earth's surface ; and we
 can understand how it is, that at the latitude of Cairo, where the
 chemical action of the direct sunlight is twice as great as it is in that
 of Manchester, the whole flora and fauna assume a more tropical and
      The speaker
 luxuriant           stated, that he was only able briefly to notice the
            character.
 principles upon which the new mode of measuring the chemical aotion
 of light depends ; adding one or two illustrations of the measurements
 actually made. He was unable even to refer to one of the most inter
 esting and important applications, viz., the measurement of the chemical
 action effected by the diffuse daylight. This has, however, been
 accomplished, and we are now able to calculate the amount of chemi
 cal action produced by both diffused and direct solar light, on a cloud
 less day, at any place situated above the latitude of Cairo. The
 following table shows the results of such a calculation.
 Table V.— Total Chemical Action effected by the Solar Rays from
                 Sunrise to Sunset on the Vernal Equinox, at
                                     i.           ii.        in.           IV.
      Melville Island     .        1196        10590      11790           1306
      Rejkiavik                    5964        15020      20980           2324
      St. Petersburg     .         8927        16410      25340           2806
      Manchester .       .       14520         18220      32740           3625
      Heidelberg. .
      Naples              . . 18240            19100      37340           4136
                                 26640         20550      47190           5226
      Cairo      .... 36440                    21670      58110           6437
              I. Gives the action of direct sunlight in degrees of light
     KnowingIII.
             II. the intimate
            IV.         „        connection
                                     diffuse
                                     total„ lightof the in
                                              daylight     light„ metres.active solar
                                                         chemically
rays with the plant and animal-producing power of a country, no one
can doubt the immense importance of the establishment of a regular
series of measurements of the variations of the amount of these chemi
cal rays at different situations on the earth's surface. Such a series
would open an entirely new field to the science of meteorology, and
would reveal to us relations and points of difference as regards the
     The chemical
chemical             at present wholly
           climate, photometer,               hands of an experienced experi
                                    in theunknown.
menter, is a perfectly accurate and extremely sensitive instrument ; and
the method described is a most valuable one for scientifically investi-

 I860.]                General Monthly Meeting.                       21T
 gating the primary laws regulating the chemical action pf light, and
 the distribution of the chemical rays. It is, however, not capable of
"universal application as a meteorological instrument, owing to its com
 plicated nature, and the great care requisite in its management. At
 present we know of no easy, and at the same time correct, method of
 estimating the chemical action of light. Much time and labour has
 already been spent by the authors of the method described in endea
vouring to prepare an instrument, which can be practically used for this
purpose in meteorological observations. Persevering in their efforts,
they hope ere long to overcome the numerous difficulties which beset
 the subject, and to describe a method which shall answer the proposed
 end.          GENERAL        MONTHLY
                         Monday,                 MEETING,[H. E. R.]
                                    March 5, 1860.
 "William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
   Thomas Farmer Baily, Esq.   in the Chair.
                                                    Glossop,Godwin
                                          Rev.nallGeorge     A.M. Pow-
    George Francis Brown, Esq.
    Joseph Brown, Esq.                    Thomas John Kent, Esq.
   Stephen Busk, Esq.                     Robert Morant, Esq.
    Charles William Franks, Esq.          John Charles Salt, Esq. and
   John Peter Gassiot, jun. Esq.          Edward Woods, Esq.
    Thomas Greg, Esq.
                        John Morgan,
                        Arthur
 were duly elected Members       Giles
                                of  the Puller,
                                         Royal   Esq. and
                                         Esq. Institution.
       admitted
 wereThe         Members
           Secretary announced,
                        "William
                            of theSalmon,
                                   That
                                     Royal   Institution.
                                               following Arrangements had
                                          theEsq.
 been made for the Lectures after Easter : —
     Seven Lectures on the Structure, Habits, and Affinities of
 Herbivorous Mammalia, with especial reference to certain
 Species now living in the Zoological Society's Gardens,
 Regent's Park, by T. Spencer Cobbold, M.D. F.L.S.

218                                            General Monthly Meeting.                                                [March 5,
    Eight Lectures on some Recent " Researches in Physical
Geography and Geology, by David T. Ansted, Esq. M.A.
    Eight Lectures on some Results of the Association of Heat
F.R.S.
'with Chemical Force, Practically Applied, by F. A. Abel,
Esq. Director of the Chemical Department, Royal Arsenal, Wool
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
wich.
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same.
  * The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to the Lord
Overstone, M.B.I, and to Arthur De Noe Walker, Esq. M.R.I.
Lordtheir
for    Overstone—A   valuable Donations,Select Collection       mentionedof Scarcebelow            :—
                                                                                          and Valuable          Tracts on Political
    Economy. (Privately printed at his Lordship's expense.) Edited by J. R.
     M^Culloch. 4 vols. 8vo. 1857-9.
         2.1. On           Currencies
                      D. Hume,      on Banks
                                   Vol.   ofI. theOnand
                                                     British
                                                        Paper
                                                           Paper    Currency
                                                                     Money. and
                                                                 Plantations          America.
                                                                                 in1752.Banking :1740.   1857.
         3 & 4. Essays on Banking, &c. 1755-58.
         5.6. On Suspension Country Banks.  of Cash1802. Payments in 1797.
         7. H. Thornton on Paper Credit. 1802.
         8. On Exchange between London and. Dublin from 1797 to 1804,
        13.
        11.
        10.
         9. W.
        12.           Report
                      D.
                      EarlEicardo
                            Huskisson
                            Blake
                              of of on
                                    House
                                 Liverpool
                                      ontheBullion.
                                           onCourse
                                               ofDepreciation
                                                 onCommons
                                                     Paper     Exchange
                                                                Currency.
                                                          of1811.  Committee
                                                                     of the and
                                                                              Currency.
                                                                                1805.
                                                                                    the
                                                                                    on Bullion,
                                                                                              1810.in 1810.
                                                                                         Currency.        1810.
         1. Index.        Vol.onII.Publick
                      Essay             On the       National
                                                 Credit.       1710.Debt and the Sinking Fund ; 1857.
         3. Essay     Letter on the      Publick
                                    Publick            Debts. 1726.
                                                  Securities.        1717.
         4. State of the National Debt. 1727.
         5.6. Defence      and 1726.
                                  of Tract
                      Representation          ofNo.the3 against
                                          1728.          House ofNo.Commons4. 1727.on the State of the National Debt in 1716
         8.7. W.            Blackstone—Account
                      D. Hume       on l-ublic Credit.of the      1752.National Debt. (From his Commentaries, published
                              1765-8.)
        12.
        13.
        11.9. J.Note
        10.           On
                      R. Wimpey,
                           Price,
                           Hamilton,
                            theonAnnual
                                  the
                                   on Extracts
                                       theonMillion
                                             National
                                       Sinking the Fund,
                                                     National
                                                     from
                                                        BillDebt.
                                                                and
                                                                 TheDebt.
                                                                      the
                                                              "established
                                                                       Challenge,"
                                                                        1774.
                                                                            Sinking
                                                                              1818.
                                                                                by Mr.Fund.letterin1787.
                                                                                        aPitt           Price. 1772.
                                                                                                    to1786.
                      Index.
                      Plan
                      Sir
                      J.Jos.
         6.3.1.4.2.5. Proposals
                      On Evelyn—Navigation
                            Walter
                            Decline
                              Tucker,
                              of English
                                    ofRaleigh
                                         on
                                          Foreign
                                      ofthe  Vol.
                                             Commerce.
                                              Prince
                                               Trade.
                                                   onIH.
                                                       Trade,
                                                         ofand
                                                        Trade Orange
                                                                On
                                                             1753.
                                                                 Commerce.
                                                                  and
                                                                   &c.
                                                                   1730.Commerce.
                                                                         to1750.
                                                                             the States
                                                                      Commerce       : 1859.on the Trade of the Republick. 1751.
                                                                                    1674.
         7. I. B. (Wm. Temple) Vindication of Commerce and the Arts. 1758.
         8. New mid Old Principles of Trade Compared. 1788.
                      Index.

  I860.]                                             General Monthly Meeting.                                                     219
                                                    Vol. IV. Economical Tracts : 1859.
            2.1. Giving   ApologyAlms         no Charity,
                                        for the     Builder. and1685.Employing the Poor a Grievance to the Nation. 1704.
»           3.4. View     Apology       for Pawnbroking.
                                  of Greenland          Trade and1744.Fishery. 1722.
           10.8.5.7.6.9. A.
           11.            Extracts
                          E.
                          Extract
                           Dissertation
                               Burke,
                               Turgot,
                               Schomberg,
                               Bell, onfrom
                                        from
                                          .Thoughts
                                           on
                                           theonan
                                                 Prohibition
                                                 ontheInquiry
                                                the    the
                                                       Works
                                                        Poor
                                                       Formation
                                                          onMaritime
                                                              Scarcity.
                                                               Laws.
                                                                into
                                                                ofofDr.
                                                                     the
                                                                      theFranklin
                                                                     and   1776.
                                                                           Use
                                                                           Distribution
                                                                            Nature
                                                                          Laws.
                                                                             1800.of Grain
                                                                                     Rhodes
                                                                                      on
                                                                                       of the
                                                                                          Population,
                                                                                             inCorn
                                                                                             of 1776.
                                                                                                Wealth.
                                                                                                Distilleries.
                                                                                                      Laws.
                                                                                                         Commerce,
                                                                                                              1777.
                                                                                                                1808. &c
                                                                                                            1793.
 Arthur Be Noi Walker, Esq. M.R.I.
      2.
      6.
      8.
      3.
      4.
      5.
      1.
     10.
      7. Chinese
           Sam
           Woo
           Tzeen
           Hung
           Li
           Hiau
           Santsz
           Shing
           Chun         Illustrious
                        20
                        with
                         KiKwo
                            King
                             vols.
                             Low
                             King
                              Tsz
                              Yu
                              Literature
                              ;Tsew;
                               King
                                  orChi
                                    ;Wan
                                Commentary.
                                     ; Mung
                                        or
                                        or
                                        Book
                                        Siau
                                         ;12mo.
                                           Emperor
                                            or
                                            ;Sacred
                                             Text
                                             or
                                              or  ;or
                                               ; Trimetrical
                                                   :Hio
                                                    History
                                                    Spring
                                                     or
                                                     ofof
                                                        One
                                                          ;Edict.
                                                           Ceremonies,
                                                            of
                                                            the
                                                             or
                                                         Dreams
                                                             6 Thousand
                                                                vols.
                                                                Tang.
                                                                 and
                                                                 of
                                                                  Classics.
                                                                  Filial
                                                                      Classic.
                                                                       of1Autumn.
                                                                     the    8vo.
                                                                            vol.
                                                                            Three
                                                                              4Duty.
                                                                            the  vols.
                                                                                 Character
                                                                                   Red
                                                                                   With
                                                                                    1 8vo.
                                                                                      51vol.
                                                                                       Kingdoms.
                                                                                         vols.
                                                                                          Chamber.
                                                                                            With
                                                                                            8vo.
                                                                                            Miscellaneous
                                                                                            Annals 8vo.
                                                                                                    8vo.
                                                                                                     Comments,
                                                                                                   Classic.
                                                                                                        compiled
                                                                                                         By20Chin
                                                                                                               vols.
                                                                                                                1 Remarks
                                                                                                                   vol.
                                                                                                                     Shau,
                                                                                                                     by  Yuentsung,
                                                                                                                          Confucius,
                                                                                                                          8vo.
                                                                                                                            ofonTain.
                                                                                                                        12mo.     the
     12. WanCeremonial      Pau Tsuen             Shu ; orByTen
                                           Records.                 WeiThousand
                                                                             Tei, of Sung. Precious      vols. 8vo.[An Encyclo
                                                                                                      10 Things.
                        pedia, or Treasury for Children ; containing Fairy Tales, Outlines of
                        Astronomy, Gardening, &c.l
    13. Sz'Shu;         Expositionor thebyFour           Books of Confucius.
                                                  the Philosopher             Chu of Sung     With      Ynki andResearches,
                                                                                                   SieInquiries,                  and
                                                                                                                     Chau, Sz' Yau.
     15.
      4. ChauYik;
    116.   She-King
           Shu          admired
                        5 King
                          vols. ; 8vo. or Antient
                                             Book
                                             Bookwork
                                       literary         ofofHistory
                                                            Odes.
                                                               Changes.
                                                                 in theof    Chinese
                                                                              China.
                                                                          4 vols.       8vo.
                                                                                   2 vols.language,
                                                                                            4 vols.
                                                                                                 8vo. 8vo.(Thenumber
                                                                                                          the               treatises
                                                                                                                  oldest ofand   most
    Portfolioamounts      Chinensis;   to 1450.)a Collection of Chinese State Papers, illustrative of the
          History of the Present Position of Affairs in China. With a Translation,
    EasyNotes,
           Lessons
  Agricultural               andin Introduction
                            Society      ofEngland,
                                      Chinese.           BybyRoyal—Journal,
                                                               S.J.W.S. Williams.
                                                                           Shuck. 8vo.     No.8vo.      Macao,
                                                                                                         8vo. 1840.
                                                                                                  44.Macao,       1842.
                                                                                                                  1859.
  Arts, Society qf—Journal for Feb. 1860. 8vo.
  Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 274. 8vo. 1859.
  Astronomical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 3, 1860. 8vo.
 Bavarian Academy, Royal—Meteorologischen Beobachtungen : Munchen, 1825-56.
       8vo.Messrs.
 Boosey,                 1859.(the Publishers)—The Musical World for Feb. 1860. 4to.
 Editors—Artizan for Feb. 1860. 4to.
    Athenaeum
    Engineer
    Medical
    Mechanics'
    Journal
    Revue Photographique,
    Practical           of
                         Circular
                          for
                          Mechanics'
                            Gas-Lighting
                             for
                              Magazine
                                Feb.
                                   Feb. for
                                          1860.
                                             1860.
                                               Journal
                                               Feb.
                                                forFeb.Feb.
                                                        fol.
                                                         1860.
                                                       for 4to.
                                                            Feb.
                                                              for
                                                              1860.
                                                               1860. 1860.
                                                                     8vo.8vo.
                                                                   Feb.      1866.
                                                                            8vo. 4to. 4to.
  Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Repertoire de Chimie, par C. Barreswil et
       A. Wurtz. Jan. 1860. 8vo.
    Kbnigliche Preussischen Akademie, Berichte, Dec. 1859. 8vo.

220         Prof. Faraday, on Lighthouse Illumination—                      [March 9,
Genevt, Sociele- dePhytiqut, 9cc.—M£molres. Tome XV. Partle 1. 4to. 1859.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, Nos. 60*, 61. 8vo. 1860.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 16. 8vo. 1860.
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, Feb. 1860.
Newton, Messrs.— London Journal (New Series), for Feb. 1860. 8vo.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for Feb. 1860.£4to.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 94. 8vo. 1860.
            Esq. M.P.
 Titt,ofW.British       (the Author)—Address
                  Architects,                   to the1859.
                               Nov. 7, 1859. 8vo.       Members of the Royal Institute
      Edition,
 Vincent,       revised and
            B. (Keeper    of Library,
                              greatly enlarged.
                                       R.I.)—Haydn's      Dictionary
                                                  8vo. 1860.             Dates. Ninth
                                                                (Twoofcopies.)
Wells, T. Spencer, Esq. M.R.It—Cancer-Cures and Cancer-Cureis. 16mo. 1860.
                      WEEKLY          EVENING
                                 Friday,                1860.
                                          March 9, MEETING,
                        Wensleydale,
        The Lord Professor                  Vice-President,
                                      Faraday,      D.C.L. F.R.S.  in the Chair.
  The use ofOnlight      to guide the
                     Lighthouse          mariner as he approaches
                                    Illumination—the                    land, or passes
                                                            Electric Light.
  through intricate channels, has, with the advance of society and its
  ever increasing interests, caused such a necessity for means more and
  more perfect, as to tax to the utmost the powers both of the philosopher
  and the practical man, in the development of the principles concerned,
  and their efficient application. Formerly the means were simple
  enough ; and if the light of a lanthorn or torch was not sufficient to
  point out a position, a fire had to be made in their place. As the
  system became developed, it soon appeared that power could be
  obtained, not merely by increasing the light but by directing the
   issuing rays : and this was in many cases a more powerful and useful
   means than enlarging the combustion ; leading to the diminution of the
   volume of the former with, at the same time, an increase in its in
   tensity. Direction was obtained, either by the use of lenses dependent
   altogether upon refraction, or of reflectors dependent upon metallic
   reflexion ; and some ancient specimens of both were shown. In modern
   times the principle of total reflexion has also been employed, which
   involves the use of glass, and depends both upon refraction and
   reflexion. In all these appliances much light is lost : if metal be used
   for reflexion, a certain proportion is absorbed by the face of the metal ;
   if glass be used for refraction, light is lost at all the surfaces where

1860.]                    ' the Electric Light.                         221
the ray passes between the air and the glass; and also in some degree
by absorption in the body of the glass itself. There is, of course, no
power of actually increasing the whole amount of light, by any optical
arrangement associated with it.
     The light which issues forth into space must have a certain amount
of divergence. The divergence in the vertical direction must be
enough to cover the sea from the horizon, to within a certain moderate
distance from the shore, so that all ships within that distance may have
a view of their luminous guide. If it have less, it may escape obser
vation ‘where it ought to be seen; if it have more, light is thrown
away which ought to be directed within the useful degree of divergence :
or if the horizontal divergence be considered, it may be necessary so to
construct the optical apparatus, that the light within an angle of 60°
or 45° shall be compressed into a beam diverging only 15°, that it may
give in the distance a bright <U+FB02>ash having a certain duration instead of
a continuous light,- or into one diverging only 5° or 6°, which, though
of far shorter duration, has greatly increased intensity and penetrating
power in hazy weather. The amount of divergence depends in a
large degree upon the bulk of the source of light, and cannot be made
less than a certain amount, with a <U+FB02>ame of a given size. If the <U+FB02>ame
of an argand lamp 1",th of an inch wide, and 1’} inches high, be placed
in the focus of an ordinary Trinity-house parabolic re<U+FB02>ector, it will
supply a beam having about 15° divergence: if we wish to increase
the e<U+FB01>'ect of brightness, we cannot properly do it by enlarging the lamp
<U+FB02>ame; for though lamps are made for the dioptric arrangement of
Fresnel, which have as many as four wicks, <U+FB02>ames 3% inches wide, and
burn like intense furnaces, yet if one be put into the lamp-place of
the re<U+FB02>ector referred to, its effect would chie<U+FB02>y be to give a beam
of wider divergence: and if to correct this, the re<U+FB02>ector were made
with a greater focal distance, then it must be altogether of a much
larger size. The same general result occurs with the dioptric
apparatus ; and here, where the four-wicked lamps are used, they are
placed at times nearly 40 inches distant from the lens, occasioning the
necessity of a very large, though very <U+FB01>ne, glass apparatus.
     On the other hand, if the light could be compressed, the necessity
for such large apparatus would cease, and it might be reduced from
 the size of a room to the size of a hat : and here it is that we seek in
the electric spark, and such like concentrated sources of light, for aid
 in illumination. It is very true, that by adding lamp to lamp, each
with its re<U+FB02>ector, upon one face or direction, power can be gained;
and in some of the revolving lights, ten lamps and re<U+FB02>ectors unite to
  ive the required <U+FB02>ash. But then not more than three of these
  aces can be placed in the whole circle ; and if a <U+FB01>xed light be required
 in all directions round the lighthouse nothing better has been yet
 established than the four-wicked Fresnel lamp in the centre of its
 dioptric and catadioptric apparatus. Now the electric light can be
raised up easily to an equality with the oil lamp, and if then substituted
for the latter, will give all the effect of the latter; or by expenditure of

 222            Prof. Faraday, on the Electric Light.               [March 9,
money it can be raised to a five or tenfold power, or more, and will
then give five or tenfold effect. This can be done, not merely without
increase of the volume of the light, but whilst the light shall have a
volume scarcely the 2000th part of that of the oil flame. Hence, the
extraordinary assistance we may expect to obtain of diminishing the
      of the optical
size Many             apparatus
              compressed    intense
                                and perfecting
                                     lights have      part submitted
                                                thatbeen               to the
                                                            of the apparatus.
Trinity-house ; and that corporation has shown its great desire to
advance all such objects and improve the lighting of the coast, by
spending, upon various occasions, much money and much time for this
end. It is manifest that the use of a lighthouse must be never failing,
its service ever sure ; and that the latter cannot be interfered with by the
introduction of any plan, or proposition, or apparatus, which has not
been developed to the fullest possible extent, as to the amount of light
produced,—the expense of such light,—the wear and tear of the appara
tus employed,—the steadiness of the light for 16 hours,—its liability
to extinction,—the amount of necessary night care, —the number of
attendants,—the nature of probable accidents,—its fitness for secluded
places, and other contingent circumstances, which can as well be ascer
tained out of a lighthouse as in it. The electric spark which has been
placed in the South Foreland High Light, by Professor Holmes, to do
duty for the six winter months, had to go through all this preparatory
education before it could be allowed this practical trial. It is not
obtained from frictional electricity, or from voltaic electricity, but from
magnetic action.—The first jspark (and even magnetic electricity as a
whole) was obtained 28 years ago. (Faraday, Philosophical Transactions,
1832, p. 32.) If an iron core be surrounded by wire, and then moved
in the right direction near the poles of a magnet, a current of electri
city passes, or tends to pass, through it. Many powerful magnets
are therefore arranged on a wheel, that they may be associated very
near to another wheel, on which are fixed many helices with their
cores, like that described. Again, a third wheel consists of magnets
arranged like the first ; next to this is another wheel of the helices, and
next to this again a fifth wheel, carrying magnets. All the magnet-
wheels are fixed to one axle, and all the helix wheels are held immoveable
in their place. The wires of the helices are conjoined and connected
with a commutator, which, as the magnet-wheels are moved round,
gathers the various electric currents produced in the helices, and
sends them up through two insulated wires in one common stream of
electricity into the lighthouse lanthorn. So it will be seen that nothing
more is required to produce the electricity than to revolve the magnet-
wheels. There are two magneto-electric machines at the South Fore
land, each being put in motion by a two-horse power steam-engine ;
and, excepting wear and tear, the whole consumption of material to
produce the light is the coke and water required to raise steam for the
     The lamp
engines,   and carbon
                 is a delicate
                        points arrangement
                               for the lamp of  machinery,
                                             in the  lanthorn.holding the two
carbons between which the electric light exists, and regulating their

 1860.]         Mr. Masters, 0n Formations in Plants.                 1223
adjustment; so that whilst they gradually consume away, the place of
the light shall not be altered. The electric wires end in the two bars
of a small railway, and upon these the lamp stands. When the car
bons of a lamp are nearly gone, that lamp is lifted off and another
instantly pushed into its place. The machines and lamp have done
their duty during the past six months in a real and practical manner.
The light has never gone out, through any de<U+FB01>ciency or cause in the
engine and machine house: and when it has become extinguished in
the lanthorn, a single touch of the keeper’s hand has set it shining as
bright as ever. The light shone up and down the Channel, and across
into France, with a power far surpassing that of any other <U+FB01>xed light
within sight, or any where existent. The experiment has been a good
one. There is still the matter Of expense and some other circumstances
to be considered ; but it is the hope and desire of the Trinity-house,
and all interested in the subject, that it should ultimately justify its
full adoption.
                                                                 [M.
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 16, 1860.
     Sir BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, Bart. D.C.L. Pres. RS.
                   Vice-President R.I. in the Chair.
                     MAXWELL T. MASTERS, Esq.
                 LECTURER ON BOTANY, ST, GEORGE'B HOSPITAL, ETC.
  On the Relation between the Abnormal and Normal Formations
                                 in Plants.
THE object of this discourse was to point out certain interesting facts,
relating to the natural and abnormal development of plants, and to
the impossibility of drawing any absolute distinction between the two ;
to show their bearing upon the theory of vegetable morphology, and
on the views lately propounded by Mr. Darwin. Premising that no
general law can be laid down to include all plants, as each large
group has, to a certain extent, its own special organization, the speaker
brie<U+FB02>y adverted to the natural conformation of plants under the fol
lowing heads: lst, Alimentary system; 2nd, Tegumentary; 3rd,
Reproductive; 4th, Fibrous; 5th, Appendicular System.
    All plants possess alimentary, tegumentary, and reproductive

 224          Mr. Masters, on the Relation between the         [March 16,
 systems, and the humblest plants have no others. All plants, but
 Thallogens, possess in addition a fibro-vascular system, and an axis, co
 existent with which is the presence of an appendicular system, in the
 form of scales, leaves, and in the higher plants of sepals, petals, &c.
 All these organs have a common origin, and this relationship is only
 partially obliterated throughout life ; so that there is a much closer
 homology between the organs of one plant, and between the organs of
 one class of plants, and those of another, than is the case in the animal
 kingdom.
     In considering what is natural and what is not so, a great deal is of
necessity assumed. Naturalists construct for themselves a sort of type
 or ideal standard of perfection, which does not of necessity exist in
nature, but which enables us to gain a clearer insight into the truth.
 If this be not borne in mind, in speaking of " the laws " of creation, etc.
 we are likely to be charged with the sin of presumption, and to foster
 the very prevalent error, that because one hypothesis is shown to be
 false by arguments derived from another, that the latter is of necessity
 true. In natural science, that theory has the greatest claims to accept
 ance, which satisfactorily explains the largest number of facts, and by
means of which our store of knowledge is most augmented.
     For the present purpose, the speaker assumed the correctness of
the heretofore generally received opinion of the existence of " species,"
endowed with a very variable, but a limited power of variation ; and
then proceeded to discuss what degree or extent of variability might be
considered natural, and what unnatural. The distinction is not
always easy, and in many cases it is impossible. "Where the variation
is slight, and apparently co-existent with a change in the conditions
of growth the variation is evidently natural. Allusion was made to
such facts as that of peaches and nectarines found growing on the
same bough, to alterations effected by changes in climate, &c. When
the variation is greater, of course greater difficulty exists in determin
ing whether or no it be natural. Reference was made to the primrose,
the cowslip, and the oxlip, which differ in many important points one
from the other, but which, nevertheless seem to be variations of one
form ; in evidence of which, amongst other facts, are these, that all three
have been raised from seeds derived from the same fruit ; and that in
the Hookerian herbarium there exists a specimen wherein a primrose
and a cowslip spring from the same stem. Some plants are especially
liable to vary ; such are orchids, ferns, grasses, and especially fungi,
some ofwhich latter have no less than five different modes of reproducing
themselves by as many distinct organs. The speaker was enabled, through
the kindness of Professor Buckman, to exhibit specimens illustrating
the very curious experiments of that gentleman in ennobling the wild
oat, and in producing from the seeds of two so-called species of aquatic
grasses, Glyceria aquatica, and Glyceria fluitans, when grown in a
dry soil, a form unlike either of the parent plants, — a form in which
the herbage of Glyceria aquatica was 'combined with {the inflorescence
of Poa trivialis. The experiments of Professor Buckman have the

 1860.]        Abnormal and [Vormal Formations in. Plants.             225
 more value as they have been made without any reference to theoretic
 views.‘
     Another difficulty in distinguishing the abnormal from the normal
 in plants, arises from the fact that what is unnatural or unusual in one
 plant, is the common condition in another nearly allied plant. In illus
 tration of which several instances were cited; and one in particular,
 which led Herr S. Reissek, in some measure, to anticipate the views of
 Mr. Darwin. The changes took place in a species of Thesium, affected
 by a parasitical fungus, in consequence of which apparently, the plant
 underwent many changes, some of which caused it to assume many of
 the characteristics of allied species and even genera. “ Suppose,” says
 the author, “ the condition originally caused by the fungus to become
 constant in the course of time, the plant would, if found growing wild,
 be considered as a distinct species, or even as belonging to a new genus.
 Nature appears to have set up a <U+FB01>ngerpost, to show the way in which
 species and genera may have been formed out of a previously existing
 type,” &c.1' Here, however, there is no reference to the ceaseless
process of natural selection, and of very gradual change. Another cir
 cumstance which adds to the perplexity that is felt in distinguishing
 the normal from the abnormal in plants, is that irregularity of growth
 can hardly be considered abnormal, because it is in many instances a
constant condition ; the health of the plant is in no wise impaired, the
 irregularity does not exist at <U+FB01>rst, but arises during development, and
it is subject to de<U+FB01>nite laws.
     Certain changes may be physiologically abnormal, because they
interfere with the due ful<U+FB01>lment of the functions of the part affected ;
and yet morphologically they can hardly be considered abnormal,
because they do not violate any of the laws of morphology, and are
caused perchance by a mere reversion to a simpler form.
     Reference was then made to the classi<U+FB01>cation of malformations in
plants, adopted by M. Moquin Tandon, in his standard work on the
subject, in order to exemplify the impossibility of drawing a line
between what should and should not be deemed a malformation, for
the reasons already mentioned. Even in the class of Malformations
grouped under the head of “ Deformity,” the change was so slight
as not to interfere with the physiological functions, or it was one
which occurred naturally in other plants. “ Peloria,” or that change
whereby a <U+FB02>ower usually irregular becomes regular, may occur in two
ways—one where the <U+FB02>ower becomes regular by the increase of its
irregular portions, so as to restore the symmetry, as in the Pelorian
varieties of the common Linaria; the other, almost entirely over
looked, is where the <U+FB02>ower preserves throughout life its original
equality of proportions. The calyx of the double Tropaeolum affords
an illustration of this. The calyx of the simple form is coloured, with
its upper sepal prolonged in the shape of a spur; in the double variety
                       ' Buckman, Rep. Brit. Assoc. 1857.
                       1' Linnaaa, Vol. 17, 1848.

 226             Mr. Masters, on the Relation between the         [March 16,
 all five sepals are green, and of equal size. We can hardly consider a
 return to regularity, in whatever way it be effected, as anomalous ; and
 it has been before shown that irregular flowers are not necessarily
 monstrous. It is not requisite to go through the classification of M.
 Moquin Tandon, at any greater length, as the same remarks, to a
      As confessedly
 greater               artificial
          or lesser extent,  apply   to all the groups.
                                  distinctions, it may be said that a variety
 is some change from the ordinary condition of a plant—a change in
 nowise impairing the exercise of the physiological functions—a change
 affecting the whole, or at least several parts of the plant, — a
 change which is more or less constant and permanent and which is
 reproduced. On the other hand, in a monstrosity, there is a change
 which does more or less interfere with the due exercise of the functions
of the organs affected—a change usually affecting one organ, or one set
 of organs in a plant,—a change, less constant and permanent than in a
     Allusion
variety,—   a change
                was then
                      which    is rarely
                            made            value of Teratology, as affording
                                   to thereproduced.
 the basis on which the now generally received theory of vegetable
morphology rests. No doubt the unusual conditions of plants, whether
they be called varieties or monstrosities, arise frequently from the
operation of that ceaseless struggle for existence in the battle of life, to
which Mr. Darwin, as well as the late Dean Herbert attribute so much
importance ; but we should be extremely careful in reasoning from
malformations, and even from varieties, either in support of, or in
 opposition to Mr. Darwin's views, especially if the word species be
understood in its widest acceptation. The amount of change, great as
it is in certain instances, is not greater than is the diversity of form
under which the same individual plant may occur : moreover, the
changes on which Mr. Darwin relies are small in degree, but constantly
increasing. Violent and sudden changes are disavowed by him ; for
though the result of a struggle for life, yet they tend rather to the
extinction of the organ or of the plant, than to the production of a new
species. If Mr. Darwin's views be pushed to their fullest con
sequences, it would appear as if there were no limits to variation ; and
it is of the highest importance to ascertain whether this be so or not.
Without forgetting the necessity of caution in employing- teratological
facts in such a question, the speaker cited as tending to show the pro
bability that there were limits to variation, the fact that in the malfor
mations of what are considered to be the most highly specialized groups
of plants, those whose structure is most complex, most concentrated, and
furthest removed from the leaf type, as Composite, Umbelliferce, &c.,
little or no exaltation of the type ever occurs, whereas in other orders
whose structure does not so widely depart from the leaf type, such an
exaltation is frequent, though always less so than the opposite process
     The degree of constancy is very various, and most important to be
of. degeneration.
considered in questions of this kind. The speaker is under obligations
to his father for the following interesting facts bearing on this point.

I860.]      Abnormal and Normal Formations in Plants.                227
A tree of that variety of the weeping willow, whose leaves are
rolled up in a spiral coil, after retaining its character for twenty-
five years, at length sent forth a shoot in an ascending direction,
this shoot being clothed with flat leaves, as in the common form,
There are several varieties of the sweet pea : many years of obser
vation have shown that the white flowered sweet peas seldom, if
ever, vary ; but that in proportion as the flower becomes darker in
colour, so is the liability to vary greater : and these changes are not
confined to the colour merely, but affect the pods and other organs.
So too, the yellow varieties of the hyacinth are more constant than
those of other colours. On the whole the varieties, and still more the
malformations, are characterized by a want of constancy and a ten
dency to degenerate : a tendency not overlooked by Virgil, as witness
the following lines :—
        " Vidi lecta diu, et multo spectata labore,
          Degenerare tamen ; ni vis humana quotannis
          Maxima quaeque manu legeret : sic omnia fatis
          In pejus ruere, ac retro sublapsa referri :
          Non aliter, quam qui adverso vix flumine lembum
          Remigiis subigit, si brachia forte remisit,
                                          rapit alveus
          Atque ilium in praeceps pronoGeorg.    L, 197.amni."
     [The speaker takes this opportunity of expressing his      T. M.]
                                                           [M.obligations
to several of his friends who supplied him with illustrations for his
discourse, especially to his father, to Mr. Ward, Mr. Baxter, and
Prof. Buckman.]


        Iftogal Hmtitutifiti             of   (ffiwat    Britain.
                 WEEKLY           March 23, 1860.
                       Friday,EVENING           MEETING,
      The Lord Wensxeydale, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                    Nevill Story Maskelyne, Esq.
                                On Diamonds.
The progress of chemical discovery in so fundamental and important
a subject as the elements, has been hitherto singularly incommensurate
with the rapid strides of theory and the vast accumulation of facts
regarding the compounds, which those elements combine to form. Of
      the element
this,Organic        carbonisisthe
               chemistry           chemistry illustration.
                               a remarkable    of carbon, yet even now the
number of allotropic states of that element are undetermined with any
certainty. Even the question of the crystalline system of graphite is
not decided ; and, while [we are almost entirely ignorant of the real
conditions requisite for the production of carbon in any of its allotro
pic states, we are completely in the dark about those under which the
diamond, and the strange mineral kindred to it called " carbonate "
      been,
haveThe      or may be called
          transcendant          into of
                         hardness        the diamond is a quality which
                                      existence.
would alone make so rare a body very costly, even if it had no value
as a gem. [The apparatus employed by the diamond-cutter for cutting
the diamond by means of its own dust was exhibited ; consisting of
the schyf or horizontal iron wheel armed with this dust, on which
the diamond is pressed by weights, laid on an arm of wood, below the
end of which arm the diamond is carried in a projecting bed of
     Another
fusible        remarkable characteristic of the diamond is its adamantine
         metal.]
lustre, arising from the reflection of so large an amount of light from its
polished surface ; a characteristic which is closely linked to its high
refringent power. That power indeed=is so great, that it is approached
by no colourless solid, nor by any even of the highly refringent oils,
and inorganic compounds of carbon. Thus, a ray, on passing into
this substance is so bent from its course, that the new direction which
it takes is at any given point f- nearer to the perpendicular on the
surface than was the distance of a corresponding point in the course
   Vol. III. (No 32.)                                             a .

230                        Mr. N. S. Maskelyne,                 [March 23,
which it previously held, while traversing the air. It results from
this, that the critical angle—the angle beyond which all light internally
incident on the surface is totally reflected internally, and whose sine is
the reciprocal of the refractive index,—is in the diamond so small an
angle as 26° ; a fact which enables us to cut diamonds for the pur
poses ofjewellery, so as to produce an effect which, in any other gem,
would only be produced by stones of much greater thickness. Thus,
the diamond-cutter, by the instinct of an art which worked out prac
tically this problem at a time when science had not determined " the
law of sines," takes advantage of this principle in cutting the diamond
      the brilliant is
intoThe                fundamentally a double pyramid or cone, truncated
                    form.
by a large plane called the table, on one end, and by a small one called
the culet, at the other. The adjustment of the angles of the two
pyramids has to be so made, that the girdle of the stone presents a pris
matic edge, the angle of which must be as much as twice the critical
angle, or as nearly so as the original form of the diamond permits.
This angle, which in the diamond is 48o, would require to be 68° to 70c
for the sapphire or chrysoberyl, and above 80° for glass. The adjust
ment of the relative sizes of the table and the culet are also very
important; and the object aimed at in both these adjustments is that
no light shall penetrate the diamond from above, that shall not be
totally reflected internally, and so thrown back again through the
summit planes, called the bezil planes, or the table. Meeting these
planes at various inclinations, the light is shattered into a thousand
hues, by the dispersive power of the stone. [A comparative experiment
was exhibited, by which the spectrum formed by a flint glass prism
was brought into comparison with one formed by the table and one of
     inferior
the The       planes of a distribution
           geographical                 and geological association of the
                          thin brilliant.]
diamond have not as yet thrown much light on its origin. In India,
Malacca, Borneo, in Brazil, Mexico, the gold states of the United
States, and in the Urals it is found in beds of rivers or alluvial deposits.
In Australia and in Algiers it is reported to have been found, and
under similar conditions. In Brazil it has been traced to its rock-
home in the itacolumite (a micaceous quartzose schist, often containing
talcose minerals, and intersected by quartz veins), and also in a horn
blende slate continuous with the itacolumite. But whether these are
its parent rocks, or whether—as they are probably metamorphic in
their nature—its origin dates from an earlier state of the materials
that have become transmuted by time and the play of chemical and
physical forces into itacolumite and hornblende slate, we are not in a
position to declare. The companions of the diamond do not tell its
history in a much less vague language. Gold seems in every diamond
country to be either an associate or the not distant neighbour of the
diamonds. Tourmaline, chrysoberyl, chrysolite, topaz, kyanite, oxides
of titanium and of iron, quartz as jasper, and in other forms, are
frequently found with them.

- a ' :a-c   ‘ */ .'< 1  Jm-u, _<-_
           1860.]                         im Diamonds.                           231
                In the diamond, splinters of ferruginous quartz have been found. A 7
           high antiquity and an origin perhaps contemporaneous, and not
           improbably connected with the geological distribution of gold in quartz
           veins, may be inferred from these facts.
                The chemist has to deal with a more general problem ; that of the
           methods, whether employed by nature, or open to his own ingenuity,
           for producing the diamond. Many solutions for this problem have
           been and may be proposed :—
                   l. The authority of Liebig supports the view of a process of
              eremacausis having converted organic compounds into diamonds.
                   2. The decomposition of binary carbon compounds by replace
              ment of the carbon by some other elements.
                   3. A process of sublimation.
                   4. Cooling from fusion under pressure (supposing carbon other
              wise to vaporise without fusion, like arsenic).
                   5. Deposits from voltaic currents between carbon poles.
                   6. Deposits on the cooling of fused metals (or other substances ?),
              surcharged with carbon.
                   7. The separation of carbon from carbonates, analogous to that
               of silicon from silicates, which may be effected by magnesium at a
               red heat, and by lithium far under red heat.
           And these do not exhaust the number of possible suggestions. Of them,
           one (the 6th) possesses peculiar interest.
                 Graphitic boron and silicon are formed by the cooling of fused
           aluminium, surcharged with these elements ; and the same elements-
           in other respects so closely grouped with carbon—separate in the
           adamantine form from zincgunder analogous circumstances. The latter
           are crystallised indeed in different systems from diamond, but they
           possess many of its characters in a remarkable, degree.
                 Mr. Maskelyne then adverted to some of the largest diamonds
           that have been recorded, and concluded with a few facts regarding
           the Koh-i-Nur. These had chie<U+FB02>y for their object, to prove that the
           great diamond of India, which the Emperor Baber records as having
            been taken at Agra, by Humayun, in May 1526, was the Koh-i
            Nur, now the crown jewel of England. This was based on the
            identity of weight of the diamond (before it was cut) in 1851, with
            the eight mishkals, which Baber declared to have been its estimated
            weight. It is dif<U+FB01>cult to state, precisely, what the mishkal was in
            Baber’s day.     His' coins and Humayun’s are very scarce; but even in
            their greatly worn state, these early Mogul silver coins, or dirhams,
            average above 71, and range up to 71 '5 grains, probably correspond
            ing to a coined value of at least 73, and perhaps even 74 grains.
            These probably represent the mishkal. It is not less dif<U+FB01>cult to
            determine what was the precise weight of the Bokhara goldsmith’s
            mishkal, which would have been the basis of Baber’s coinage, in the
            16th century; but among the old Samanian coins (of Bokhara and
            Samarkand, A.D. 961—-—1165) are some from which it would seem,
            that besides the old dinar, of about 66 grains, and a dirhamz, of 50,
                                                                           n

232                       Mr. N. S. Maskelyne,                     [March 23,
there were H dirham pieces (corresponding in their ratios to the
modern ones of Bussorah), whose weight is about 75 grains. The
Ghaznavid coins of the 1st Pathan sovereign of India, Muaz-ud-din,
a.d., 1193, tally with these ; one of them, indeed, is inscribed as a
dirham, and weighs 74 grains. The base of the modern ponderary
system of Bokhara is stated by the Parsee writer, Nowrozjee Fiir-
doonjee, to be a mishkal of 71 grains, so that the limits of range of
the mishkal of Bokhara and Ghazni, were probably from 74 or 75
grains in the 10th and 11th century, to 71 in modern times, and in
the days of Baber, as rendered probable from his coins, the margins of
which are much worn, it was probably not less than 74 grains—which
indeed is still the weight of the goldsmith's mishkal, in Persia—
and. corresponds to the relation recorded by Makrizi and Abu'l fuzl,
as subsisting between the Syrian or Indian mishkal and the Greek
dinar (the 66-grain coin of the caliphate). A mishkal of 73 -69,
would give the weight of the Koh-i-Nur ; and is in fact, even at the
present day, almost precisely the Arabian gold miscal of 73 • 368 grains
troy. Another resource for the determination of this point, is to be
found in the Indian weights, for which the Emperor Baber gives the
Persian equivalent, in a remarkable passage in his memoirs, that has
      apparently
beenThe             gives, are 4byMashes
         ratios heoverlooked       numismatic       ratis) =1 Tank,
                                             (of 8 writers.
                               5       „                   =1 Mishkal,
                              12       „                  =lTola,
and he adds, they weigh jewels and precious stones by the tank. Until
the time of Shir Shah, the tola, as determined from the Pathan coins,
was a weight of a minimum value of 174, and probably as high as 176
or 177 grains. In Baber's time, therefore, it may be taken at this
value. The tank also, as deduced from the a'dhali of Mohammed
     Tughlak,
ben Abu'l  fuzl would
                 states accord
                         the a'dhali
                                with to     estimate.
                                      thishave been half a dam, and the dam
to have been five tanks. Mohammad-ben-Tuglak's a'dhali weighs
140 grains. These must be assumed to have been issued, or to have
been estimated at a mint value of 1 46 grains, to give the tank of 59,
and a tola of 177 grains, an assumption by no means too great for coins
of that sovereign. The rati, the little red and black seed of the Abrus
precatorius, is far too uncertain and- variable a weight to be made the
      of a320
basisThe       ratis of ofBaber,
           calculation            and the 319J ratis of Tavernier, would
                            the kind.
give an error of some ten carats for every tenth of a grain error that
might be made in the estimate of the value of the rati, as the unit in
      a calculation.
suchThere   are two kinds of rati-weight ; the goldsmith's of 8, and the
jeweller's of 6 ratis, to the same masha. There is also a pearl rati.
 The only possible means of assigning a value to these weights is by
 arriving at some result with regard to the tank, the tola, the masha, or
 the mishkal, and deducing the value of the rati from these. Tavernier
 has obviously fallen into an error regarding the relative value of this

I860.]                         on Diamonds.                                233
little weight, as compared not only with European standards of weight,
but also with those of India. It is possible that he took the pearl rati
of three troy grains for his basis, and confounded it with the other
     The speaker
varieties          then noticed
          of this variable       Tavernier's
                           unit of comparison.account of the diamond he
saw in the possession of Aurungzebe, of which he gives the weight as
319$ ratis ; and the apparent inconsistencies of his narrative, with the
idea of that diamond being the 320-rati diamond of Baber, were
sought to be explained from the contemporary history as given by the
translator of Ferishta, and by Bernier, no less than by Tavernier
himself. It seemed probable at least, that the old crown jewel of the
sovereigns of Delhi, and the talisman of Indian empire, was then in
the possession of Aurungzebe, and was seen as such by the French
traveller ; but that he has mistaken the history of that stone, and con
founded it with that of another which had been found but a few years
before, and had been acquired by Shah Jehaun. Shah Jehaun was
then a state prisoner, and his reigning son let him retain his jewels in
his captivity. Among these would doubtless have been the diamond
Tavernier alludes to, and which had been in fact no crown jewel, but
     Tavernier
a private  possession
                indeedacquired
                       gave a drawing
                                by ShahofJehaun   himself.
                                           the diamond  ; but his represent
ation is a most rude one, and is as much like the Koh-i-Nur seen from
one end, as it can be said to be like any large diamond known to exist
now ; while his description, utterly at variance with his drawing,
     The history
exceedingly        characterisesihe
             well of this diamond Koh-i-Nur,
                                    is one longeven    in its from
                                                   romance           then till
                                                               peculiarities.
now ; but it is well authenticated at every step, as history seems never
to have lost sight of this stone of fate, from the days when Ala-ud-din
took it from the Rajahs of Malwah five centuries and a half ago, to the
day when it became a crown jewel of England ; while tradition carries
back its existence in the memory of India to the half mythic hero
Bihramojeet, Rajah of Usjein and Malwa, 57 B.C. ; and a still wilder
legend would fain recognise in it a diamond recorded as worn by
Kama, Rajah of Anga, who fell in the " great war," and first dis
covered near Masulipatam in the bed of the Godaveri, 5000 years
ago.                                                           [N. S.-M.1

234                            W. Odling, Esq.                     [March 30,
                 AVEEKLY            March 30, MEETING,
                          Friday,EVENING          1860.
       The Lord Wensleydale, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  William Odling, Esq. M.B. F.R.S.
                         SECRETARY TO THE CHEMICAL SOCIETY.
                              On Acids and Salts.
It is natural to inquire whether the doctrines of series and substitu
 tions, which are essential for the association of organic products, may
not throw some additional light upon the simpler compounds of mineral
chemistry, when viewed as unitary molecules ; and particularly upon
the relations and properties of the mineral acids and their salts, which
have hitherto constituted the strongholds of the electro-chemical, or
     The theory
 binary,         of combination.
           doctrine   of series affirms that chemical compounds may be
 arranged in series, the successive members of each of which differ from
 one another in composition by a common increment, and are associated
 with one another by a certain relation of properties, the exact nature
     Therelation
 of the          varying
           doctrine  of substitutions
                            with the nature
                                          affirms that,increment.
                                               of the    in very many chemical
 compounds, one or more atoms may be displaced by some other atoms or
 groupings, and that the new bodies, resulting from this displacement,
 correspond in constitution with the normal bodies from which they
 were derived. The doctrine of substitutions affords great assistance to
 the doctrine of series ; for when, as frequently happens, a gap exists in
 any series, that gap can almost always be filled up by a substitution-
      (a.) Thereofarethefour
 representative               acid body.
                          missing   compounds of hydrogen, two volumes of
 each of which contain one   HC1
                             HF      Fluorhydric
                                     Chlorhydric
                                volume              acid. namely :
                                          of hydrogen,
                              HBr Bromhydric acid.
                             HI Iodhydric acids.

I860.]                       on Acids and Salts.                         235
When two volumes of chlorhydric acid, for instance, are acted upon
by a red hot iron-wire, the chlorine is absorbed by the iron, and one
volume of hydrogen gas liberated. The two volumes of chlorhydric
acid yield one volume of hydrogen, or the original bulk of gas is
reduced to one-half by the absorption of its chlorine. The above
four acids may be looked upon as substitution-representatives, one of
    Chlorhydric acid yields the following series of oxides, convertible
another.
into each other by mutual metamorphosis.
                        HC1 Chlorhydric acid.
                        HCIO Hypochlorous acid.
                        IIClOS Chlorous acid.
                        HC10a Chloric acid.
When chlorhydric acid       HC1, Perchloric
                        HCIO4                   by permanganic acid, hypo-
                                   is oxidatedacid.
chlorous acid HCIO, is produced ; and, conversely, chlorhydric acid
may be reproduced by the deoxidation of hypochlorous acid. Hypo-
chlorous acid, when heated, breaks up into chloric acid HC10a, and
other products. When chloric acid is deoxidated by nitrous acid, it
becomes chlorous acid HC102 ; and, when oxidated at the positive
pole of a galvanic battery, it becomes perchloric acid HC104. Here
then is a series of associated acids, expressed as unitary molecules, by
the simplest possible formulae, and arranged in a series, the successive
members of which differ from one another in composition by an incre
ment of one atom, or volume, of oxygen.
    (/8.) There are four other binary compounds of hydrogen, two
volumes of each of which, however, contain two volumes of hydrogen,
namely :
                            HaO Water.
                            HaS Sulphydric acid.
                            HjSe Selenhydric acid.
A given volume of any one            Tellurhydric
                            HaTof these             vapours contains exactly
                                           gases oracid.
twice the quantity of hydrogen, that the same volume of any one of
the first class of gases contains. When two volumes of sulphydric
acid, for instance, are acted upon by a red hot iron-wire, the sulphur
is absorbed by the iron, and two volumes of hydrogen gas are liberated.
The two volumes of sulphydric acid yield two volumes of hydrogen,
or the abstraction of the sulphur produces no alteration in the bulk of
gas. The bihydric character of water, moreover, is well shown by the
experiment of its electrolytic decomposition, in which two volumes of
    In the are
hydrogen       produced
            sulphur  seriesforofevery
                                  oxygen
                                       one acids
                                           volume      oxygen.
                                                 weofhave  two gaps, which,
however, can be filled up by the chloro-representatives of the missing
bodies, thus :

236                           W. Odling, Esq.                    [March 30,
                     HaS       Sulphydric acid.      ClaS.
                    HaSO          Wanting.           ClsSO.
                     HaSOa        Wanting.           ClsSOa.
                     IIaS0a Sulphurous acid.
                     HaS04 Sulphuric acid.
 The compounds ClaSO, and CIbSOs, are obtainable from the chloro-
 representative of sulphydric acid ClaS, by successive oxidation. The
 first product actually afforded by the oxidation of sulphydric acid is
sulphurous acid HaS0a, which is produced by the combustion of sul
phydric acid in air or oxygen. Conversely, sulphydric acid may be
obtained by deoxidating sulphurous acid with nascent hydrogen.
Sulphuric acid HaS04, results from the oxidation of sulphurous
acid, and by deoxidation can reproduce that body, as in the ordinary
process for the preparation of sulphurous acid. Here then, includ
ing the chloro-representatives, is a second series of acids associated
with one another by a common increment of composition, and by
mutual    metamorphosis.
      Sulphuric acid HaS04, is the representative on the sulphur series, of
perchloric acid HC104, on the chlorine series. Each contains one
atom of the radicle which gives the special character to the acid, in the
one case chlorine, in the other sulphur. Each contains also four
atoms, or volumes, of oxygen ; but whereas perchloric acid contains
only one atom, or volume, of hydrogen, sulphuric acid contains two
atoms, or two volumes. And this difference in composition leads to a
marked difference in the properties of the two acids. Perchloric acid
HCIO4, has only one atom of hydrogen that can be replaced. Hence it
forms only one description of salt, such, for instance, as perchlorate
of potassium KC104, and only one description of ether, such, for
instance as perchloric ether EtC104. But sulphuric acid has two
hydrogen atoms that can be replaced. Hence it can form acid salts,
neutral salts, double salts, acid ethers, neutral ethers, double ethers,
and saline ethers, as shown in the table.
                      KH    SO, Acid
                        H, S04         sulphate
                                  Sulphuric acid.of potassium.
                        Ka S04 Neutral sulphate of potassium.
                     KNi S04 Potassio-sulphate of nickel.
                      EtH S04 Ethylo-sulphuric acid.
                     EtK
                     ofEtaforming
     This propertyEtMe            Neutral
                            S04 Ethylo-sulphate
                                   acid and
                                          sulphate
                                             double   methyl.
                                                       salts,
                                                        ethyl. and acid and
                                                  ofofpotassium.
double ethers, &c., indicates a fundamental difference in character be
tween sulphuric and perchloric acids, a difference that is satisfactorily
represented by the difference in their formulae as here written

 I860.]                    on Acids and Salts.                          237
 down, HC104, and H2S04. Bibasic characters are manifested as deci
     (y.)
 dedly     the sulphurous
        by There  are fourandother
                                 sulphydric  acids.
                                     binary compounds     of hydrogen, two
volumes of each of which, however, contain three volumes of hydrogen,
namely :
                           HaN Ammonia.
                           HaP Phosphamine.
                           HaAs Arsenamine.
                           HaSb Stibamine.
 When the two volumes of phosphamine, for instance, are acted upon by
 a red hot iron-wire, the phosphorus is absorbed by the iron, and three
volumes of hydrogen gas are liberated. Two volumes of chlorhydric
acid yield one volume of hydrogen ; two volumes of sulphydric acid
yield two volumes of hydrogen, while two volumes of phosphamine
 yield three volumes of hydrogen ; and this is a most important dis
 tinction between the three classes of hydrides to which these three
 gases respectively belong. Again, two volumes of gaseous ammonia,
 when decomposed by the Ruhmkorff spark, become converted into
three volumes of hydrogen and one volume of nitrogen ; or the
     In the
 original   phosphorus
          bulk           series ofbecomes
                of the ammonia              acids there is but one gap, and
                                    oxygen doubled.
this can be filled up by the chlorine-, or the ethyl- representative of the
missing body.
            H„P       Phosphamine                   C1aP     Et„P
            HaPO        Wanting                     ClaPO EtaPO
            HaPOs Hypophosphorous acid
            H„POa Phosphorous acid
             has ascertained
     Brodie HaPO«             that oxichloride
                      Phosphoric   acid          of phosphorus ClaPO, may
be obtained directly by passing oxygen gas through boiling terchloride
of phosphorus, or trichloro-phosphamine C1aP. The union of tri-ethyl
phosphine EtaP, with oxygen, to form the oxide of tri-ethylphosphine
EtaPO, constituted one of Hofmann's earliest experiments on the
phosphorus bases. Proceeding to the actual oxides of phosphamine, it
is doubtful whether hypophosphorous acid HaP0a, has been obtained by
the oxidation of phosphamine ; but, on the other hand, phosphamine
is readily obtainable by deoxidating hypophosphorous acid with
nascent hydrogen ; while by oxidating hypophosphorous acid, phos
phorous and phosphoric acids are successively produced. Phosphorous
acid HaPOa, results from the slow oxidation, and phosphoric, acid
HaP04, from the rapid oxidation of phosphamine. Conversely, phos
phamine may be obtained by the deoxidation of each of the two last-
mentioned acids. Here again then is a series of naturally associated
and mutually convertible bodies, represented by the simplest possible

238                           W. Odling, Esq.                      [March 30,
formulae, by formulae which do not express any speculative view
whatever, but merely indicate the indisputable fact that these bodies,
or their representatives, differ from one another in composition, by
the successive increments of one, two, three, and four oxygen
     Phosphoric acid HaP04, is the representative on the phosphorus series,
atoms.
of sulphuric acid HaS04, on the sulphur series, and of perchloric acid
HC104, on the chlorine series ; but whereas perchloric acid contains only
one atom of hydrogen, and can form only one class of salts and ethers ;
whereas sulphuric acid contains only two atoms of hydrogen, and can
form only two classes of salts and ethers ; phosphoric acid contains three
atoms of hydrogen, and can form three classes of salts and ethers.
One-third, two-thirds, or three-thirds of its hydrogen may be displaced
by a metal or basic radicle, or the hydrogen may be partly or wholly
displaced by two or three different metals, or by two or three different
radicles, or by a mixture of metals and radicles, thus : EtKCuP04,
or H(NH4)NaP04, &c.
   (#.) There is yet another primary hydride to be considered, namely,
that of silicon, the siliciuretted hydrogen of Wohler. The composition
of this body has not been ascertained. It has been ascertained, how
ever, that the substance from which it is obtained by the action of
chlorhydric acid, is a silicide of magnesium, represented by the for
mula Mg4Si, whence the formula of siliciuretted hydrogen is assumed
to be H4Si, analogous to that of marsh gas H4C, a conclusion strongly
confirmed by the composition of chloride of silicon, which is un
doubtedly Cl4Si, that is, a chloro-representative of siliciurretted
hydrogen. Each primary hydride, hitherto considered, has yielded a
remarkably stable acid, formed by the addition of four atoms of
oxygen to the hydride ; and hydride of silicon ought to behave in the
        Sulphydric
        Chlorhydric
same manner,         : acid Hs
                thus acid      H SCI H,  H S   04 Perchloric
                                            C104                  acid.
                                                    Sulphuric acid.
        Phosphamine            Ha P      Ha P 04 Phosphoric acid.
        Hydrideorof
Now whether          Silicon
                   not  H4Si04H4is Si
                                   the correct     Silicic for
                                         H4 Si04formula    acid.silicic acid, it
is certain that the great majority of simple and well-defined silicates
may be referred to that type, as illustrated in the table.
                              ORTHOSILICATES.
        Et4 Si04    Silicic ether.               Gl4 Si04     Phenakite.
        Li4 Si04    Silicate of lithium.         Ce4 Si04     Cerite.
     NajHj Si04     Silicate of sodium.          Fe4 Si04     Fayelite.
        Ca4 Si04    Silicate of calcium.    FejMn, Si04        Knebelite.
       Mg4 Si04     Olivine, Chrysolite.      CusHs Si04      Dioptase.
    Ca,Mg, Si04     Batrachite.               AlsCa Si04      Anorthite.
        Zn4 Si04    Zinc glance.             AlsMn Si04       Karpholite.

  I860.]                      on Acids and Salts.                      239
  This next table illustrates the general relations of the perchloric salts
  and ethers, to their sulphuric, phosphoric, and silicic analogues. The
  existence of the silicated compounds corresponding to the formulae in
  italics, has not yet been established.
                          Acids, Salts, and Ethers.
                HC104 |NaC104
        HCl             [Et C104
                HsS04   fNaaS  04 NaHSO,
        H2S             lEts S 04 Et HSO,
                                   Na4H P 04 Na HaP 04
         HaP HaP04 |NaaP04
                        \EtaP04    Et, H P 04 Et HSP 04
                                   Na^HSiO. NasHaSi 04 NaHaSi 04
         H4Si H4Si04 (Na4Si04
                        [Et4Si04   EtHSiO,                 Etff^iO,
       Considering the relations of ammonia and phosphuretted hydrogen,
   HaN and HaP respectively, and the relations of marsh gas, and sili-
   ciuretted hydrogen, H4C and H4Si respectively, there should exist
   nitrates and carbonates having the general formulae MaN04 and
   M4C04 respectively, corresponding to ordinary phosphates and silicates
   having the general formulae MaP04 and M4Si 04 respectively. It is
   observable, however, that in addition to ordinary phosphates and
   silicates, there are other phosphates and silicates, known respectively
   as metaphosphates and metasilicates, which differ from the ordinary
   salts by the loss of an atom of base, and that it is these metasalts to
   which ordinary nitrates and carbonates correspond, thus :
             Phosphate MaP04— MsO =MPO„ Metaphosphate.
             Silicate                     M NO„ Metasilicate.
                           M4Si04 - M,0 = M,Si0a    Nitrate.
                                          MaC 0„ Carbonate.
        But chemists are acquainted with a considerable number of car
    bonates and nitrates, which may be called orthocarbonates and
    orthonitrates respectively, that do correspond in their formulae with
»   ordinary silicates and phosphates, as shown in the table.
                                Orthocarbonates.
                       Ca4 C04 Dicarbonate of zinc.
                       Zn4                      calcium.
                       Pb4 C04 Dicarbonate of magnesium.
                    MgaH                        lead.
                     PbaH C04 White lead.
                       Cu4 C04 Mysorine.
                     CuaH C04 Azurite.
                     Bi"'H C04 Dicarbonate of bismuth.

240              W. Odling, Esq. on Acids and Salts.         [March 30,
                           Orthonitrates.
                         PbaH N04lf ,      ,
                         HSHNa}ofmercury-
                           present
    The succeeding tables Bi'"      of bismuth.
                               N04lists of the principal ter-oxygen and
tetra-oxygen mineral acids. Some of these acids are known only
through the medium of their metal- and ethyl-representatives.
        Ter-Oxygen Acids.                Tetra-Oxygen Acids.
      Chloric . . . H CI 0a          Perchloric .       . H CI 0.
      Bromic . . . H BrO„            Periodic . . . . H I o«
      Iodic. . , . H I O„            Permanganic . . H Mb ,o4
       Nitric . . . H N O„           Sulphuric . . . HaS o«
      Metaphosphoric H P Oa          Selenic . . . . HsSe ot
       Sulphurous . HSS 0a           Telluric ... . HaT o.
       Selenious . . HaSeOa                                     o.
       Tellurous    . HaT 0„         Molybdic . . . HaMo,o4
      Carbonic . , H,C O„            Vanadic . . . . HaVa o4
      Metasilicic . . Hs Si Oa       Tungstic . . . . HaW, o.
      Titanic . . . HaTiOa           Chromic . . . . HaCra 0.
      Stannic . . . Ha Sn Oa         Manganic . . . HsMn A
      Vanadous . . HaVaOa                              . HaFea o.
      Pnosphorous . H„P O„           Orthonitric . . . H„N o«
      Arsenious . . HaAsOa           Phosphoric . . . HaP o.
      Antimonous . Ha Sb Oa          Arsenic . . . . HaAs o.
      Bismithous . H„ Bi Oa          Antimonic . . . HaSb o«
      Boracic . . . HaB 0a           Orthocarbonic . H4C o4
      Aluminous . . HaAlsOa
    Hence the formula H, Ry Os, will represent the general type for
an acid, where H, represents the atoms of hydrogen, which, save in
carbon compounds, are found to vary only from 1 to 4; where
Rs represents the acid radicle, that is the chlorine, or sulphur, or
phosphorus, or carbon, &c. which gives the special character to the
acid, and which, save in carbon compounds, is usually confined to 1 or
2 elementary atoms ; and where O„ represents the atoms of oxygen
which generally range from 0 to 4, but occasionally extend to higher
numbers.
                                                           [W. 0.]

I860.]                         General Monthly Meeting.                                          241
                   GENERAL         Monday,MONTHLY              MEETING,
                                                  April 2, 1860.
 William Pole, Esq. M. A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                  George BowdlerinBuckton,     the Chair. Esq. F.R.S. F.L.S. F.C.S.
                  Arthur Cohen, Esq. B.A. and
were duly elected           Members
                  John Wyatt,          Esq.of Busk,
                                 Stephen                 Esq. Institution.
                                                 the Royal      and
wereThe    Special Members
       admitted        ThanksJohn  of oftheCharles
                                            the
                                             Members
                                                  Royal   were
                                                           Institution.
                                                       Salt,     returned to M. Rouland,
                                                               Esq.
the French Minister of Public Instruction, for his Present, on behalf
of the French Government, of the following Forty-nine Volumes :—
      Documents inédits sub L'Histoire de France :
     Toulouse.
Histoire             Ed. Michel.
          de la Guerre        de Navarre4to. en1856.1276 et 1277, par Guillaume Anelier de
     Aug. des
Recueils          Monuments
             Thierry.             1, 2,l'Histoire
                           Vols. de                     Tiers Etat. (Region du Nord.) Ed.
                                          3. 4to. du1850-6.
Mélanges Historiques. Ed. Champollion-Figeac. Vols. 3, 4. 4to. 1847-8.
     Vol.des2. Rois,
Lettres              Reines, &c. de
                 (1301-1515.)                1847.et d'Angleterre. Ed. Champollion-Figeac.
                                    4to.France
     1610.)
Lettres  Missives        Henri IV. Ed. Berger de Xivrey. Vols. 4, 5, 6, 7. (1593-
                 4to.de 1848-58.
     Vol. 1,2, 3,Administrative
Correspondance        4. 4to. 1851-5.    sous le Règne de Louis XIV. Ed. G. B. Depping.
Papiers
     4to.d'Etat
Lettres        Cardinal
                   de Cardinal
          de 1850-52.      de Richelieu.
                                  de Granvelle.        Avenel.
                                                  Ed. Ed.          Vols.Vols.
                                                           Ch. Weiss.                       (1563-5.))
                                                                           1, 2,7, 8,3. 9. (1608-30
     4to. 1853-8.
Chronique     de Religieux de St. Denys. (1380-1422.) Ed. Bellaguet. Vol. 6.
     4to. de
Mémoires         Claude Haton. Ed. F. Bourquelot. 2 vols. 4to. 1857.
             1852.
Mémoires Militaires rclatifsà la Succession d'Espagne. Vols. 7 (et Atlas), 8, 9, 10.
Li Livres
     Beugnot.
     4to. de
LesOlim:      ouJostice
                  Registres
             1843-59.
                   Vol. 3.et de
                             Partie
                              desPlet.
                                    Arrets
                                      2. Ed.  rendus
                                            4to.   18+8.
                                                      par la Cour
                                                P. Chabaille.            Roi. (1312-18.) Ed.
                                                               . 4to.du 1850.
Procès des Templiers. Ed. Michelet. Vol. 2. 4to. 1851.
Privilèges accordés à la Couronne de France par le Saint-Siège. (1224-1622.)
     Ed. A. Tardif. 4to. 1855.

                                   General Monthly Meeting.                                       [April 2,
Negotiations de la France avec la Toscane. Ed. A. Des Jardins. Vol. 1. 4to.
      1849. de la France dans le Levant. Ed. CharrUres. Vols. 1, 2, 3. (1515-80.)
Negotiations
     1848-53.
Cartnlaire de Notre-Dame de Paris. Ed. Guerard. 4 vol. 4to. 1850-7.
Cartulaire de l'Abbaye de St. Victor de Marseille. Ed. Guerard. 2 vols. 4to.
      1857. de Sevigny et d'Ainay. Ed. A. Bernard. 2 vols. 4to. 1853-6.
Cartulaires
Archives
Cartulaire
Jean   Palsgrave
             dedeRheims.
                   l'Abbaye
                       : Eclaircissement
                                 de Beaulieu
                                Ed.  P. Varin.de
                                               en Vol.
                                                   la
                                                   Limousin.
                                                         3, Partie
                                                       Langue     Francaise
                                                                   Ed2. Deloche.
                                                                           Vols.(1530)
                                                                                   2, 3.4to.; 4tosuivie
                                                                                                    1848-53.
                                                                                                   1859. de le
     Grammaire
     The     Presents de Giles  received
                                   du Guez. since
                                                Ed.F.        last Meeting
                                                      theGenin.     4to. 1852.were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
   From
Board    of Trade4to.
     Papers.                1860.Admiral Fitzroy)—Fourth Number of the Meteorological
                     (through
Colonial
     1857.Secretary
Secretary    for4to.India—Bombay
                          1858.
                          of New Zealand—-Dr.
                                           MagneticalHochstetter's      Lecture onObservations
                                                           and Meteorological            the Geologyfor     of
     the Province of Nelson, fol. 1859.
Boosey,
Bombay
Astronomical
Arts,
Asiatic
Botfield,
     Patrick
       Society
          Society,
          Medical
          Messrs.
            Beriah,
                 Gordon,
                  Society,
                  of—Journal
                      (the
                       Royal—Journal,
                        and
                         Esq.Publishers)—The
                              of
                               Royal—Proceedings,
                                M.P.
                                 Auchleuchries.
                                    for F.R.S.
                             Physical   March
                                         Society—Transactions,
                                             Vol.M.R.I.—Passages
                                                 1860.
                                                  XVII.
                                                   Musical
                                                    (ad.No.8vo.
                                                             Part
                                                             1635-99.)
                                                              World
                                                               4. 2.8vo.
                                                                       for
                                                                     New  from
                                                                        8vo.4to.
                                                                            Series,
                                                                            March
                                                                            1860.
                                                                                1860.
                                                                                 the1859.
                                                                                      1Diary
                                                                                        860.4. of
                                                                                      No.          4to.
                                                                                                     General
                                                                                                  8vo.   1859.
     andSir
Brodie,         B. C. Bart.
            Surgery.                 1846.R.S. M.R.I, {the Author)— Lectures on Pathology
                            8vo. Pres.
  Pathological
     1850. on the
  Lectures           andDiseases
                           SurgicalofObservations
                                         the UrinaryonOrgans.
                                                            Diseases4th    the Joints.
                                                                       of ed.     8vo. 1 849. 5th ed. 8vo.
Civil14,Engineers,
Chemical        16, 17.
           15,Society—Journal,
                        Institute
                             8vo. of—Minutes
                                      1848-58.
                                      No. 48. 8vo.        1860.
                                                   of Proceedings,       Vols. 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13,
Editors—Artizan, for March 1860. 4to.
  Athenaeum for March 1860. 4to.
  Engineer for March 1860. fol.
  Horological Journal, No. 19. 8vo. 1860.
  Journal of Gas-Lighting for March 1860. 4to.
  Mechanics' Magazine for March 1860. 8vo.
  Medical Circular for March 1860. 8vo.
  Practical Mechanics' Journal for March 1860. 4to.
     Measurement
Everest,    Col. G. of    F.R.S.
                             Two Sections
                                      M.R.I.—Rectification
                                              of the MeridionalofArc       of India. 8vo.
                                                                       Logarithmic        Errors 1860. in the
Faraday, Professor, D. C.L. F.R.S.—Kbnigliche Preussischen Akademie, Berichte,
     Jan. 1860.
Forrester,   J. J. Esq. 8vo.M.R.I. (the Author)—On Port Wine. 8vo. 1860.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIX. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1860.
Geological Institute of Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1859. No. 3. 4to.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. IV. No. 1. 8vo. 1860.
Goodchild, Thos. Esq. (the Author)—Description of his Trocheidoscope. 16to. 1860.
Granville, A. B. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.—The Mineral Springs of Vichy. 8vo. 1859.
Groombridge, Messrs. (the Publishers)—S. J. Mackie : First Traces of Life ou the
     Earth ; or the Fossils of the Bottom Rocks. 16to. 1860.

I860.]        F. A. Abel, Esq. on Applications of Science, fyc.                 243
Halls, John James, Esq. (the Author)—Two Months in Arrah, in 1857. 16to. 1860.
Linnean Society—Proceedings. Supplement to Botany, Vol. IV. 8vo. 1860.
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S.(the Editor)—The Geologist, March, 1860.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for March 1860. 8vo.
North, John, Esq. M.E.I.—Lucan's Pharsalia, by N. Rowe. fol. 1718.
Novello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for March 1860. 4to.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographie. 1860. Heft 2, 3. 4to. Gotha, 1860.
Photographic
Royal           Society—Journal,
       Society.—Descriptive        No. 95. of8vo.
                                Catalogue           1860. in the possession of the
                                               the Portraits
     Eoyal Society, by C. R. Weld. 8vo. 1860.
Slurz, J. J. Esq. (the Author)—On Emigration to Canada. 8vo. 1860.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1860.
     Dec.zur1859.
 Vereins            WEEKLY
                    4to. deaFriday,
              Beforderung      Gewerbfleisses
                                    EVENING
                                       Aprilin20,    1860.
                                                      MEETING,
                                                 Preussen—Verhandlungen,   Nov. und
      Sir Henrt Holland, Bart. M.D. F.K.S. Vice-President,
                                        the Chair.M.D. F.L.S.
                      T. SpencerinCobbold,
      On the Scope and Tendency of the Natural History Sciences.
[Dr. Cobbold, in consequence of illness, was prevented from giving
                     Philip
        Colonel WEEKLY         abstract
                               James
                           anFriday,EVENING
                                       April
                                         Yorke,
                                          of his27, F.R.S.
                                                      1860.
                                                      MEETING,
                                                  discourse.]Vice-President,
                                     A.the
                                 F. in        Chair.
                                          Abel,    Esq.
             DIRECTOR OF THE CHEMICAL ESTABLISHMENT OF THE WAR DEPARTMENT.
 On recent Applications of Science, in reference to the Efficiency and
 Some introductory remarks Welfare of    Military
                                       were             illustrative of the very
                                               offeredForces.
 numerous and important improvements which had taken place within
 the last few years in almost everything connected with the efficiency,

244           Mr. F. A. Abel, on Applications of Science          [April 27,
comfort, and general welfare of the soldier, and which had been
effected by the successful adaptations made, from time to time, of dis
     The general
coveries            introductioninof
           and improvements           rifled small-arms
                                    applied  sciences. ; the great perfection
and saving of cost attained in the manufacture of all implements of
war ; the employment of electric telegraphs in the field, may be
quoted as examples of important results completely or partially
     One even
attained   of the   most the
                 during       late war.subjects in connection with military
                           important
equipment, and one which has recently received a very large share of
general attention, relates to the changes which have gradually been
effected in the nature of material, and the principles of construction,
     Untiltovery
applied           recently theofmaterials
             the production       cannon. used for cannon have been only
of two kinds ; cast iron and bronze, or rather the alloy of copper and
     known
tin, Of          gun-metal.
        these,asthe  latter is by far the most ancient. Guns were cast of
bronze in France and Germany about 1370, and from that period until
the close of the 15th century, this material gradually replaced wrought
iron, of which guns were constructed in the first instance. An ex
amination of such iron guns, of early date, as are still in existence
(such as the Mons Meg, of Scotland, the great gun of Ghent, and
others), shows that the principles involved in their general construc
tion are precisely those which have just been most successfully applied
to the production of wrought iron rifled guns in this country. Those
ancient guns were built up of stave-bars arranged longitudinally, upon
which wrought iron rings were shrunk. The very imperfect nature of
those structures, arising from the primitive condition of mechanical
and metallurgic appliances at that early period, rendered their dura
bility exceedingly uncertain ; and it is therefore not surprising to find
that compound guns of this class were gradually replaced by cannon
cast in one piece. Even the great expense of bronze, as compared
with iron, was counterbalanced by the vast amount of time and labour
which must have been bestowed on the construction of the old wrought-
      guns.
ironAlthough     cast iron was applied to the production of shot and other
projectiles at the close of the 14th century, it was not until about 1660
that cannon were made of this material. In proportion as the facility
of its production increased, its application in this direction was
gradually extended ; but in no country has it ever entirely superseded
bronze or gun-metal, which, on account of its superior tenacity, has
always been employed for the construction of light field-guns. This
alloy possesses, however, some very serious defects, arising principally
out of its softness and its consequent incapacity to resist the injurious
effects of rapid firing. Numerous experiments have been made with
alloys of copper, and, recently, with other combinations of that metal,
with the object of discovering some material, at least equal to gun-
metal in tenacity, and superior to it in hardness and also in uniformity.

1 860.]    to the Efficiency and Welfare of Military Forces.          245
Alloys of copper and aluminium have been proposed ; but, apart from
the present great cost of aluminium, the readiness with which this
metal is attacked by alkaline substances, and the powerful corrosive
action which portions of the products of decomposition of powder con
sequently exert upon it, preclude its application to the production of
a substitute for gun-metal. The effect of silicon in hardening and
greatly increasing the tenacity of copper has also received attention ;
and there appears little doubt that, the difficulty of producing on a
large scale an uniform compound of copper and silicon once overcome,
such a material would prove a most valuable substitute for bronze.
The effects of a small quantity of phosphorus upon copper are similar
to those of silicon ; the metal is greatly hardened, its uniformity may
be ensured, and its tenacity is also much increased. Copper containing
from two to four per cent. of phosphorus will resist a strain of from
48,000 to 50,000 pounds on the, square inch, while the average strain
borne by gun-metal is about 35,000 pounds. Uniform compounds of
phosphorus and copper can, moreover, be prepared without difficulty
upon a large scale. By immersing pieces of phosphorus for a short
time in a solution of sulphate of copper they become coated with a
film of the metal, so that they may be safely handled, and thrust
beneath the surface of liquid copper before the coating melts ; thus,
    phosphorus
the The          is readily
         great success      combined
                        which  has recently
                                      with the
                                            attended   without
                                               copperthe       loss.
                                                          construction  of
malleable iron guns, appears, however, to render it doubtful whether any
of the compounds above referred to, or others of a similar character,
will ever receive employment as materials for cannon. Attempts have
been made from time to time, for many years past, to produce forgings
of malleable iron of sufficient size for conversion into cannon. The
great difficulty of ensuring anything approaching uniformity of
chemical composition and physical properties in cast iron, and the
consequent great variation and uncertainty of the enduring power of
guns made of that material, acted as powerful incentives for the prose
cution of such experiments. Experience gained during the recent war
 was also unfavourable, partly to the employment of cast -iron as the
 material for the heaviest pieces of ordnance, and partly to the system
 of casting these hitherto in use. An important series of experiments
 recently carried on under the United States' Government, with refer
 ence to the application of cast iron for the production of cannon, had
 furnished many valuable results ; and the continuation of these experi
 ments and enquiries, both in America and in this country, appeared to
 promise considerable improvements in the general quality and uni
 formity of cast-iron cannon. Meanwhile, however, the importance of
securing, without loss of time, more uniformly durable guns, to which
the principle of rifling could be applied with greater security than to
cast iron, became an additional inducement for the renewal of experi
ments with the view of producing wrought iron cannon of large
     The attempts made by Nasmyth and others to produce large
calibre.
     Voi» III.    (No. 32.)                                      s

246        Mr. F. A. Abel, on the Application of Science                  [April 27,
forgings, sufficiently perfect for conversion into cannon, were, however,
uniformly attended with failure, excepting in the instance of a very
large gun (13 in. calibre), constructed at the Mersey Company's works,
which has successfully withstood some severe trials, though even this
gun is not a perfectly sound forging throughout. This want of suc
cess is ascribed partly to the difficulty of ensuring perfect welds
throughout a very large forging, and partly to a change which is
gradually effected in the physical structure of the metal, by its repeated
exposure to a high temperature, and possibly also, in some measure, by
 its frequent subjection to powerful concussion. In large masses of
 wrought iron, which have been built up by welding, the fibrous struc
 ture of the metal is always found to have passed over, more or less
 perfectly, into a lamellar structure, and the strength of the mass thus
      Whilevery
 becomes          considerably
              unsuccessful         diminished.
                               attempts    to construct cannon of large masses of
 malleable iron were still in progress, Mr. Mallet, Captain Blakeley,
 and others, who had given the subject of the construction of cannon
 of large size their serious attention, and had applied mathematical
 reasoning to its elucidation, had arrived at the conclusion that the true
 system to be followed was that of constructing cannon of several parts,
 combined in such a manner as to render every portion of the metal
 available in resisting, by its tenacity and elasticity, the strain exerted
 upon the gun by the explosion of powder. The method of construction
 proposed by those gentlemen consisted in preparing, in the first in
 stance, cylinders (or rings, to be afterwards braced together), and in
 shrinking upon these, other rings, of which the internal diameter was
 somewhat less than the external diameter of the first rings or the
 cylinder. The latter are thus placed in a state of compression, while
 the external rings are in a state of tension. Other rings are again
 shrunk upon the outer ones, according to the size of the gun and the
 strain which it has to bear. In this way, the whole of the metal com
 posing a heavy gun or mortar is arranged in a condition most favour
 able to the effectual resistance of a sudden strain applied from the
 interior. A gun constructed on this plan, by Captain Blakeley, has
 exhibited very great enduring powers. Two enormous mortars have
 also been constructed by Mr. Mallet on the same principle ; and,
 although the trials with one of these were only partially successful,
 the correctness of the principles above referred to were in no way im
      The by
 pugned        the results
            methods          obtained.*
                       adopted    for the production of the beautiful rifle-gun
     * In referring
 invented              someArmstrong,
             by Sirto W.     photographic illustrations
                                             which is rapidly
                                                        of the construction   Mallet's
                                                                 replacingofthe   old
 mortar, allusion was made to the very numerous applications which the photo
 graphic art now received to military purposes ; being not only employed as the
 best means of recording the results of experiments, but also furnishing the most
 ready and effective method of communicating to military authorities at a distance
 any changes introduced in the nature and arrangements of military equipments, or
 of giving instruction in points of drill, &c.

  I860.]      to the Efficiency and Welfare of Military Forces.            247
 bronze field guns, afford an interesting illustration of the application
 of the above system to the construction of very light and durable
 cannon. This gun consists essentially of rings, partly welded together
 so as to produce a cylinder or barrel of sufficient length, and partly
 shrunk one upon another, so as to impart the requisite strength to the
 structure. The rings themselves are from two to three feet in length,
 and are formed out of long bars, which are coiled up, when at a red
 heat, into spiral tubes, and afterwards welded into solid rings or tubes,
 by a few blows from the steam-hammer, applied to one end of the
 heated coil, while in a vertical position. The rings are united, to
 form the barrel of the gun, by raising to a welding heat the closely
 proximate extremities of two rings, placed end to end, and then ap
 plying a powerful pressure to the cold ends of the rings. In the large
 guns, a second layer of rings is shrunk on to the first set, or barrel,
 throughout the length ; but in the smaller guns, it is only behind the
 trunnions that two additional rings are shrunk on, one over the other.
 The outer ring is exactly like those already described ; but the inter
 mediate one is prepared by bending two iron slabs into a semi-cylindri
 cal form, and then welding them together at the edges. In this way,
 a cylinder is obtained in which the fibre of the iron is arranged longi
 tudinally instead of transversely, as in the other rings. This arrange
 ment is adopted, because that part of the gun has to sustain the prin
 cipal force of the thrust upon the breech, on the discharge. It is into
 this portion that the breech-screw (made of steel) fits, by means of
 which a moveable plug of steel, provided with a soft copper washer,
is pressed up against the end of the barrel, when the gun has been
loaded. The breech-screw being hollow, the charge is introduced
     This itgun,
through             the up
              intobuilt gun,ofon
                               so the
                                  many  piecesof
                                      removal     the plug.welded and turned
                                                accurately
and fitted, with its 30 or 40 grooves, its neat lever-arrangement for
 working the breech-screw, its admirable sights for giving direction,
and various other arrangements, contrived so as to render it a most
complete and perfect weapon, is undoubtedly very costly as compared
with the ordinary cast-iron gun. But, owing to the admirable system
bearmanufacture
of                   and the beautiful
      upon the production       of each part,
                                          mechanical
                                              the original
                                                       appliances  brought
                                                           cost of the      to
                                                                       gun has
already been very much diminished ; on comparing the price of a
 12-pounder gun with that of a bronze gun of the same calibre, which
it has now superseded, the latter is found to be about double the
expense. The price of iron used for the manufacture of the Arm
strong gun is £19 per ton ; it is the best description of malleable iron,
bearing a tensile strain of about 74,000 pounds on the square inch.
The present cost of a 12-pounder gun (weighing 8 cwt.) is about £93.
The value of gun-metal is about £\25 per ton ; and the cost of a
12-pounder gun of this material (weighing 19 cwt.) is £175. 10*.
Of the latter, it may be said, that when no longer serviceable it may be
re-cast, while an old Armstrong gun cannot be re-converted into a
new one. But, on the other hand, the average number of rounds

   248        Mr. F. A. Abel, on the Application of Science          [April 27,
   which can be fired from the old gan before it is unserviceable, scarcely
   exceeds 1000, while the limit to the powers of endurance of the
   Armstrong gun is not yet known. Between 5000 and 6000 rounds
        been fired
   haveWhile          important
               thesefrom   one, without
                                   resultsany
                                           have
                                              vital injury
                                                  been     to the with
                                                        obtained  gun. guns of
  wrought iron, built up of rings, others, scarcely less valuable, have
  attended the application of materials, varying in their nature between
  steel and malleable iron, to the production of light guns, cast in one
  piece. M. Krupp, of Essen, was the first to produce masses of cast
  steel of sufficient size for conversion into cannon. A 12-pounder gun,
  cast of this material, was experimented upon in this country several
  years ago, and exhibited the most extraordinary powers of endurance,
  having withstood the heaviest proofs without bursting. Similarly good
  results were obtained with cast steel in France and Germany, and it is
  now applied to the construction of the rifled field guns in Prussia.
  A cast material, somewhat similar in character to this steel of M.
  Krupp, and to which the name of homogeneous iron has been given,
  has recently received most successful application in the hands of Mr.
  Whitworth, not only to the production of the barrels for his rifle-small-
  arms, but also to the manufacture of his beautiful rifle-cannon. The
 smaller cannon are cast in one piece, and then forged to the required
 form. The heavy guns (80 and 100-pounders) consist, however, of
 cylinders of homogeneous iron— upon which hoops of fibrous iron are
 forced by hydraulic pressure, the breech-portion receiving hoops of
 puddled steel. The small Whitworth guns undoubtedly possess the
 great advantage of simplicity of construction over the compound guns
 just described ; but the present great expense of the material gives
 the latter the advantage in point of cost. There can be little doubt,
 however, that the facilities for obtaining products of this description
 will increase with the demand"; and there appears no reason why the
 process of Mr. Bessemer, which has recently been applied with great
 success to the conversion of iron of good chemical quality into excel
 lent cast steel, upon a very considerable scale, should not be resorted
 to for the production, at a moderate cost, of masses of cast steel, or a
 material of a similar character, of sufficient size for conversion into
 cannon of all sizes but those of the heaviest calibre, which it will per
 haps always be found most advantageous to construct of several
      Theupon
pieces,         the principles
           improvements      effected
                                just now
                                      in the  construction
                                          referred  to.     of fire-arms have
rendered indispensable a careful revision of the descriptions of gun
powder hitherto used, which has already led to the modification of
several important points in the manufacture of powder, whereby a
greater uniformity in the action of the latter is ensured, and its explo
sion is regulated with special regard to the double work which it now
has to perform in the greater number of rifled arms, namely that of
propelling the projectile, and of expanding it into the grooves of the
rifle.The necessity of affording assistance to the removal from the gun

I860.]     to the Efficiency and Welfare of Military Forces.             249
of the residue left on the discharge of powder, the escape of which is
to a great extent prevented by the destruction of windage in the rifle-
gun, has led to the introduction of lubricating materials which are
placed in the gun, together with the charge of powder, in the form of
plugs or wads of the materials only, or of hemp, or sawdust, saturated
with the fatty matter. In the case of rifled small-arms, the lubricant
has to be applied to the exterior of that portion of the cartridge-paper
which surrounds the bullets, and considerable difficulty was experienced
in the first instance, in the selection of a suitable material for this pur
pose. Tallow was first employed, in admixture with sufficient beeswax
to harden it somewhat, and enable it to resist the effects of warm
climates. It was found, however, that the tallow, penetrating the
paper, soon established a corrosive action upon the surface of the lead,
which proceeded occasionally to such an extent as to cover the bullet
with a hard coating of compounds of oxide of lead, thus increasing its
diameter so greatly as to render its introduction into the barrel im
possible. Many materials were tried, as substitutes for tallow, which
did not possess a tendency to promote the corrosion of lead, and
eventually beeswax, used alone, was found not only to protect the
metal, but also to act as a most efficient lubricator in small arms, and
to possess great permanence in all climates. In discontinuing the use
of tallow, it was also found indispensable to avoid the use of any
alterable oils as lubricators in the bullet-making machines, as the small
film of oil remaining on the lead, was found in many instances suffi
cient to establish a rapid corrosion of the metal. Such an occurrence
is now avoided by the use as lubricant for the machines, of the neutral
and permanent oil prepared by Price's Candle Company from JRangoon
     Considerable attention has been devoted in different continental
Petroleum.
states, during the last few years, to the application of the different
forms of electricity to the discharge of mines. The many serious in
conveniences, attending the employment of voltaic batteries for that
purpose in the field have led to the use, with considerable success, of the
arrangements contrived by Ruhmkorff and others for the production of
powerful electro-magnetic currents. The epplication of the induction-
coil machine, with appropriate fuse-arrangements for the ignition of the
mine by means of the spark, led to a very great reduction in the size
of the battery required even for extensive operations. The necessity,
however, of still using a battery, and the great liability to injury of
the induction-apparatus, have rendered the advantage to be attained by
their employment somewhat questionable. In Austria, very important
results are said to have been obtained by the employment of frictional
 in the place of voltaic electricity. A very portable arrangement of a
 plate-electric machine, with Leyden jars, and a small stove to protect
the apparatus from damp, has been employed with success in some ex
 tensive operations, as many as one hundred charges having been fired
 simultaneously by its means. Professor Wheatstone and Mr. Abel
 have carried on numerous experiments on the application of electricity

250          Mr. F. A. Abel, on the Application of Science          [April 27,
in this direction ; and, at the suggestion of the former, attempts were
 made to employ the electricity obtained, by induction, from permanent
magnets. No difficulty was experienced in igniting a single charge
by its agency ; but it was found that the ignition of more than one
charge could not be effected with certainty, by the employment even
of the most powerful magnets and the use of fuses containing very
sensitive compositions. Eventually, a fuse-arrangement was contrived
and a composition prepared, by Mr. Abel, with the employment of
which the ignition of several mines could be effected with certainty,
by means of one of the small magnetic arrangements employed by Mr.
Wheatstone in his portable telegraphs ; and an ingenious combination
of several such magnets, arranged in a form very portable and readily
worked by any soldier, can be applied with equal certainty to the dis
charge of a considerable number of mines. The great element of
success in the fuse-composition employed, is to be found in the circum
stance that it combines a high degree of sensitiveness with considerable
conducting power. The substitution of the magnet for the voltaic and
other arrangements hitherto used will greatly facilitate mining opera
tions ; the soldier requires but little instruction in its use ; with ordinary
care it is not liable to derangement ; it is very transportable, and ready
     application
for In            at the
         connection        submarine
                     withshortest notice.operations, vulcanised india-rubber
bags have become valuable substitutes for the wooden and metal re
ceptacles hitherto employed for the charges of powder. The numerous
applications which india-rubber, especially in its vulcanised form, now
receives in connection with military equipment, render it a most indis
pensable material. Thus, it has been applied to the preparation of
waterproof linings for powder-barrels, waterproof cases for cartridges,
convenient holders and waterproof coatings for percussion caps ; it is
used in the form of springs and buffers in connection with gun-carriages
and the beds of heavy mortars ; ambulance waggons are supplied with
efficient and easily applicable springs of india-rubber ; and one of the
most important additions recently made to the comfort of troops has
been the general supply to them, when on active service, of waterproof
     The protection
clothing                  be used in camp.
          and covers,oftocamp-erections     from fire has also received atten
tion with successful results. A cheap and ready mode of applying a
coating of insoluble silicate of lime and soda to the surfaces of camp-
huts, whereby very important protection against fire is attained, received
application a few years ago ; and quite recently a method has been
devised by Mr. Abel of impregnating tent-cloth with silicates, to such
an extent as effectually to prevent fire from spreading, when applied
to any portion of it, and in such a form as to enable them to resist the
     The effect
solvent         of drenching
           application        rains. silicates to the preparation of very
                        of soluble
porous artificial stone has enabled Mr. Ransome to produce portable
filters, by the aid of which the soldier may frequently be enabled to
partake of water, which otherwise would be unfit for use. A still

I860.]      to the Efficiency and Welfare of Military Forces.          251
more efficient portable filter is now, however, prepared of carbon in
a porous condition, which not only has the property of retaining
the mechanical impurities of water, in its passage through it, but also
will purify it to a very considerable extent from injurious organic
    One ofthe
matters         mostwhich
         and gases          it may
                     important      contain. which have yet been effected
                                 improvements
in the purification of water, and one which has already received import
ant application in connection with the military service, is presented in
the apparatus contrived by Dr. Normandy for the preparation of whole
some and pleasant water from sea or other water unfit for consumption.
The apparatus consists, in the first instance, of a great improvement
on the condensing arrangement contrived by Sir T. Grant, which has
been for some time used in the navy. The heat abstracted from the
steam first consumed is applied to the distillation of a second similar
quantity of water, and the arrangement employed for condensing this
second product is of such a nature as to ensure a very gradual but
continuous replacement of the condensing water. In this manner the
latter becomes sufficiently heated, before it passes out of the apparatus,
to part with the gases which it contains in solution, and which are
made to pass into the distilling apparatus and mix with the steam.
The condensed product is thus thoroughly aerated ; it is then, finally,
made to pass through a charcoal filter, which completely deprives it of
the disagreeable empyreumatic flavour always possessed by distilled
water. Independently of the applications which this apparatus is
receiving to the supply of ships with water, it has proved very valuable
in readily and continuously producing large quantities of wholesome
water for the supply of troops at stations where the only water pro
    The was
curable       unfit forsubject
          important             of the economical supply of well-cooked
                         consumption.
and palatable food to troops in barracks and on active service, which
had been considerably neglected previous to the late war, has received
great attention on the part of Captain Grant, and the results of his
labours in this direction have been the production of most efficient
cooking-ranges for barracks, and equipments for cooking in the field.
By the employment of the range, with oven attached, which has been
contrived by him, and is used at Aldershot, "Woolwich, and other
military stations, the cost of cooking for a large number of troops
(800 to 1000 being supplied with food from one range) has been
reduced to one halfpenny per man per week ; and by further improve
 ments, which Captain Grant is just carrying out, it will still be
subject to considerable reduction. The food is, at the same time,
cooked in various ways by means of the oven and other appli
ances. An arrangement has been devised by Captain Grant, and
used by troops with great success, for cooking in the field, in long
cylindrical boilers, which are so disposed over trenches dug for the
purpose that, with a very small consumption of fuel, well-cooked
food may be supplied from eight of them, in between two and three
hours, sufficient for 800 men. These kettles- are of such a form that

252                            Annual Meeting.                            [May 1,
they may also be made to serve the purpose of pontoons in the con
     The subjects
struction           briefly discussed in this discourse can only be regarded
            of bridges.
as examples of the many directions in which every branch of science
has recently received application in connection with the military
William
     The Annual
service.              Esq.ANNUAL
             Pole, Report   M.A.
                           Tuesday,
                               ofin the
                                     the
                                      F.R.S.
                                        May
                                         Committee
                                         Chair.
                                          MEETING,1860.of Visitors
                                              1,Treasurer         [F.forA.theA.]
                                                           and Vice-President,year
       wasstatement
 1859The                   Sums Received shows a steady and gradual
             read and ofadopted.
increase in the yearly income. The amount of Annual Contributions
of Members and Subscribers in 1859 amounted to £2140. 19*. 0d.,
the Receipts from Subscriptions to Lectures were £883. 1 Is. 6d. ; the
total Annual Income amounted to £5440. 6*. 5d. : each amount
     Onmore
 being         than had
         December    31, 1859,
                          been the
                                received
                                     Funded   any previous
                                           in Property        year.
                                                         was £26,583.    14*. Id. ;
and the Balance £1157. 15*. 2d., with Six Exchequer Bills of £100
         There
each.A List      BooksnoPresented,
              of were      Liabilities.amounting in number to 243 volumes,
accompanies the Report; making, with those purchased by the
Managers and Patrons, a total of 670 volumes added to the Library
     Thanks
in the  year. were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary,
to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor Faraday,
     their following
for The    services toOfficers
                        the Institution
                                were unanimously
                                          during the past    year.
                                                        elected for the ensuing
year :—
      President—The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
      Treasurer—William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
      Secretary—Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.

I860.]       Dr. Lankester, on Bread-Making and Baking.                    253
                                   Managers.
The Lord Ashburton, D.C.L. F.E.S.          Henry Bence Jones, M.D. F.R.S.
John J. Bigsby, M.D. F.G.S.                Sir Roderick I. Mnrchison, G.C.S.
George Dodd, Esq. F.S.A.                     D.C.L. F.R.S.
Colonel George Everest, F.E.S.             Frederick Pollock, Esq. M.A.
Sir Charles Fellows, F.G.S.                Lewis Powell, M.D. F.S.A.
John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D.F.R.S.     The Duke ofWellington, K.G.D.C.L.
Wm. R. Grove, Esq. M.A. Q.C. F.R.S.       Charles Wheatstone, Esq. F.E.S.
Sir Charles Hamilton, Bart. C.B.          Colonel Philip James Yorke, F.R.S.
                                   Visitors.
BeriahBotneld, Esq. M.P. F.E.S.F.S.A.      Sir Walter Charles James, Bart.
John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.                Edmund Macrory, Esq. M.A.
George Busk, Esq. F.E.S. F.L.S.            James Nasmyth, Esq.
Rev. Charles John Fynes Clinton, M.A.      Henry Minchin Noad, Esq. F.E.S.
William Gaussen, Esq.                      Matthew Noble, Esq.
Gordon Willoughby James Gyll, Esq.         Henry Pemberton, Esq.
Eev. Ernest Hawkins,  B.D. Friday,
                  WEEKLY             May Alexander
                                EVENING         MEETING,
                                           4, 1860.   Shaw, Esq.
Alexander Henderson, M.D. F.S.A.
William Robert         Grove,
                   Edwin     Lankester,
                                 in
                                  Esq.
                                    theM.A.  M.D.
                                        Chair.       F.E.S. Vice-President,
                                               Q.C. F.R.S.
                      On Bread-Making and Baking.
The speaker stated that the principal object he had in view in deliver
ing the discourse was to answer the question so often put as to what was
" aerated bread." Bread, as used at table, assumed two forms depend
ent on its preparation, vesiculated and unvesiculated. The latter is
known under the name of unleavened bread, and consists of such pre
parations of flour as biscuits, passover cakes, &c. Vesiculated bread is
prepared in two ways, either by fermentation or aeration. In all cases
fermented bread is made from the flour of wheat, or a mixture of this
with the meal or flour of other grain. Barley, oats, maize, rye, will
not alone make fermented bread. The meal of these grains is added
     Wheatenflour,
to wheaten            is made
                flourwhen  they are
                                 frommade
                                       the into  bread.
                                            grains   of wheat, which are the

254                         Dr. E. Lankester,                             [May 4,
fruit of the plant. Six layers of cellular tissue were described between
the albumen or perisperm of the seed, and the outside of the grain :—
1 . The epicarp ; 2. The sarcocarp ; 3. The endocarp—(these belong
to the fruit ; 4. The testa of the seed ; 5. A secondary membrane ;
6. The covering of the perisperm. These layers constitute the bran,
which is separated from the fine flour. They contain the same chemi
cal constituents as the flour, and, so far from being objectionable, are
a desirable addition to the flour. The gluten of the flour is represented
in the bran by a principle, called by its discoverer cerealin. Like
gluten, it acts as a ferment ; but its power in this respect is said to be
destroyed at a temperature of 150° Fahr. It is soluble in cold water,
and in that state acts as a ferment. Bran tea accelerates the changes
of fermentation. It is this agent, which during tha fermentation of
bread gives the brown colour to meal bread. Twenty-one ounces of
wheat yield five ounces of bread, and sixteen ounces of fine flour. One
pound of flour contains
                                          .    .     .     2i ozs.
                                          .   ..     *.    94i 99
                                                                 91
                                          .   .      .     1     99
                                          .     .     .      i »
                                                                 99
                                               .    .        i 99
                                              .     .        i 99
     The gluten and albumen are flesh-forming substances, sugar and
starch heat-giving. In the making of fermented bread, yeast is added
to the flour, and the gluten is put into a state of change, but not de
composed. A small portion of the starch is converted into glucose,
which is decomposed, and alcohol formed, and carbonic acid produced.
The carbonic acid gas escaping from the mass vesiculates the bread.
The quantity of starch changed in this process is very small. It is
expressed by the quantity of carbonic acid gas necessary for the vesi-
culation of the bread, as little or none of this gas escapes in the rising
of the bread. The conversion of starch into glucose during the fer
mentation of the bread does not appear to be greater than is necessary
to form the carbonic acid for vesiculation. The starch during fer
mentation acquires the power of being more quickly converted into
glucose and its subsequent products, than when heated and not exposed
to this process. This is probably the great peculiarity of fermented
    When
bread,       the starch more
        that the         of wheat
                               rapidly
                                    haspasses
                                         already        a state of
                                                 intoacquired       change.
                                                                 this tendency to
change, from the sprouting of the wheat, the flour forms a sweet,
heavy, and sticky bread. In order to prevent this, alum is employed.
Alum is not necessary to the making of palatable bread from " sound "
flour, but it is necessary for the making of saleable bread from unsound

   I860.]                   on Bread-Making and Baking.                                255
   flour made from sprouted grain. The habitual use of alum in bread
         By
          Bread
              the is
   is1. undoubtedly  vesiculated
                        injurious,
                   addition  of substances,
                                   without
                                     especially
                                              being
                                                  to the
                                                      fermented
                                                 which,  during by
                                                         young.       twodecomposition
                                                                  their    processes :—
   2. Byout
   give         carbonic
              making   the bread
                            acid, aswith
                                       carbonate
                                          water charged       andcarbonic
                                                     of sodawith             acid. acid.
                                                                    hydrochloric      The
   first is the process recommended by the late Dr. Whiting, and sold in
   London under the name of Dodson's Unfermented Bread. The
   second process consists in mixing intimately water containing carbonic
   acid with flour, so that when the dough is baked the escape of the
 * carbonic under
   London               Dr. vesiculates
                  acid gas   Dauglish's the patent,*
                                                 bread.andThis   processmachinery
                                                             extensive     is worked for in
    making this bread has been erected by Messrs. Peek, Frean, & Co., at
    Dockhead. This is the " Aerated Bread." The process of making
   fermented bread is tedious ; the time employed for making the bread
   varying from three to twelve hours. By the aerating process, the
   whole time taken from mixing the flour and carbonated water to
   putting the loaves into the oven is only twenty-six minutes. The
   necessity of handling the dough in kneading is also avoided by the use
   of machinery. Other advantages of this process are the saving of the
   starch destroyed in fermenting bread, and the absence of yeast and
    other substances, as potatoes, employed for facilitating the process of
          The Baking of the bread is the same in all processes. At the same
   fermentation.
    time the healthy digestion of bread depends much on the way in which
    thu process is conducted. The regularity of the temperature and the
    condition of the atmosphere in the oven exert a considerable influence
    on the wholesome character of the bread. An oven has been recently
    constructed by Mr. Bonthron, of Regent-street, by which steam can be
    turned into the atmosphere of the oven. The action of the steam pre
     vents the charring of the crust of the bread, allows of the interior
     expansion of the bread by preventing the hardening of the crust, and
     produces a natural varnish on the outside by reducing the sugar and
     gumWith on the  outside
                   regard     to aaction
                          to the                the two breads on the system, there
                                    liquid ofstate.
      can be no doubt that either, when properly prepared and baked, is
,    adapted
     one           decide
            will for general
                           foruse.
                                himself.
                                       The question    of flavour
                                              In certain              appearanceofevery
                                                           morbidorconditions           the
      stomach fermented bread undergoes rapid changes, which are produc
     tive of inconvenience, and which is prevented by the use of unfermented
     bread.
                                                                                [E.fact
          * Since the delivery of the lecture, my attention has been called to the   L.]that
      a patent was obtained by Mr. Luke Hebert in 1833, for making bread with car
      bonic acid gas.— E. L.

256                             General Monthly Meeting.                            [May 7,
  William Pole,     GENERAL         M.A.
                           Esq.Monday,   MONTHLY
                                             F.R.S.
                                               May Treasurer MEETING,
                                                       7, 1860.   and Vice-President,
     The Secretary announced                  thatChair.
                                         in the      His Grace the President had
nominated the following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year :
    The Duke of Wellington.                            Charles Wheatstone, Esq.
    The Lord Ashburton.                                Wm. Pole, Esq. the Treasurer.
    W. R. Grove, Esq.                                  Rev. J. Barlow, ike Secretary.
    Sir R. I. Murchison.
                                Henry Barnett, Esq.
                                Edward Lewton Cox, Esq.
                                 John Edward Cox, Esq.
                                William Watkiss Lloyd, Esq.
                                James Marshall, Esq. and
                                John Walter, Esq. M.P.
wereThe          elected Members
        dulyfollowing        Professorsofwere        re-elected
                                               the Royal         :—
                                                             Institution.
 William Thomas Brande, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. as Honorary Pro
John The
       fessor
         Tyndall,
           Presents
                 of Chemistry.
                             received
                          Esq.     Ph.D.sinceF.R.S.
                                                 the as      Meeting of
                                                       lastProfessor       Natural
                                                                        were          Philo-
                                                                                 laid on the
       sophy.
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
 Fbom
      Partiedes2. Sciences
 Acad&mie                       I'Instilut,
                   et TomedeXXXI.             1860. ; Annuaire,Tome
                                        4to.Paris—MSmoires,             16to. ; Tome XXVII.
                                                                 1860. XXV
 Actuaries, Institute of—Assurance Magazine, No. 39. 8vo. 1860.
 Adhemar, M. J. (the Author)—Revolutions de la Mer: Deluges Periodiques.
      2» Ed. 8vo. Paris, 1860.
 Arts, Society of—Journal, April 1860. 8vo.
 Asiatic Society of Bengal— Journal, No. 275. 8vo. 1860.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 5. 8vo. 1895.
      WetMrs.
 Baines,   Nurses.M. A.8vo.      1860.
                           ( the Author)—On     Human and Animal Milks ; and on Hiring

I860.]                         General Monthly Meeting.                                257
Barclay, Mr. G. (the Author)—Designs for Marking Silver Plate. 8vo. 1860.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Festreden von Dr. W. Christ und Justus Freiherra
      vonLiebig. 4to. 1860.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for April 1860. 4to.
      Engravings.
Bradbury,              4to. M.R.I,
               Henry, Esq.   1860. (the Author)—Specimens of Bank Notes and other
Chambers, Geo. F.Esq. M.RI. (the Author)—Planetary Tables. 8vo. 1860.
Civil Enqineers, Institute oj—Proceedings in April 1860. 8vo.
Daguin, M. P. A. (the Author)—Traite de Physique. Tome III. 8vo. 1859.
Davis,    Hewett, Esq.8vo.
      of Farming.             1860.(the Author) —Practical Essays for the Improvement
                          M.R.I,
              1858. F.R.S.—Meteorologische Tabellen tiber der Preussischen Staat.
Dove,fol.Professor,
Editors—Artizan for April 1860. 4to.
   Athenaeum for April 1860. 4to.
   Atlantis, No. 5. 8vo. 1860.
   Engineer for April 1860. fol.
   HorologicalJournal, Nos. 20, 21. 8vo. 1860.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for April 1860. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for April 1860. 8vo.
   Medical Circular for April 1860. 8vo.
   Practical Mechanic's Journal for April 1860. 4to.
   St. James's Medley, No. 22. 8vo. 1860.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Abhandlungen der Akademie der Wissen-
      sch'aften zu Berlin ; 1858. 4to. 1859.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylmnia—Journal, Vol. XXXIX. No. 3. 8vo. 1860.
   Annual Report
Geological             of India—Memoirs,
               Survey 1858-9.   8vo. 1859.Vol. I. Part 3. 8vo. 185S.
      at Hanwell
Halswell,     Edmund,andEsq.—Report
                          Colney Hatchofforthe1860.
                                                Visitors      1860.
                                                      8vo.of the County Lunatic Asylums
Harle, C. E. Esq.—Engraving of an Impression from "Darius-s Seal," in the
      British Museum.
Machie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, April 1860.
Medico- Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 3. 8vo. I860.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for April 1860. 8vo.
Novello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for April 1860. 4to.
Pelermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographie. 1860. Heft 4. 4to. Gotha, 1860.
Photographic
   Proceedings,
Royal   Society ofSociety—Journal,
                    No.
                     Edinburgh—Transactions,
                                      No 96. 8vo.
                        49. 8vo. 1858-9.               XXII. Part 1. 4to. 1857-9.
                                                  Vol.1860.
St. Pe"tersbourg, Academic Impe"riale des Sciences—Memoires : VII. Serie. Tome I.
      4to. 1859.
   Bulletin, Tome I. Nos. 1-3. 4to. 1859.
Smyth, Admiral W. H. and Dr. John Lee, F.R.S.—Cycle of Celestial Objects, con
     tinued at the Hartwell Observatory to 1859 ; by Admiral W. H. Smyth. 4to.
Ward,     Stephen H. M.D. (the Author)—On Rational Medicine. 8vo. I860.
      1860.
Walker,
     an
Webster,
     4to.account
           James,
            John,
              1855.M.D.
                    of hisF.R.S.
                    Esq.         M.R.
                            Inventions
                                 M.R.I.—Reports
                                        I.—Brief
                                         in the Manufacture
                                                    Memoir
                                                       on Bridewell
                                                                Capt.
                                                             of of    and
                                                                   Cordage,
                                                                      Joseph
                                                                           Bethlem
                                                                            byHuddart,
                                                                                W. Cotton.
                                                                                       and
                                                                                    Hospi
     tals for 1859. 8vo. 1860.

258            Dr. Mayo, on the Relations of the Public              [May 11,
                 WEEKLY         EVENING
                           Friday,                1860.
                                     May 11, MEETING,
     The Duke of Wellington, K.G. D.C.L. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                      Thomas Mayo, M.D. F.R.S.
                  PRESIDENT
   On the relations         OP THE
                       of the  Public
                                   Medicine.
                                   ROYAL to
                                          COLLEGE Science
                                             the OF         and Practice of
                                                    PHYSICIANS.
The speaker opened his discourse with remarks on some peculiarities
in the relations of society to the medical profession. The business of
the profession is conducted among perturbations varying in kind and
intensity. The medical practitioner depends upon his skill and success
in dealing with a commodity, in relation to which the emotions of his
heart and the exertions of his intellect are largely called forth, while
the recipient of the supposed or hoped for benefit is with different de
grees of intensity pained and annoyed by having to apply for it. And
the relation of the practitioner to society is thus rendered more peculiar
by his having to give a certain amount of satisfaction, where all those
feelings of the human mind are actively at work, the most calculated
to confound the judgment of those whom he has to satisfy. He is
    There
tried,     is thus,
       coram        the speaker observed, a sort of atmosphere of repug
              non judice.
nance generated by the very nature of the case, between the profession
which is presumed to confer the benefit of health, and the public
which is presumed to receive it. It was one main object of this discourse
to point out, that in spite of these points of antagonism, they have to
co-operate, with a view to success ; to co-ordinate their efforts ; and that
the public cannot divest itself of responsibility by placing a case in the
hands of the physician, as it can, when dealing with an advocate under
analogous circumstances. There are certain great physiological truths,
lending themselves both to hygiene and to medicine, which it is incum
bent on the public to acquire as a part of education. " If men," says
M. Auguste Comte, " do not confide the study of astronomy to
navigators, neither should they leave physiology to the leisure of
    In this way, the public may attain another very important object.
physicians."
It claims, and justly claims, a right to choose between conflicting
schools of medicine. This right it may exercise with more safety and

   I860.]           to the Science and Practice of Medicine.                   259
   advantage, by obtaining some knowledge of that great human system
   which is the common arena of all the professors of the healing art.
   Every school, normal or abnormal, must make its appeal to physiologi
   cal principles. How much good may be done, how much evil may be
   avoided, by an enlightened application of the public mind in these
   directions, the speaker proceeded to point out, by directing attention
   to the phenomena of growth and progress in certain systems, according
   as the attention of the public has or has not been called to them.
   For this purpose, he took the allied theories of Dr. Currie of Liverpool,
   and M. Priessnitz, the author of what is termed hydropathy. About
*» the end of
   observed       himself
              bylast   century,
                            and Dr. Currie,
                                      Wright,reasoning   deductively
                                               affirmed the            fromoffacts
                                                             applicability       the
   affusion of cold water in a large group of cases. His views have no
   doubt left behind them in the medical mind an increased tendency to
   avoid certain mischievous agents in the treatment of febrile disorders.
   But they have not fructified consistently with his great and well-
   deserved reputation. " In the first British epidemic which broke out
   subsequently, they were speedily abandoned by all practitioners," says
   Dr. Christison, writing in 1840 ; "and for twenty years Dr. Currie's
   theory has been almost unknown in the treatment of fever." Nor has
   any speculative question since arisen among us, as to what might pos
   sibly yet be deducible from a scientific hypothesis at first eminently
       Very different has been the fate of the hydropathic theory, con
   successful.
   trived by an untutored Silesian peasant, neglected by the regular pro
   fession, and cared for by a credulous, but not an indifferent public.
   If, in the
   against      latter
            which       case, informed
                    a better  a rash sciolism
                                        public has
                                               might  havelargely
                                                    been            predominant,
                                                            protected   itself, this
   must at least be admitted, that an important principle of treatment
   has thus been kept alive by the public, though put before them in its
   least scientific shape. While a similar principle of treatment from
   which all the valuable elements of the hydropathic system might have
   been deduced by scientific thinkers, without its concomitant mischief,
        been allowed
   has With                        mischief
               respect bytothethemedical     concomitant
                                         profession                be forgotten.the
                                                    to sleeptoandhydropathy,
   speaker quoted the following passage from a work by Dr. Bence
.  Jones—" Until Professor Liebig directed attention anew to the action
   of oxygen on the human body, the causes of success or failure in hydro
   pathy were unknown. The greatest possible action of the skin is pro
   duced under hydropathy, on the system, by baths : large quantities of
   water are taken, and by these means the action of oxygen on the body
   is promoted to a very high degree, and death ensues, if ever the system
   is unable to furnish matter to resist the action of oxygen." A fact,
   which, on the highest authority, indicates the expediency of an in
   creased amount of medical and physiological knowledge in the
   public, who select for themselves both medical systems and medical
       The speaker, after expressing his regret that the patronage of the
   advisers.
   public had not been extended to another hypothesis, equally neglected

260             Dr. Mayo, on the Relations of the Public             [May 1 1 ,
by the profession*, that namely of Dr. Beddoes, whose scientific merits
were as undoubted as those of Dr. Currie, proceeded to consider the
question, how far his remarks in favour of popularising some amount of
medical or hygienic education apply to the capabilities and position of
     Having thus far estimated the action of the public on the medical
females.
profession, the speaker proceeded to consider the action of the profes
sion on the public, i.e. the share of duties which belong to the profes
sion in regard to it. In this point of view, he proposed, as within the
limits of his allotted time, to describe the mental dynamics of the pro
fession, whether as engaged in actual practice, or in the province of
     The first object of medical reasoning thus contemplated, when
research.
brought to bear upon practical conclusions, whether at the bedside of
the patient, or in ulterior pathological enquiry, is to reduce cases to
the general law, or laws, under which they fall. Subservient to this
purpose, a large fund of systematized knowledge, both in pathology
and treatment, has been accumulated. Some amount of attentive ob
servation may possibly by their means satisfy the requirements here
supposed, and assign the cases to the place which they hold in the
history of disease. But, owing to the points of difference by which
men are individualized, combined with our still imperfect scientific
knowledge, the case may seldom be thus disposed of. It is often seen
to contain elements, neither referable to known causes, nor capable of
being subordinated to any previous theory. Here, another faculty of
a higher and more energetic character must be called into use by the
practitioner or thinker. He must drift helplessly down the current of
his own associations and those supplied to him by the teaching of
others, unless he is able to seize some leading idea to be applied by
him to the nature and conduct of the case. He must in fact extempo
rise an hypothesis. If truth more readily merges out of error than out
of confusion, some process of this kind must be adopted, even though
it should suggest in the case before him a temporary negation of
 measures. The imagination, the speculative power, and the memory
 must combine with the knowledge of the physician, to answer the
 questions here suggested ; and, according to the construction of his
 mind on these points, the hypothesis will come out clear and practical,
 or fanciful and obscure. This is the analysis of an operation, which,
 under the influence of habit, often bears the character of an instinctive
     While this kind of reasoning is immediately applicable in actual
 perception.
practice, it enters also into the speculations of those who have most
extended the boundaries of our knowledge ; but with this important
 difference, that the physician must often be contented with an hypo
 thesis at the bedside, which will explain the symptoms of the patient,
               * Thegrounds,
 and thus suggest     treatmentwhere
                                 of disease
                                       immediate
                                            by Pneumatic Medicine.
                                                   practice is required ; while

    I860.]           to the Science and Practice of Medicine.                      261
    he who is engaged in extending medical science by publication or teach
    ing, must be less easily satisfied. His hypotheses must not only be ex
    planatory, they must also be verifiable by induction. They have to serve
    a purpose, not limited to a present case, but calculated to exercise an
        Theseover
    influence        futurethe
                doctrines    years
                                 speaker
                                    and generations,
                                         could not illustrate  beforea his
                                                       as involving        audience
                                                                       principle.
    by taking them to the bedside of the patient, in reference to the im
    mediate practical hypothesis. But he brought forward one instance of
    the uses of hypothesis in research. It related to the disorder called
    senile apoplexy, the apoplexy of the aged. That the usual antecedents
-v  aged
    of     brain might
       apoplexy,   a congestive
                         appear improbable
                                   state of the; and
                                                  circulation,  so, when
                                                      the moreshould       it isincon
                                                                        occur       an
    sidered that in age the brain undergoes a process of atrophy. Mean
    while, this improbability disappears under an hypothesis derived by
    Dr. Rokitansky from this very assumption of an atrophic state of brain
    in old age. Atrophy of a part implies diminution of size in that part ;
    and this in the brain would imply a shrinking away of the substance
    of the brain from the inner surface of the skull ; a fact often observed
   after death of the aged. Now the space thus produced between the
    brain and the skull, being impervious to air, is so far a vacuum ; so
   that, atmospheric pressure continuing to exist on the rest of the body,
   and being removed from the surface of the brain, it must, however
   extenuated the subject, be replete with blood. It is needless to say
   that this theory of the cause of cerebral congestion in the aged is
   highly suggestive of a practical conclusion. The physician, being
   enabled to explain the state of congestion induced in the brain into
   conditions immediately resulting from a state of feebleness, is justi
         in declining
   fied Having           discussedmeasures.
                  thus depletory     the value of a verified hypothesis, or in
   technical language a theory, the speaker considered the less complete
   forms of hypothetical reasoning. It happens in medical research, as
   well as in practice, that an hypothesis, at present unverified by induc
   tion, but which would explain the case under consideration, derives
   from this latter circumstance certain, though limited, amount of
   weight. As, for instance, the occurrence of such symptoms as would
   be present if a poison had been given, affords a presumption that a
   poison has been given ; though while the poison is undetected, it
   remains unverified. The hypothesis of temperaments again, though
   unverified, is luciferous ; it may eventually obtain inductive proof, and
       But an
   be fitted  to take
                 hypothesis,
                       its placewhether
                                  in the history  of our science.
                                         for immediate    practice or for purposes
   of research, may not only be unverified ; it may also be unexplana-
   tory. This latter defect, occasional among medical writers, and
   frequent in the practice of those by whom the force of words is not
   justly estimated, the speaker illustrated from the work of Mr. Charles
   Darwin. He presumes the terms " natural selection " to constitute an
   instance of it ; as seeming only to explain his process of transmutation
   of animals.
      Vol. III. (No. 32.)                                                  T

262      Dr. Mayo, on the Science and Practice of Medicine. [May 11,
     Having given this account of the workings of the medical intellect,
he affirmed the misapprehension involved in the use of the term
" guessing," as sometimes applied to them. Truths of a high order, as
leading to most important results, have been inductively established,
which can be applied with great confidence to practice. But there is,
he says, one modification of medical thought, in the present day, which
certainly may deserve the name of mere guessing, and which advances
no pretensions to philosophy : one, which contemns all hypotheses as
to causes, the only legitimate subject of treatment in medicine ; and
which, cataloguing symptoms and the presumed remedies for those
symptoms, prescribes from the catalogue. Such reasoning, he says, is
to be found in books purporting to convey the principles of homoeo
     As an element of the medical intellect required and developed in
pathy.
actual practice and in medical research, the imagination has been al
ready noticed. Its intellectual value in enabling the mind to realise
absent objects of perception, and its moral value in affording sources
of comfort to the sick, if judiciously managed, was insisted on. And
the speaker finished his analysis of the medical mind by strongly insist
ing upon a just measure of its attention being given to the various
sciences, which lay claim to its pursuit ; so that undue predominance
may not be given to those which may happen to be most attractive,
or to afford most opportunities to the student of displaying brilliancy
     The next subject
in competitive           which engaged the speaker's attention, involves
                  examination.
a close reciprocity of action between the public and the medical pro
fession. It is that of " specialties in practice." While on the one
 hand the bent of the individual mind in favour of some one group of
 cases and diseases for consideration and inquiry, may justly influence
 the mind of the public in applying for medical advice ; on the other
 hand, this tendency must not be gratified at the expense of compre
 hensiveness of knowledge. The tendency of the publie to render the
 subject of insanity or unsoundness of mind a specialty with this result,
      commented
 was The            on.
           public prevents  those medical practitioners, who have gained
 reputation in this specialty from becoming acquainted with other con
 terminous disease by excluding them from attendance on other dis
 eases ; and thus necessarily diminishes their power of diagnosis in
 mental disease itself. Hence arises ignorance of practitioners both in
  certifying the presence of insanity, and in giving evidence on it in
      Theofrelations
  courts    justice. of the public and the medical professions thus far
  described, have been mainly intellectual. The moral duties incum
  bent on the profession have long been pressed upon the attention of
  students in medicine, by lectures and the precepts of their instructors.
  No corresponding enumeration of the duties owed by the public to the
  profession exists. In regard to one, which appeared to the speaker to
  have been peculiarly neglected, he thus expressed himself. " I will

I860.]              Mr. Pengelly, on Devonian Fossils.                        263
suppose a young man settled in a country neighbourhood as a general
practitioner. He has, I may also fairly suppose, received that amount
of mental discipline, which it is difficult in his profession to escape
under the expanded system of antecedent and professional education,
which he will have undergone. He finds his way into houses, in
many of the most respectable of which there dwell those who have
enjoyed no such opportunities of mental enlargement, as I may fairly
suppose him to have had. While his professional intercourse with
society has involved the most confidential relations, yet, when his
attendance is concluded, his actual position with respect to it may be
one of comparative exclusion." Not, it may be observed, without
corresponding loss to society itself, which is interested in obtaining or
     In conclusion,
preserving             the not
              his services  speaker
                                only as
                                      reiterated  a strong
                                         an adviser             as a friend.of his
                                                      but alsoexpression
opinion in favour of increased acquaintance on the part of the public
with medical and  WEEKLY
                      physiological
                             Friday,
                                 EVENING
                                     principles.
                                       May 18, MEETING,
                                                  1860.              [T. M.]
                  ProfessorEsq.
Charles Whbatstone,                 F.R.S.Thomson,
                               William                   F.R.S. in the Chair.
                                              Vice-President,
                         On Atmospheric
   [It is hoped that an Abstract             Electricity.
                                  of this Discourse  will be given in the next
    Sir Roderick       I. Murchison,
                  WEEKLY   number
                            Friday,
                                 EVENING
                                  of May
                                     theseD.C.L.
                                            25, 1860.
                                                  MEETING,
                                                   F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                           Proceedings.]
                                  in the Chair.
                     .William Pengelly, Esq. F.G.S.
 On the Devonian Fossils of Devon and Cornwall, with special refer
    ence to the Collection presented to the Oxford University Museum,
 The    speaker, inwith
    in connexion    commencing,
                          the Burdett-
                                    called
                                        Coutts   Geological
                                            attention            great variety of
                                                        to theScholarship.
 rock-formations in Devonshire, and stated that, with the doubtful
 exception of the crystalline schists extending from the Start to the
                                                                      t2

  264                        W. Pengelly, Esq.                    [May 25,
  Bolt, the limestones, slates, and associated sandstones, of both the
  south and the extreme north of the county, are the oldest rocks in it ;
  that they belong to, what is known to geologists as, the Devonian age
  of the world ; that is, they are the equivalents or contemporaries of the
  old red sandstones of Scotland and other districts ; that Professor
  Sedgwick regards them as divisible into three groups, namely, the
  Plymouth, or oldest, the Dartmouth, and the Barnstaple groups ; that
  only the two first occur in South Devon, whilst all three are found in
  the north of the county ; that the second, or Dartmouth group, has
  not been found to contain organic remains ; that the richly fossiliferous
 beds of South Petherwin, in Cornwall, belong to the Barnstaple series,
 whilst the slates of Looe, Polperro, and other parts of the same county
      He tothen
 belong          Plymouth
             thesaid—"       group. you have all learned from the public
                         Doubtless
 prints that two geological scholarships have recently been founded
 at Oxford. Were this the time and place, it would have given
 me great pleasure to have expressed my grateful sense of the
 service which the foundress has rendered to geology, and through
 it to science generally, in thus, not only giving a stimulus to the
 study of it in a place so every way important as that ancient seat of
 learning, but also by recognising it as a desirable, if not, indeed, an
 essential, part of the education of the general student ; ' and especially
 of those destined for the ministry of the church, if they would hope to
 maintain the position which the interests of religion require them to
 maintain.' * These words are a quotation from the document drawn
 up by the foundress, and accepted or endorsed by the University
authorities. Truly the day has passed away when the prevalent feel
ing was echoed by the sarcasm of the poet—
                                    ' Some drill and bore
                  The solid earth, and from the strata there
                  Extract a register, by which we learn
                  That He who made it and revealed its date
                  To Moses, was mistaken in its age.'— Cowper.
     "My object, however, in alluding to this subject, here and now, is
just to say that a collection of the Devonian fossils of Devon and
Cornwall, which I had the honour to make at the request of the
foundress, was presented by her to the Oxford University Museum, in
connexion with the scholarships. In drawing up a brief account of
this collection, some of the salient facts connected with the fossils of
the district under consideration were brought somewhat prominently
and, in a certain degree, methodically before me ; hence this evening's
discourse. The fossils on the table are from my own private, not the
Oxford, collection ; but duplicates of many of them will be found in
that series, whilst several of the corals are the specimens figured in
the monograph, on the British Devonian Fossil Corals, issued by the
Palaeontographieal Society."
                      Times Newspaper, February 9th, 1860.

 I860.]         on the Devonian Fossils of Devon if Cornwall.                   265
      Mr. Pengelly then proceeded to, what may be called, the statistical
part of his subject,1 remarking that the tables at present before us
must be regarded as merely representing our momentary knowledge,
as in all probability many new fossils would be hereafter discovered ;
the figures however would probably always express tolerably exact
     The following
proportions             is a brief
                or relative        summary of this part of the discourse. Of
                              numbers.
the 27 classes into which the existing Flora and Fauna are divided,
1 5 only are represented by the fossils of the Devonian rocks, whether
found in Britain or elsewhere in the world ; as is shown in the follow
ing table :—
             Represented Classes.                   Unrepresented Classes.
              Cellulares.*                             Dicotyledones.
            *Monocotyledones.*                         Infusoria.
              Amorphozoa.                              Foraminifera.
              Zoophyta.                                Entozoa.
              Echinodermata.                           Acalephas.
            "Annelida.*                                Myriopoda.
            * Cirrepedia.*                             Arachnida.
              Crustacea.                               Insecta.
              Bryozoa.                                 Tunicata,
             Brachiopoda.                              Reptilia.
             Lamellibranchiata.                        Aves.
            * Pteropoda*                               Mammalia.
             Gasteropoda.
             Cephalopoda.                                                  '
             Pisces.*
     Those printed in italics appear to have been poor in species. It
must be remembered, however, that some of them are similarly cha
racterized in the existing creation ; the classes in capitals contained a
greater number of species then than they do at present ; those pre
ceded by an asterisk do not appear to have been met with in Devonian
rocks in any part of the British isles, and those succeeded by the same
mark, are not recorded as having been found amongst the Devonian
fossils of Devon and Cornwall. The district last named has yielded
340 species, of which 60 are also found in Continental Europe, 6 in
America, and 1 in New South Wales. Seven of the 340 species appear
to have existed in the preceding or Silurian age, whilst about 60
passed over to the next, or Carboniferous, period. Many of the fossils
of Devon and Cornwall appear to have had a very limited geographi
cal range; thus 186 species, more than half the entire series, are
peculiar to South Devon, whilst there is but one common to the con
temporary deposits of North and South Devon and Cornwall, and not
more   than
     Mr.  Pengelly
              six common
                       then to   any two of
                              proceeded      give a brief description of some
                                          to them.
of the classes.     There are, he thinks, many more species of sponges in
    1 This part of the discourse was illustrated with tables suspended on the walls,
which the speaker had compiled from the writings of Bronn, Professor Morris's
Catalogue of British Fossils, and the Monograph of the Palseontographical Society.

266                         W. Pengelly, Esq.                  [May 25,
Devonshire and Cornwall than have generally been recognised ; some
have never been described, whilst others have been regarded as corals.
In 1843, Mr. Peach brought certain fossils, which Mr. Couch had then
recently discovered at Polperro, in Cornwall, before the geological
section of the British Association, during its meeting at Cork : they
were pronounced to be ichthyolites ; and this was probably the more
readily believed from the fact that it was well known that the con
temporary rocks of Scotland had yielded fossil fish in great numbers,
and there seemed no reason for their non-appearance in Cornwall.
Mr. Peach traced these fossils from near Fowey harbour to Talland
sands, about two miles west of Looe. They were subsequently found
by the speaker along the entire south coast of Cornwall from Talland
to the Rame Head, on the banks of the river Fowey, at Bodrethen on
the north coast of Cornwall, and at Mudstone Bay, near Brixham, in
Devonshire. Specimens were sent to the late Mr. Hugh Miller, who
at first confirmed their ichthyic claims ; but subsequently, in a paper
read before the Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh, he doubted
" whether their true place in the scale of being had been determined,"
and pronounced them " the most puzzling things he had ever seen ;
riddles on which to exercise the ingenuity of the palaeontologist."
Soon afterwards, Professor McCoy declared them to be sponges
merely, established for them the new genus Steganodictyum, and
showed that they belong to two species, S. Cornubicum and S.
 Carteri.
     According to the authors of the Monograph on the subject, issued
 by the Palaeontographical Society, the Devonian rocks of Devon and
 Cornwall have yielded 49 species of fossil corals, belonging to 20
genera, 6 families, and 3 sub-orders : 3 of the species are also found in
     Somerocks,
Silurian            species
            of thebut no carboniferous
                            had a greater
                                       forms occur.
                                          geographical range than others.
 Favorites Goldfussi, for example, being found in Devonian rocks in
 Britain, continental Europe, North America, and New South Wales,
 being in fact the most decided cosmopolite amongst them ; whilst
 Chonophyllum perfoliatum, like many others, appears to have been
 confined to Britain. It seems tolerably safe to infer from this fact that
 the former possessed hardier, more plastic, and (if the word is allow
 able), more adaptable constitutions than the latter ; and were more
 capable of enduring such a variety of physical and thermal conditions,
 as in the present phase of our planet's existence may be said almost
 invariably to accompany removal to localities so widely separated as
 Europe, America, and Australia. Nor would it, probably, be con
 sidered a very unwarrantable extension of the principle here involved,
 to conclude that such species would be the least affected by the
 thermal and physical changes, which we are not without reason for
 believing considerable lapses of time have always produced in any
 one and the same given area ; changes, not improbably, very much of
 the same character obtaining in widely separated times in the same
 locality, as in widely separated localities in the same time. Taking

I860.]        on the Devonian Fossils of Devon      Cornwall.         267
this principle as a guide, it might have been expected that species
having a wide geographical distribution would be equally remarkable
for their specific longevity; and that such as were confined to a
limited area disappeared from the stage of existence in a comparatively
short time. In the case under consideration, however, the facts do not
harmonise with such conclusions : Favorites Goldfwsi, found in the
most widely separated parts of the earth, appears to have commenced
and closed its existence within the limits of the Devonian period ;
whilst Chonophyllum perfoliaium, confined geographically, so far
as is at present known, to the British area, was a member of the
Silurian as well as of the Devonian fauna. The gigantic size of some
of the corallums—Favorites Goldfussi has been found upwards of two
feet in diameter—seems to imply that the climate of European lati
tudes was warmer, or at least that the winters were less cold, during
the Devonian age than at present. The fossil coral reefs of Torquay
and Ogwell suggest that the old Devonian sea was not at first of pro
found depth, that is if then as now the reef-building zoophytes did not
labour at depths exceeding 25 fathoms ; whilst the facts that some of
the limestone sections reveal an aggregate thickness greatly exceeding
this depth, and that every stratum in them is richly charged with fossil
corals, seem explicable only on the supposition that the area was one
    The Pterygotus,
of slow,  gradual, andthe
                        long
                           " seraphim
                              continued subsidence.
                                      " of the Scotch quarryraen, does not
occur in Devonshire or Cornwall. With one exception only, the crus
taceans are all trilobites. Amongst them that named Trimerocephalus
lcevis occurs under somewhat remarkable circumstances. So far as is
at present known, it has been found only in one locality, namely, on
the flanks of a hill called Knowles, near Newton Abbott, in South
Devon, and no other fossil of any kind has been found there ; on this
point, our present knowledge is expressed by saying, " there is but one
locality for the fossil, and but one fossil for the locality." Many
hundreds of specimens of it have been found, and a very considerable
number of them have passed through the hands of the speaker ; he knew
of but two instances in which the head was found attached to the thorax.
On splitting a stone, and thereby disclosing one of these trilobites, ex
cepting in the two cases just named, the head was not visible ; or, what
was very much more frequently the case, one half of the stone was
found to contain the thorax and tail united, and the impression of the
head ; whilst in the other half were found the head and the impression
of the body, and always in such a way as to show that the head had
been severed from the body, removed a short distance from it, (as if
drawn or pushed forward,) and inverted ; there were never any indica
tions of eyes, and not unfrequently the tail appeared somewhat trunc
ated, as if its terminal margin were slightly folded under. It is clear
that an inversion of the head might have been effected, either by a
semi-rotation at right angles to the axis of the body, or in the direction
of that axis ; but as the anterior margin of the head was always found
nearest the thorax, it is clear that the motion had been of the latter

268                 Mr. Pengelly, on" Devonian Fossils.                [May 25,
kind. The rock in which the fossil occurs has been pronounced by
Mr. Sorby and others to be a volcanic ash ; and this without reference
to, or knowledge of, any speculations respecting the facts connected
with the trilobites. Knowles hill, on the flanks of which they occur,
is a mass of greenstone, and is so marked in the map published by the
     According
Geological       to Burmeister it is probable " that these animals (tri
             SurveyT
lobites) moved only by swimming ; that they swam close beneath the
surface in an inverted position, the belly upwards,?the back downwards,
and that they made use of their power of rolling themselves into a ball
as a defence against attacks from above ; that they!lived gregariously in
vast numbers, chiefly of one species."* The facts connected with this
fossil, which have been described, seem capable of explanation by sup
posing that a shower of volcanic ashes, falling into the ancient
Devonian sea in the Newton area, alarmed a shoal of these trilobites
just then swimming by, and thereby caused them instinctively to roll
themselves up for defence ; that the continuation of the shower, and
possibly the presence of noxious gases, killed the unfortunate crusta
ceans in the rolled-up posture ; that their centre of gravity was so
situated as to cause them all to sink to the bottom on their backs ;
that they were inhumed in the heap of ashes, which, by accumulating
very rapidly and in great quantity, produced a pressure sufficient to
flatten the body, and, with a few and very slight exceptions, the tail
also, to dislocate the head (the line of union of the head and thorax
being the line of least resistance) and, after the manner in which slaty
cleavage in rocks is probably produced, to thrust the head some little
distance in advance of the body. By such a process the head would
be inverted, and in such a way that the severed parts of the creature
would   take the
     Though   withrelative
                      the exception
                           positions which     scalebeen
                                        of a have         holoptychius found,
                                                      of described.
according to Professor Phillips, at Meadfoot, near Torquay, ichthyo-
lites are not recorded as occurring in the Devonian rocks of Devon
and Cornwall, it is nevertheless certain that fish did exist within the
area, at the time under consideration. The speaker exhibited a fossil
which he had found in the Devonian slates at Looe, in Cornwall, and
which Sir Philip Egerton, and other eminent palaeontologists, had pro
     In conclusion,
nounced              Mr. Pengelly remarked,
          to be an ichthyodorulite,                that the
                                        or defence-spine      a fish.to which he
                                                           of time
 was limited had compelled him to be more hurried in his descriptions
 than he could have wished, to omit all mention of the echinoderms, and
 the various classes of shells, more- or less abundant amongst the fossils
 he had been considering, and had only allowed him to strike certain
 veins of thought which it would have been desirable to have worked
 thoroughly.
                                                                      [W. P.]
                 * Burmeister's Trilobites, Ray Society, page 52.

I860.]         Professor Tyndall, on Alpine Phenomena.                  269
                WEEKLY         EVENING
                           Friday,              MEETING,
                                     June 1, 1860.
   Sir Roderick I. Mcrchison, D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                      John Tyndalx,, Esq. F.R.S.
               PR0FE680E OP NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, ROYAL INSTITUTION.
                  Remarks on some Alpine Phenomena.
The discourse consisted of an account of a winter's expedition to the
Alps, undertaken at the close of December 1859. The speaker
remained two nights at the Montanvert ; and determined with a
theodolite the motion of the Mer-de-glace. This amounted to
about one- half of the summer motion, and exhibited the results, as
regards the quicker motion of the centre, established by measurements
made in summer. He described the crystals of the snow which fell
almost without intermission during the progress of the measurements.
He afterwards visited the vault of the Arveiron, and found a turbid
stream issuing from it, indicating that even in winter the motion of the
glacier along its bed, by which the rocks over which it passes are
    The is
ground,     not suspended
         gorgeous             of the
                    crimsoneven       winter. heaven, as observed from the
                                  in western
vault, gave occasion for some observations and experiments on the
colour of the sky. The hypotheses of Newton and Goethe were
referred to, as were also the memoirs of Clausius and Brucke. It was
explained that the blue of the firmament is due to reflected light, and
the morning and evening red to transmitted light. The possible action
of particles suspended in the atmosphere was illustrated. A solution
of mastic in alcohol recommended by Brucke was dropped into water,
and the resin precipitated : light reflected by the liquid containing
these particles appeared blue; while the transmitted light appeared
yellow, and on increasing the precipitate deepened to orange, and
became finally blood red. Professor Forbes has made the interesting
observation that steam, at a certain stage of its condensation, is blue
    The colour
by reflected         milk,
              andofred     transmitted,
                        by of             of many plants, and of the colour
                              the juices light.
of a blue eye were also referred to as illustrative of the same [J.   T.]
                                                                   action.

 270                             General Monthly Meeting.                              [June 4,
                      GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                  Monday, June 4, 1860.
     Sib Roderick I. Murchison, D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                                the Chair.
                                 CharlesinGibbes,          Esq. and
 were duly electedThomas         MissR.Sarah
                             Members         of
                                             Andrews,
                                                 theGibbes
                                                       Royal         and
                                                             Esq.Institution.
wereThe      Presents
         admitted         George
                             received
                        Members        B.
                                        of since
                                            Buckton,
                                            the Royal      Esq.
                                                     the last     Meeting
                                                                   F.R.S. were laid on the
                                                              Institution.
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
Boosey,
 Editors—Artizan
 Arts,
 Chemical
 Civil
    Fbom
Astronomical
        Engineers,
         Society
           Messrs.
             Society—Journal,
                   of—Journal
                     (the
                      Institute
                      for Publishers)—The
                 Society,  May
                            Royal—^Proceedings,
                                 of—Proceedings,
                                  1860.
                                  forNo.May
                                          49.
                                            4to.
                                              1860.
                                                  Musical
                                                 8vo.  in
                                                       8vo.
                                                       No.
                                                         1860.
                                                           May
                                                            6.World
                                                                  8vo.for 1860.
                                                                  1860.    8vo. 1860. 4to.
                                                                          May
   Medical
   Horological
   Journal
   Mechanics'
   Engineer
   Athenaeum
   Practical of
              Circular
               Mechanics'
               for
                 Gas-Lighting
                  for
                  Magazine
                   Journal,
                    May
                      Mayfor
                           1860.
                             1860.
                              May
                              No.
                              Journal
                               for for
                                   May
                                    fol.
                                   22.1860.
                                       4to.
                                        May
                                         for
                                          8vo.
                                          1860.
                                              May
                                               1860.
                                               8vo. 8vo.
                                                    1860.
                                                   1860.4to. 4to.
     8vo.John1860.
Elliot,          L. Esq. M.E.I, (the Author)—A Few Words on the Eeform Bill.
Faraday, Professor, D.CM. FM.S.—
   Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna :—
         Statuten. 4to. 1859.
        Almanach.
        Atlas            1859. 12mo. : Liefernng III. fol. 1859.
                der Hautkrankheiten
            Sitzungsberichte.
        Math.                       1859. No. 10-28.
                 Nat. Classe—Denkschriften                     8vo. 1859-60.
                                                     : Band XVII.       4to. 1859.
        Jahrbucher der K. K. Central-Anstalt zur Meteorologie und Erdmagnetis-
           mus. Band VI. 4to. 1859.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIX. No. 4. 8vo. 1860.
Glasgow Philosophical
Geological                   Society—Proceedings,
              Society—Journal,       No. 62. 8vo. 1860.   Vol. III. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1854-5.
Kerr, Mrs. Louisa Hay, M.R.I.—"M. Koch, Beitrage zur Geschichte Tyrols.
     8vo. 1850.
   G. Zappert, Stab und Ruthe. 8vo. 1852.

1830.]          Professor Faraday, on the Electric Silk-Loom.                          271
Machie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, May 1860.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for May 1860. 8vo.
Novella, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for May 1860. 4to.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographic 1860. Heft 5. 4to. Gotha, 1860.
      1860.John,
Phillips,                  (the Author)—Address to the Geological Society, Feb. 17,
               8vo.Esq.1860.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 97. 8vo. 1860.
   Transactions,
Royat               Vol. CXLIX.No.Part
        Society—Proceedings,                     4to. 1860.
                                        38. 2. 8vo.     1860.
Royal Society of Literature—Transactions, Vol. VI. Part 3. 8vo. 1859.
 Vereins
     Feb.zur
 Walker,       De
           A.1860.
                Befbrderung
                   Noe,
                      4to. Esq.des
                                 M.R.I.—A       Chinese
                                    Gewerbjieisses       Chrestomathy in the Canton
                                                     in Preussen—Verhandlungen,         und
                                                                                   Jan.Dia
      lect.John,
 Weale,           E. C. (the
              By Esq.           Publisher)—Seven
                          Bridgman.      4to. Macao.Volumes 1841. of his Educational Series
      (Classical
 Yates,            Literature).
         James, Esq.                   the Rev.
                         F.R.S. and16to.          A. Barrett (the Authors)—Improvements
                                            1859-60.
      in Arithmetic
 Yorkshire           WEEKLY
                        (by the
             Philosophical       Decimal
                                  Friday,
                              Society—Annual
                                        EVENING
                                            System).
                                              JuneReport  for
                                                           1860.
                                                            MEETING,
                                                       8,8vo.   1860. 8vo. 1860.
                                                              1859.
       The Duke of Wellington, K.G. D.C.L. Vice-President,
                                         in the Chair.
                        Professor Faraday, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                               On the Electric Silk-Loom.
 " Illustrans Commoda Vit^;,"* the motto of the Royal Institution,
 was made the ruling principle on this the last evening of the season ;
 an account being given of the application by M. Bonelli of electricity,
 to the service of the figure weaving-loom. The astonishing condition
 of perfection to which M. Jacquard had brought the silk-loom, so that
 artists of the highest rank could not without minute inspection distin
 guish its results from the most perfect engraving, and the manner in
 which he taught the weaver to construct a series of cards, and then to
 use them automatically, so as to produce as often as he pleased the
  design which they represented, are well known. Any effect of pat
  tern, either simple or complicated, which is produced in the woven
  fabric depends upon the manner in which the threads of the warp are
  separated before the weft is thrown, and the successive rearrangements
  of the warp threads which are brought about each time the shuttle is
  passed.^ A single thread of the weft therefore represents an element
                                          Luobetius, iii. 2.

272                         Professor Faraday,                     [June 8,
of the design ; and in the Jacquard loom, each of these required a card
pierced in a certain order, which being brought against the ends of a
set of horizontal rods, allowed some to remain undisturbed, whilst
others were pushed on one side. By the action of the pedal the warp-
threads associated with the undisturbed rods were raised and those
belonging to the displaced rods were left unmoved ; and to do this
rightly, a separate pierced card was required for every thread that
crossed the warp within the extent of the pattern. Frequently some
thousands of cards are needed, and for the production of a woven
portrait of M. Jacquard, in black and white silk, as many as 24,000
      employed.
wereAfter  a design has been decided upon, it has to be converted into
these cards, one for each thread of the weft included in the design ;
the preparation and piercing of them requires much care and time,
after which they have to be linked together as an endless chain in
their proper order. It is to replace this part of the weaving arrange
ments that Mr. Bonelli has applied his attention, and the peculiar
power of electricity. Instead of the many pierced cards, he has but
one card, or rather its equivalent, a convertible plate of brass ; which
being pierced with the full number of holes required (which in the
loom in action was 400) can have these holes either stopped or left
open so as to represeut by its successive changes of condition the suc
cessive cards of the Jacquard series. To obtain this effect, tin foil is
attached strongly to paper, so as to form a compound sheet. The
design is then drawn upon the metallic surface with black bituminous
varnish, and the sheet is made into an endless band, which being placed
upon a roller, and kept in its position by stops, moves as the roller
moves, being carried forward by its motion. A set of teeth rests upon
the top of this roller, touching the pattern in a line ; they are made of
thin brass plate, so thin that 400 of them do not occupy more than 16
or 1 7 inches, i.e. the width of the design on the roller ; yet so separate
that each is insulated from its neighbour by little interposed teeth of
ivory ; and so large and therefore weighty as to fall and rest upon the
pattern, making good electrical contact where the tin foil is exposed,
     being insulated
but Behind   these teeth
                       where
                          are the
                               400bituminous pattern intervenes.
                                   small electro-magnets  fixed in a frame
work, parallel to each other, and insulated. The fine covered wires
which constitute their helices are connected at one set of ends with
the teeth just described, each with a tooth ; whilst the other ends are
brought together and made fast to one metallic plate and wire.
Tracing this wire onwards, it comes to an interruptor or contact-maker
from whence the metallic communication proceeds to a screw appointed
to communicate with one end ofa five-celled Bunsen battery, the other
end of which communicates with a screw near the former. This screw
has a wire proceeding from it to two insulated teeth, like the teeth
bearing upon the pattern, but heavier ; and these rest upon the un
covered edges of the tin foil at the sides of the pattern, so as to keep
up a constant electric communication with it. By simple but perfect

 I860.]                 on the Electric Silk-Loom.                     273
and secure mechanical arrangements, the following movements and
results take place in this part of the apparatus. As the pedal descends
under the weaver's foot at a certain time, the 400 teeth descend upon
the pattern ; then the circuit is completed at the interruptor in the
single wire ; the electric current passing through that wire is divided
into as many portions as there are teeth touching the metal in the line
of pattern under realization ; it makes all the electro-magnets sur
rounded by these wires active, leaving the others non-magnetic ; and
then, as the foot is raised and the movements return in their course, the
interruptor is first separated, which, causing all current to cease, the
magnets lose their power, the teeth are raised from the pattern ; and
then the cylinder carrying it moves forward just so much as to give
 the new line of pattern for the teeth to search out electrically (the
next time they descend) which corresponds to the next cast of the
weft thread. Because the pattern never moves, whilst it is in contact
with the teeth, it is not cut or worn by them : because the current is
made by the interruptor after the teeth are in contact, and before
they are separated, no fusion or burning of the metal occurs at the
teeth ; and because there is a tongue-like wiper or brush, which at
the right time passes under the teeth, sustains them, and from off
which they rub on to the pattern, there is never any want of cleanliness
       contact there.
or ofAssociated  with these 400 magnets, and in the same line with
them, are 400 cylinders of soft iron, called pistons ; they are carried in
a frame which moves to and fro horizontally between the magnets and
the horizontal rods belonging to the suspensions of the warp threads ;
and they move towards the magnets at a time so adjusted as to coincide
with the passage of the electricity round its circuit : they find therefore
some of the magnets excited, because their teeth touch the metal of the
pattern ; and, as the box of pistons begins to return before the current
is interrupted, such of the pistons as have touched excited magnets are
retained or held back, whilst the others have returned in their course :
the pistons therefore are divided into two intermixed groups, of which
the one group is perhaps half an inch behind the other. Now comes
in the action of the perforated brass plate, which is to be converted for
the time into the equivalent of the particular Jacquard card required.
It is a vertical plate, associated with the extremities of the pistons
farthest from the electro-magnets : it can move up and down to a small
extent : it is pierced by 400 circular holes. The 400 pistons have
each a head or button, which can pass freely each through its corre
spondent hole when the plate is up, but is stopped at the hole when the
plate is down, and then effectually closes it. Now the time is so ad
justed, that when the box of pistons has moved so far forward as to
cause separation of the two groups, the plate descends, and by locking
such of the heads as belong to the unretained group, fills the corre
spondent holes, whilst the heads of the retained group, being already
behind their holes, have left them open ; and so the Jacquard plate is
formed, and, moving a little further it acts on the horizontal rods

274                            General Monthly Meeting.                       [July 2,
before mentioned, and having by that arranged the suspenders of the
warp threads, it then goes back, or towards the electro-magnets, to take
up, under the influence of the currents of electricity through the select
ing teeth, the new arrangement of apertures required for the next cast
     Theweft
of the          of electricity, for the purpose of reading off the design and
            use thread.
conveying it into the loom involved many peculiarities, conditions, and
difficulties. These were considered ; and the manner in which they
were either turned to advantage or overcome, was illustrated by large
                  GENERAL
and separate experiments.             MONTHLY
                                Monday,                 MEETING, [M. F.]
                                             July 2, 1860.
William Pole, Esq. M.A.inF.R.S.                    Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                          the Chair.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to His Grace
the Duke of Wellington, K.G. Vice-President R.I. for his valuable
present of an Electrotype from a mask taken from his late Father,
F.M. The      Duke of received
        thePresents       Wellington,  since
                                           after   last
                                              thehis    Meeting were laid on the
                                                     decease.
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
Her   Helena.
      Majesty-s Vol.
   From               II. 1844-9. 4to. 1860.
                  Government—Magnetical        and Meteorological Observations at St.
      Secretary
 The India   House
                 of State
                    Museum.       Vol. II. 8vo. of
                           for India—Catalogue        Lepidopterous Insects in the East
                                                   1858-9.
 Commissioners in Lunacy—Fourteenth Report. 8vo. 1860.
      Building
Ansled,   Professor
                Materials
                    D. T. (the
                             (Stone).   1860.
                                  Author)—Lecture     on the Decay and Preservation of
Arts, Society of—Journal, June 1860. 8vo.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 276. 8vo. 1860.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 7. 8vo. 1860.
Belgique, Acade~mie Boyale des Sciences—Bulletin des Sciences. 1859. 8vo.
   Annuaire. 1860. 16to.
Bengal, Director of Public Institution—Report for 1857-8. 8vo. 1859.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)—The Musical World for June 1860. 4to.
      Meeting,
British         held atforAberdeen,
          Association                 Septemberof1859.
                             the Advancement             8vo. 1860.of the Twenty-ninth
                                                  Science—Report
      R. M. Caldecott.
 Chambers,                  M.R.I.—The
              G. F. Esq. 8vo.      1844. Life of Baber, Emperor of Hindostan, by
 Druitt, Dr. (the Author)—Human Habitations in Relation to Health. 4to. 1860.

I860.]                               General Monthly Meeting.                                           275
Editors—American Journal of Science, by B. Sitliman, &c. for 1860. 8vo.
   Artizan for June 1860. 4to.
   Athenaeum for JuDe 1860. 4to.
   Engineer for June 1860. fol.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for June 1860. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for June 1860. 8vo.
   Medical Circular for June 1860. 8vo.
   Practical Mechanic's Journal for June 1860. 4to.
Emmett, General A. M.R.I.—Army Regulations. 8vo. 1844.
   Cormontaingne, Maréchal de, Œuvres Posthumes. 3 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1809.
   D'Arçon, Michaud, on Fortifications. 8vo. 1815.
   Mandar, C. P. Architecture des Forteresses. 8vo. Paris, 1801.
   Rogniat, Baron J. Considérations sur l'Artde la Guerre. 8vo. Paris, 1816.
   Journal du Siège de Bergopzoom en 1747. 16to. Amsterdam, 1750.
       des Princes.
   Rohan,    H. De, Le16to.          Paris,
                               Parfait         1641. (Abrégé des Guerres de Cesar) ; et 1' Interest
                                         Captaine
    Montecuculi, E. De, Mémoires. 12mo. Strasbourg, 1740.
   Dictionnaire Militaire. 3 vols. 12mo. Paris, 1745-6.
   Blois, E. De, Traité des Bombardements. 8vo. Paris, 1848.
   Griffiths, F. A., Artillerist's Manual. 16to. 1852.
    Gilbert, A., Œuvres Militaires. 5 vols. 8vo. Paris, 1803.
    Gay   de Vernon,
       2 vols.     4to. J.,     Traité
                            Paris,       de l'Art Militaire, à l-usage de l'Ecole Polytechnique.
                                      1805.
    Plans et Journaux des Sièges de la dernière Guerre de Flandres. 4to. 1750.
    Mouzé, Major, Traité de Fortification Souterraine. 4to. Paris, 1804.
       8vo. 1837-9.
    Simmons,      F., On Heavy Ordnance, Hollow Shot, and Naval Gunnery, &c.
                 French Bulletins
    Military Tracts.                      8vo.to the
                               2 vols.relating      (K.War        Russia. 1813.
                                                          84, in85.)                           1
                 Campagne de l-Armée Française en Portugal. 1815.                               \
                  Giraud, P., Campagne de Paris en 1814. 1815.                                  j
                  Rogniat, Gen., Colonisation en Algérie et des Fortifications pro.-\
                    près, &c. Paris. 8vo. 1840.
                 Instruction sur le Service du Génie en Campagne. 1825.                          J
                  Poumet,Instructions
                  French                    for the
                              M., Instructions   sur Defence
                                                     les Effetsofdes
                                                                   Fortresses a feu.
                                                                      Bouches in       ; and of r[
                                                                                 1813 1828.
                     Open Towns in 1814 ; Translated. 1824.
    schaftenProfessor,
 Faraday,           Berlin;
                zuPaafey,
                     1821 ; C.System
                               D.C.L.
                                 B.,
                                  Feb.ofTelegraphs,
                                        Marz
                                          F.R.S.—Monatsberichte
                                     Method    ofund
                                                  Loading
                                                       1823
                                                       April  on1860.
                                                            ; and  Throwing
                                                                  Blasting8vo.
                                                                           under
                                                                              der
                                                                              Hand  Akademie
                                                                                     Grenades,
                                                                                 Water,  1836. JI der Wissen-
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XXXIX. No. 5. 8vo. 1860.
 Horticultural Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 9-12. 8vo. 1860.
 Linnean Society—Journal, No. 17. 8vo. 1860.
 Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, June 1860.
 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs (Second Series), Vol. XV.
        Part 2. 8vo.
     Proceedings,       1858-9.1860.8vo.
 Marcel,     IV. M.D.
        Alcohol    on theF.R.S.Nervous       Author)—Experimental
                                       {theSystem.       8vo. 1860. Inquiry into the Action of
 Mendicity
 New     Granada       Society of Naturalists—Boletin,
                Society—Report,          1860. 8vo.                  8vo. Bogotâ, 1860.
 Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for June 1860. 8vo.
 Novello, Mr. (the Publisher)—The Musical Times for June 1860. 4to.
 Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
        Géographie. 1860. Heft 6. 4to. Gotha, 1860.
 Photographic
 Roma,    Accademia
        Sess. 1, 2,Society—Journal,
                      3. Pontijicia
                           4to. 1858-9.        Nuovi
                                          de' No.           8vo. 1860.Anno XI. Sess. 7 ; Anno XII.
                                                     98.Lincei—Atti,
 Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1860.
  Volpicelli, Professor P. (the Author) —Sulla Polarità Elettrostatica. Roma, 4to.
        1859.

'l
        iftogal tetttutton of ©reat                    Britain.
                                  I860.
                WEEKLY
Charles Wheatstone,        Esq.
                        Friday,EVENING
                                  May
                                  F.R.S.18,Vice-President,
                                              MEETING, in the Chair.
                                             1860.
                Pbofessoe William Thomson, F.R.S.
                      On Atmospheric Electricity.
Stephen Gray, a pensioner of the Charter-house, after• many years of
enthusiastic and persevering devotion to electric science, closed his
philosophical labours, about 130 years ago, with the following remark
able conjecture : " That there may be found a way to collect a greater
quantity of the electrical fire, and consequently to increase the force
of that power, which by several of these experiments, si licet magna
componere parvis, seems to be of the same nature with that of thunder
     lightning."
and The   inventions of the electrical machine and the Leyden phial
immediately fulfilled these expectations as to collecting greater
quantities of electric fire ; and the surprise and delight which they
elicited by their mimic lightnings and thunders, and above all by the
terrible electric shock, had scarcely subsided when Franklin sent his
kite messenger to the clouds, and demonstrated that the imagination
had been a true guide to this great scientific discovery— the identity of
the natural agent in the thunderstorm with the mysterious influence
produced by the simple operation of rubbing a piece of amber, which
two thousand years before had attracted the attention of those philoso
phers among the ancients who did not despise the small things of
    The investigation of atmospheric electricity immediately became a
nature.
very popular branch of natural science ; and the discovery of remark
able and most interesting phenomena quickly rewarded its cultivators.
The foundation of all we now know was completed by Beccaria, in his
observations on "the mild electricity of serene weather," nearly a
hundred years ago. It was not until comparatively recent years that
definite quantitative comparisons from time to time of the electric
   Vol. III.
quality        (No. 33.)
          manifested   by the atmosphere in one locality were   d first

278                          Professor W. Thomson,                        [May 18,
obtained by the application of Peltier's mode of observation with his
metrical electroscope. The much more accurate electrometer, and
the greatly improved mode of observation invented by Delmann, have
given for the electric intensity, at any instant, still more precise results ;
but have left something to desire in point of.simplicity and convenience
for general use, and have not afforded any means for continuous obser
vation, or for the introduction of self-recording apparatus. The
speaker had attempted to supply some of these wants, and he explained
the construction and use of instruments which he had planned for this
     Apparatus
purpose,            werethe
            which for            exhibited tooftheatmospheric
                           nowobservation           meeting.       electricity has
essentially two functions to perform ; to electrify a body with some
of the natural electricity or with electricity produced by its influence ;
      to measure
and The    measuring     electrification
                    the apparatus         thus obtained.
                                     exhibited  consisted of three electrometers,
which were referred to under the designations of (I.) The divided
ring reflecting electrometer. (II.) The common house electrometer ;
     (I.)
and(1)     A
           The
      (III.)   The
             ringdivided
                   ofportable
                       metal
                           ringdivided
                                 reflecting
                                         intoelectrometer
                                electrometer.              parts of of:
                                               two equal consists     which one is
insulated, and the other connected with the metal case (5) of the
     (2) A very light needle of sheet aluminium hung by a fine glass
instrument.
fibre, and counterpoised so as to make it project only to one side of
      axisAofLeyden
this (3)                phial, consisting of an open glass jar, coated outside
               suspension.
and inside in the usual manner, with the exception that the tinfoil of
the inner coating does not extend to the bottom of the jar, which is
     (4) Ainstead
occupied             by a small
             stiff straight  wire quantity
                                    rigidly attached
                                              of sulphuric  acid.
                                                       to the   aluminium needle,
as nearly as may be in the line of the suspending fibre, bearing a light
platinum wire linked to its lower end, and hanging down so as to dip
into(5)    sulphuric
       the A           acid.
              case protecting     the needle from currents of air, and from
irregular electric actions, and maintaining an artificially dried atmo
sphere round the glass pillar or pillars supporting the insulated half
ring(6)         uncoated
       andAthelight  stiff metallic
                            portion of   the glassprojecting
                                      electrode                from the insulated
                                                    of the phial.
half ring through the middle of a small aperture in the metal case, to
      outside.
the (7)    A wide metal tube of somewhat less diameter than the Leyden
jar, attached to a metal ring borne by its inside coating, and standing
     (8) A stiff
up vertically        a fewprojecting
                 to wire    inches above
                                       horizontally
                                            the levelfrom
                                                       of the     metaloftube
                                                            thismouth          jar.
                                                                           the above
 the edge of the Leyden jar, and out through a wide hole in the case
 of the instrument to a convenient position for applying electricity to
 charge the jar with.

 I860.]                    on Atmospheric Electricity.                        279
     (9) A very light glass mirror, about three-quarters of an inch
diameter, attached by its back to the wire (4), and therefore rigidly
     (10) Awith
connected           the aluminium
                circular              in the case shut by a convex lens, and
                          aperture needle.
a long horizontal slit shut by plate glass, with its centre immediately
above or below that of the lens, one of them above, and the other
     (11) below
equally    A large theaperture
                       level of the
                                 in the
                                     centre     the mirror.
                                         wideofmetal    tube (7), on a level with
the mirror (9), to allow light from a lamp outside the case, entering
through the lens, to fall upon the mirror, and be reflected out through
the plate glass window ; and three or four fine metal wires stretched
across this aperture to screen the mirror from irregular electric influ
ences, without sensibly diminishing the amount of light falling on and
     The divided
reflected  off" it. ring ( 1 ) is cut out of thick strong sheet metal (gene
rally brass). Its outer diameter is about 4 inches, its inner diameter 2i ;
and it is divided into two equal parts by cutting it along a diameter
with a saw. The two halves are fixed horizontally ; one of them on a firm
metal support, and the other on glass, so as to retain as nearly as may
be their original relative position, with just the saw cut, from -fa to
of an inch broad, vacant between them. They are placed with their
common centre as nearly as may be in the axis of the case (5), which is
cylindrical, and placed vertically. The Leyden jar (3), and the tube
(7), carried by its inside coating, have their common axis fixed to coin
cide as nearly as may be with that of the case and divided ring. The
glass fibre hangs down from above in the direction of this axis, and
supports the needle about an inch above the level of the divided ring.
The stiff wire (4), attached to the needle, hangs down as nearly as may
     Beforetheusing
be along              of the
                 axis the     tube (7). the Leyden phial (3) is charged by
                           instrument,
means of its projecting electrode (8). When an electrical machine is
not available, this is very easily done by the aid of a stick of vulcanite,
rubbed by a piece of chamois leather. The potential of the charge
thus communicated to the phial, is to be kept as nearly constant as
is required for the accuracy of the investigation for which the instru
ment is used. Two or three rubs of the stick of vulcanite once a
day, or twice a day, are sufficient when the phial is of good glass, well
kept dry. The most convenient test for the charge of the phial is a
proper electrometer or electroscope, of any convenient kind, kept
     The electrometer
constantly   in communication
                            (II.) iswith
                                      to the
                                         be ordinarily    used for(8).
                                             charging electrode     that purpose
in the Kew apparatus. Failing any such gauge electrometer or
electroscope, a zinc-copper-water battery of ten, twenty, or more small
cells, may be very conveniently used to test directly the sensibility of
the reflecting electrometer, which is to be brought to its proper degree
     In the useitsofLeyden
by charging                   phial as much
                     this electrometer,       as isbodies
                                         the two          of which the difference
                                                     required.
of potentials is to be tested are connected, one of them, which is gene-
                                                                      u2

 280                        Professor W. Thomson,                         [May 18,
 rally the earth, with the metal case of the instrument, and the other
 with the insulated half ring. The needle being, let us suppose, nega
 tively electrified, will move towards or from the insulated half ring,
 according as the potential of the conductor connected with this half
 ring differs positively or negatively from that of the other conductor
 (earth) connected with the case. The mirror turns accordingly in one
 direction or the other through a small angle from its zero position, and
 produces a corresponding motion in the image of the lamp on the
     (1)
     II. on
screen,   A which
          Thethin
                common
                   flint-glass
                    it is thrown.
                           housebell, coated outside andinstrument
                                  electrometer.—This                    consists
                                                              inside like        of :
                                                                          a Leyden
phial, with the exception of the bottom inside, which contains a little
      (2) Aacid.
sulphuric     cylindrical metal case, enclosing the glass jar, cemented to
it round its mouth outside, extending upwards about an inch and a
half above the mouth, and downwards to a metal base supporting the
whole instrument, and protecting the glass against the danger of
     (3) A cover of plate glass, with a metal rim, closing the top of
breakage.
      cylindrical
the (4)           casehead,
          A torsion           after
                         of the       the manner of Coulomb's balance, sup
                                 instrument.
ported in the centre of the glass cover, and bearing a glass fibre which
hangs     A light
     (5)down   through
                    aluminium
                          an aperture       its centre.
                                  needleinattached   across the lower end of the
fibre (which is somewhat above the centre of the glass bell), and a stiff
platinum wire attached to it at right angles, and hanging down to near
     bottom
the (6)       of the
          A very       jar.platinum wire, long enough to hang within one-
                   light
eighth of an inch or so of the bottom of the jar, and to dip in the
     (7) Aacid.
sulphuric    metal ring, attached to the inner coating of the jar, bearing
two plates in proper positions for repelling the two ends of the alumi
nium needle when similarly electrified, and proper stops to limit the
     (8) A
angular      cage of
          motion    of the
                        fineneedle
                             brass wire,
                                     to within  abouton
                                           stretched         fromframework,
                                                        45°brass   these plates.sup
ported from the main case above by two glass pillars, and partially
enclosing the two ends of the needle, and the repelling plates, from all
of which it is separated by clear spaces, of nowhere less than one-fourth
of an     A charging
     (9)inch of air. electrode, attached to the ring (7), and projecting
over the mouth of the jar to the outside of the metal case (2), through a
wide aperture, which is commonly kept closed by a metal cap, leaving at
       one-quarter
least(10)           of an inch
           An electrode     attached
                                ofair round
                                       to the the
                                              cageprojecting   projecting
                                                    (8), and end           over the
                                                                  of the electrode.
mouth of the jar to the outside of the metal case (2), through the centre
    This
of an       instrument
        aperture,             adaptedoftoanmeasure
                   about isa quarter                    differences of potential
                                              inch diameter.

I860.]                    on Atmospheric Electricity.                          281
between two conducting systems, namely, as one, the aluminium needle
(5), the repelling plates (7), and the inner coating of the jar, and, as
the other, the insulated cage (8). This latter is commonly connected
by means of its* projecting electrode (10), with the conductor to be
tested. The two conducting systems, if through their projecting elec
trodes connected by a metallic wire, may be electrified to any degree,
without causing the slightest sensible motion in the needle. If, on the
other hand, the two electrodes of these two systems are connected
with two conductors, electrified to different potentials, the needle
moves away from the repelling plates ; and if by turning the torsion
head it is brought back to one accurately marked position, the number
of degrees of torsion required is proportional to the square of the
    In theofordinary
difference                 thus
               potentialsuse      the instrument, the inner coating of the
                              of tested.
Leyden jar is charged negatively, by an external application of electri
city through its projecting electrode (9). The degree of the charge
thus communicated, is determined by putting the cage in connexion
with the earth through its electrode (10), and bringing the needle by
torsion to its marked position. The square root of the number of
degrees of torsion required to effect this, measures the potential of the
Leyden charge. This result is called the reduced earth reading.
When the atmosphere inside the jar is kept sufficiently dry,—this
charge is retained from day to day with little loss ; not more, often,
        per cent.
thanIn1 using          the 24 hours.
                theininstrument     the charging electrode (9) of the jar is
left untouched, with the aperture through which it projects closed
over it by the metal cap referred to above. The electrode (10) of the
cage, when an observation is to be made, is connected with the con
position.to be
ductor         tested,
             The  square     the of
                        androot   needle
                                     the number
                                         is brought     degrees
                                                    of by              its marked
                                                          torsionoftotorsion  now  i
required measures the difference of potentials between the conductor
tested and the interior coating of the Leyden jar. The excess, positive
or negative, of this result above the reduced earth reading, measures
the excess of the potential, positive or negative, of the conductor tested
above that of the earth ; or simply the potential of the conductor
    III.ifThe
tested,          portable
            we regard        of the earth isas constructed
                        thatelectrometer        zero.        on the same elec
trical principles as the house electrometer just described. The mode
of suspension of the needle is however essentially different ; and a
varied plan of connection between the different electrical parts has
been consequently adopted as more convenient. In the portable
electrometer, the needle is firmly attached at right angles to the middle
of a fine platinum wire, tightly stretched in the axis of a brass tube
with apertures in its middle to allow the needle to project on the two
sides. One end of the platinum wire is rigidly connected with this
tube ; the other is attached to a graduated torsion head. The brass
tube carries two metal plates in suitable positions to repel the two

282                     Professor W. Thomson,                   [May 18,
ends of the needle in contrary directions, and metal stops to limit
its angular motion within a convenient range. The conducting system
composed of these different parts is supported from the metal cover
or roof of the jar, by three glass stems. The torsion, head is carried
round by means of a stout glass bar, projecting down from a pinion
centered on the lower side of this cover, and turned by the action of a
tangent screw presenting a milled head, to the hand of the operator
outside. The conducting system thus borne by insulating supports is
connected with the outside conductor to be tested by means of an
electrode passing out through the centre of the top of the case by a
wide aperture in the centre of the pinion. A wire cage, surrounding
the central part of the tube and the needle and repelling plates, is
rigidly attached to the interior coating of the Leyden jar. It carries
two metal sectors, or " bulkheads," in suitable positions to attract the
two ends of the needle, which however is prevented from touching
them by the limiting stops referred to above. The effect of these
attracting plates, as they will be called, is to increase very much the
sensibility of the instrument. The square root of the number of
degrees of torsion required to bring the needle to a sighted position
near the repelling plates, measures the difference of potentials between
the cage and the conducting system, consisting of tube torsion-head
repelling plates and needle. The metal roof of the jar is attached to
a strong metal case, cemented round, the outside of the top of the jar,
and enclosing it all round and below, to protect it from breakage
when being carried about. There are sufficient apertures in this case,
opened by means of a sliding piece, to allow the observer to see the
needle and graduated circle (torsion head), when using the instrument.
On the outside of the roof of the jar a stout glass stem is attached,
which supports a light stiff metallic conductor, by means of which a
burning match is supported, at the height of two or three feet above
the observer. This conductor is connected by means of a fine wire
with the electrometer, in the manner described above, through the
centre of the aperture in the roof. An artificially dried atmosphere is
maintained around this glass stem, by means of a metal case surround
ing it, and containing receptacles of gutta percha, or lead, holding
suitably shaped pieces of pumice-stone moistened with sulphuric acid.
The conductor which bears the match projects upwards through the
centre of a sufficiently wide aperture, and bears a small umbrella,
which both stops rain from falling into this aperture, and diminishes
the circulation of air, owing to wind blowing round the instrument,
from taking place to so great a degree as to do away with the dryness
of the interior atmosphere required to allow the glass stem to insulate
sufficiently. The instrument may be held by the observer in his hand
in the open air without the assistance of any fixed stand. A sling
attached to the instrument and passing over his left shoulder, much
facilitates operations, and renders it easy to carry the apparatus to the
place of observation, even if up a rugged hill side, with little risk of
accident.

I860.]                     on Atmospheric Electricity.                    283
     The burning match in the apparatus which has just been described,
performs the collecting function referred to above. The collector
employed for the station apparatus, whether the reflecting electrometer
or the common house electrometer is used, is an insulated vessel of
water, allowed to flow out in a fine stream through a small aperture
at the end of a pipe projecting to a distance of several feet from the
wallTheof the   buildingofin collecting,
             principle                   whether by fire
                              which the observations      or by water, in the
                                                      are made.
observation of atmospheric electricity, was explained by the speaker
thus :—The earth's surface is, except at instants, always found elec
      " Ifina large
trified,            sheet
              general  negatively,
                            of metalbut  sometimes
                                       were          the earth in a perfectly
                                            laid on positively.
level district, and if a circular area of the same metal were laid upon
this sheet, and after the manner of Coulomb's proof plane, were lifted
by an insulated handle and removed to an electrometer within doors, a
measure of the earth's electrification, at the time, would be obtained ;
or, if a ball, placed on the top of a conducting rod in the open air,
were lifted from that position by an insulating support, and carried to
an electrometer within doors, we should also have, on precisely the
same principle, a measure of the earth's electrification at the time.
If the height of the ball in this second plan were equal to one-sixteenth
of the circumference of the disc used in the first plan, the electrometric
indications would be the same, provided the diameter of the ball is
small, in comparison with the height to which it is raised in the air,
and the electrostatic capacity of the electrometer is small enough not
to take any considerable proportion of the electricity from the ball in
its application. The idea of experimenting by means of a disc laid flat
 on the earth, is merely suggested for the sake of illustration, and
 would obviously be most inconvenient in practice. On the other hand,
 the method by a carrier ball, instead of a proof plane, is precisely the
 method by which, on a small scale, Faraday investigated the distribu
 tion of electricity induced on the earth's surface, by a piece of rubbed
shellac ; and the same method, applied on a suitable scale for testing
 the natural electrification of the earth in the open air, has given in the
 hands of Delmann, of Creuznach, the most accurate results hitherto
 published in the way of electro-meteorological observation. If, now,
 we conceive an elevated conductor first belonging to the earth, to
 become insulated and to be made to throw otf and to continue throwing
 off" portions from an exposed position of its own surface, this part of its
 surface will quickly be reduced to a state of no electrification, and the
 whole conductor will be brought to such a potential as will allow it to
 remain in electrical equilibrium in the air with that portion of its
 surface neutral. In other words, the potential throughout the insu
 lated conductor is brought to " be the same as that of the particular
 equi-potential surface in the air, which passes through the point of
 it from which matter breaks away. A flame, or the heated gas
 passing from a burning match, does precisely this : the flame itself, or
 the Highly heated gas close to the match, being a conductor which is

284                        Professor W. Thomson,                    [May 18,
constantly extending out and gradually becoming a non-conductor.
The drops into which the jet issuing from the insulated conductor
breaks, on the plan introduced by the writer, produce the same effects
with more pointed decision, and with more of dynamical energy to
remove the rejected matter with the electricity which it carries from
the neighbourhood of the fixed conductor."—Nichol's Cyclopcedia,
      edition,
2ndAfter        articlegiven
             having          so much Atmospheric."
                        " Electricity,   of these explanations as seemed
necessary to convey a general idea of the principles on which the con
struction of the instruments of investigation depended, the speaker
proceeded to call attention to the special subject proposed for con
    What this
sideration         evening. atmospheric electricity ? Is it electricity of
             is terrestrial
earth, or electricity of air, or electricity of watery or other particles in
the air? An endeavour to answer these questions was all that was
offered ; abstinence from speculation as to the origin of this electric
condition of our atmosphere, and its physical relations with earth, air,
and water, having been painfully learned by repeated and varied failure
iu every attempt to see beyond facts of observation. In serene weather,
the earth's surface is generally, in most localities hitherto examined,
found negatively or resinously electrified ; and when this fact alone is
known it might be supposed that the globe is merely electrified as a
    Butwith
whole          a resinous
         it is to be remarked,
                          charge,
                                thatand
                                     theleft insulated
                                         earth,        in insulated
                                                although   space. in its atmo
spheric envelope, being in fact a conductor touched only by air, one of
the best although not the strongest of insulators, cannot with its atmo
sphere be supposed to be insulated, so as to hold an electric charge in
interplanetary space. It has been supposed, indeed, that outside the
earth's recognised atmosphere there exists something or nothing in
space which constitutes a perfect insulator ; but this supposition seems
to have no other foundation than a strange idea that electric conductivity
is a strength or a power of matter rather than a mere non-resistance.
In reality we know that air highly rarefied by the air-pump, or by
other processes, as in the construction of the "vacuum tubes," by
which such admirable phenomena of electric light have recently been
seen in this place, becomes extremely weak in its resistance to the
transference of electricity through it, and begins to appear rather as a
conductor than an insulator. One hundred miles or upwards from the
earth's surface, the air in space cannot in all probability have resisting
power enough to bear any such electric forces, as those which we
generally find even in serene weather in the lower strata. Hence, we
cannot, with Peltier, regard the earth as a resinously charged conductor,
insulated in space, and subject only to accidental influences from
temporary electric deposits in clouds, or air round it ; but we must
suppose that there is always essentially in the higher aerial regions
a distribution arising from the self-relief of the outer highly rarefied
air by disruptive discharge. This electric stratum must constitute very
nearly the electro-polar complement to all the electricity that exists on

I860.]                 on Atmospheric Electricity.                    285
the earth's surface, and in the lower strata of the atmosphere ; in
other words, the total quantity of electricity, reckoned as excess of
positive above negative, or of negative above positive, in any large
portion of the atmosphere, and on the portion of the earth's surface
below it, must be very nearly zero. The quality of non-resistance
to^ electric force of the thin interplanetary air being duly considered,
we might regard the earth, its atmosphere, and the surrounding
medium as constituting respectively the inner coating, the di-electric
(as it were glass), and the outer coating of a great Leyden phial,
charged negatively ; and even if we were to neglect the consideration
of possible deposits of electricity through the body of the di-electric
itself, we should arrive at a correct view of the electric indications
discoverable at any one time and place of the earth's surface.
In fact, any kind of "collector," or plan for collecting electricity
from or in virtue of the natural " terrestrial atmospheric electri
city," gives an effect simply proportional to the electrification of the
earth's surface then and there. The methods of collecting by fire and
water which the speaker exhibited, gave definitively^in the language of
the mathematical theory, the " electric potential " of the air at the
point occupied by the burning end of the match or by the portion of
the stream of water where it breaks into drops. If the apparatus is
used in an open plane, and care be taken to eliminate all disturbance
due to the presence of the electrometer itself and of the observer
above the ground, the indicated effect, if expressed in absolute electro
static measure, and divided by the height of the point tested above the
ground, has only to be, (according to an old theorem of Coulomb's, cor
rected by Laplace,) divided by four times the ratio of the circumference
of a circle to its diameter, to reduce it to an expression of the number
of units in absolute electrostatic measure of the electricity per unit of
 area of the earth's surface at the time and place. The mathematical
theory does away with every difficulty in explaining the various and
seemingly irreconcilable views which different writers have expressed,
and explanations which different observers have given of the functions
of their testing apparatus. In the present state of electric science, the
most convenient and generally intelligible way to state the result of an
observation of terrestrial atmospheric-electricity, in absolute measure,
is in terms of the number of elements of a constant galvanic battery,
required to produce the same difference of potentials as exists between
the earth and a point in the air at a stated height above an open level
plane of ground. Observations with the portable electrometer had
given in ordinary fair weather, in the island of Arran, on a flat open
sea beach, readings varying from 200 to 400 Daniel's elements, as
the difference of potentials between the earth and the match, at a
height of 9 feet above it. Hence, the intensity of electric force perpen
dicular to the earth's surface, must have amounted to from 22 to 44
Daniel's elements, per foot of air. In fair weather, with breezes from
the east or north-east, he had often found from 6 to 10 times the
higher of these intensities.

286                       Professor W. Thomson,                     [May 18,
     Even in fair weather, the intensity of the electric force in the air
near the earth's surface is perpetually fluctuating. The speaker had
often observed it, especially during calms or very light breezes from
the east, varying from 40 Daniel's elements per foot, to three or four
times that amount during a few minutes ; and returning again as
rapidly to the lower amount. More frequently he had observed
variations from about 30 to about 40, and back again, recurring in
uncertain periods of perhaps about two minutes. These gradual
variations cannot but be produced by electrified masses of air or
cloud, floating by the locality of observation. Again, it is well known
that during storms of rain, hail, or snow, there are great and some
times sudden variations of electric force in the air close to the earth.
These are undoubtedly produced, partly as those of fair weather, by
motions of electrified masses of air and cloud ; partly by the fall of
vitreously or resinously electrified rain, leaving a corresponding de
ficiency in the air or cloud from which it falls ; and partly by disruptive
discharges (flashes of lightning) between masses of air or cloud, or
between either and the earth. The consideration of these various
phenomena suggested the following questions, and modes of observa
      for answering
tionQuestion   1. How    is electricity distributed through the different
                      them.
strata of the atmosphere to a height of five or six miles above the
earth's surface in ordinary fair weather ? To be answered by electrical
observations in balloons at all heights up to the highest limit, and
     Q. 2. Does
simultaneous       electrification
               observations             air close
                              at theofearth's      to the earth's surface, or
                                              surface.
within a few hundred feet of it, sensibly influence the observed electric
force ? and if so, how does it vary with the weather, and with the time
of day or year ? The first part of this question has been answered very
decidedly in the affirmative, first, for large masses of air within a few
hundred yards of the earth's surface, by means of observations made
simultaneously at a station near the seashore in the island of Arran,
and at one or other of several stations at different distances, within six
miles of it, on the sides and summit of Goatfell. After that it was
found, by simultaneous observations made at a window in the Natural
Philosophy Lecture Room, and on the College Tower of the University
of Glasgow, that the influence of the air within 100 feet of the earth-s
surface was always sensible at both stations, and often paramount at
the lower. Thus, for example, when in broken weather, the superficial
electrification of the outside of the lecture room, about 20 feet above
the ground, in a quadrangle of buildings, was found positive, the super
ficial electrification of the sides of the tower, about 70 feet higher,
was often found negative or nearly zero ; and this sometimes even
when the positive electrification of the sides of the building at the
lower station equalled in amount an ordinary fair weather negative.
This state of things could only exist in virtue of a negative electrifica
tion of the circumambient air, inducing a positive electrification on the
ground and sides of the quadrangle, but not sufficient to counter

1880.]                     on Atmospheric Electricity.                      287
balance the influence on the higher parts of the tower of more distant
    A longelectrified
positively    continuation    of masses.
                          aerial  such systems of simultaneous observation—
not in a town only, but in various situations of flat and of mountainous
country, on the sea coast as well as far inland, in various regions of the
world—will be required to obtain the information asked for in the
     Q. 3.
second      Doofthe
         part            question.of rain, hail, and snow in falling through
                  thisparticles
the air possess absolute charges of electricity? and if so, whether
positive or negative, and of what amounts in different conditions as to
place and weather? Attempts to answer this question have been
made by various observers, but as yet without success ; as for instance
by an " electro-pluviometer," tried at Kew many years ago. By
using a sufficiently well insulated vessel to collect the falling particles,
it is quite certain that a decided answer may be obtained with ease
for the cases of hail and snow. Inductive effects produced by drops
splashing away from the collecting vessel, if exposed to the electric
force of the air in an open position, or inductive effects of the opposite
kind produced by drops splashing away from surrounding walls or
screens and falling into the collecting vessel, if not in an exposed
position, make it less easy to ascertain the electrical quality of rain ;
but, by taking means to obviate the disturbing effects of these influences,
     speaker
the It          have been
       wouldhoped            moreatsatisfactory
                        to arrive                 to have been able to conclude
                                      definite results.
a discourse on atmospheric electricity otherwise than in questions, but
no other form of conclusion would have been at all consistent with the
     The state
present         of knowledge.
          discourse    was illustrated by the use of the mirror electrometer
reflecting a beam of light from the electric lamp, and throwing it on a
white screen, where its motions were measured by a divided scale. The
principle of the water-dropping collector was illustrated by allowing a
jet of water to flow by a fine nozzle into the middle of the lecture-
room, from an uninsulated metal vessel of water and compressed air,
and collecting the drops in an insulated vessel on the floor. This
vessel was connected with the testing electrode of the reflecting electro
meter ; #nd it was then found to experience a continually increasing
negative electrification, when fixed positively electrified bodies were in
the neighbourhood of the nozzle. If the same experiment were made
in ordinary fair weather in the open air, instead of under the roof and
within the walls of the lecture-room, the same result would be
observed, without the presence of any artificially electrified body.
The vessel from which the water was discharged was next insulated ;
and other circumstances remaining unvaried, it was shown that this
vessel became rapidly electrified to a certain degree of positive poten
tial, and the falling drops ceased to communicate any more electricity
     Thevessel
to the          in which
           influence        they were masses
                       of electrified           of air was illustrated by carry
                                        gathered.
ing about the portable electrometer, with its match burning, to different

 288                          Professor W. Thomson,                      [May 18,
 parts of the lecture-room, while insulated spirit lamps connected with
 the positive and negative conductor of an electrical machine, burned
 on the two sides. The speaker observed the indications on the portable
 electrometer ; but the potentials thus measured, were seen by the audience
 marked on the scale by the spot of light ; the reflecting electrometer
 being kept connected with the portable electrometer in all its positions,
 by means of a long fine wire. It was found that when the burning
 match was on one side of a certain surface dividing the air of the
 lecture-room, the potential indicated was positive, and on the other
      negative.
 sideThe    water-dropping collector constructed for the self-registering
 apparatus to be used at Kew, had been previously set upon the roof
 of the Royal Institution, and an insulated wire (Beccaria's " Deferent
 Wire ") led down to the reflecting electrometer on the lecture-room
 table. The electric force in the air above the roof was thus tested
 several times during the meeting ; and it was at first found to be, as it
 had been during several days preceding, somewhat feeble positive
 (corresponding to a feeble negative electrification of the earth's surface,
 or rather housetops, in the neighbourhood). This was a notunfrequent
 electrical condition of days, such as tiiese had been of dull rain, with
 occasional intervals of heavier rain and of cessation. The natural
 electricity was again observed by means of the reflecting electrometer
 during several minutes near the end of the discourse ; and was found
instead of the weak positive which had been previously observed, to be
 strong positive of three or four times the amount. Upon this the
 speaker quoted* an answer, which Prior Ceca had given to a question
 Beccaria had put to him " concerning the state of electricity when the
 weather clears up." " ' If, when the rain has ceased (the prior said
 to me) a strong excessivef electricity obtains, it is a sign that the
 weather will continue fair for several days ; if the electricity is but
 small, it is a sign that such weather will not last so much as that
 whole day, and that it will soon be cloudy again, or even will again
rain.' " The climate of this country is very different from that
 of Piedmont, where Beccaria and his friend made their observations,
 but their rule as to the " electricity of clearing weather," has been
found frequently confirmed by the speaker. He therefore considered,
that although it was still raining at the commencement of the meeting,
'the electrical indications they had seen gave fair promisej for the re
mainder of this evening, if not for a longer period. There can be no
doubt but that electric indications, when sufficiently studied, will be
found important additions to our means for prognosticating the weather;
    * From Beccaria's first letter " On Terrestrial Atmospheric Electricity during
Serene Weather."— Garzegna di Mondavi, May 16, 1775.
    t i.e. vitreous, or positive.
    % At the conclusion of the meeting it -was found that the rain had actually
ceased. The weather continued fair during the remainder of the night, and
three or four of the finest days of the season followed.

I860.]                 on Atmospheric Electricity.                      289
and the speaker hoped soon to see the atmospheric electrometer
     The speaker could
generallyadopted          not conclude
                     as a useful           without guarding
                                  and convenient             himself against
                                                   weather-glass.
any imputation of having assumed the existence of two electric fluids
or substances, because he had frequently spoken of the vitreous and
resinous electricities. Dufay's very important discovery of two modes
or qualities of electrification, led his followers too readily to admit his
supposition of two distinct electric fluids. Franklin, JEpinus, and
Cavendish, with a hypothesis of one electric fluid, opened the way
for a juster appreciation of the unity of nature in electric phenomena.
Beccaria, with his " electric atmospheres," somewhat vaguely struggled
to see deeper into the working of electric force, but his views found
little- acceptance, and scarcely suggested inquiry or even meditation.
The 18th century made a school of science for itself in which, for the
not unnatural dogma of the earlier schoolmen "matter cannot act
where it is not," was substituted the most fantastic of paradoxes,
contact does not exist. Boscovich's theory was the consummation of
the 18th century school of physical science. This strange idea took
deep root, and from it grew up a barren tree, exhausting the soil and
overshadowing the whole field of molecular investigation, on which so
much unavailing labour was spent by the great mathematicians of the
early part of our 19th century. If Boscovich's theory no longer
cumbers the ground, it is because one true philosopher required more
       for Faraday's
lightMr.              investigation
           tracing lines               of electrostatic induction influences
                         of electric force.
now every department of physical speculation, and constitutes an era
in science. If we can no longer regard electric and magnetic fluids
attracting or repelling at a distance as realities, we may now also con
template as a thing of the past that belief in atoms and in vacuum,
against which Leibnitz so earnestly contended in his memorable cor
     We now with
respondence         Dr.space
               look on   Samuel    Clarke."We know that light is propagated,
                               as full.
like sound, through pressure and motion. We know that there is no
substance of caloric—that inscrutably minute motions cause the expan
sion which the thermometer marks, and stimulate our sensation of heat
— that fire is not laid up in coal more than in this Leyden phial, or this
weight : there is potential fire in each. If electric force depends on a
residual surface action, a resultant of an inner tension experienced by
the insulating medium, we can conceive that electricity itself is to be
understood as not an accident, but an essence of matter. "Whatever
electricity is, it seems quite certain that electricity in motion is heat ;
and that a certain alignment of axes of revolution in this motion is
magnetism. Faraday's magneto-optic experiment makes this not a
hypothesis, but a demonstrated conclusion. Thus a rifle bullet keeps
its point foremost ; Foucault's gyroscope finds the earth's axis of pal
pable rotation ; and the magnetic needle shows that more subtle
rotatory movement in matter of the earth, which we call terrestrial
magnetism, all by one and the same dynamical action.

  290                          General Monthly Meeting.                     [Nov. 5,
      It is often asked, are we to fall back on facts and phenomena, and
  give up all idea of penetrating that mystery which hangs round the
  ultimate nature of matter ? This is a question that must be answered
  by the metaphysician, and it does not belong to the domain of Natural
  Philosophy. But it does seem that the marvellous train of discovery,
  unparalleled in the history of experimental science, which the last
 years of the world has seen to emanate from experiments within these
  walls, must lead to a stage of knowledge, in which laws of inorganic
 nature will be understood in this sense—that one will be known as
 essentially connected with all, and in which unity of plan through an
 inexhaustibly varied execution, will be recognized as a universally
       Sir Roderick
 manifested         GENERAL
                 result     creative
                            Monday,
                         of I.  Murchison,
                                      MONTHLY
                                       wisdom.
                                         November     5, MEETING,
                                                 F.R.S.   and Vice-President,
                                                         1860.          [W. T.]
                                      in the
                                    Carl       Chair.
                                           Haag,   Esq.
wasThe       resignation
       elected    a Member   (onofaccount
                                    the Royal      Institution.
                                              of ill  health) of the Rev. John
 Barlow, M.A. F.R.S. for nearly eighteen years the Honorary
 Secretary, was announced from the Chair, and received with deep
     ThebySpecial
regret                  Members
              all theThanks         present.
                                of the  Members were returned to M. Rouland,
the French Minister of Public Instruction, for his Present, on behalf
 of the French Government, of the following Works :—
                  Documents inedits sub L'Histoire de France.
Rapports
     Musique.
           au du
Instructions    Roi1837-49.
                    Comite
                    et au Ministre.             Arts et Monuments : Architecture et
                             Historique4to.des1835-39.
De Wailly, N. Elements de Paleographie. 2 vols. 4to. 1838.
     1836-44.
Chronique     desBertrand
              du   Dues deduNonnandie,
                                Guesclin, par Bfinoit.
                                                Cuvelier,Ed.
                                                           Trouvere du XIV0
                                                             F. Michel.           4to.
                                                                        3 vols.Siecle.
     Ed. E. Charriere. 2 vols. 4to. 1839.
Captivité de Francois I. Ed. A. Champollion-Figeac. 4to. 1847.
     4to. des1835.
Journal        Etats-Genéraux de France tenus a Tours en 1484. Ed. A. Bernier.
Proces-Verbaux des Etats-Gene-raux de 1593. 4to. 1842.

I860.]                          General Monthly Meeting.                                        291
Relations des Ambassadeurs Vénitiens sur les Affaires de France au XIVe Siècle.
     Ed. N. Tommaseo. 2 vols. 4to. 1838.
HenriparD-Kscoubleac
          E. Sue.: avec
     (1636-42)        3 vols.
                           une
                             de Introduction
                                  4to.
                                   Sourdis,
                                          1839.Archevêque             la Marine Correspondance
                                                   sur l-Etat de Bordeaux,          en France, &c.
     Sébastien &c.,
Négociations,          relatives au lîègne
                 de L'Aubespine.                       François
                                         Ed. L. deParis.                 tirées du Portefeuille de
                                                              4to. II.1841.
     2 vols. de
Négociations    entre
               4to.     1845.
                         la France
                   la France      avec etla l'Autriche
                                             Toscane. enEd.XVIe       Siècle.
                                                                 A. Des          Ed. M
                                                                           Jardins.              4to.
                                                                                      Vol.Le1. Glay.
Paris
Cartulaire
     1849.
Cartulaire
       sous de
             Philippe
                l'Abbaye
                l'Abbaye      de
                          le de
                              BelChartres.
                                  St-Bertin.
                                   : Le Rôle Ed. Ed.laA.A.Taille
                                                de          Guérard.
                                                                  de Paris
                                                           Guérard.      24to.
                                                                           vols.
                                                                             en 1292.
                                                                                   4to. Ed.
                                                                                 1840.   1840.par H,
     Géraud.Livres
Les Quatre                  Rois, traduits en français du XII" Siècle, suivis d'un Frag
                  4to.des1837.
     ment de Moralités sur Job et d'un Choix de Sermons de St-Bernard Ed. M.
     Le Roux de Lincy. 4to. 1841.
Abelard : Ouvrages Inédits. Ed. V. Cousin. 4to. 1836.
Didron,
Lenoir, A.M.Monumentale
Statistique    IconographieMonastique.
              Architecture       de
                                  Chrétienne
                                     Paris: Cartes,
                                                : 2Histoire   4to.
                                                     vols.Plans    et 1852-6.
                                                               de Dieu.     4to. 1843.
                                                                        Dessins,   par A. Lenoir.
     33 livraisons,
Peintures   de l'Eglise fol.de St-Savin. Texte par P. Mérimée : Dessins par M.
     Gérard-Séguin, fol. 1844-5.
     (AvecdeunDépenses
Comptes                              fol. 1850. du Château de Gaillon. Ed. A. Deville.
                Atlas.) de4tola etConstruction
     Ramée. de
Monographie           et fol. Notre-Dame
                4to.l'Eglise      1845.        de Noyon, par L. Vitet : Plans, &c. par D.
     The
     6 parties,
Monographie     de fol.
            Presents       1842-56.
                    la Cathédrale
                             receiveddesince
                                           Chartres.
                                                   the last        B. Lassus.were
                                                           Par J.Meeting             laidunon
                                                                                  (Avec          the
                                                                                             Atlas.)
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
   From des Sciences, Paris—Mémoires^ Tome XXX. 4to. 1860.
Académie
Actuaries, Institute of—The Assurance Magazine, Nos. 40, 41. 8vo. 1860.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Vol. XXI. Part 1. 8vo. 1860.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Memoirs : New Series, Vol. VI. Part 2.
     4to. 1859. Vol. VI. Nos. 12-31. 8vo. 1858-9.
   Proceedings,
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Nos. 59, 60, 61. 8vo. 1858-9.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Nos. 48-52; New Series, Vol. I. No. 1.
     8vo. 1857-59.
   Archœologia,    Vol. XXXVIII. Part I. 4to. 1860.
     noissance
Arkansas,           Arkansas. of1857-8.
            U.S.ofGovernment                      of—First Report of a Geological Recon-
                                      the State 8vo.
Arts, Society of—Journal, July to Oct. 1860. 8vo.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Nos. 270-277. 8vo. 1860.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XVIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1860.
   Memoirs, Vol.
Astronomical         XXVIII.
               Society,             4to. 1860. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo. 1860.
                           Royal—Proceedings,
Bache, Professor A. P.—Report of the United States' Coast Survey for 1857. 4to.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal—Sitzungsberichte, 1860: Heft 1, 2. 8vo.
      1860.
Boston Society of Natural History, U.S.—Proceedings, Vol. VI. No. 23-29 ;
     Vol. VII. No. 9. 8vo. 1858- 9.
British Architects, Royal Institute </—Papers read in 1860. 4to. 1860.

292                              General Monthly Meeting.                                [Nov. 5,
   Sixteenand
BritUh          ForeignofBible
             Volumes         the Holy
                                    Society—Reports,
                                          Scriptures in 1855,       Languages.
                                                          various1856,   1867. 8vo.1857-60.
Cardale, J. B. Esq. MR. I.—Speeches in Parliament, and Miscellaneous Pam
      phlets, of H. Drummond, M.P. Edited by Lord Lovaine. 2 vols. 8vo.
      1860.
Catlin,   G. Esq. (the Author)—The Steam Raft. 8vo. 1860.
      by T. Hopley.
Chambers,     G. T. Esq.8vo. MM.1860.I.—Facts bearing on the Death of R. J. Cancellor,
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, Nos. 50, 51. 8vo. 1860.
Dove, Professor H. W. (the Author)—Optische Studien. 8vo. Berlin, 1859.
      Clocks,
      and E.
Dertison,      Beckett,
               Watches,
           Bells.         Esq.
                     4th ed. and 16to.
                                  Bells,
                                   Q.C. with
                                           1860.a Full
                                           M.R.I,          Account of the Westminster
                                                     (the Author)—Rudimentary                Clock
                                                                                      Treatise   on
Editors—American Journal of Science, byB. Silliman, &c., for July to Sept. 1860.
      8vo.
  ^Artizan for July to Oct. 1860. 4to.
   Athenaeum for July to Oct. 1860. 4to.
   Chemical Gazette for July to Oct. 4to. 1860.
   Engineer for July to Oct. 1860. fol.
   Horological Journal, Nos. 23-27. 8vo. 1860.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for July to Oct. 1860. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for July to Oct. 1860. 8vo.
   Medical Circular for July to Oct. 1860. 8vo.
   Practical Mechanic's Journal for July to Oct. 1860. 4to.
   St. James's Medley, No. 24. 8vo. 1860.
   Imperial
      Math.
Faraday,
      Observations
      Sitzungsberichte
      fol. Professor,
             1860.
              Nat.
               Academy at D.C.L.
                    Classe::of1860.
                               Sciences,
                           Melbourne,
                                Denkschriften,
                                       F.R.S.—Results
                                        Nos.Vienna—Almanach,
                                            and  atBand
                                               1-5.  various
                                                     7-12. XVIII.
                                                            of8vo.
                                                                Stations
                                                                 Magnetical
                                                                     1860.
                                                                      4to.in 1860.
                                                                              12mo.
                                                                              and Meteorological
                                                                              Victoria  : 1858-9 .
   Royal Academy of Turin : Memorie. Tome XVIII. 4to. 1859.
   Oversigt
      8vo. over detderKongelige
   Monatsberichte            Akademie    Danske
                                           der Wissenschaften
                                                  VidenskaberneszuSelskabs        Mai-Juli.
                                                                        Berlin :: 1859.   8vo.1860.
Geological
      1, 2, Institute
Franklin       4. 8vo.
            3,Society—Quarterly
                       of Pennsylvania—Journal,
                              1860. Journal, Nos.   . 63,Vol.      8vo. 1860.
                                                             64.XXXIX.      No. 6 ; Vol. XL. Nos.
Geological Institute, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1859 : No. 4. 1860 : No 1. 4to.
   Journal, Vol.
Geographical        XXIX.Royal—Proceedings,
                 Society,        8vo. 1860.            Vol. IV. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1860.
      1831-51.Royal
Greenwich                   1859.
                   4to. Observatory—Reductions            of the Observations of the Moon.
Herpin, Dr. J. C. (the Author)—L'Alucite, ou Teigne des Bles. 8vo. 1860.
Horticultural Society of London—Proceedings. Nos. 13-1 8. 8vo. 1860.
         IowaGovernor
Iowa,ofU.S.,    (1855-7).of the Vol.State
                                       I. (In
                                           of—Report        the Geological
                                               2 parts.)of 4to.    1858. Survey of the State
Johnson, Edmund C. Esq. (the Author)—The Blind of London. 8vo. 1860.
      Glasses forT.Single
Jones,Professor               Pictures.
                       Wharton,     F.R.S.8vo.       1860.
                                              (the Author)—On      the Invention of Stereoscopic
      St. James's.
Lankester,   E. M.D.8vo.  M.R.T. 1860.(the Author)—Fourth Annual Report on the Health of
   Lectures on the Uses of Animals. Parti. 16to. 1860.
Leeds Philosophical Society—Annual Report, 1859-60. 8vo.
Linnean Society—Journal. Supplement to Vol. V. 8vo. 1860.
Liverpool Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 14. 8vo. 1860.
London     Corporation
      Library,   instituted
                          Library
                               in 1824.      8vo. 1859.
                                       Committee—    Classified Catalogue of the Corporation
 Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, July to Oct. 1860. 8vo.

I860.]                         General Monthly Meeting.                                 293
Mailly, M. E. (the Author)—Precis de l'Histoire de l'Astronomie aux Etats-Unis
     de l'Amerique. 16to. Bruxelles, I860.
   Relation d'un Voyage fait en Sicile et dans le Midi de l-ltalie en 1858. 16to.
     Bruxelles, 1859.
   Index Chirurgical
Medico-   and Additions Society,
                            to Library
                                  Royal—Proceedings,
                                        Catalogue. 8vo.         III. No. 4. 8vo. 1860.
                                                          Vol. 1860.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for July to Oct. 1860. 8vo.
     our Fathers
Peregal,  F. Esq.and        Editor)—The
                      (theMothers:   as recorded
                                            Year 1800;
                                                  by the or,   The Sayings
                                                           Newspapers,        8vo.Doings
                                                                         &c. and     1860. of
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographie. 1860. Heft 7, 8, 9, und ErgUnzungsheft. 4to. Gotha, 1860.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 99-102. 8vo. 1860.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 39, 40. 8vo. 1860.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Abhandlungen : Band VII. Heft 2-4 ; Band
     VIII. Heft 1, 2. 8vo. 1859-60.
   Berichte, 1859-60. 8vo.
St. Petersburg
Smithsonian        Imperial Academy
               Institution—Annual      Report
                                          of Sciences—      8vo.
                                               for 1858. Memoires     par Divers Savans:
     Tome VIII. 4to. 1859.
   Memoires: 7eSe"rie: Tome II. Nos. 1-3. 4to. 1859.
   Bulletin, Tome I. Nos. 4-10. 4to. 1859-60.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXIII. Part 3. 8vo. 1860.
Tyndall, Professor J. F.R.S. (the A uthor)—The Glaciers of the Alps. 12mo. 1860.
United Service Institution—Journal, Nos. 12, 13. 8vo. 1860.
 Vereins zur Befbrderung des Gevoerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Mai und
     Juni.
 Yates,          Esq. 4to.
        James,1860.     F.R.S. F.SA.—Photographs of the Portrait and of the Statue
      (erected
 Yorkshire      at Oxford,
            ( West   Riding)June
                               Geological
                                    I860) and
                                           ofJoseph   Priestley
                                                Polytechnic       ; and a Medal.
                                                               Society—Proceedings,     1859.
      8vo. Sir
Zoological    1860.GENERAL
                   Charles
                    The Rev. Monday,
             Society—Proceedings,Hamilton,
                                    Alexander
                                       MONTHLY
                                       1860.
                                         December
                                              PartsDenny,
                                                    1 and
                                                 Bart.  3,C.B.
                                                           MEETING,
                                                            2.1860.
                                                               M.A.
                                                                 8vo.
                                                                  in the
                                                                      andChair.
were elected MembersEdward Snaith,    the Royal
                                  of Carl    Haag, Institution.
                                            Esq.     Esq.
      admittedBence
was Henry           a Member            the Royal
                             Jones,ofM.D.               F.R.S. was elected Secretary
                                                M.A.Institution.
of the Royal Institution, in the room of the Rev. JonN Barlow, M.A.
F.R.S. resigned, who was elected a Manager.
    Vol. III. (No. 33.)                                                            x

294                            General Monthly Meeting.                [Dec. 3, 1660.
      The following Arrangements for the Lectures before Easter 1861,
wereSix      Lectures:—
         announced      on the Chemical History of a Candle (adapted
to a Juvenile Auditory)— by Michael Faraday, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.
       FullerianLectures
&c. Twelve           Professor        Chemistry, Richard
                               onofFishes—by       R.I.         Owen, Esq. D.C.L.
F.R.S.TwelveFullerian
                  Lectures
                         Professor
                                on Electricity—by
                                       of Natural Physiology,        Tyndall, Esq.
                                                              JohnR.I.
F.R.S.         Lecturesof on
      Ten Professor          Natural
                                  Inorganic
                                        Philosophy,    R.I.
                                                  Chemistry—by         Dr. Edward
Frankland, Esq. F.R.S. Lecturer on Chemistry at St. Bartholo
mew's         Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
      TheHospital.
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
    Fbom
Airy, G. B. Esq. F.R.S. Astronomer-Royal—J. Eiffe's and E. Molyneux's Im
       provements in Chronometers. 4to. 1842.
Arts, Society of—Journal,
BaselNatural                    November 1860. 8vo.Theil II. Heft 4. 8vo. 1860.
                  History Society—Verhandlungen,
 Civil Engineers, Institution of-—Minutes of Proceedings. Vol. XVIII. 1858-9.
       8vo. 1859.
    Proceedings in November 1860. 8vo.
Editors —Artizan for November 1860. 4to.
    Atheneeum for November 1 860. 4to.
    Chemical News for November 1860. 4to.
    Engineer for November 1860. fol.
    Horological Journal, No. 28. 8vo. 1860.
    Journal of Gas-Lighting for November 1860. 4to.
    Mechanics' Magazine for November 1860. 8vo.
    Medical Circular for November 1860. 8vo.
    Practical Mechanic's Journal for November 1860. 4to.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—P. P. H. Baddeley, Whirlwinds and Dust-
       Sto'ims of India. With an Atlas Plates. 2 vols. 8vo. and 4to. 1860.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XL. No. 5. 8vo. 1860.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. IV. No. 5. 8vo. 1860.
 Gordon,
 Hull        Willougkby
         Literary  and Philosophical
                         J. Gyll, Esq.Society—Guide
                                          M.R.I, (the Author)—A
                                                       to the Museum.   16to.
                                                                  Tractate     1860.
                                                                           on Language.
 Mackie, Society—Journal,
 Linnean    S. J. Esq. F.G.S.No.       Editor)—The
                                  (the18.   8vo. 1860.Geologist, November 1860. 8vo.
 Medico-    Chirurgical
        XLIII.            Society, Royal — Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol.
                  8vo. 1860.
 Newton, Messrs. —London Journal (New Series), for November 1860. 8vo.
 Photographic Society—Journal, No. 103. 8vo. 1860.
 Jtouland, M. (Minister of Public Instruction in France)—Negotiations de la France
        dans le Levant. Vol. IV. 4to. 1860.
     Journal d'Olivier d'Ormesson, &c. Vol. I. 4to. 1860.
  St. Petersburg Imperial Academy of Sciences—Memoires : 6" Serie: Sciences
        Mathematiques, &c. Tome IX. et X. 4to. 1859.
     Memoires par Divers Savans. Tome IX. 4to. 1859.

1861.]             Professor Tyndall on Radiant Heat.                     295
  Memoires des Sciences Politiques, &e. Tome IX. 4to. 1859.
  Mémoires : 7e Serie. Tome II. Nos. 4-7. Tome III. No. 1. 4to. 1860.
  Bulletins: Tome II. Nos. 1-3. 4to. 1860.
Vaeins zur BefBrderung des Gewerbfleissea in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Juli und
                   4to. Friday,EVENING
    Aug. 1860. WEEKLY                 1861. 18, MEETING,
                                   January        1861.
    William Eobert Grove, Esq. Q.C. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                        John Tyndall,        Esq. F.R.S.
                PROFKSSOa OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, ROYAL INSTITUTION.
         On the Action of Gases and , Vapours on Radiant Heat.
The discourse commenced by a reference to the researches of Leslie,
Forbes, and Knoblauch ; but more especially to the admirable inves
tigations of Melloni on Radiant Heat. These eminent men had left
the gaseous form of matter practically untouched, and to extend our
knowledge into this wide region was the object of the investigation
     The apparatus
on which    the present   discourse
                       made            and founded.
                              use of, was   which was applied in the experi
ments    A the
     1. of      evening,
             copper   cubeconsists
                             C, containing
                                    of the following  partsconstantly
                                              water kept    :—        boiling,
and one of whose faces, coated with lamp-black, forms the source of
     2. Aheat.
 radiant    brass tube, 2 * 4 inches in diameter, which is divided into two
portions, a and /3.
     at. The portion of the tube intended to receive the gases and vapours ;
it is stopped air-tight at its two ends by plates of rock-salt, and is
attached to a good air-pump, by which it can be exhausted at pleasure.
 The length is 4 feet.
     j6. An air-tight chamber between the tube a and the cube C. It
is kept constantly exhausted, and the calorific rays therefore pass from
the radiating plate through a vacuum into the tube, thus retaining the
quality which belonged to them at the moment of emission.
                                                                    x2

  296                     Professor Tyndall on the Action                      [Jan. 18,
      To prevent the transmission of heat by conduction from the cube
  C to the tube a, the chamber               is partly embraced by an annular
      3. in
 space,       thermo-electric
           A which   cold waterpile    furnishedcirculates.
                                    continually   with two conical reflectors, and
 connected with an excellent galvanometer. One of the faces of the
           A second
 pile 4.receives         copper
                  the rays   whichcube
                                     have    also filled
                                         C,passed         withtheboiling
                                                    through        tube a.water, and
 whose rays fall upon the second face of the thermo-electric pile. The
 two cubes C and C, thus radiating upon the opposite faces of the pile,
          of course,
 tend,Between             neutralise
                  the tocube           the adjacent
                              C and each    other. face of the pile a screen S is
 introduced, being attached to an apparatus of Ruhmkorffs, capable of
 extremely fine motion ; by the partial advance or withdrawal of this
 screen the two sources of heat can be caused to neutralise each other
     The tube a and the chamber fi, being both exhausted, the needle
 perfectly.
 of the galvanometer is brought exactly to zero by means of the screen
 S. The gas or vapour to be experimented with is now admitted into
 the tube a, and if it possess any sensible absorbing power, it will
 destroy the previously existing equilibrium. The consequent deflec
 tion of the galvanometer, properly reduced, is the measure of the
absorption. In this way the action of eight gases and thirteen vapours
         been examined,
haveOxygen,       hydrogen,       also the action
                             andnitrogen,           of atmospheric
                                             and atmospheric       air,air.respectively
absorb about 0 ' 3 per cent. of the calorific rays ; this is the feeblest
     Thewhich
action            energetic
            most has           action is that of olefiant gas, which at the ten
                       been observed.
sion of one atmosphere absorbs 81 per cent• of the calorific rays.
Between those extremes stand carbonic oxide, carbonic acid, nitrous
    Below
oxide,          a certain tension,
          and sulphuretted      hydrogen.which varies for different gases, the
amount of heat absorbed is exactly proportional to the density of the
gas. Above this tension, the rays on which the principal absorptive
energy is exerted, become gradually exhausted, so that every augment
ationInofthe   case produces
            density  of olefiant     gas, for example,
                                  a diminished   effect. where a unit measure
 ^th of a cubic inch in capacity was made use of ; for a series of fifteen
such measures, the absorption was exactly proportional to the quantity
of gas ; subsequently, the ratios of the successive absorptions approached
gradually to equality. The absorption produced by a single measure
of olefiant gas of the above volume, moved the index of the galvano
meter through an angle of 2*2 degrees ; the tension of the gas being
          the caseof
onlyInrrL))th      ofan    atmosphere.
                        vapours,   the most energetic is that of sulphuric ether ;
the least energetic is that of bisulphide of carbon. Comparing small
volumes and equal tensions, the absorptive energy of sulphuric ether
vapour is ten times that of olefiant gas, and ten thousand times that of
oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, or atmospheric air.

1861.]                  of Gases on Radiant Heat.                          297
    On a fair November day the aqueous vapour in the atmosphere
produced fifteen times the absorption of the true air itself. It is on
rays emanating from a source of comparatively low temperature that
this great absorptive energy is exerted ; hence the aqueous vapour of
the atmosphere must act powerfully in intercepting terrestrial radia
tion ; its changes in quantity would produce corresponding changes of
climate ; subsequent researches must decide whether this vera causa
is competent to account for the climatal changes which geologic
     Oxygenreveal.
researches    obtained from the electrolysis of water exerted four times
the absorptive energy of the same substance when caused to pass
through iodide of potassium ; the greater action being due to the
    The radiative
presence   of ozone.power of gases was examined by causing them to pass
over a heated sphere of metal, and ascend in a column in front of the
thermo-electric pile ; various precautions were taken to secure
accuracy in the results. It was found that the order of radiation was
exactly that of absorption ; that any atom or molecule which is capable
of accepting motion from agitated ether, is capable in precisely the
same degree of imparting motion to still ether. Films of gas on sur
       of polished
facesThe            metalinvestigated
          speaker also     were found the
                                       to act
                                           physical  connection
                                              like coats          of radiation,
                                                           of varnish.
absorption, and conduction. In the foregoing experiments free atoms
and molecules were dealt with, and upon them individually was fixed
the responsibility of the effects observed. These effects are thus
detached from considerations of cohesion and aggregation, which sug
      themselves
gestThe   reciprocity
                   in the
                       of absorption
                          case of liquids  radiation
                                      and and  solids. is a simple mechanical
     But why of
consequence       the theory
               is one         of an
                       molecule     ether. to stop or generate a calorific
                                 competent
flux so much more powerfully than another ? The experiments prompt
the following reply :—The elementary gases which have been examined
all exhibit extremely feeble powers both of absorption and radiation,
in comparison with the compound ones. In the former case we have
oscillating atoms, in the latter oscillating systems of atoms. Uniting
the atomic theory with the conception of an ether, it follows that the
compound molecule which furnishes points d'appui to the ether must
be capable of accepting and generating motion in a far greater degree
than the single atom, which we may figure to our minds as an oscillat
ing sphere. Thus oxygen and hydrogen, which, taken separately, or
united mechanically, produce a scarcely sensible effect, when united
chemically to form oscillating systems as in aqueous vapour, produce a
powerful effect. Thus also, nitrogen and hydrogen, which when
separate or mixed, produce but little action, when combined to form
ammonia, produce a great action. So also nitrogen and oxygen, which
when mixed as in air, are feeble absorbers and radiators, when united
to oscillating systems, as in nitrous oxide, are very powerful in both
capacities. Comparing small volumes and equal tensions, the action

298             Professor Tyndall on Radiant Heat.              [Jan. 18,
of nitrous oxide is 250 times that of air ; a fact which perhaps furnishes
a stronger presumption than any previously existing, that air is a
mixture, and not a compound. Carbonic oxide is about 100 times
as powerful as its constituent oxygen ; carbonic acid is 150 times as
powerful, while olefiant gas, as already remarked, is 1000 times as
powerful as its constituent hydrogen. In the case of the hydro-car
bon vapours, where the atomic groups attain a higher degree of com
     The the
plexity,     actionalso
          speaker    is even
                         referred
                             greater
                                  to than that of olefiant
                                     the experiments       observations of
                                                       andgas.
Niepce, Angstrom, and Foucault ; but more especially to the admira
ble researches of Kirchhoff and Bunsen, as regards the influence of the
period of oscillation on the rate of absorption. He pointed out how the
grouping of atoms to systems in a resisting medium must tend to make
their periods of oscillation longer, and thus bring them into isoehronism
with the periods of the obscure radiations made use of in the experi
     With regard to conduction, the speaker would illustrate his views
ments.
by reference to two substances—rock-salt and alum. He was once
surprised to observe the great length of time required by a heated
mass of rock-salt to cool ; but this was explained by the experiments
of Mr. Balfour Stewart, who shows that rock-salt is an exceedingly
feeble radiator. The meaning of this is that the molecules of the salt
glide through the ether with small loss of vis viva. But the ease of
motion which they are thus proved to enjoy must facilitate their mutual
collision. The motion of the molecules, instead of being expended on
the ether between them, and then communicated in part to the ether
external to the mass, is transferred freely from particle to particle ; or
in other words, is freely conducted. This a priori conclusion is com
pletely verified by the author's experiments, which prove rock-salt to
be an excellent conductor. It is quite the reverse with alum. Mr.
Balfour Stewart's experiments prove it to be an excellent radiator, and
the author's experiments show it to be an extremely bad conductor.
Thus it imparts with ease its motion to the ether, and for this very
reason finds difficulty in transferring it from particle to particle ; its
molecules are in fact so constituted that when one of them approaches
its neighbour, a swell is produced in the intervening ether ; this motion
is immediately communicated to the ether outside, and is thus lost
for the purposes of conduction. The lateral waste prevents the motion
from penetrating the alum to any great extent, and hence it is pro
nounced a bad conductor. These considerations seem to reduce Ihe
phenomena of absorption, radiation, and conduction to the simplest
mechanical principles.
                                                                [J. T.]

1861.]             Dr. Wallich on the Deep- Sea Bed.                    299
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                      Friday, January 25, 1861.
The Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                          Dr. G. C. Wallich,
 On the Nature of the Deep-sea Bed, and the Presence of Animal Life
                        at vast Depths in the Ocean.
Our first clear glance at the floor of the ocean may be said to date
from the period at which submarine telegraphy was first undertaken.
For although the depth of the sea has been approximatively ascertained
over widely extended areas, in the course of the various surveys con
ducted under the auspices of the British, the United States, and the
Dutch Governments, hardly any previous attempts have been made
systematically to investigate the characters and composition of its bed.
In the absence of any special object, such attempts would have been
far too costly and difficult to be practicable. It has been ascertained,
however, that the floor of the ocean is but the reflex, as it were, of the
dry land ; that it is in no place unfathomable ; that along its deeper
portions certain muddy deposits are to be met with, in ntlmy cases
made up, more or less entirely, of minute calcareous shells belonging
to one of the most simple order of beings with which we are acquainted ;
and that together with these are also to be found, but in comparatively
speaking small quantity, the minute flinty skeletons of other organisms
derived both from the animal and vegetable kingdoms. But no con
clusive evidence has been produced to show whether any or all of
these organisms normally lived and perished, at the profound depths
from whence they were obtained by the sounding lead ; or whether,
having inhabited distant, and perhaps shallower seas, their dead remains
alone, after being transported by currents or other agencies, had
gradually subsided into the deep hollows of the ocean. Taking into
consideration the very important part played by these organisms in the
structure of the earth's crust, that vast strata have in ages gone by been
built up of them, and that similar strata are at the present time being
deposited along the beds of existing seas, the investigation of these
questions becomes of the highest consequence, as bearing on the suc
    Theestablishment
cessful                    animaltelegraphy.
         distribution of ocean     life in the upper waters of the sea is
determined by climate, by the composition of its waters, the nature of

300                             Dr. Wallich                       [Jan. 25,
its bed, and its depth in any given locality ; the last of these items
necessarily involving the relative degrees of temperature, light, aeration,
and pressure, as compared with those to be met with near the surface.
Of these conditions climate exercises a very powerful influence ; for it is
found as we advance from the equator towards the poles that a gradual
diminution takes place, not only in the number of types met with, but
of the varieties ranged under those types. It has been maintained, that
in order to compensate for the diminution in the number of generic
forms, the number of individuals of each species is much augmented.
Although this law holds good as regards the higher orders, it can
hardly be said to do so in the case of the lower ; for the vast assemblages
of these lower forms met with on the surface of the sea in the tropics,
are in no wise less extensive than those met with in high latitudes. It
will be found that the lower the grade of being, the more equally
balanced will be its distribution, at the extremes of the globe ; inasmuch
as the greater range in depth commanded by these lower forms renders
them less amenable to conditions which are variable from being de
      The composition
pendent                 of the
           on atmospheric      waters of the ocean is well known to become
                            changes.
much more equable at great depths ; and it therefore exercises a far
less marked influence on the presence of animal life than it does at
the surface. The same causes which equalize the temperature in so
remarkable a manner as the depth increases, are effective in equalizing
the relative proportions of the various ingredients that enter into the
composition of sea water, in all latitudes. For whilst the surface
stratum is subject to dilution with fresh water, from various sources, the
 greater the depths the less subject can the waters be to this influence,
and the less can it operate in modifying the distribution of the organ
       tha^frequent
 ismsOxygen           them. to the presence of animal life—without it
               is essential
 animal life ceases. To air-breathing, as well as water-breathing
 creatures a due supply of this gas is indispensable ; the function of
 respiration, no matter whether performed by lungs, as in man and the
 higher orders, or by a simple process of absorption and exudation
 through the general surface of the body, as in some of the lower forms,
 being, in every instance, essentially that process whereby oxygen is
 received into the system in exchange for carbonic acid which is given
 off". But although oxygen enters largely into the composition of both
 atmospheric air and water, the supply of this element is not obtained,
 in the case of creatures inhabiting the sea, under ordinary circumstances,
 from its decomposition, but from a certain portion of atmospheric air
 present in water in a state of solution. Most gases are absorbed by
 water. Under pressure, the quantity absorbed is much increased, as
 is seen in the familiar case of soda-water. It should be borne in
 mind, however, when the fact is applied to the occurrence of animal
 life at great depths in the sea, that in order to produce the absorption
  of atmospheric air, its contact or mixing together at the surface by the
 action of wind and wave is necessary, and the effect of this operation

1861.]         on Animal Life at vast Depths in the Ocean.                    301
can only extend to a limited depth, unless, as has been assumed by
some of our highest authorities, the lower strata of sea water, being
subject to increased pressure, become capable of holding in solution a
greater quantity of oxygen ; and, by robbing the superincumbent
strata of that which they contain, gradually become saturated with it.
Should this view be correct, there must be a point at which the maxi
mum amount of oxygen which sea water can absorb, is permanently
present in it. But, inasmuch as the vegetable cell, simple though it
be in structure, can eliminate carbon from the medium in which it
lives, it is not unreasonable to assume that the lowest forms of animal
life, even where no specialized organs are traceable, may, in like man
ner,The     temperature
       be able            of the
                to eliminate    oxygen
                                  sea isdirectly
                                         materially    the waterbyaround
                                                 frominfluenced            them.
                                                                     the climatic
conditions of different latitudes ; and, of course, exercises a powerful
effect both on the distribution and abundance of the higher orders of
living beings present in its waters. But, as has been shown, this
influence is not manrfest, or at all events, not so manifest in the lower
orders ; for at great depths the variability of the temperature is
reduced within very narrow limits in all latitudes. Now the higher
orders of oceanic creatures inhabit only the surface waters, never
sinking down to extreme depths. In the case of some of the lower
forms, on the other hand, a very extended pathymetrical range exists,
putting out of the question those which constantly dwell on the sea
bed In    likeofmanner,
      itself,              shall presently
                 which I Light,              the absence
                                  or rather have  to speak.of it, can hardly be
said to determine, in any important degree, the distribution and limita
tion of the lower forms of animal life. Light is not essential even in
the case of some of the higher orders. A large class of creatures,
both terrestrial and marine, possess no true organs of vision, although
there is good reason for believing that they do possess some special
 sensory apparatus, susceptible to the influence of light ; whilst certain
 creatures, whose habitation is in subterranean caves or lakes, as in
the Magdalena caves near Adelsberg, and the Great Mammoth caves
in Kentucky, either possess no organs of vision, or possess them in so
rudimentary a state, as to prove clearly that the absence or imperfect
 development of this sense may be compensated for by the higher
     It is impossible
 development                   present to say to what depth light penetrates
                 of other atsenses.
 in the sea. The photographic art will, no doubt, one day solve the
 problem. But it is almost certain that a limit is attained, and that,
 penetrate, long
 moreover,           before
               even in   its most
                               the deep
                                     attenuated
                                           recesses  gauged; and
                                                  condition   by the     as shall
                                                                    yet,sounding
 machine are reached, where
 hereafter be shown, creatures have been found down in those profound
 and dark abysses, whose colouring is as delicate and varied as if they
 had passed their existence under the bright influence of a summer
      !
 sun Pressure    is the last condition which has to be noticed. Although

302                             Dr. Wallich                        [Jan. 25,
undoubtedly a highly important one, I hope to be able to prove that it
is not of essential value; as has heretofore been laid down, in deter
    It isthealmost
mining               needless
              final limit of animal
                              to state
                                    lifethat at sea.
                                         in the the sea level there exists a
pressure of 15 lbs. on every square inch of surface, due to the weight
of the atmospheric column resting upon it ; and that the pressure on
the successive strata of water in the sea, as the depth increases, is infi
nitely in excess of this, inasmuch as a column of water only 33 feet in
height is capable of counterbalancing the entire atmospheric column,
which extends to a height of about 45 miles. Accordingly, for every
33 feet of descent in the sea, putting out of consideration the effect of
the superincumbent column in actually diminishing the bulk of the
portions beneath by augmenting their density, there is an additional
15 lbs. At great depths, therefore, the aggregate pressure becomes
stupendous. As is well known, pieces of light wood let down to a
depth of 1500 ob 2000 fathoms, become so compressed and surcharged
with water as to be too heavy to float. But there is a fallacy in this
experiment ; for the contraction of the woody fibre and cells is a
necessary consequence of their submission to an amount of pressure so
enormously in excess of that under which they originated. With
organisms which have been developed, from first to last, under the full
operation of any given amount of pressure, the result would not be of
this nature ; for the equalization of the pressure, within and without
their entire structure, although it might possibly exercise some definite
effect in determining their shape, size, or even functions, cannot, I
submit, operate in causing the creatures living under it to experience
any more detrimental results than we experience from the 15 lbs. on
every square inch, or about 14 tons, on the general surface of our
     It can
bodies         the sea be
        nearscarcely       wondered at that under such apparently extra
                       level.
ordinary conditions, the maintenance of life, even in its least developed
aspects, should have been deemed absolutely impossible at extreme
depths ; and that it should have been almost unanimously recognized as
an axiom, that at a depth of 400, or, at most, 500 fathoms, life, whether
animal or vegetable, must be extinct. The fact is unquestionable that
as we descend beyond the first hundred fathoms, the traces of life
become more and more remote ; and it is probably owing to this
gradual diminution in the number of animal forms, as the depth exceeds
this limit, that it has been assumed, rather as a matter of theory than of
observation, that a point is speedily reached at which all the conditions
essential to life are extinguished. This view has also derived support
from the idea that "animal life depends on the previous existence of
vegetable life." In the case of the higher orders of the animal kingdom,
the law, no doubt, holds good. Not so, however, in the case of the
lower. The conditions essential to the perpetuation of the one are not
essential to the perpetuation of the other. Thus, light is indispensable
for the healthy respiration and growth of the vegetable. The animal
can, on the other hand, respire as freely in the blackest darkness as in

1861.]         on Animal Life at vast Depths in the Ocean.              303
the broad glare of day ; and this is, no doubt, the reason why vege
table life in the ocean attains its final limit in depth so much sooner
than animal life. And yet, considering how very unexpectedly animal
life has been proved to exist deep down in the ocean—as I shall imme
diately show, far removed beyond those conditions which had hitherto
been considered indispensable —we ought perhaps to pause before we
assert that the same plastic skill which has so constituted certain
creatures as to admit of their inhabiting the deep abysses of the ocean,
may not, in like manner, have so constituted some of the vegetable
     The Foraminifera
organisms   as to be capable
                         are the
                             of living
                                  organisms      whichconditions.
                                        undertoSimilar reference has been
made as performing so very important a part in the formation of certain
strata on the earth's crust. They occur abundantly in all existing seas.
They are to be met with in a fossil state, not only in chalk, but in
almost all marine sedimentary strata ; as, for instance, in the hard
limestones and marbles. The recent Foraminifera may therefore be
looked upon as the oldest living representatives of any known class of
     In the mud, or " ooze" as it has been termed, which is brought up
 organisms.
 from great depths in many parts of the open sea, immense assemblages
 of Foraminifera are to be met with, chiefly belonging to one species
 however. In the absence of examinations conducted immediately on
 their being brought up to the surface by the sounding machine, it is not
 surprising that the question as to their occurrence in a living, or only in
 a dead state, should have remained undecided : most of the authorities
 who have written on the subject being of opinion that they do not live
 at great depths, but that their shells and remains have drifted to the
 positions in which they were found from shallower waters, or have sub
 sided from the upper strata of the ocean. Professor Huxley was one
 of the very few who leant to the more correct opinion ; he having
 declared, that although far from regarding it as proved that the Globi-
 gerina (the species referred to) live at these depths, the balance of
 probabilities seemed to him to incline in that direction. Other writers
 have offered surmises on the subject ; but these, in the absence of any
 thing like substantial proofs, were, of course, only estimated at what
      weredifficulty
 theyThe    worth. is how to determine the point conclusively. For it
 seems legitimate to infer, that if these organisms are specially adapted
 to exist under conditions differing so widely from those present at or
 near the surface, the very circumstance of removing them from one set
 of conditions to the other, would inevitably destroy their vitality, and
 perhaps their normal structure, before it could become practicable to
 subject them to microscopic analysis. Nor is the difficulty an imagi
 nary one. For, taking into consideration the entirely altered circum
 stances in which these creatures must find themselves placed when
 brought to the surface, locomotion, or even the protrusion of their
 filamentary appendages, could hardly be expected. The mere existence
 of the fleshy parts within their shells, and that too in an apparently

304                              Dr. Wallich                       [Jan. 25,
recent condition, affords no proof, inasmuch as the great quantity of
saline matter present in sea water, and especially at great depths, would
of itself alone account for their perfect state of preservation.
     " During the recent survey of the North Atlantic, I found that in
certain localities, where the Globigerina deposit was of the purest kind
and in the greatest plenty, the specimens from the immediate surface
stratum of the sea-bed alone retained their normal appearance, both as
regards the perfect state of the sarcodic contents of the shells and the
presence of the pseudopodia. The latter organs were never seen by
me in an extended condition ; but in the specimens alluded to, and in
those only, occurred as minute bosses, resembling in shape the rounded
rivet-heads on boilers, closely appressed to the external surface of the
shell ; whereas, in specimens from the substratum, the colour was much
duskier, and these bosses were absent. And further, in these pure
deposits the shells were to be found in every gradation, from the single
chamber, of microscopic minuteness, hyaline transparency, and extreme
thinness, to the dense Zeolite-like structure of the many-chambered
mature shells, which are large enough to be readily distinguished by
the naked eye. These facts, when taken in conjunction with the entire
absence of the varied remains of other organized structures found in
localities where the Globigerinae are only scantily represented, afford,
as I conceive, all but the direct proof, which can only be arrived at
on witnessing locomotion, or the protrusion and retraction of the pseu
dopodia of the organisms in question.
    " Most fortunately, as it happened, this collateral evidence was ren
dered doubly conclusive by other proofs of a most unexpected and
interesting kind. Before entering on these, I may state that the sub
stratum, spoken of as differing in aspect from the immediate surface-
layer, is nevertheless identical in composition ; the difference in colour
arising simply from decay. It contains no living Foraminifera ; for
the minute particles of matter becoming gradually condensed and
aggregated together by molecular affinity, and the enormous super
incumbent pressure exerting itself only in one direction, that is, verti
cally, its permeability by fluids is thus completely destroyed, and it is
compacted into a dense mass of far too unyielding a nature to admit
of its being traversed by living creatures of any kind. As the Forami
nifera die off, their shells and decaying contents, together with the
minute particles of amorphous matter associated with them, go to
build up the calcareous strata of the earth's crust. I would mention,
that in order to determine whether the Globigerince live as free
floating forms in the mid strata of water, I attached a small open-
mouthed bag, at about 200 fathoms from the extreme end of the
sounding line, in a locality where the species was most abundant in the
deposit, and brought it up through nearly 5000 feet of water without
securing a single shell.
    " But by far the most important and interesting discovery remains to
be noticed, namely, the detection of a high order of radiate animal, in a
living state, at a depth of a mile and a half below the surface of the sea.

1861.]         on Animal Life at vast Depths in the Ocean.           305
    " When we take into consideration the low position of the rhizopod
in the scale of being, and the obvious probability, pointed out by
Professor Huxley, that a class of creatures proved to extend so far
back in time—that is, in a fossil state—must be able to maintain
existence under extraordinary and variable conditions as regards light,
temperature, and pressure, the sentiment engendered is rather one of
wonder, that their vitality at great depths should have been so long
and so stoutly maintained, than that it should now be so fully proved.
But few persons were bold enough to suspect that creatures of a far
higher type, namely, Radiata, could] exist under similar conditions ;
and I freely admit, that nothing short of the most incontrovertible proof
ought to be accepted in support of such a view. Fortunately, I am in
a position to afford that proof.
     " In sounding midway, in the direct line between Cape Farewell,
the southern point of Greenland, and the north-west coast of Ireland,
in lat. 59° 27' N., and long. 26° 41' W., the depth being 1260 fathoms
(or 2520 yards), whilst the sounding apparatus itself brought up a
considerable quantity of minute granular particles, looking like a fine
oolite, but which was, in reality, a nearly perfectly pure Globigerina
deposit, 13 star-fishes, from 2 to 5 inches in diameter from tip to
tip of rays, belonging to a genus plentifully represented on our own
coasts, came up adhering to the extreme 50 fathoms of sounding line.
These Ophiocomoe were not only alive on being brought up out of
the water, but some of them continued for fully a quarter of an
hour to move about their long spinous arms. To render intelligible
the significancy of the entire circumstances, I must mention, that in
order to ensure accuracy, it is always necessary, when sounding in
deep water, to ascertain the depth by one sort of apparatus, and to
 bring up the sample of bottom by another. In the present case, the
ascertained depth was 1260 fathoms, and 50 fathoms was accordingly
 " paid out " in the second operation of bringing up bottom, in order
 to make sure that the more complicated and unmanageable apparatus
 required for this purpose fairly rested on the bottom.
     " Now, supposing it possible that these star-fishes were drifting
 about in some intermediate stratum of water, between the bottom and
 surface, it is evident that they would have attached themselves indis
 criminately to any portion of the entire 1260 fathoms of line ; unless,
 indeed, they chanced to have been directing their course in a closely
 compacted column, which was transversed by the last extra 50 fathoms
 of line at the precise moment of their crossing it. Whether it be
 possible that they were drifting in such a column, or floating on a bed
 of seaweed or other substance, is immaterial, inasmuch as they could
 only have attached themselves as they did to the portion of line
 referred to under this one condition. But the very act of attachment
 would, I maintain, be impossible in the case of creatures whose move
 ments are so sluggish, when the object which they had to grasp was
 moving upwards at the rate of two miles per hour (as it does when
 hauled up by the steam-engine), and without a moment's intermission.

306                   Dr. Wallich on Animal Life.                [Jan. 25,
But even assuming it to be possible that they had drifted to the
position in which they were captured, from distant and less profound
depths, the fact of their vitality and vigorously healthy condition would
be scarcely less extraordinary ; for the distance from the nearest point
of land, which is a rock off Iceland, is 250 miles ; whilst the next
nearest land, Greenland, is distant no less than 500 miles. But it must
be obvious to every one who is at all conversant with the structure of
the Ophiocom<B and Echinoderms generally, that they are essentially
creeping and crawling creatures, and of far too great specific gravity
to float at all under any circumstances.
    " Taking into consideration then, the circumstances under which
these OphiocomcB were taken, the extreme improbability of their having
drifted to the locality in which they were found, from distant and
shallower waters ; and lastly, the peculiarities of structure, which
render them wholly unfit to float or swim for even a brief period, we
should have been fully warranted, I think, in believing that they
existed in a living state at the bottom. In order to obtain some clue
to the solution of the question, I very carefully dissected and analyzed
the contents of the digestive cavity of a specimen, immediately on its
being brought up ; and was most amply repaid by the detection of
numerous Globigerince in every stage of comminution, and with the
contained sarcodic matter in greater or lesser quantity. Whilst,
therefore, the detection of these organisms in the digestive cavities of
the Ophiocomce afforded a most conclusive proof that the Foraminifera
were living on the sea bed at the profound depth from which they
were obtained ; the fact of the star-fishes being captured with the fresh
remains of the Foraminifera in their digestive cavities, proves that their
normal habitation is at the same great depth, inasmuch as it has been
sufficiently established that the Globigerinae are present only at the
bottom. I may mention that, within the past few days, in examining
a sample of the Globigerina deposit brought up by a previous sounding
 on the same spot, I detected some Echinoderm spines, which at once
 struck me as being identical with those on the Ophiocomae ; and that,
 on comparison, my surmise proved to be quite correct : a further and
 very striking proof of the vitality of the OphiocomaB at the bottom
 being thus afforded."
                                                            [G. C. W.]

1861.]        Rev, A. D' Orsey on the English Language.                     307
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 1, 1861.
The Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     Rev. A. J. D. D'Obsey, B.D.
                 of theLecturer
On the Study English     English     Language
                                at Corpus           as anCambridge.
                                          Christ! College,  Essential Part of a
                              University Course.
The speaker said, that " A plea for the study of the English
Language as an essential part of a University Course," was a subject
which, on its first announcement, might seem unsuited to the distin
guished auditory which he had the honour to address. Some might
regard it as too literary to be within the range of an institution whose
objects were more directly scientific. Others might consider it as a
purely professional question, interesting to clergymen, college tutors,
and educators of all kinds, but having no claim on the attention of the
general public ; and not a few might be found, whom the theme took
entirely by surprise, believing it hardly possible that in the middle of the
nineteenth century, it should be found necessary to plead for the intro
duction of the study of our own English tongue into our own English
Universities. In reply, he urged that the philosophy of language
might fairly claim rank as a science. Nor was the question of an
extended culture of the mother-tongue one of mere professional
importance, for it concerned us all to be able to say what we had
to say clearly and forcibly. The absence of such culture in most of
our Universities was a fact ; and the results were evident in our com
positions, our speeches, our sermons, our reading of the church service,
     even speaker
and The            then defined language, not simply as the vehicle of
           in our conversation.
our ideas, but, in Whately's words, as " the instrument of thought."
It was the mysterious machinery by which thought was manufactured.
Words were realities, and a knowledge of words correctly taught was a
knowledge of facts, for every word was a coin in the currency of
human intercourse. The abuse of a thing was no argument against
its use ; and if the sciolist or the pedant had divorced words from
ideas, and degraded linguistic studies into mechanical taskwork, that
could not fairly be adduced as a proof that such pursuits were no

308                       Rev. A. D' Orttey                     [Feb. 1,
longer useful in a practical age like ours. Wordsworth was right
when he said language was " not the dress, it was the very incarnation
of thought," a union as close as that of body and soul. He felt this
preface necessary to vindicate the study of words against those who
fancied it was opposed to the study of things, ; but his business was
now with our own mother-tongue. The attention of the audience was
then called to a very large map of Europe, coloured " glossographi-
cally," to show the fields occupied by the great families of languages.
Beside it was suspended a chart, headed " Indo-European Languages,"
containing the great stems—Celtic, Germanic, Greeco-Koman, Scandi
navian, and Sclavonic—at the heads of columns, under which were
ranged the languages and dialects. The speaker said that we were in
origin oriental, kindred in language even with the Hindoo. The clearest
idea of the subject might be formed by the conception of waves of
peoples and tongues rolling from the East, of which the Celtic was the
first, its localities being now the extreme western points of Europe.
The stems with which English had to do, were the Germanic and the
Graeco-Roman. He then pointed to another large map, similarly
coloured, of the British Islands, with an accompanying table of lan
guages and dialects. Coloured diagrams were also exhibited, showing
the large proportion of Saxon in English. Out of 100,000 words,
60,000 were of Teutonic origin, 30,000 of Romanic, and 10,000 from
other sources. Our best authors used far more Saxon than Latin :
Shakspeare, 85 per cent. of Saxon ; even Johnson, 75 per cent. ;
and Gibbon, our most Latinized writer, 55. The English Bible
had 9V per cent. of Saxon words. The writers of our own day were
showing a much greater love for good, strong, home-bred words.
He now begged his hearers to look at the bare fact, that there were
twice as many Saxon words as Latin ones in our tongue, and then to
say whether our present school-craft was right, which utterly passed
by the one and unfairly fostered the other. It was too bad that we
should thus undervalue our own speech, of which Grimm had said,
" The English language possesses a veritable power of expression, such
     The speaker
as perhaps           then asked,
             never stood  at the command
                                 how was of
                                          English
                                            any other language
                                                   taught?        man."
                                                            Heofquoted
Quintilian as to the choice of nurses with good pronunciation, and
censured the carelessness of English parents in allowing vulgar, un
educated servants to surround their children. He next adverted to
the sad condition of English teaching in most of our National Schools,
proving his assertion from the reports of the Inspectors. He had
ascertained that in our great public schools, no direct attention was
paid to English ; no recognition of the dignity of our own language
and of its idiomatic structure, so different from that of the ancient
tongues ; no organized English department with an able Saxon
scholar at its head : most of the head-masters being of opinion that
sufficient provision was made by the ordinary practice of translation,
writing an occasional theme, or declaiming a passage from Shakspeare
on "Speech-day." Some exceptions existed,—the City of London

1861.]            on the Study of the English Language.                   809
School, King Edward's School at Birmingham, and the School of
Bury St. Edmund's. The Universities had for ages sent forth men
who had adorned the pulpit, the senate, the bar, and almost every
branch of human knowledge ; and one might well pause before pre
suming to suggest even • doubt that systems, which had produced such
great and varied excellence, could be deficient in one of the chief means
for- qualifying the student for any department of public life. All this
was readily admitted—the great value of classical and mathematical
studies as disciplining the mind quite undisputed— and the Universities
defended against the popular cry of their not being equal to the re
quirements of the age. But still the warmest supporter of the existing
order of things must, if candid, be compelled to grant, that there existed
some serious defect in any system of education which, while sending
out a few brilliant stars, left the great mass of its men but very indif
ferent workers in those pursuits which were to be the business of their
lives. Were it the special duty of our Universities to produce classical
and mathematical professors and teachers, possessing not merely a
critical, but a hypercritical knowledge of their subjects, the present
system would seem admirably calculated to fulfil the end in view.
 When, however, it was remembered, that nearly all the Colleges bore
some ;"such    designation
           it was clear theyaswere
                                the intended
                                    " ancient byand
                                                  their foundersfoundation
                                                     religious              of
                                                                  as training-
schools for the clergy : and when the Universities recognized the fact,
that the education given was not simply preparatory, but to a certain
extent professional, by their institution of Divinity Professorships, and
 by requiring the attendance of theological students not only at lectures
 but at examinations, it could not but be felt as somewhat extraordinary
 and inconsistent, that no provision had been made for due training in
 that language in which the future clergyman was to address his flock
 —for systematic instruction in the composition and delivery of ser
 mons, and for distinct and unaffected reading of the Church service.
 The present system of prizes for poems, essays, and declamations
stimulated but a very small proportion of the men — the scholarship
 referred rather to the niceties of the classical tongues than to exercise in
our own idiom ; and the debating societies, to which some attached so
much value, effected but partial good, from the want of a judicious
criticism of the youthful orators. These meetings did, it was true,
 frequently develope self-reliance, but they also encouraged a flashy
 declamatory style, which prejudiced many thoughtful men against
attempts to cultivate the art of public speaking. The College chapels,
 instead of being normal schools for Church reading, were practically
 the reverse ; for the chaplains generally recited the prayers as if the
 object were to get the duty over in the shortest time, and the scholars,
 profiting by the example, read the Lessons rapidly, indistinctly, with
 little attention to pauses or emphases ; and they were seldom corrected
 for mispronunciation, monotony, provincial accent, or any error, unless
 indeed a false quantity should have offended the ears of the classical
 tutor. The University and College authorities seemed to take it for
      Vol. III. (No. 33.)                                            y

310                          Rev. A. D' Orsey                     [Feb. 1,
granted, that men coming into residence were fully masters of the
English language ; that they required no course of study in so ele
mentary a matter as the art of reading, writing, and speaking their
native tongue ; and that they must just do as others had done before
them in preparation for the prayer-desk and pulpit,—trust to the " light
of nature" in writing and delivering sermons; or, if hard pressed,
they might compile, " adapt," borrow, beg, or hire ! Consequently
little or no encouragement was given to any proposals to supply these
defects. Several Professors of Divinity had tried, but in vain, to get
their men to do what was done in all the Scottish Universities,—write
and deliver trial sermons. An eminent elocutionist, Mr. Plumptre
(a member of the English bar), had just commenced work at Oxford ;
and an English Lectureship had been founded at Cambridge ; but
both were of origin too recent to be at present taken into account.
Certain it was, that, while those in influential positions spoke of elocu
tion as mere " spouting," while undergraduates had every inducement
to devote themselves exclusively to classics and mathematics, and while
the most accomplished English scholar found himself no better off in
examinations than the man who sent up his papers full of errors in
grammar, spelling, and punctuation, there was but little hope of any
     The speaker
extensive           of improvement
           measurethen   rapidly sketched
                                     in ourthe
                                            University  system.
                                                results of  this imperfect
teaching, as shown in the stagnant condition of the great mass of our
population, urging that the cases often quoted of great intelligence
were quite exceptional. Millions of our countrymen never opened a
book. Of the thirty millions in these islands, fourteen millions never
entered a place of worship. Many causes might operate, but he
believed a great one was the want of language ; the utter inability to
understand what was read or spoken. And how should it be otherwise
with peasants whose stock of words was limited to 350, and whose
clergymen were incapable of preaching a sermon in good plain Saxon-
English ? In the middle and upper classes, too, the knowledge of English
was very deficient. De Quincey had said, most truly, " It makes us
blush to add that even grammar is so little of a perfect attainment
amongst us, that, with two or three exceptions, we have never seen the
writer who has not sometimes violated the accidence or the syntax
of English grammar." And he adds that faults in composition "may
be detected in every page of almost every book that is published."
How few could write a really good letter ! How many of our writers
seemed to know nothing of punctuation ! How many youths of good
families, educated at our public schools, have been rejected at our
civil service examinations from sheer ignorance of spelling ! What
errors in the choice of words, " lay " for " lie," " expect " for " sup
pose "—what harping upon pet words—what blunders in syntax—what
efforts to write " fine English "—what adoption of slang and foreign
terms ! And what was to be said of our speech-makers ? Professional
orators set aside, what lamentable exhibitions were made on our plat
forms and hustings, at our public dinners and our wedding breakfasts !

  1861.]           on the Study of the English Language.                       311
 Nominatives in vain search of missing verbs—verbs pursuing nomina
 tives without success ; plurals and singulars joined in ungrammatical
 wedlock ; premises laid down, from which no conclusions were drawn ;
 many conclusions, with most vehement " therefores," drawn from ima
 ginary premises ! Sucft speeches owed much to the mercy and the
 talent of reporters, who could bring order out of chaos, sense out of
 nonsense, and even eloquence out of the veriest platitudes. And yet
 these are the results of our training in grammar, which ought, in the
 famous words of Lindley Murray, to enable us to " read, write, and
     Our
 speak       English language
        theUniversities  had notwithmuchfluency
                                           to boast      as the results
                                                 andofpropriety   !"      of their
 teaching in this respect. There was sound scholarship—there were
 profound mathematical attainments—there was a certain amount of
 theology ; in short, great disciplining of the powers—much storing of
 the mind—but no direct training in reading, writing, and speaking
 English-—the daily business of all—the professional duty of the clergy.
 They might listen to the way in which the Church Service was read in
 nine cases out of ten as a proof (indistinct utterance, incorrect pro
 nunciation, provincial accent, false emphasis, drawling, monotony, &c.)
 —to the dull, listless style in which sermons were composed and
 delivered, and to the painful attempts of most clergymen to do what the
 barrister or the member of Parliament did,—speak without paper. In
 Parliament, too, matters were not much better. With some dozen
exceptions, in neither House were there any really good public
speakers. Of the 10,000 speeches made last session, 5000 might
have been spared, and the rest given in a tenth of the time, if the
speakers had been trained to speak to the point, to say what they had
to say in the fewest words. If volunteers must be drilled, public
speaking must be taught. Three months under a sound teacher of
elocution, of which there were several in London, would enable noble
lords and honourable members so to articulate as not to be reported
" inaudible in the gallery ;" and three months more under a composi
tion master would teach them the art of constructing an English
     In other
sentence,       countries,
            warranted  not to
                            thefallnative
                                     to pieces
                                            tongue      course
                                                in thewas           delivery. In
                                                            not ofneglected.
France, the language of the country was carefully taught through
the whole course of a boy's education ; the examination paper for
degrees, in 1861, contained five Greek, six Latin, and eight French
authors. When would that be matched in Oxford and Cambridge?
Nothing could be better than the teaching of the mother-tongue in
Germany. And the common objection raised by our exclusively
classical men, that the study of English would interfere with Latin
and Greek, was met by the facts, that in Germany the very best
philologists were to be found ; that from Germany our compilers of
grammars and dictionaries were glad to draw their most valuable in
formation ; and that, while Germans were at least our equals in the
languages of Greece and Kome, they were unquestionably our superiors
in Oriental and European tongues. And there could be no doubt
                                                                       y2

812     Rev. A. Z>' Orsey on Study of the English Language. [Feb. 1,
that the profounder attainments were due to the sound system of
teaching the principles of grammar, based on their own mother-tongue,
        home
fromAtthe       earliest
           verythere        long been some cheering signs of encourage
                      hadage.
ment. In 1834 the Lord Provost and magistrates of Glasgow had led
the way, by establishing in the High School of that city a department of
the English language and literature. English professorships had
been founded in King's College and University College, London ;
in Dublin, and recently in the Queen's Colleges. Professor Aytoun
had restored the subject in Edinburgh. The theological colleges of
the Church of England were moving ; but the Dissenters' colleges,
especially the one under Dr. Angus, seemed more practical. Another
encouraging symptom was the demand for a far superior class of books
—the writings of Whately, Richardson, Bosworth, Smart, Max
Miiller, Latham, Trench, Dasent, Masson, Craik, Hunter, Morell,
     The press,
Demaus,          too,not
           and last          on Farrar.
                       wasleast, our side. The Times not only by its own
racy idiomatic English was the composition-master for all England,
but had done good service by calling attention to the " something
rotten in the state " of school-work, as shown by the competitive
examinations. The Saturday Review, too, was unsparing in its
criticism; and even our facetious friend Punch defended purity of lan
guage from the contamination of slang, foreign terms, and the vulgarity
of " fine English." An admirable article, by Mr. Eobinson, of York, in
     The remedies
Macmillaris           suggested
               Magazine,           not be
                              mustwere     1. Training schools for nursery
                                        :— unnoticed.
governesses." 2. Greater care in giving National Schoolmasters a
thorough knowledge of English, spoken and written. 3. Encourage
ment to really good men to become and to remain National masters, by
rewarding distinguished veterans with School-Inspectorships, instead
of limiting such offices, as at present, to young clergymen and bar
risters. 4. The appointment by the Committee of Council of a
Government Lecturer in each county, whose duty it should be to
lecture on the principles of English teaching, and to instruct the school
masters. 5. The introduction of a thoroughly accomplished scholar
as English master in every great public school, not a mere educational
drudge, a " general utility gentleman," to look after the " small boys,"
but one of equal rank with the classical masters. 6. The endowment
of at least one Professor of English in every University ; his duty
being to give men, during their undergraduate career, a critical know
ledge of the language, supplying deficiencies, correcting errors in
speech and writing, suggesting courses of reading, drilling the future
barrister and legislator in accurate and fluent oratory, and training
candidates for the ministry to read distinctly and unaffectedly, and to
compose and deliver sermons in a clear, impressive, and attractive
style. 7. Making English take its place with Latin and Greek in
every examination for degrees, as it does in the India Civil Service
examinations, and giving substantial rewards (Scholarships and Fellow

1861.]                    General Monthly Meeting.
ships) for distinction in English, as for eminence in Classics and
Mathematics. 8. The co-operation of the Bishops in exacting from all
candidates for- Holy Orders proofs of competency in reading the Church
Service, composition, delivery of sermons, and extemporaneous speak
ing. The speaker was perfectly aware of the objections that would be
raised against such proposals ; but if these, or most of these, were carried
into effect, he believed the greatest benefits would result, not merely in
a literary, but in a moral and religious point of view. He concluded
by expressing his regret, that he had been only able, in the limited
time allowed him, to throw out a few practical suggestions ; and he
thanked the audience for the very kind and marked attention with
                   listened
which they hadGENERAL       to hisMONTHLY
                         Monday,   February 4, MEETING,
                                   observations.  1861. [A. J. D. D.]
  William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                 in the
                          Nicholas      Leader, Esq.
                                    P. Chair.
      electedreference
was With       a Member     of the
                        to the      Royal ofInstitution.
                                Minutes       the Meeting on November 5
last, the following Resolution was moved by Pbofessor Faraday,
seconded by Mr, G. Macilwain, and carried unanimously :—
     Resolved,—That the Members now assembled, desiring to record
in their Minutes the deep sense they entertain of the long, devoted, and
effectual services of the Rev. John Barlow, whilst their Honorary
Secretary for a period of eighteen years, which they esteem as a ser
vice of love to the Royal Institution and to science, do, for themselves
and the general body, offer him their best and sincerest thanks on the
occasion of his retirement, and the heartiest wishes for his health and
happiness.
    Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. was elected a Manager
of the Royal Institution, in the room of Sib Charles Fellows,
deceased.

314                              General Monthly Meeting.                                   [Feb. 4,
     The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
   From
      1858.of Statefor
Secretary       4to. 1859. India—Bombay Magnetical and Meteorogical Observations,
Actuaries, Institute of—The Assurance Magazine, No. 42. 8vo. 1861.
      and Pacific
Archibald,             Esq. F.R.S.
              C. D.Railways.        8vo.M.R.I, 1860.(the Author)—Two Letters on the Atlantic
AsiaticSociety
Arts,               of Bengal—Catalogue
         Societyof—Journal,      Nov. 1860 toofJan.          1861.Remains
                                                         Fossil        8vo. in their Museum. 8vo.
      1859. No. 278. 8vo.
   Journal,
Astronomical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 2. 8vo. 1861.
   Abhandlungen,
Bavarian    AcademyBand       VIII. Royal—Sitzungsberichte,
                        of Sciences,     Abth. 3. 4to. 1860. 1860 ; Heft 3. 8vo. 1860.
Bombay Geographical Society—Transactions, Vol. XV. 8vo. 1860.
      and Antiquities
Botfield,  Beriah, Esq.: an M.P.     F.R.S.&c.M.R.I,
                                Address,                       1860.A ulhor) -Shropshire, its History
                                                       4to, (the
Dublin Geological Society—Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 3. 8vo. 1860.
   Artizan, Nov. 1860
Editors—American            to Jan.of1861.
                         Journal       Science,4to.by B. Silliman, &c. No. 90. 1860. 8vo.
   Journal
   Medical
   Mechanics'
   Practical
   Athenamm,
   Horological
   St.
   Chemical
   Engineer,
       James's
             ofCircular,
                Mechanics'
                 Gazette,
                 Nov.
                 Gas-Lighting,
                  Magazine,
                  Medley,
                   Nov.
                   Journal,
                        1860
                           Nov.
                            Nov.
                             No.
                          1860No.
                              Journal,
                              toNov.
                                to1860
                                  Jan.
                                   1860
                                   25.
                                   29.
                                   Nov.
                                    Jan.1860
                                          toNov.
                                            to
                                            8vo.
                                             1861.
                                             1860
                                         1861.  Jan.
                                              Jan.
                                                 to 1860
                                                    fol.
                                                    Jan.
                                                    to1861.
                                                      1860.
                                                       1861.
                                                        4to.
                                                         Jan.
                                                            1861.
                                                            to 1861.
                                                               8vo.
                                                                 4to.8vo.
                                                               Jan.      4to. 4to.
                                                                     1861.
 Faraday, Professor, D. C.L. F.R.S.—Monatsberichte der Akademie der Wissen-
      schaften zu Berlin : Aug. und Sept. 1860. 8vo.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XL. No. 6. 8vo. 1860.
Freke,   Dr. H. 8vo.
      Affinity.             1860,
                     (the Author)—On            the Origin of Species by Means of Organic
 Geneve, Socitte" de Physique—Me-moires. Tome XV. 2« Partie. 4to. 1860.
 Geological Society— Proceedings, Jan. 1861. 8vo.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Journal. Vol. XXX. 8vo. 1861.
 Gilbart, J. W. Esq. F.R.S. (the Author)—The Elements of Banking. 4th ed.
      16to.Professor
 Goodeve,       1860. T.M.,M.A. (the Author)—Elements of Mechanism. 16to. I860.
Horticultural Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 19,20. 8vo. 1860.
      (Trans.
Lubbock,            Esq.Soc.
           John,Linn.     F.R.S.
                              Vol. M     R.I. (the4to.
                                    XXIII.)                  1861. some Oceanic Entomostraca.
                                                        Author)—On
Mackie,
     8vo.
      Bretagne
Mailly,   S. J.E.et
          M.        (the
                   Esq.
                     de l'Irlande.
                         Author)
                          F.G.S. —Essai
                                    (theI. Editor)—The
                                                 sur les1861.
                                               16to.            Geologist,
                                                           Institutions   Scientifiques
                                                                             Nov. 1860 de  la Grande
                                                                                        to Jan. 1861.
Montagu, Capt. M., M.R.I, (the Author)—Eifty Sonnets. 8vo. 1860.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for Nov. 1860 to Jan. 1861. 8vo.
      H. Rogers.
Nisbet,   and Co. 8vo.        1861.
                       Messrs.—Quarles'           Emblems. Illustrated by C. Bennett and
        Thomas,
Page,Nene           Peterborough
            from Esq.                 to the Sea. 4to.
                          (the Author)—Report                      the Improvement of the River
                                                           upon 1860.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographic 1860. Heft 11, 12. 4to. Gotha, 1860.
 Prince, C. Lceson,
Photographic             Esq. (the Author)—
                  Society—Journal,        Nos. 104,       105. 8vo. Journal
                                                    Meteorological        1860. at Uckfield. 1860.

  1861.]        Professor Huxley on the Development of Animals.                           315
 Fritchard, Andrew, Esq. M.E.I, (the Author)— History of Infusoria, &c. 4th ed.
       8va 1861.
 Eadcliffe Trustees, O-r/brrf—Radcliffe Catalogue of Stars for 1845. 8vo. 1860.
 Eoma, Anno   xiii. Sess.Pontilicia
           Accailemia                 1859-60.
                            1. 4to. de'   Nuovi Lincei—Atti, Anno xii. Sess. 4, 5, 6, 7.
    Proceedings,
 Royal                Edinburgh—Transactions,
          Society ofNo.   50. 8vo. 1859-60. Vol. XXII. Part 2. 4to. 1860.
 Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions for 1860. Vol. CL. Part 1.
       4to. 1860.Nos. 41, 42. 8vo. 1860.
    Proceedings,
    Report
 Eoi/al      for 1858.
         Society           8vo. 1859. and Proceedings, Vol. III. Part 2. 8vo. 1860.
                   of Tasmania—Papers
 Scottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. V. Part 4. 8vo. 1860.
 Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1860.
  VereinsService
 United     zur Befbrderung
                   Institution—Journal,
                                des Gewerbfleisses
                                           No. 14. in 8vo.   1860.
                                                       Preussen—Verhandlungen,       Sept.und
       Oct. 1860.
  Volpicelli,         4to. P. (the Author)— Di uno Stereoscopio Diafframmatico Nota.
               Professor
       4to. 1854.di un Nuovo Anemometrografo. 4to. 1859.
    Descrizione
    Sulla Legge di Mariolte Memoria. 4to. 1859.
 Yates,Roderick
Sir      James, Esq.WEEKLY
                       I.F.R.S.
                          Professor
                            Murchison,
                               Friday,
                                 F.S.A.— T.
                                       EVENING
                                          February
                                           Memorials
                                            F.R.S.
                                             H. Huxley, of
                                                       Vice-President,
                                                        8, MEETING,
                                                           Joseph
                                                            1861.
                                                               F.R.S.            the Chair.
                                                                   Priestley.in 8vo.   1861.
 On the
The         Nature
        lecturer    commenced
                       of the Earliest
                                     by giving
                                           Stagesa general     description of
                                                    of the Development            Animals.
                                                                               of the  struc
ture and singular properties of the animal organism, termed Pyrosoma
 Giganteum, a specimen of which, taken by Capt. Callow in the
North Atlantic, had been forwarded to him by Admiral Fitzroy, in
      autumn
the Not     onlyofhad 1859.his investigations enabled the speaker to verify the
most important of the statements made in his memoir on Pyrosoma,
published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1851 ; but they had
revealed peculiarities in the mode of reproduction of the animal, of
great interest from their bearing on some of the most difficult questions
     In order to render the importance of these new facts obvious, it
of embryology.
was necessary to premise a concise statement of our present knowledge
with regard to the early stages of animal development. To this end

316         Professor Huxley on the Development of Animals.            [Feb. 8,
 the structure of the fowl's egg was described, and the effects of incuba
 tion were traced, so far as was necessary to prove that the chick takes
      It wasfrom
 its origin        pointed
              next the      out, thatorwe
                       cicatricula,        owe the discovery of this important
                                        blastoderm.
 fact to the great Harvey, who, in his " Exercitationes de Generatione
 Animalium," demonstrated with perfect clearness, firstly, that the
 chick is developed from the cicatricula, and not, as had been supposed,
 from the chalazae, or other parts ; and secondly, that the process of
 development is an " epigenesis," or gradual addition of new parts to
 those    virtue formed.
      Inalready   of these discoveries, Harvey has as much right to be
 regarded as the originator of modern embryology, as, in virtue of his
 discovery of the circulation, he has to be considered the founder of
 scientific physiology : but his embryological views met with a less
 fortunate reception than hi3 physiological doctrines ; and for a cen
 tury and a half, the strange dogmas of the evolutionists, supported by
 the vast authority of Haller and of Cuvier, were allowed almost com
 pletely to override and weigh down the sounder teachings of the great
      With the publication of Caspar F. Wolffs " Theoria Generationis,"
 Englishman.
 in the middle of the last century, however, a new epoch commenced ;
and partly by the labours of that eminent observer, and still more
largely by those of Pander, Von Ear, Rathke, and Reichert, Harvey's
 doctrine has been rehabilitated, and has taken its place among the
     Forascertained
firmly                verities microscopes
           want of proper      of science. and other appliances, neither
Harvey nor C. F. Wolff could trace the origin of the germ further
back than the blastoderm ; still less could they obtain any just con
ception of the essential structure of the ovum. But in the course of
the last thirty-five years, thanks to the labours of Purkinje, Von
Bar, Wagner, Bischoff, Wharton Jones, Prevost, Dumas, Coste, and
     It has
others,        advances
          vastbeen        have been
                     ascertained         the ovum of every animal primarily
                                   thatmade.
consists of a germinal vesicle, containing its so-called spot, and enclosed
within a yelk, or vitellus ; and that, in the great majority of cases, the
first changes which follow upon impregnation consist in the disappear
ance of the germinal vesicle as such, and the regular division of the
yelk into smaller and smaller masses, out of which, in one way or
another, the blastoderm, of which the embryo is a modification, arises.
Such yelk division, however, has not yet been observed among the higher
     So much
Annulosa,         in certain
              norbeing   definitely
                              Entozoa,
                                     ascertained,
                                          nor doesthere  is yet
                                                    it occur     one question
                                                             in Pyrosoma.
upon which embryologists are widely divided, viz. What is the relation
between the germinal vesicle and the cells, or structural elements, of
which the blastoderm is composed ? Three answers have been given to
this question : —
     1 . According to the late Dr. Barry, the blastoderm arises from a
modification of the germinal vesicle, in a manner particularly de

 1861.]    Mr. Charley on English Poetry in reference to Music.                 317
scribed by him. No other observer, however, has been able to discover
a trace of this process ; and it may be regarded as tolerably certain
          describer was
that2.itsAccording          mistaken.Kolliker, and the majority of embryolo-
                       to Bischoff,
gists, the germinal vesicle and its contents disappear, and have no
     3. connection
direct   According with      the cells of the
                        to observations        the late Johannes Muller, of
                                           of blastoderm.
Gegenbaur and others, the germinal vesicle may give rise directly,
     The study
by division,       thethe
               to of       development
                        cells             of the embryo of Pyrosoma yields
                              of the blastoderm.
results in close conformity with the last view. The ovum of this ani
mal is, in fact, composed, at first, like all others, of germinal vesicle,
germinal spot, and vitellus ; but, in the course of development, the vitel-
lus disappears, probably becoming liquefied, and the germinal vesicle
is laid bare, so that it becomes comparatively easy to watch the sub
sequent changes in its interior. These consist in the deposit of a
somewhat opaque matter and the division of the germinal spot, so as to
give rise to the endoplasts, or " nuclei " of the blastoderm, which is thus
    The speaker
primarily   formedconcluded
                      within thebyinterior
                                      observing,
                                            of thethat it is notvesicle.
                                                    germinal      improbable that
the process thus traced, is similar to that by which the blastoderm of
the higher Annulosa arises, and that it will probably furnish the key to
the signification of the multiple germinal spots observed in so many of
the lower Vertebrata ; while, by proving the direct descent of some of
the histological elements of the progeny from those of the parent, it
combines the theories of the pre-existence of germs with that of
epigenesis.                                                          [T. H. II.]
                    Charles
              SirWEEKLY    Friday,
                                 Hamilton,
                                   EVENING
                                     February C.B.   1861.
                                                      in the Chair.
                                                15,MEETING,
                           Henry F. Chorlky, Esq.
                 On English Poetry in reference to Music.
The speaker maintained, as a general principle, that every poet must
be born a musician, though many instances to the contrary had been
cited ; —Sir Walter Scott, among others, who was said to care for
nothing save ballads for the sake of their words. This might arise

318                   Mr. Charley on English Poetry                     [Feb. 15.
from the taste not having received timely development ; or from physical
impediments—it being not possible that Scott should have written his
poetical romances, his lyrics, and prose passages in his works, without
an instinct for musical form and cadence. So, too, every orator who
moves his audience by eloquence as distinguished from convincing it
by argument,
On              hand, have
    the other must             have been
                        theremusical    feeling
                                            poets
                                                : else
                                                   skilled      music,
                                                       wouldin his      whom
                                                                   periods     the
                                                                           halt.—
excess of their knowledge has led into license, and seeming irregularity
of versification, only to be overcome by the most exquisite adroitness
on the part of the reader. Mr. Browning and Leigh Hunt are
   As an art, Music has always had conditions and caprices of its own
instances.
as remarkable as its connection with other arts. Melody, as we under
stand it, is modern. The music of the Hebrews and the Greeks is, so
far as we know, semi-barbarous. Even the music produced in Italy
during the great era of Italian painting bears no proportion to the
   Some ofof
perfection        requisites
             thethe           of the poetry fitted for music, as an art, were
                     other art.
named. There must be beauty of thought and imagery without super-
subtlety. Passion must be not too much interrupted ; description not
overlaid by superfluity of detail. Language must be clear, sonorous,
avoiding alike bombast and familiarity—the sentences intelligible as
they pass, and the phrases, however varied, bearing a proportion one
to the other. These rules apply to the poetry of all nations ; but
the nationalities of Italy, Germany, and France, have influenced their
application characteristically. —In Italy, the great classical poets are
not susceptible of musical treatment. The minor ones, and those
who wrote for the stage, have arranged the commonest sentiments in
the simplest manner ; regarding the vowels more than the ideas, and
the display of the voice rather than the expression of original senti
ment. The language of Italian comic opera admits and encourages
positive dissonance of sound pronounced rapidly.—In Germany, so
soon as the school of national art began to separate itself from that
of Italy, a desire for something deeper in poetry, and something more
precisely expressive in music, began to exert itself; sometimes, how
ever, pedantically, in a bit-by-bit expression of every word as it rose,
which is false in taste, and tending towards cumbrousness.—In France,
all the fine arts are singularly self- consistent ; largely indebted to
foreigners, who have been, nevertheless, obliged, one and all, to con
form, in order to hold their ground. As in their architecture, paint
ing, and drama, point and piquancy, sometimes at the expense of
beauty and simplicity, are indispensable ; the compound as a whole
   In England
being  complete, the     poets,artificial.
                    however       from Chaucer downwards, are a richer,
various, and more numerous choir than those of any other country.
Not so its musicians. The national melodies of Great Britain and
Wales are full of beauty and interest ; but these, and the ballad poetry
recited to them, are not so much works of art, as materials for art.

1861.]                      in reference to Music.                          319
Instances were given to prove to how many different uses the same
tune might be turned. The first union of poetry with regular music,
with which it is expedient to deal, is to be found in the works of the
Elizabethan madrigalists. Here the music is better than the poetry.
The latter is too euphuistic ; but with this character of conceit and
quaintness the music also may be charged. Allowing for effects,
inevitable to the intricate style of composition, the English madrigals
are as tunable and sonorous as the Italian madrigals of the same
   Shakspeare's lyrics are models of words for music, complete in
period.
themselves ; and, when musically read by a speaker of refinement
(Mrs. Fanny Kemble instanced), entirely contenting the ear ;—yet lend
ing themselves, without the slightest loss of freedom or sense of incum
brance, to a clothing as exquisite and ingenious as that given by
Mendelssohn to the " Midsummer Night's Dream."—Milton's poetry
is no less admirable in thisjespect ; more symmetrical even, perhaps,
than Shakspeare's, owing to Milton's musical training—and furnishing,
as in " Comus," " Samson Agonistes," and " L'Allegro," a more
continuous text. Thus Milton's verse was sought as text by two
of the greatest foreign musicians—Handel and Haydn. Ben Jonson's
lyrics, though excellent, full of rare fantasy and largely sought by
English musicians, are less eligible than those of Milton and Shak-
speare, from their being more far-fetched in meaning and imagery.
Some of them, however, set by Horsley, are among the best specimens
of English music that we possess.—Cowley was touched on as having
given to music some verses of rare sweetness.—Dryden, at a time of
decadence and tawdry taste, wrote notably for music ; some of his
stage lyrics, as set by Purcell, are full of animation and colour; and
his " Alexander's Feast," set a second time by Handel, is the finest
ode for music in honour of St. Cecilia existing ; and Handel's setting
of it, the best Cantata ever written..—Congreve, Gay, Carey, all wrote
well for the musician ; though, after Purcell's date, while the art of
was onwas
music         decline atitself,
         the enriching     home,andowing
                                     taking
                                          to new  overwhelming
                                              the forms              nationality
                                                        abroad, itssplendour  of
foreign talents, and the disrespect into which it had fallen among the
wits of the eighteenth century. Yet, even at that time, when poetry
was more didactic and satirical, and later, when the Jo.hnsonian in
fluences prevailed, the book of English poetry was never without its
good inspirations for the refined musician. Gray and Mason contri
buted—Cowper even tried his hand.—The canzonets set by Jackson,
of Exeter, were instanced as bearing comparison with those of any
   Among
other        the poets flourishing at the close of the last and the com
       country.
mencement of the present century, Burns was passed with a word ;
since of his tunefulness there had never been any question at home
or abroad.—Coleridge, though among the most richly musical of
poets, is not therefore a good poet for the musician's use ; his verse
being too mellifluous, too thoroughly charged with sweetness of its own,

  320 Mr. Chorley on English Poetry in reference to Music. [Feb. J 5,
one
regard
faults
drama
organization
power
writing
passed
—no
Baillie
His
standard
line.—Campbell
 "changeful
  sought
  descriptive
  since
  and
  —even
  be
  themselves
  the
  generally
  Not
  among
  music,
  part
  too
  to
  its
  " Mariners
     Living
     Thalaba,'-
      words,
      through
      bear
      cited
       calm,
       longer
       loss
       "merely
        effect
        aof
         Ode
          in
          to
           unnoticed,
           is
           of
           owing
           in
           of
            modern
            after,
            wide
             vigorous,
             of
             the
              taste,
              certain
              apoems
               than
               writers
                too
                prominent
                verse
                to
                so
                "The
                imagery
                 isof
                  poems,
                   to
                   passages
                   whose
                   power
                    single
                    his
                     readily
                     subject
                     enabled
                     invite
                     by
                     gloomy
                      hearer
                      ais
                       mystical,
                       heaviness
                        and
                        to-
                        England
                        tending
                        the
                          his
                           model
                           full
                           the
                           unequalled,
                           songs,
                           poets
                            less
                            of
                            Beacon"
                             was
                             being
                              that
                              direct
                               every
                               resulting.
                                too,
                                any
                                to
                                Skylark,"
                                tragedy
                                 such
                                 genial
                                 her
                                 additional
                                  under
                                  of
                                  artful
                                   impossible
                                   to
                                   and
                                   in
                                   excellent
                                    aamong
                                     him
                                     endure
                                      for
                                      to
                                      certain
                                      great
                                      for
                                      but
                                      have
                                       left
                                       meaning
                                       union
                                       too
                                       tragic
                                       his
                                        being
                                        work
                                        illustration.—Shelley's
                                         —witness
                                         language,
                                         as
                                         solemn
                                          what
                                          treatment.—Moore
                                           to
                                            claims
                                            variety
                                            recitative.—Wordsworth
                                            music
                                            popularity.
                                            poems,
                                            the
                                            dreamy,
                                             without
                                             of
                                              ain
                                               yielded
                                               poetesses,
                                                any
                                                too
                                                perform
                                                with
                                                the
                                               and
                                                 thereby
                                                 But
                                                 scenes,
                                                  liberal
                                                  touch.—Southey,
                                                  the
                                                  coldness
                                                  is
                                                  for
                                                   choruses
                                                   without
                                                   their
                                                     and
                                                     aversatile
                                                      influences
                                                      addition
                                                       too
                                                       has
                                                       thickly
                                                        express
                                                        of
                                                        lyric
                                                        Shelle^js
                                                        are
                                                        the
                                                        an
                                                         "his
                                                          mention,
                                                          aand
                                                            much
                                                            way,
                                                             poetry,
                                                             more
                                                             its
                                                             but
                                                             art
                                                            Cenci,"
                                                              artificial
                                                              hardly
                                                              produced.
                                                               feats
                                                               use
                                                               "use
                                                                everywhere
                                                                not
                                                                 as
                                                                 which
                                                                 damage.—The
                                                                 when
                                                                  Exile
                                                                  Yet
                                                                  in
                                                                   that
                                                                   structure,
                                                                    crowded
                                                                    lyrist
                                                                    as
                                                                    of
                                                                     "and
                                                                      by
                                                                       in
                                                                       of
                                                                       forcible
                                                                       good
                                                                       of
                                                                        merely
                                                                        dreaminess
                                                                        his
                                                                        with
                                                                         The
                                                                         it
                                                                         awith
                                                                          music,
                                                                          been
                                                                          was
                                                                          from
                                                                           renders
                                                                           the
                                                                           clearer
                                                                           English
                                                                            question
                                                                            the"
                                                                            of
                                                                             writer
                                                                             and
                                                                             the
                                                                             has
                                                                             remained
                                                                              respectful
                                                                              lyrical
                                                                               poetry,
                                                                                Last
                                                                                text
                                                                                too,
                                                                                 aour
                                                                               forErin
                                                                                  aart
                                                                                    unrhymed
                                                                                    with
                                                                                    rated
                                                                                    for
                                                                                    suggestive
                                                                                    born
                                                                                    stood
                                                                                     ornate,
                                                                                     and
                                                                                     letter
                                                                                     music
                                                                                     its
                                                                                      syllable
                                                                                      example
                                                                                      without
                                                                                       isfor
                                                                                         were
                                                                                         in
                                                                                         pondering
                                                                                         Man."—Joanna
                                                                                          language
                                                                                          isthe
                                                                                           dramas,
                                                                                           ;"
                                                                                            or
                                                                                            ;first
                                                                                             too
                                                                                             was
                                                                                              rank
                                                                                              the
                                                                                               musician,
                                                                                               gorgeous
                                                                                               though
                                                                                               to
                                                                                               expression,
                                                                                                his
                                                                                                music.
                                                                                                the
                                                                                                high
                                                                                                 between
                                                                                                 both
                                                                                                 :S,
                                                                                                 ineligible
                                                                                                  study,
                                                                                                  passion
                                                                                                  Irish
                                                                                                   his
                                                                                                   felt.
                                                                                                    be
                                                                                                    meditative,
                                                                                                    witness
                                                                                                    voluntary
                                                                                                     conclusion
                                                                                                     sonority
                                                                                                     tolyrics
                                                                                                      of
                                                                                                      could
                                                                                                      musician,
                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                        and
                                                                                                        verse
                                                                                                         pointed
                                                                                                         enough.
                                                                                                         artistic
                                                                                                         become
                                                                                                         and
                                                                                                          aits
                                                                                                            which
                                                                                                            Byron
                                                                                                            on
                                                                                                             poets.
                                                                                                             With
                                                                                                              much
                                                                                                              note,
                                                                                                              with
                                                                                                               Her
                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                               lend
                                                                                                               and
                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                                last
                                                                                                                the
                                                                                                                him
                                                                                                                not
                                                                                                                 are
                                                                                                                 the
                                                                                                                 his
                                                                                                                  for
                                                                                                                  as
                                                                                                                   of; '* ,
out how false ideas on the subject of English poetry as ineligible for
music had been perpetuated and spread.—The English musicians, as a
body, have been too imitative, too careless in selection, too regardless
in treating their words ;—the English singers, as a body, have delivered
the latter too unintelligibly and inelegantly, owing to a neglect of the
study oftheEnglish language. The discourse of Professor D'Orsey, given
February 1st, was referred to, in corroboration of the speaker's views, and
foreign singers from four countries were instanced, who, owing to the
necessity imposed upon them of attentively studying their words before
they sang the same, pronounced with a purity, elegance, and clearness
too seldom attained by our native professors.—The speaker, in conclu
sion, bespoke indulgence for the imperfection hardly to be escaped
from when treating a subject so full of speculation and fact within the
limits of a single discourse.                                                                  [H. F. C]

  1861.J              Professor Faraday on Platinum.                        321
                    WEEKLY            February 22,MEETING,
                          Friday, EVENING             1861.
     Snt Roderick I. Murchison, D.C.L. F.E.S. Vice-Fresident,
                                     in the Chair.
                    Professor Faraday, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                                    On Platinum.
 The discourse was founded on the recent investigations of MM. Henri
  Ste-Claire Deville and II. Debray regarding the characters and con
 ditions of the platiniferous metals, and the new process of working the
 ore which they have established on their results. Wherever platinum
 occurs, it is usually, if not always accompanied by five other remark
 able metals ; namely, Ruthenium, Osmium, Iridium, Rhodium, and
 Palladium : and in addition, by other substances, as iron, copper, gold,
 silver, and sand. Being washed, the heavy particles are left as the
general ore of platinum ; this metal constituting by far the largest
partThe    six substances.
       of the   metals, when obtained apart and purified, form two groups
of three each ; each group having an equivalent number very different
 from   that of thenumber,
     Equivalent             ' 95 * 5. as appears in this table : —
                     other group,
                                                   Equivalent number, 53.
 1. Osmium . Spec. grav. 21 -40              2. Ruthenium . Spec. grav. 11-3
3. Iridium .... „                 21-15      4. Ehodium .... „            12-1
5. Platinum ... „                 21-15      6. Palladium . . . „         11-8
The three in the first group have the same equivalent number, and
nearly the same specific gravity ; but osmium takes the place of
platinum as the heaviest of bodies. The equivalent number of the
second group is alike for all, but it is little more than half that of the
former group. The specific gravity also of the group is little more
than half that of the former group : from which it results that an
equivalent of any of these will have very nearly the same volume as an
     There are
equivalent         certain
              of any   one of
                           analogies
                               the heavier   group.
                                         between  1 and 2 ; 3 and 4 ; 5 and 6 ;
platinum is more like palladium than like the other metals. These
numbers also represent the order of fusibility. Osmium has not as
yet been fused ; the rest have, in the order given. Platinum appears
among them as a comparatively easily fusible metal. They are all
volatile at very high temperatures, even osmium disappearing whilst
the mass remains solid.

 322                  Professor Faraday on Platinum.              [Feb. 22,
     The platinum has usually been obtained from these ores (after they
have been well washed, sifted, and mechanically separated) by the action
of nitro-muriatic acid ; which, bringing the platinum into solution,
supplies a fluid which, on the addition of muriate of ammonia, &c,
throws down a precipitate of ammonio-chloride of platinum. This,
washed, dried, and heated, gives spongy metallic platinum ; which
being then pressed, heated, and hammered, yields massive platinum ;
the aggregation of the particles taking place entirely by adhesion and
welding. Instead of forming a solution by acids, Deville proposes to
employ a heat fluxion process ; and instead of welding, to fuse the
metal together at the last by intense heat, obtained by the use of the
oxy-hydrogen or the oxy-coal-gas blowpipe. The ore, properly prepared,
is mixed with its weight of galena, or native sulphuret of lead, and
half its weight of metallic lead ; it is then heated and well stirred
together, the iron and some other metals are taken up by the sulphur
of the galena, the platinum and other metals are taken possession of by
the lead, and when the action is well effected, the access of air is
adjusted until the remaining part of the sulphuret is decomposed, and
only platiniferous lead left at the bottom part of the crucible or furnace,
with scoriae upon it. The former is separated, and then heated, exposed
to air until much of the lead is oxidized ; which, escaping as litharge,
leaves at last an alloy of lead and platinum, containing not more than
10 or even 5 per cent. of lead. Such an alloy of platinum requires a
very high temperature to fuse it, and this is therefore attained and
applied in furnaces constructed of chalk-lime, heated by the insertion
of gas blowpipes. The heat first melts the alloy, and being combined
with oxygen in a little excess, the remaining lead is rapidly oxidized
and dissipated in fumes, and then being raised and continued, any gold,
copper, osmium, or other metals, except iridium and rhodium, are also
converted into vapour and driven off. The platinum remaining is at
last heated to a still higher degree, and is either cast into flat cakes or
granulated ; and this has been done with quantities weighing even as
much      40 lbs. metal contains some iridium and some rhodium,
    Theas resulting
being in fact an alloy of platinum ; but it is an alloy which being
harder than platinum, and even less liable than it to the chemical action
of acids and other chemical agents, is as useful as the pure substance
in the ordinary applications of the metal. As iridium and rhodium
have no employment at present better than that of alloying platinum,
their quantity has been purposely increased until it has made as much
    A per
as 25      cent.process
        mixed            mass.
                  of the has been devised by MM. Deville and Debray,
which gives a platinum purer than any heretofore obtained. It is then
as soft and ductile as silver. But for this process, for general directions
and minute particulars, and for most interesting matter about all the
metals of the platinum group, the reader is referred to Volumes LVI.
and LXI. of the Annates de la Chimie.
                                                                [M. F.]

1861.]     Professor H. E. Roscoe on Spectrum Observations.                  323
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March I, 1861.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. in the Chair.
                       Henry Enfield Roscoe, Esq.
               PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY IN OWEN-S COLLEGE, MANCHESTER,
          On Bunsen and Kirchhoff's Spectrum Observations.
The speaker commenced by stating that the researches of Bunsen and
Kirchhoff, which he had the honour of bringing before his audience,
marked a new era in the science of Analytical Chemistry ; that by
means of these discoveries the composition of terrestrial matter becomes
revealed to us with a degree of accuracy and delicacy as yet unheard of,
so that chemical elements supposed to be of rare and singular occur
rence, are shown to be most commonly and widely distributed, and on
the first practical application of this new method of analysis two new
     hitherto
and The        undetected
          importance    of these
                             alkaline
                                   researches
                                       metals have    been still
                                                 becomes          more strikingly
                                                             discovered.
apparent, when we hear that the conclusions derived from them outstep
the bounds of our planet, enabling us to determine with all the certainty
of definite experiment the actual presence of a number of elementary
    Theincolours
bodies     the sun.which certain bodies impart to flame, have long been
used by chemists as a test for the presence of such bodies. Thus
soda brought into a colourless flame produces a bright yellow light,
and substances containing soda in any form give this yellow colour.
Potash gives a violet flame, lithia and strontia impart to flame a crimson
colour, whilst salts of barium tinge it green. These colours are pro
duced by the incandescence or luminosity of the heated vapour of the
various bodies placed in the flame. It is only because these sub
stances are volatile, or become gases at the temperature of the flame,
that we observe the peculiar colour. If any substance, such as pla
tinum, which is not volatile at the temperature of the flame, be placed
in it, no coloration is observed. The higher the temperature of the
flame into which the same substance is placed, the greater will be the
luminosity ; and the more volatile the salt of the same metal, the more
intense is the light produced.

324                          Professor H. E. Roscoe                  [March 1,
     Heated to the point of incandescence in any other manner, the
vapours of these metals and their salts give out the same coloured
light. Thus, if we burn gun-cotton, or gun-paper, steeped in solu
tions of these various salts, we get the characteristic colours. The
well-known coloured fires owe their peculiar effects to the ignition of
the vapour of some particular substance. Thus, in red fire we have
strontium, in green fire we have barium salts present in the state
     These facts
of luminous          have long been known and applied ; but it was reserved
                 vapour.
for Bunsen and Kirchhoff to place these beautiful phenomena in their
true position, to apply to them the modern methods of exact research ;
and thus to open out a new and rich field for most important investiga
 tions. This they accomplished iu a most simple and beautiful manner,
by examining these coloured flames, not by the naked eye, but by means
of a prism or an apparatus for separating, decomposing, or splitting up
the light produced by the incandescent vapour into its different con
     If weparts.
stituent     pass white sun-light through a prism, we get the well-known
solar spectrum discovered by Newton. The red, or least refrangible
rays appear at one end, and we pass through all gradations of colour—
noticing on our way certain dark lines or spaces, showing the absence in
solar light of some particular rays, lines with which we shall have
much to do—until we arrive at the ' violet, or most refrangible end of
the spectrum. If instead of using white sun-light, we pass the rays
from the yellow soda flame through the prism, we get the soda spec
trum ; and we find that instead of a continuous spectrum, all we see is
one bright yellow line, showing that every kind of light except that
bright yellow ray, is absent in the soda flame ; or that the soda flame
       out asonly
givesAnd           onemetal,
                each             light. potassium, lithium, calcium, stron
                        kind ofsodium,
tium, barium, &c., communicates a distinct tint to flame, so each gives
a distinct and characteristic spectrum, consisting of certain bright
     The actual
coloured            or bandsofofthese
            lines, spectra        light metals
                                        of the most
                                               can be   beautifully
                                                     peculiar       seentint.
                                                              form and   in the
     In each
simple         spectrum
         apparatus    designed
                           of these
                                 by metals,  andform,
                                     Bunsenthe        number, position, colour,
                                                  Kirchhoff.
and tone of the bright lines remain perfectly constant and unvarying,
so that from the presence or absence of one of these lines, we may
with absolute certainty draw conclusions respecting the presence or
absence of the particular metal, as we know of no two substances
which produce the same bright lines. None of the bright lines pro
duced by any one metal interfere in the least with those of any other,
and in a mixture of all these metallic salts together, each ingredient
can As          easily detected.
      thusanbeexample    of the exactitude with which a very small quantity
of a most complicated mixture can thus be analyzed, the speaker
quoted Bunsen's words. " I took," says Bunsen, " a mixture of
chloride of sodium, chloride of potassium, chloride of lithium,

   1861.]     on Bunsen and Krrchhoff's Spectrum Observations.               325
  chloride of calcium, chloride of strontium, chloride of barium,
  containing at most y^o^- part of a grain of each substance.
  This mixture I put into the flame, and observed the result. First,
  the intense yellow sodium line appeared, on a background of a pale con
  tinuous spectrum ; as this began to be less distinct, the pale potassium
  lines were seen, and then the red lithium line came out, whilst the
  barium lines appeared in all their vividness. The sodium, lithium,
  potassium, and barium salts were now almost all volatalized, and after
  a few moments the strontium and calcium lines came out, as from
  a dissolving view, gradually attaining their characteristic brightness
  and We     can thus detect the most minute traces of any one of these
         form."
  bodies, if mixed with the largest quantities of any other substance.
  The delicacy and accuracy of these reactions is without parallel, as is
 seen1.from          following
           Sodathes^oboo           a milligramme,
                          part ofstatements   :— or fo.ooo.wo part of a grain of
 soda can be detected. Soda is always present in the air. All bodies
 exposed to air show the yellow sodium line. If a book be dusted near
           Lithia
  the 2.flame       sodapart
               the too^oo           a milligramme,
                           lightofcan be seen.     or s^m,«n part of a grain of
 lithia can easily be detected. Lithium was only known to occur in
  four minerals. It is now found by spectrum analysis to be one of the
 most widely distributed elements. It exists in almost all rocks ; it has
 been found in 3 cubic inches of sea, river, and Thames water ; in the
 ashes of tobacco, and most plants ; in milk, human blood, and mus
 cular    Strontia 555^55 of a milligramme, or l|0oo,ooo parts of a grain of
      3. tissue.
      4. Lime
 strontia        155^ ofbea detected.
            can easily        milligramme, or ,-^55335 of a grain may be easily
      In examining the spectra of the alkalies obtained from certain
 detected.
 mineral waters, Bunsen observed the occurrence of two bright blue
 lines which he had not seen before, when he examined alkalies from
other sources. Hence he concluded that these bright lines must be
 produced by a new, hitherto undetected, alkaline metal. Subsequent
search proved the validity of the supposition. The new metal was
found and isolated. The analogy between this discovery and a cele
brated one in another branch of physical science, will be at once
understood. As Adams and Leverrier discovered Neptune, so
Bunsen discovered " Ccesium " by the perturbations produced in the
     Thisofis,the
spectra             other alkaline
                however,                A few days ago the speaker received a
                             not all. metals.
letter from Bunsen, which contains the following most interesting infor
mation :—" The substance which I sent you as impure tartrate of
Caesium contains a secondnew alkaline metal. I am at present engaged
in preparing its compounds. I hope soon to be able to give you more
    Vol. III. (No 33.)                                                 z

 326                        Professor H. E. Roscoe                   [March I,
 detailed information concerning it. The spectrum of the. new metal
 consists of two splendid red lines situated beyond the red line K a in
 the ultra red portion of the solar spectrum. Hence I propose to call
 the new metal 'Rubidium.' "
    That this same method of investigation can be extended to all the
 metallic elements is more than probable, for Kirchhoff writes—" I have
 assured myself that even the metals of the rarest earths, as yttrium,
 erbium, and terbium, can be most quickly and certainly determined
 by help of the spectrum analytical method."
      Experiments are being carried on with the view of making this
 mode of examination practically applicable to all metals.
      To turn, now, to the second, and, if possible, to the more inter
 esting part of the subject, namely, the conclusions drawn from these
observations respecting the composition of the sun's atmosphere. The
solar spectrum invariably contains a large number of dark lines, or
spaces, or shadows. These have been called Fraunhofer's Lines, from
the name of their discoverer. They show us that in the sun's light
certain kind of rays are wanting ; and as these lines are always present,
exactly in the same position, we see that certain kinds of rays are
always absent in solar light. There are many thousands of these lines
in the whole length of the spectrum. Only a few have been, as yet,
     Whatand
mapped          the cause of these constant dark lines ? And we must
            is named.
remember that it is in sunlight alone that these particular lines occur ;
in the light of the fixed stars, as well as in artificial lights, other lines
are found. It is the discovery of this cause by Kirchhoff which gives
the subject such peculiar interest, as it enables us to draw conclusions
respecting the composition of the sun's atmosphere. The points of
the case are put as concisely as possible under the following heads :—
     1. The solar spectrum invariably contains certain fixed dark lines,
     2. Fraunhofer's
called                 produced by the luminous vapour of all metals
        The spectra Lines.
contain certain fixed bright lines, invariable, and distinct for each
     3. All and each of the bright lines thus produced by certain
metal.
metals—viz. sodium, potassium, magnesium, and iron—are found to
     4. Hence
coincide        there
          exactly  withmust
                         certain
                              be some
                                  of the connection  between
                                          dark lines of       the spectrum.
                                                        the solar  bright lines
     5. The
of the         and the dark
        metal,connection         follows
                           is assolar     :—Each of the dark fixed lines in
                                      lines.
the solar spectrum is caused by the presence in the sun's atmosphere
of the luminous vapour of that metal which gives the coincident bright
line.By taking a special case we may more easily understand the matter.
Let us examine the question why it is to be concluded that Sodium
occurs in the sun's atmosphere? In the following sentences the
reasoning on this subject is rendered clear : —

1861.]     on Bunsen and Kirchhoff's Spectrum Observations.                        327
     1. The light emitted by luminous sodium vapour is homogeneous.
        This spectrum
The2.sodium                 consistssodium
                bright double          of one line
                                                double
                                                     is bright      coincident
                                                         exactlyyellow    line. with
    3. The spectrum
Fraunhofer's               of a line
                 dark double           D.
                                 Drummond's        Light (like that of all incan
     4. Ifsolids)
descent     between     the prism and
                   is continuous.       It contains
                                            the Drummond's       Lightoraspaces.
                                                     no dark lines         soda flame
be placed, a dark double line identical with Fraunhofer's dark double
        is instead
line5.D If  produced. of using Drummond's Light we pass sunlight through
the soda flame, we see that the line D becomes much more distinct
        The sunlight
than6.when                flame ishas,
               sodium alone              therefore, the power of absorbing the
                                    employed.
        Hence
same7. kind      raysconclude
              of we     as it emits.
                                   that Itluminous
                                             is opaquesodium      yellowin" D
                                                        for thevapour             rays.
                                                                             the" sun's
atmosphere causes Fraunhofer's dark double line D. The light given
    8. Inthe
off from        similar
             a sun's   solid
                         manner
                             body the      presence
                                     producing       in the solar
                                                  a continuous         atmosphere of
                                                                  spectrum.
potassium, .iron, magnesium, nickel, and chromium has been proved.
    Kirchhoff's own words may perhaps render this matter still more
plain. " The sun," says Kirchhoff, " consists of a glowing gaseous
atmosphere, surrounding a solid nucleus which possesses a still higher
temperature. If we could see the spectrum of the solar atmosphere
without that of the solid nucleus, we should notice in it the bright lines
which are characteristic of the metals it contains. The more intense
luminosity of the internal nucleus does not, however, permit the
spectrum of the solar atmosphere to become apparent ; it is reversed
according to my newly discovered proposition ; so that, instead of the
bright lines which the luminous atmosphere by itself would have
shown, dark ones appear. We do not see the spectrum of the solar
atmosphere itself, but a negative image of it. This case, however,
with an equal degree of certainty serves to detect the metals present in
the sun's atmosphere. All that we require for this purpose is a very
accurate knowledge of the solar spectrum, and of the spectra of the
    Kirchhoff
individual        is at present engaged in continuing these observations ;
             metals."
and although only eighteen months have elapsed since the first dis
covery was made, he has already mapped more than seventy lines in
the solar spectrum, between D and E, which are produced by iron.
He has shown that the well-known group in the green, known as 6, is
caused by magnesium, whilst other coincident lines prove the presence
    The speaker
of nickel,  chromium,regretted
                           potassium,
                                 that heand      unableintotheshow
                                            wassodium                  atmosphere.
                                                                solareven  a drawing
of these coincident lines, as no representation of them has yet been
    The lines produced by many metals possessing very distinctly
completed.
marked spectra are seen to coincide with none of the dark solar lines ;

 328                      General Monthly Meeting.                       [March 4,
 and hence the conclusion is drawn, that these metals—for instance,
 silver, copper, zinc, aluminium, cobalt, lead, and antimony—do not
 occur at all, or at any rate occur only in very small quantities in the
        atmosphere.
 sun'sThe  speaker said that he should not soon forget the impression
 produced on his mind when visiting his friends in Heidelberg last
 autumn, by seeing the splendid spectacle of the coincidence of the
 bright lines of the iron spectrum with the dark solar lines. In the
 lower half of the field of the telescope were at least seventy brilliant
 iron lines of various colours, and of all degrees of intensity and of
 breadth ; whilst in the upper half of the field, the solar spectrum, cut
 up, as it were, by hundreds of dark lines, exhibited its steady light.
 Situated exactly above each of the seventy bright iron lines was a dark
 solar line. These lines did not only coincide with a degree of sharp
 ness and precision perfectly marvellous, but the intensity and breadth
 of each bright line was so accurately preserved in its dark represen
 tative, that the truth of the assertion that iron was contained in the
       flashed
 sun,The       uponconcluded
           speaker    the mind by    remarking that these researches are still
                                  at once.
 in their earliest infancy ; that the dawn of a new stellar and terrestrial
 chemistry has been announced, thus opening out for investigation a
 bright prospect   of vast Monday,
                 GENERAL     fields MONTHLY
                                    of unexplored
                                        March 4, 1861.
                                                    truth.
                                                    MEETING,       [H. E. R.]
William
H.R.H.       Pole,ofEsq.
         The Count                    the Chair.
                       Paris. M.A.in F.R.S.   Treasurer and Vice-President,
were elected Members of the RoyalThomas    W.
                                           Wm.
                                           John
                                           William
                                           The
                                           Henry
                                           Mrs.
                                           Sir
                                           Alexander
                                           Richard
                                             Institution.
                                               John
                                                Rev.
                                                Fanny
                                               H.E.
                                                 Waring,
                                                  Stone,
                                                   Alfred
                                                    M.
                                                    Harrington
                                                    Nichols,
                                                     Clewin
                                                     Edward
                                                      Charles
                                                       Mackintosh,
                                                        Tomlinson,
                                                        Pitman.
                                                         Esq.
                                                          Pitman,
                                                          Esq.Esq.
                                                            Griffith,
                                                              Harington,
                                                               L.Tuke,
                                                                  Forster,
                                                                   B.A.
                                                                    Esq.
                                                                    M.D.
                                                                    Esq.
                                                                      Esq  Bart..
                                                                        M.D.M.A.
H.R.H. The Duke of Chartres.
Wm. C. Baker, Esq.
Henry Wollaston Blake, Esq. F.R.S.
Charles Buxton, Esq. M.P.
Charles Sedgfield Crowley, Esq.
John Clerk, Esq.
Henry Gueneau De Mussy, M.D.
Joseph S. Earle, Esq.
Sir Philip De Malpas Grey Egerton,
     Bart. M.P. F.R.S.
John Fleming, Esq.

 1861.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                             329
      "With reference to certain Resolutions passed at the previous meet
ing, the following Letter from the Rev. John Barlow, the late
 Secretary, was read :—                                    5, Berkeley Street,
   DearInDr.       Barlow's
             Mrs.Bence   Jones,
                             name, as well as my own, I request that Feb.
                                                                      you will  express
                                                                           4th, 186 1.
to the Members of the Royal Institution our grateful acknowledgment of the kind
act to her, and the not less kind words to myself, by which they have unanimously
recorded their estimation of my past services. The Members have referred to
those services as effectual. Let me assure them, in all sincerity, that very much
of this efficiency is owing to themselves. But for the ever willing co-operation of
the Professors, the unvarying support of the Managers and Visitors, and the
uniform confidence reposed in me by the Members, the best endeavours I could
exert in their service must have been fruitless. I thankfully accept the cordial
wishes of the Members for my health and happiness. It is, indeed, a subject of
happy reflection, that I am conscious of not having altogether laboured in vain to
carry out the principles on which the Royal Institution has acted for more than
sixty years. These principles are not likely to be abandoned. Possessed of
increasing means and influence, this Institution will, under the guidance of my
successor, be more conspicuous than ever, for that promotion of science, and that
oo-operation and sympathy with those who devote themselves to the pursuit of
science, which have already obtained for our society a distinguished pre-eminence
over all similar associations in the world. Believe me, dear Dr. Bence Jones,
                                                       Very truly yours,
   Da.The  Secretary,
            following
         Bence    Jones,Royal
                           Arrangements
                               Institution. for the Lectures after       BARLOW.
                                                                  JOHNEaster     1861,
        announced
wereThree              :— Lectures on Fishes—by Richard Owen, Esq.
               concluding
     Three
D.C.L.         concluding
            F.R.S.    Fullerian
                              Lectures
                                   Professor   of Natural Physiology,
                                           on Electricity—by              Tyndall,
                                                                   John R.I.
Esq.Six    Lectures
        F.R.S.     Professor
                        on Modern
                                of Natural
                                         Music—by     JohnR.I.
                                              Philosophy,     Hullah, Esq.
     Six Lectures on the Devonian Age of the World—by William
     Nine Lectures
Pengelly,                 on the Science of Language—by Max Muller,
                  Esq. F.G.S.
Esq.Two      Lectures
        Taylorian         on Musical
                      Professor,          Acoustics and on the Physiological
                                    Oxford.
and Psychological Causes of Musical Harmony and Discord, by
     The Presents
Professor                  received
                  Helmholtz,           Heidelberg.
                                   of since   the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
   Fromof Admiralty—(through J. Russell Hind, Esq.}—The Nautical Almanack,
Board
      for 1861, 1862, 1863, and 1864. 8vo.
                                                                          z2

330                          General Monthly Meeting.                           [March 4,
     Veines.
Amussat,        8vo. 1839.
           M. Alph.—Recherches         sur 1'Introduction Accidentelle de l'Air dans les
Arts, Society of—Journal, Feb. 1861. 8vo.
Botfield, Beriah, Esq. M.P. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the £dt<or)—Prsefationes et Epistolae
     Editionibus Auctorum Veterum prsepositse. 4to. 1861.
Chemical Society—Journal,
Editors—American                 of Science,
                       Journal No.           by B.1861.
                                      52. 6vo.      Silliman, &c. for Feb. 1861. 8vo.
   Artizan for Feb. 1861. 4to.
   Athenseum for Feb. 1861. 4to.
   Chemical Gazette for Feb. 1861. 4to.
   Engineer for Feb. 1861. fol.
   Horological Journal, No. 30. 8vo. 1861.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Feb. 1861. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for Feb. 1861. 8vo.
   Medical Circular for Feb. 1861. 8to.
   Practical Mechanic's Journal for Feb. 1861. 4to.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Memoires de l'Institut de France; Academic
     des Sciences Morales, &c. TomeX. 4to. 1860.
   Imperial Academy of Sciences, Vienna : Math.-Nat. Hist. Classe : Sitzungs-
     berichte. 1860. Nos. 6, 13-21. 8vo.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XLI. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1861.
   QuarterlySociety—Proceedings,
 Geological    Journal, No. 65. 8vo.Feb.1861.1861. 8vo.
Horticultural Society qf London—Proceedings, No. 21. 8vo. 1861.
Institut Imperial de France—Memoiresde l'Acade"mie des Sciences. Tome XXVIII.
     4to. 1860.
Lankester,  Dr. E. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Author)—Lectures on Food. Parti. 16to.
     1861.
Lubbock, John, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Author)—On Sphaerularia Bombi and on
     the Daphnidse. 8m 1861.
Macilwain, George, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Remarks, Logical and Physiologi
Manning,
     cal, on
Mackie,      J.
             Vivisection.
          S.Frederick,
                 F.G.S.Esq.
                          (the8vo.
                               M.R.I.—A
                                Editor)—The     Geologist,
                                      1860. Series         Feb.illustrative
                                                    of Views      1861. of the Boscobel
     Tracts.
Russell,        4to. Esq.
          J. Scott,    1861.F.B.S. (the Author)—The Fleet of the Future : Iron or
Royal
Photographic
 Vernon,
Newton
     Wood?
       Agricultural
         Messrs.—London
          W. F.Society—Journal,
                8vo.
                  Esq.Society
                        M.R.I,
                        1861. Journal
                                of(the
                                   England—Journal,
                                     No.Author)—Memorial
                                         (New
                                          106. Series)
                                                 8vo. for
                                                        No.
                                                          Feb.
                                                       1861. 46.
                                                              of 1861.
                                                                  Admiral
                                                                   8vo. 8vo.Vernon. 16to.
                                                                           1861.
     1861.

1861.]     Prof. Frankland on Con<lustion in Rarefied Air.               331
                    John Barlow,
        The Eev.WEEKLY    Friday,
                              EVENING
                                   March
                                     M.A.8,F.R.S.
                                              MEETING,
                                              1861.   Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                       Edward Frankiand, F.R.S.
      On some Phenomena attending Combustion in Rarefied Air.
The investigation forming the subject of this discourse had its origin
in some experiments which the speaker made upon the summit of
Mont Blanc, in the autumn of 1859, for the purpose of ascertaining
the effect of atmospheric pressure upon the amount of combustible
matter consumed by a common candle. He found, as the average
of five experiments, that a stearin candle diminished in weight
9 -4 grammes, when burnt for an hour at Chamonix ; whilst it con
sumed 9*2 grammes, when ignited for the same length of time on the
summit of Mont Blanc. This close approximation in the quantity of
combustible matter consumed under such widely different atmospheric
pressures, goes far to prove that the rate of combustion is entirely
independent of the density of the atmosphere. This result was subse
quently confirmed by a repetition of the experiments in air, artificially
     In burning
rarefied,           the candles
           until it supported a column
                                  upon the
                                         of only      the mountain,
                                             top 9ofinches of mercury.it was
noticed, in the subdued light of the tent in which the operation
 was performed, that their luminosity was much less than usual. The
 lower and blue portion of the flame, which, under ordinary cir
 cumstances, scarcely rises to within a quarter of an inch of the apex
 of the wick, now extended to the height of one-eighth of an inch above
the cotton, thus greatly reducing the size of the luminous portion of
 the flame ; and, on subsequently repeating the experiments in arti
 ficially rarefied atmospheres, and measuring the amount of light
 emitted in each case, it was found that as the rarefaction proceeded,
 the blue or non-luminous portion of the flame gradually extended
upwards until it finally expelled, as it were, the yellow or luminous
 part even from the apex of the flame. During the progress of the

332               Dr. Franhland on some Phenomena              [March 8,
rarefaction, the flame became somewhat enlarged, assumed an ellip
soidal shape, and ultimately became almost globular, whilst a large
external shell of bluish pink flame gradually came into view as the
last portion of yellow light was disappearing from the apex of the
flame, which had alone been previously visible. It is scarcely necessary
to add, that during these changes in the flame, the light underwent a
rapid diminution ; the rate of its decrease, however, was subject to con
siderable irregularities from the heating of the apparatus surrounding
the candle, and the consequent guttering and unequal combustion of
the latter. For the accurate measurement of the diminution of light,
therefore, recourse was had to coal gas, which, although also liable to
certain disturbing influences, yet yielded results, during an extensive
series of experiments, exhibiting sufficient uniformity to render them
    By passing
worthy           the gas through a " governor," uniformity of pressure
         of confidence.
in the delivery tubes could be secured; and by other appropriate
arrangements a uniform amount of gas, viz. 0-65 cubic feet per hour,
was made to burn in each experiment within the atmosphere of varying
density. This experimental flame was placed at one extremity of a
Bunsen's photometer ; whilst, as a standard for comparison, a similar
jet of gas, surrounded by a glass shade, and burning freely in the air
with a uniform consumption, was fixed at the opposite end of the photo
meter. In the case of the experimental flame, the products of com
bustion were completely removed, and a steady supply of fresh air
    The following
constantly  supplied.table contains a summary of the results of these
determinations, the illuminating power given under each pressure being
the average of twenty closely accordant observations. In each series
the maximum illuminating effect—that is, the light given by the
experimental flame when burning under the full atmospheric pressure
—is taken at 100.
                                 FIRST SEMES.
                    Pressure of     Illuminating Power of
                   Air in inches     Experimental Flame.
                   of Mercury.
                                     Observed.    Calculated.
                       29-9          100           100
                       24-9            75-0          74-5
                        19-9           52-9         49-0
                       14-6            20-2         22-0
                         9-6             5-4     - 3-5
                         6-6              *9      -18-8

 1861.]            attending Combustion in -Rarefied Air.                  333
                                  SECOND SERIES.
                       Pressure of     Illuminating Power of
                     Air in inches      Experimental Flame.
                      of Mercury.
                                        Observed.    Calculated.
                           30-2         100           100
                           28-2          91-4           89-8
                           26-2          80-6           79-6
                           24-2          730            69-4
                           22-2          61-4           59-2
                          20-2           47-8           49-0 -
                           18-2          37-4           38-8
                           16-2          29-4           28-6
                           14-2           198           18-4
                           12-2          12-5             8-2
                           10-2            3-6        -2-0
     An inspection of these results indicates that even the natural oscil
lations of atmospheric pressure cause a considerable variation in the
amount of light emitted by gas flames. In order, to determine these
variations, the following special series of experiments was made, the
pressures being very      accurately
                       Pressure       ascertained
                                of THIRD    SERIES. by means of a water-gauge.
                     Air in inches     Illuminating Power of
                      of Mercury.       Experimental Flame.
                          302          Ohimd.        Calculated.
                                       100            100
                          29-2           950           94-9
                          282            89-7          89-8
                          27-2           84-4           84-7
     It is thus evident that the combustion of an amount of gas which
would give a light equal to 100 candles, when the barometer stands at
31 inches, would afford a light equal to only 84-4 candles if the baro
    Thefellresults
meter               of these three series of observations taken together,
             to 28 inches.
show, that beginning at atmospheric pressure, and with 100 units of
light, a decrease of almost exactly 5 * 1 units of light is the result of
each diminution of mercurial pressure to the extent of one inch, until
the barometer stands at 14 inches, below which the diminution of

334                  Dr. Frankland on some Phenomena              [March 8,
light takes place in a less rapid ratio. One of the columns headed
" Calculated," in the above tables, exhibits the illuminating power
calculated from the constant just given, and it wiH be seen, that these
calculated numbers nearly coincide in most cases with the observed
     In explaining
amount    of light. the cause of the above phenomena, the speaker
referred to the conditions upon which the light of ordinary flames
depends. He showed, that in these flames there are two sources of
light, viz. incandescent gaseous matter, and incandescent solid matter ;
but that, practically, 99 per cent. of the light of such flames owed its
origin to the second of these sources. In gas, candle, and oil flames,
the incandescent solid matter consisted of carbon in a minute state of
division. The amount of light emitted by these flames depended,
within certain limits, first, upon the quantity of solid particles of
carbon existing, at any given moment, within the flame ; and secondly,
upon the temperature to which these carbon particles were heated.
Now, the temperature of a flame might" be affected by imperfect
combustion in rarefied air ; but it had been proved, by the analysis of
the products, that combustion was equally complete in the above
experiments under all pressures ; in fact, it was found that complete
combustion could be far more easily secured in rarefied air, than in air
at the ordinary atmospheric pressure. Other experiments also showed,
that the temperature of a flame was not materially affected by the
pressure of the air in which it was burning ; consequently, it was
inferred that the diminution of luminosity in rarefied atmospheres,
was not due either to imperfect combustion, or to reduction of
     The diminution of light must therefore arise from the decrease of
temperature.
the amount of solid carbon separated within the flame ; and this the
speaker believed to be due to the admission of oxygen in larger quan
tities into the interior of the flame when the atmosphere was rarefied.
It was shown by experiment, that the admission of a comparatively
small amount of air, and consequently of oxygen, into the interior of
a gas flame, immediately reduced the illuminating power of the latter
to a very marked extent ; the carbon particles, instead of being
separated as such in the interior of the flame, being at once oxidized
to carbonic oxide. This increased access of oxygen to the interior of
a flame burning in rarefied air, was believed to be due to the greater
mobility of the particles of expanded gases, which enabled the gases
 of the flame and the circumambient air to commingle more rapidly
thanThe    cause of atmospheric
       at ordinary                   decrease of the light of flames burning
                     the less rapidpressure.
in atmospheres below 1 4 inches of mercurial pressure was due to the
 comparative prominence assumed by the light of the incandescent
 gaseous matters of the flame at such high stages of rarefaction ; this
 gaseous illumination being affected by pressure to a much less extent
         his afforded
thanInthat    celebrated
                      by researches
                          incandescent   flame, Davy
                                      on carbon       had not overlooked the
                                                particles.

1861.]          attending Combustion in Rarefied Air.                    335
diminution of light by decrease of pressure, but he had not determined
    diminution
the The           stated in conclusion,
         speakerquantitatively           that heitshad
                                nor indicated           only yet imperfectly
                                                    cause.
extended his inquiry to pressures higher than that of the atmosphere ;
but, so far as these experiments went, they appeared to indicate that
the law which had been elicited for lower pressures, also held good for
                 that of
pressures above EXTRA     the EVENING
                       Monday,    March 18,MEETING.
                              atmosphere.       1861.              [E. F.]
    Sir Roderick I. Murchison, D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                         M. F.inP.theDo   Chailmj.
                                       Chair.
   Personal Narrative of his Travels in Western Central Africa.
                             [No Abstract given.]


        l&ogal institution of <&nat ISritain.
                 WEEKLY          EVENING
                           Friday,              1861.
                                     March 15, MEETING,
       Sia Henry Hoixand, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. in the Chair.
                            Latimer Clark, Esq.
                  On Electrical Quantity and Intensity.
The modifications of the strength of the electric current in dynamic
electricity, and in the amount of charge in static electricity, are at
present usually defined by the terms Quantity and Intensity. The
speaker pointed out that the expression intensity, as ordinarily under
stood, really involved two perfectly distinct qualities, and dwelt on the
advantage which would accrue to electrical science by the habitual
separation of the complex idea of intensity into its two component
parts, viz. that of tension, as propounded by Ohm in his celebrated
mathematical investigation of the galvanic circuit ; and that of quantity,
as developed by Faraday in those valuable researches in which he
established, the definite quantitative character of electro-chemical
decomposition and the action of electricity on the galvanometer. The
term " tension," as here used, is intended to convey the same idea as
the expression electromotiveforce, or as the term " electric potential,"
employed by Green and other mathematicians, and is entirely dis
sociated from the idea of quantity ; both terms are equally applicable
    The quantity
to electricity      of orelectricity,
               at rest     in motion.both in its static condition and in its
motion through conductors, usually varies directly as the tension, and
hence their joint effects have been ordinarily confounded together and
attributed to one cause under the name of intensity ; but since the
tension and quantity do not, under all circumstances, vary in the same
ratio, there exists an absolute necessity for their clear separation
before any numerical reasoning can be founded on them. Cases of
the independent variation of tension and quantity were shown, and it
was pointed out that all the most striking properties of electricity, such
as the decomposition of water and salts, the combustion of metals, the
deflection of the galvanometer, the attraction of the electro-magnet,
and the physiological effects of the current were really dependent, as
regards their magnitude and energy, solely on the quantity of elec-
   Vol. III. (No. 34.)                                           2a

  338                           Mr. Latimer Clark                 [March 15,
  tricity passing. Their greater energy when the tension was increased,
  was an indirect effect, due not to that tension, but to the increased
  quantity which passed in a given time by reason of the increased
 tension. A galvanometer wound with a few turns of thick wire was
 shown to be deflected as powerfully by one cell as by six, or even by
 600 cells of the same size, because by reason of its shortness the wire
 conveyed freely the whole quantity which one cell could produce, which
 was the same as that produced by the whole 600 ; but any alteration
 in the size of the cell produced a consequent change in the quantity
 and in the deflection of the galvanometer. On the other hand, a
 galvanometer with many thousand turns of fine wire gave the same
 deflection with a battery formed of a small gun-cap, as with one of
 twenty square feet of surface, because the quantity in this case was
 regulated and limited not by the size of the plates, but by the power
 of conduction of the wire ; the quantity being therefore the same in
 both cases. In every case the deflection was dependent solely on the
 quantity of electricity actually passing through the instrument with
      reference
 out The         to its tension.
           combustion    of metals was shown to be a phenomenon depen
 dent on quantity, and not on tension ; one cell of Grove's battery
 ignited a certain length of platina wire ; and whatever its size it would
 ignite no greater length ; but two, three, or more cells were shown to
ignite two and three times the original length, the quantity passing in
 the greater length being under the higher tension, precisely the same
as in the original length. This explained Faraday's oft misunderstood
remark, that the same quantity of electricity which would ignite an
       of wire,
 inchThe        would
           pain and  shock
                         ignite a foot or aonmile.
                             experienced       touching a powerful battery, or
shocking coil, or Leyden jar, were proportionate to the quantity of
 electricity passing through the system, and not to the tension. A
carrier ball or minute Leyden jar charged to the highest tension, would
produce no sensation if the quantity were absent, and the same was
the case with a Zamboni's pile. Sparks nearly eighteen inches long
were received from an electrical machine ; but although of this high
tension, they produced no violent physiological effects, owing to their
deficiency in quantity. Long sparks, nevertheless, produced greater
effects than short ones, because at double the striking distance the
tension is doubled, and the quantity is therefore twice as great. The
quantity contained in a Leyden jar or battery is comparatively great, and
the effect on the system proportionately violent. Two conditions were
necessary for these effects : first, that the quantity present should be
considerable ; and secondly, that the tension should be sufficiently
great to make it pass through the system. A battery of two or three
cells, which could readily fuse platina wire, was shown to produce no
painful sensation on the tongue, because, although the quantity was
abundant, the tension was low ; while another battery of 600 cells,
which produced the most intolerable shock to the system, had, from
its deficiency in quantity, scarcely any power to fuse wire. The

1861.]               on Electrical Quantity and Intensity.                  339
Ruhmkorff coil combined very high tension with considerable quantity,
and A      physiological
      its frictional  machine
                          effectswas
                                  wereexhibited
                                        thereforeby  Mr.
                                                  very     Varley, constructed
                                                        violent.
on a plan of Dr. Winter's ; the plate was of vulcanite, or vulcanized
India rubber, about three feet in diameter, excited by amalgam in the
usual way ; its peculiarity was a large and lofty wooden ring, with a
metallic rod in its interior, which, by its overshadowing inductive in
fluence, increased the length of the sparks from six or seven inches to
     Theeighteen.
nearly       forces of electrical attraction and repulsion are sometimes
stated to vary as the square of the intensity, sometimes as the square
of the quantity, and sometimes as the square of the distance ; but it
was contended, that these effects were due to the circumstance that the
quantity usually varies in the same ratio as the tension, and as the dis
tance ; and that all the phenomena were more rationally explained by
the assumption that electrical attraction and repulsion vary in the
simple ratio of the quantity and of the tension, and of the distance
     The instances in which the quantity present is not simply depen
inversely.
dent on the tension, are those in which other electrified bodies are
present, which, by their inductive influence, affect the quantity present
in all bodies in their vicinity without necessarily affecting their
tension. An insulated cylinder was connected with the positive pole of
a Daniell's battery of 600 cells, its negative pole being connected with
the earth ; so that the cylinder was in a condition to give off a powerful
and visible current to another wire connected with the ground ; in this
condition a positively electrified disc was approached to it, and by its
inductive influence was shown to render one end of the cylinder
electrically negative, so that a carrier ball applied to that end showed
it to have a negative charge, thus presenting the apparent paradox of
a negative electrified body giving off a positive current to the earth, or
vice versa. One end was negatively electrified, and the other end
     According
positively,        thethe
               but to   tension
                          ordinary
                                 wasway
                                     the of regarding
                                         same          this class of phenomena,
                                               everywhere.
it was usual to state that the ends of the cylinder acquired a state of
positive or negative intensity, or that they had their intensity changed :
it was contended that this gave an inaccurate idea of the real nature
of the change, and that the approach of an electrified body, how
ever near or however violently it might be excited, could not in the
slightest degree affect the tension of a conducting body, which was in
connection with the earth : the only influence it could have would be
to alter the quantity in the second body, by driving a portion of
its electricity downwards to the earth. It might be assumed as a law
that the tension of the electricity in every part of a conducting body of
moderate dimensions was the same, notwithstanding the vicinity of other
electrified bodies. If a positively electrified body were brought near
an insulated conductor, the distribution of the electricity in the second
body was changed, and its whole tension was raised, but the tension
                                                                   2a2

340                On Electrical Quantity and Intensity.            [March 15,
remained everywhere uniform, and was as high at the negative as at
     The fall end.
the positive     of tension in electricity was always accompanied by its
conversion into heat ; the ignition of wire by the voltaic current, the
intense heat of the voltaic arc, and the heat and light of the electric
 discharge and of the spark, were all cases of the evolution of heat con
sequent on the fall of tension, and the quantity of heat evolved was
apparently directly proportionate to the fall of tension within a given
space    the to
     In and   case
                 theofquantity
                        electric of
                                 telegraph   conductors
                                    electricity passing. and submarine cables,
it was shown, from a carefully conducted and extensive series of experi
ments, that the tension falls with the most perfect regularity from the
positive pole of the battery to the end in connection with the earth, in
accordance with the law of Ohm ; and since the quantity of electricity
held under induction varies in the same ratio as the tension, the distri
bution of the charge in a cable follows precisely the same law. It re
sults from this, that if a cable with a current flowing through it be
divided into any number of equal sections, and the quantity in the sec
tion connected with the earth be taken as unity, the quantities in all the
other parts, whatever their number, will be in the ratio 1, 3, 5, 7, 9,
 11, &c. So that if a cable be divided into two halves, the quantities
      be inspeaker
willThe                  of onethat
              the ratiostated         he had ascertained that in the voltaic
                                 to three.
the negative
battery,         metal wasofnot
          the presence         twonecessary
                                      metals was
                                              for the  an essential
                                                  not formation     the electric
                                                                 of condition—
current, but only for its after detection and exhibition. A simple
mass of copper, iron, zinc, or any oxidisable metal, when laid on the
moist earth, formed a complete battery in itself, giving positive electri
city to the earth, and quickly assuming a negative tension, which it
would communicate to any other body resting on it or in contact with
it, as, for instance, a length of submarine cable. If a cable thus
charged were afterwards removed and applied to any more electro
negative metal, such as platinum, or to carbon, the charge would
return to the earth ; and it was found by measurement that the charge
thus acquired by a cable was exactly the same as if the two metals
had been employed simultaneously in the ordinary form of a galvanic
couple. If the mass of zinc were permanently connected with the
non-oxidisable or less oxidisable metal, and thus with the earth, the
tension, being constantly destroyed and as constantly renewed, would
form a constant current, becoming in fact a voltaic couple. If the
connection with the earth, instead of being made through another metal,
were made through any inert conducting substance or liquid, the same
constant current would be produced, thus forming the well-known case
      voltaicthebattery
of aAfter                with of
                  conclusion   onethemetal
                                       discourse,
                                           and two  liquids.
                                                  Mr.  Clark stated, with refer
ence to Faraday's discovery of specific inductive capacity, that in the
course of some investigations conducted in conjunction with Professor
Hughes, they had observed that every different dielectric possessed

 1861.]     On the Origin of the Parallel Roads of Lochaber.         341
its own specific law of variation of inductive capacity with respect to
distance. With air it varied as the distance, inversely ; but with
gutta-percha it was more nearly as the square root ; with India-rubber
and white wax it was intermediate between the two ratios, and the
law of variation was different with every substance tried. From
which it would result that observers who deduced the specific inductive
capacity of any material from experiments on half-inch plates, would
arrive at very different results from others who operated on inch
plates.                                                        [L. C]
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 22, 1861.
The Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
             Origin of theH.Parallel
    On the Professor                  RoadsF.R.S.
                              D. Rogers,           F.G.S.(Glen
                                             of Lochaber   &c. Roy),
                                  Scotland.
The speaker prefaced his account of these curious features in the
scenery of Lochaber, by stating that he was induced to recall attention
to them from having, during four recent visits to the ground, discovered
certain phenomena not hitherto noticed or theoretically considered by
any of the able and distinguished observers who have preceded him.
Though nearly all the more prominent peculiar characters of the scene
have been very skilfully described and discussed by Dr. MacCulloch,
Sir Thomas Dick Lauder, Charles Darwin, Esq., David Milne Home,
Esq., Professor Agassiz, Sir George S. Mackenzie, Robert Chambers,
Esq., and others, Professor Rogers has been led by a careful study of
the structure of the so-called Parallel Roads, and a perusal of the
views of those eminent geologists, to reject all the hypotheses thus far
offered in explanation of the terr.aces as inadequate, and to recognize
in the facts about to be developed, a key to a solution of the problem
    The origin,
of their  geographical
                 which hearea
                           thinks
                               of may  prove satisfactory.
                                   the parallel roads may be defined as
embraced between Loch Laggan and Loch Lochy, east of the Great
Caledonian Valley. They are chiefly restricted indeed to Glen Spean,
Glen Roy, and two or three immediately adjacent smaller glens. One
belt of them ranges from near Spean Bridge up the Spean Valley, to
beyond the head of Loch Laggan ; another up Glen Roy to the water
sheds at its very head, and a third through Glen Gluoi to its head.

342                    Professor Rogers on the Origin           [March 22,
      The " Roads," or Shelves, themselves, are of various heights above
'the sea, the lowest of the three conspicuous ones in Glen Roy having
 an elevation of about 850 feet, the middle one a height of about 1060
 feet, and the highest a level of nearly 1140 feet. Other much fainter,
 still more elevated shelves, are discernible in Glen Gluoi, but all
 hitherto seen lie below a horizon of 1500 feet above the ocean. These
 Parallel Roads, as they are called, are apparently level, and therefore
parallel, but further instrumental measurements are necessary before
the question of their absolute horizontality can be regarded as satis
      They settled.
factorily   constitute a most impressive feature in the scenery of >the
lonely, treeless glens containing them. Winding into all the recesses
and round the shoulders of the mountains which they imprint, they
present at first view a striking likeness to a succession of raised
      Seen deserted
beaches             by their
            in profile,      waters.
                        as when  looked at horizontally, they resemble so
many artificial hill-side cuttings, the back of each terrace lying within
the general profile of the mountain slope, while the front or outer edge
is protuberant beyond it. Each is indeed a nearly level, wide, deep
groove, in the easily eroded boulder drift, or diluvium, which to
a greater or less thickness everywhere clothes the sides of these moun
tains. They vary greatly in their relative distinctness, being in some
places vaguely discernible, while in other spots they indent the surface
very plainly, just as they happen to be narrow and to coincide in slope
with the hill, or to be broad and apparently level from front to back.
"Where most indistinct they are frequently not discernible at all when
we stand upon them ; though we may in a favourable light have detected
their position and course from the opposite side of the glen, or, better
still, from the bed of the valley. The conditions which influence this
fluctuation in distinctness, promise, if carefully observed, to dispel
much of the obscurity which has hitherto invested the origin of the
terraces. The modifying circumstances seem to be all referable to one
general condition, that of exposure to a current or inundation, supposed
by the speaker to have rushed through these glens from their mouths
to their heads, or upper ends. Thus it would appear : 1st, "With
scarcely an exception, that each terrace or shelf is most deeply im
printed in the hill-side, and is broadest where the surface thus grooved
has its aspect down the glen on towards the Atlantic, and is faintest
where the ground fronts towards the head of the valley on the German
Ocean. 2nd, While conspicuous on the open sides and the westward
sloping shoulders of the hills, the terraces disappear altogether in the
recesses or deeper corries which scollop the flanks of the mountains.
3rd, Each shelf, or " road," grows usually more and more distinct as it
approaches the head of its own special glen, until those of the two op
posite  fact obviously
      A sides            round spoon-like
              meet in amaterial             theory of the origin of the ter
                                 to a true point.
races, is that each of them coincides accurately in level with some water
shed or notch in the hills leading out from its glen into some other glen

1861.] of the Parallel Roads ofLochaber (Glen Roy), Scotland. 343
or valley adjoining, a coincidence suggestive of the notion that they
were formed by the grooving agency of a flood pouring through the
glens while it was embayed at the respective levels of these natural
waste weirs. In confirmation of this view that they were transiently
caused by erosive currents held successively at the heights of the bar
riers on whose levels the terraces terminate, we have as another in
teresting general feature, a remarkable ruggedness of the bed of each
external glen just outside the water-shed or barrier closing the glen
which contains the terrace. These rough and deep ravines, contrasting
strikingly with the smooth spoon-like terminations of the terrace-lined
glens which head against them, strengthen the suggestion already
awakened by the marks of horizontal erosion in the terraces themselves,
that the notches or passes which determined the grooving of the hill
sides on their one hand were externally the sites of so many stupendous
      The internal structure or disposition of the matter composing each
cataracts.
terrace, affords a further and striking corroboration of this hypothesis
of the passage of an erosive flood. It consists in an " oblique lamina
tion," or slant bedding of the constituents of the shelves ; viz. the
layers of gravel, sand, and other sediment, such as geologists familiarly
recognize as the result of a strong current pushing forward the frag
mentary material which it is depositing, and which is held by them to
indicate in the direction towards which the laminae dip, the direction
towards which the current has moved. Now it is a most suggestive
peculiarity in the " oblique bedding of these terraces, that the " dip," or
downward slant, is almost invariably up the glen, or towards its head, and
not down the glen, or towards the Atlantic, as we must suppose it would
have been, had the glen been a bay of the sea, and these materials but
portions of ordinary sea beaches. Indeed, this feature is of itself enough
to suggest an origin due to a strong current sweeping inward from the
      The speaker
Atlantic,          nextthe
            and across  proceeded
                           water-shed
                                   to examine
                                        of the island to the opposite
                                                 the hypotheses        sea.
                                                                  of his pre
decessors in this inquiry respecting the origin of the Parallel Roads.
They all assume the agency, in one form or another, of standing water,
either the ocean in its ordinary state of repose, or lakes pent within the
glens.The notion that a quietly resting sea has fashioned these level shelves
is refuted by the fact, that they are not true marine beaches ; they ex
hibit none of the distinctive features of genuine sea-shores, not a vestige
 of any marine organic remains, no rippled sands, no shingle, and no sea
 cliffs. They display in like manner a total absence of the distinctive
 marks of lake sides ; not one lacustrine organism, neither fresh-water
 plant, nor animal having ever been discovered imbedded in them. A
 further difficulty attends the lake-hypothesis in the necessity it imposes
 of discovering a feasible cause of blockage of the glens at different
 stations above their mouths, to pond the waters to the respective heights
 of the terraces. Though much ingenuity has been expended upon this
 part of the problem, no suggestions yet offered of barriers of gravel,

 344      Prof. Rogers on the Origin of the Parallel Roads. [March 22,
accumulated by currents or glaciers from Ben Nevis, can be regarded as
admissible, inasmuch as there are no traces of any such in any of those
localities where alone we can assume them to have existed to produce
 the required embaying of the waters. In this entire absence of all
 remnants of the supposed natural dams across the glens, it is most
 unphilosophical to take for granted their total obliteration, where no
 cause    theorother
      Onhas          hand
                can be  assigned
                           the hypothesis
                                 which canofhave so effaced
                                             successive     them.
                                                         " sea margins," or
sea levels, is overthrown by the now well-established deduction from
the speaker's own recent measurements, that none of the several shelves,
or " roads," of Glen Roy correspond in level with any of those seen
 in the adjacent valley Glen Gluoi, a marked discrepancy separating
 the two groups of terraces into two independently produced systems.
 It can be shown, moreover, that these discordances of interval between
the shelves of the glens respectively, are such as cannot be accounted
for on any supposition of " faults," or dislocations of the earth's crust,
 in the ground between the two glens. Equally incompatible are all
the facts of the relative levels of the shelves, with the notion that they
are possibly sea beaches which may have undergone an unequal amount
of elevation by an oblique secular rise of the land, such as is known to
be very gradually taking place on some coasts at the present day. The
individual terraces are too nearly level to admit of this explanation ;
since so wide a warping of the crust from horizontality within so limited
a space as separates the two glens, would have left them conspicuously
sloping. Besides, the two systems of shelves are wholly insulated from
each other, and the notion of their origin as sea beaches gradually
elevated implies a continuity between them, together with certain
agreements in their directions of derivation from levelness which we
     In conclusion,
wholly                the speaker proceeded to sketch the action to which
         fail to perceive.
he ascribes the formation of all these shelves or parallel roads. He
supposes the several terraces to have been cut or grooved in the sides
of the hills by a great inundation from the Atlantic, engendered by
some wide earthquake disturbance of the ocean's bed, and forced
against the western slope of Scotland. The features of the country
indicate that, while a portion of such a vast sea-tide entering the Firth
of Linnhe rushed straight across the island through the deep natural
trench, Glen Mor, or the great Caledonian valley, a branch current
was deflected from this, and turned by the Spean valley and its tribu
tary glens, Glen Roy and Glen Gluoi, into the valley of the Spey,
and so across to the German Ocean. In this transit, the deflected
waters first embayed in these glens, and then filling and pouring
through them, would, upon rising to the levels of the successive water
sheds, or low passes, which open a way to the eastern slope of the island,
take on a swift current through each notch, and as long as the outpour
nearly balanced the influx, this current, temporarily stationary in
height, would carve or groove the soft " drift " of the hill-side. But
the influx increasing, the stationary level and grooving power of the

 1861.]                  General Monthly Meeting.                       345
 surface stream would cease, and would only recommence when the
 flood rising to the brim of another natural dam, a new temporary
 equilibrium would be established, a new horizontal superficial current
 set in motion, and a second shelf or terrace begin to be eroded at the
 higher level. So each of the parallel roads is conceived to have been
 produced in the successive stages of the rising of one vast steady
 incursion of the sea. The lapsing back of the waters, unaccompanied
 by any sharp localized surface currents, through the passes, could
 imprint no such defined marks on the surface, nor accomplish more
 than a faint and partial obliteration of the terraces just previously
 excavated during their incursion. This procedure was elucidated by
 likening it to what takes place when we allow a steady but gradually
 increasing jet of water to flow into a tank, perforated laterally with
 several orifices at successive elevations, the outlets permitting a some
 what less rapid rate of discharge than is equivalent to the influx. If
 such a tank be smeared internally with soft clay, the inpour can be so
 regulated in respect to its acceleration, that the water, as it rises
successively to the levels of the several orifices will take on a hori
 zontal motion or current, through, first the lower hole, and then the
 second and so on, and, remaining approximately stationary for a brief
 while on the level of each, will groove the soft clay as it passes out,
until it swells above the orifice to reach the next. Some such process
as this at the notches which terminate the glens will, it is believed,
account for the   terraces and MONTHLY
               GENERAL                            which belong[H.
                                all the featuresMEETING,          D. R.J
                                                               to them.
                         Monday, April 1, 1861.
William Pole,WilliamEsq. M.A.      F.R.S.Ancrum,
                             Rutherford     Treasurer   and Vice-President.
                                                     Esq.
                   Stephen Jennings Goodfellow, M.D.
                   William
were elected Members         Newmarch,
                              the RoyalDenny,
                      Rev.ofAlexander      Institution.
                                          Esq.   M.A.
                      Rev. Charles Forster, M.A.
                      Henri Gueneau De Mussy, M.D.
were admitted Members W. E. of    Tomlinson,
                              M.the            Esq.
                                      Royal Institution.

346                                General Monthly Meeting.                           [April 12,
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
American
table,         the thanks
         andAcademy       of ArtsofandtheSciences—Memoirs,
                                             Members returned            VII.
                                                                   Vol.for      same1860.
                                                                           the 4to.  : viz.
Bache,Society
Arts,             Professor (theMarch
         A. D.of—Journal,                     1861. 8vo. of the United States' Coast Survey,
                                      Author)—Report
   Proceedings,
Boston  Society
      1858.    4to.ofVol.
                      Natural
                        1859.
                            VII. History,
                                   Nos. 10-15.         8vo. 1860.
                                                U.S.—Journal,      Vol. VII. No. 1. 8vo. 1859.
Clifford, C. Esq. (the Author)—How to Lower Ships' Boats. 8vo. 1859.
Editors—Artizan for March 1861. 4to.
   Horological
   Chemical
   Journal
   Technologist,
   Mechanics'
   Athenaeum
   Medical
   Engineer
   PracticalofCircular
               Mechanic's
               for
               Gazette
                 Gas-Lighting
                  for
                  Journal,
                     March
                      Nos.
                        March
                  Magazine  for
                           for
                             1-9.
                               1861.
                                No.
                                March
                                Journal
                                 March
                                 for
                                  1861.
                                     31.
                                      March
                                      8vo.fol.
                                     for   1861.
                                            1861.
                                            for
                                          March
                                             4to.
                                             8vo.
                                                1860.
                                                 1861.
                                                 March
                                                    1861.
                                                    8vo.
                                                      1861.
                                                     4to. 1861.
                                                             4to. 4to.
                                                          8vo.
      schaften
Faraday,         zu Berlin,
             Professor,     D.C.L.
                                Nov. und       Dec. 1860. 8vo.
                                         F.E.S.—Monatsberichte          der Akademie der Wissen-
      Earth's
Ferret,         Surface.
          W. Esq.             4to. 1860. Motions of Fluids and Solids relative to the
                     (the Author)—The
Geological Society—Proceedings, March 1861. 8vo.
Horticultural Society of London— Proceedings, No. 22. 8vo. 1861.
     Neptune.
Lubbock,   Sir John           Bart. F.R..S. (the Author)—The Discovery of the Planet
                    8vo.W. 1861.
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, March 1861.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series), for March 1861. 8vo.
Photographic
Ratcliff,   Charles,
                 Society—Journal,
                         Esq. M.E.I.—Report No. 107. of8vo.      1861.
                                                            the Conference    on Ragged Schools.
        Accademia
Roma,8vo.     1861. de Nuovi Lincei—Atti, Anno XIII. Sess. 2. 4to. 1860.
Smithsonian Institution—Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XI. 4to. 1860.
Statistical Society of London—Journal, Vol. XXIV. Part 1. 8ov. 1861.
Storer, Frank, Esq. (the Author)—On the Alloys of Copper and Zinc. 4to. 1860.
 Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfieisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Nov. und
      Dec. 1860.
 Volpicelli,  Professor4to.P. (the Author)—Teorica della Compensazione de' Pendoli
      Memoria. 4to. 1860.

 1861.]     Professor Helmholtz on the Conservation of Force.          347
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 12, 1861.
 William Robert Grove, Esq.             Chair.
                                 in theM.A. Q.C. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                     Professor Helmholtz, F.R.S.
     On the Application of the Law of the Conservation of Force to
                             Organic Nature.
The most important progress in natural philosophy by which the
present century is distinguished, has been the discovery of a general
law which embraces and rules all the various branches of physics and
chemistry. This law is of as much importance for the highest specula
 tions on the nature of forces, as for immediate and practical questions
in the construction of machines. This law at present is commonly
 known by the name of " the principle of conservation of force." It
might be better perhaps to call it, with Mr. Rankine, " the conservation
of energy," because it does not relate to that which we call commonly
intensity of force ; it does not mean that the intensity of the natural
forces is constant : but it relates more to the whole amount of power
which can be gained by any natural process, and by which a certain
amount of work can be done. For example : if we apply this law to
gravity, it does not mean, what is strictly and undoubtedly true, that
the intensity of the gravity of any given body is the same as often as
the body is brought back to the same distance from the centre of the
earth. Or with regard to the other elementary forces of nature—for
example, chemical force : when two chemical elements come together,
so that they influence each other, either from a distance or by imme
diate contact, they will always exert the same force upon each other—
the same force both in intensity and in its direction and in its quantity.
This other law indeed is true ; but it is not the same as the principle
of conservation of force. We may express the meaning of the law of
conservation of force by saying, that every force of nature when it
effects any alteration, loses and exhausts its faculty to effect the same
alteration a second time. But while, by every alteration in nature, that
force which has been the cause of this alteration is exhausted, there is
always another force which gains as much power of producing new
alterations in nature as the first has lost. Although, therefore, it is
the nature of all inorganic forces to become exhausted by their own
working, the power of the whole system in which these alterations
take place is neither exhausted nor increased in quantity, but only

 348                Professor Helmholtz on the Law of {he        [April 12,
 changed in form. Some special examples will enable you better to
 understand this law than any general theories. We will begin with
 gravity ; that most general force, which not only exerts its influence
 over the whole universe, but which at the same time gives the means of
 moving to a great number of our machines. Clocks and smaller
 machines, you know, are often set in motion by a weight. The same
 is really the case with water-mills. Water-mills are driven by falling
 water ; and it is the gravity, the weight of the falling water, which
moves the mill. Now you know that by water-mills, or by a falling
weight, every machine can be put in motion ; and that by these motive
powers every sort of work can be done which can be done at all by
any machine. You see, therefore, that the weight of a heavy body,
either solid or fluid, which descends from a higher place to a lower
place is a motive power, and can do every sort of mechanical work.
Now if the weight has fallen down to the earth, then it has the same
amount of gravity, the same intensity of gravity ; but its power to
move, its power to work, is exhausted ; it must become again raised
before it can work anew. In this sense, therefore, I say that the
faculty of producing new work is exhausted—is lost ; and this is true
of every power of nature when this power has produced alteration.
Hence, therefore, the faculty of producing work, of doing work, does
not depend upon the intensity of gravity. The intensity of gravity
may be the same, the weight may be in a higher position or in a lower
position, but the power to work may be quite different. The power of
a weight to work, or the amount of work which can be produced by a
weight, is measured by the product of the height to which it is raised
and the weight itself. Therefore our common measure is foot-pound ;
that is, the product of the number of feet and the number of pounds.
Now we can by the force of a falling weight raise another weight ;
as, for example, the falling water in a water-mill may raise the weight
of a hammer. Therefore it can be shown that the work of the raised
hammer, expressed in foot-pounds, that is, the weight of the hammer
multiplied by the height expressed in feet to which it is raised, that
this amount of work cannot be greater than the product of the weight
of water which is falling down, and the height from which it fell down.
Now we have another form of motive power, of mechanical motive
power ; that is, velocity. The velocity of any body in this sense, if it
is producing work, is called vis viva, or living force, of that body.
You will find many examples of it. Take the ball of a gun. If it is
shot off, and has a great velocity, it has an immense power of destroy
ing ; and if it has lost its velocity, it is quite a harmless thing. The
great power it has depends only on its velocity. In the same sense,
the velocity of the air, the velocity of the wind, is motive power ; for
it can drive windmills, and by the machinery of the windmills it can
do every kind of mechanical work. Therefore you see that also velo
      in itself
cityTake        is a motive
            a pendulum      force.swings to and fro. If the pendulum is
                          which
raised to the side, the weight is raised up ; it is a little higher than

1861.]        Conservation of Force applied to Organic Nature.              349
when it hangs straightly down, perpendicular. Now if you let it fall,
and it comes to its position of equilibrium, it has gained a certain
velocity. Therefore, at first, you had motive power in the form of a
raised weight. If the pendulum comes again to the position of equi
librium, you have motive power in the form of vis viva, in the form of
velocity, and then the pendulum goes again to the other side, and it
ascends again till it loses its velocity ; then again, vis viva or velocity
is changed into elevation of the weight : so you see in every pendulum
that the power of a raised weight can be changed into velocity, and
the velocity into the power of a raised weight. These two are
     Then take the elasticity of a bent spring. It can do work, it can
equivalent.
move machines or watches. The cross-bow contains such springs.
These springs of the watch and cross-bow are bent by the force of the
human arm, and they become in that way reservoirs of mechanical
power. The mechanical power which is communicated to them by the
force of the human arm, afterwards is given out by a watch during
the next day. It is spent by degrees to overpower the friction of the
wheels. By the cross-bow, the power is spent suddenly.• If the
instrument is shot off, the whole amount of force which is communi
cated to the spring is then again communicated to the shaft, and gives
      great the
it a Now           viva.
             vis elasticity   of air can be a motive power in the same way
 as the elasticity of solid bodies ; if air is compressed, it can move
other bodies ; let us take the air-gun ; there the case is quite the same
 as with the cross-ljpw. The air is compressed by the force of the
 human arm ; it becomes a reservoir of mechanical power ; and if it is
 shot off, the power is communicated to the ball in the form of vis viva,
 and the ball has afterwards the same mechanical power as is com
     The elasticity
 municated               of compressed
               to the ball  of a gun loaded       is powder.
                                           gaseswith also the motive power of
 the mightiest of our engines, the steam-engine ; but there the case is
 different. The machinery is moved by the force of the compressed
 vapours, but the vapours are not compressed by the force of the
 human arm, as in the case of the compressed air-gun. The compressed
 vapours are produced immediately in the interior of the boiler by the
       which
 heatYou            communicated
            see,is therefore,  that in
                                     to the
                                        this boiler fromheat
                                              case the        fuel. in the place
                                                          the comes
 of the force of the human arm, so that we learn by this example, that
 heat is also a motive power. This part of the subject, the equivalence
 of heat as a motive power, with mechanical power, has been that
 branch of this subject which has excited the greatest interest, and has
         may
 beenItthe      be considered
             subject              as proved at present, that if heat produces
                       of deep research.
  mechanical power, that is, mechanical work, a certain amount of heat
  is always lost. On the other hand, heat can be also produced by
  mechanical power, namely, by friction and the concussion of unelastic
  bodies. You can bring a piece of iron into a high temperature, so

350              Professor Helmholtz on the Law of the                   [April 12,
that it becomes glowing and luminous, by only beating it continuously
with a hammer. Now, if mechanical power is produced by heat, we
always find that a certain amount of heat is lost ; and this is pro
portional to the quantity of mechanical work produced by that heat.
We measure mechanical work by foot-pounds, and the amount of heat
we measure by the quantity of heat which is necessary to raise the
temperature of one pound of water by one degree, taking the centi
grade scale. The equivalent of heat has been determined by Mr. Joule,
of Manchester. He found that one unit of heat, or that quantity of
 heat which is necessary for raising the temperature of a pound of water
 one degree centigrade, is equivalent to the mechanical work by which
 the same mass of water is raised to 4234- metres, or 1389 English feet.
      is the if
 ThisHence,     we produce
             mechanical        so muchofheat
                           equivalent         heat.as is necessary for raising the
 temperature of one pound of water by one degree, then we must apply
 an amount of mechanical work equal to raising one pound of water
        these considerations,
 1389ByEnglish                             gainingthat
                feet, and lose itit isforproved,        heatthat
                                                     again       heat.be a pondera
                                                              cannot
ble matter, but that it must be a motive power, because it is converted
into motion or into mechanical power, and can be either produced by
motion or mechanical power. Now, in the steam-engine we find that
heat is the origin of the motive power, but the heat is produced by
burning fuel, and therefore the origin of the motive power is to be
found in the fuel, that is, in the chemical forces of the fuel, and in the
    You with
oxygen         which
          see from  this,
                       thethat    combines.
                            fuelthe   chemical forces can produce mechanical
work, and can be measured by the same units and by the same
measures as any other mechanical force. " We may consider the
chemical forces as attractions, in this instance, as attraction of the
carbon of the fuel for the oxygen of the air ; and if this attraction
unite the two bodies, it produces .mechanical work just in the same
way as the earth produces work, if it attract a heavy body. Now the
conservation of force, of chemical force, is of great importance for
our subject to-day, and it may be expressed in this way. If you have
any quantity of chemical materials, and if you cause them to pass
from one state into a second state, in any way, so that the amount
of the materials at the beginning, and the amount of the materials at
the end of this process be the same, then you will have always the
same amount of work, of mechanical work or its equivalent, done
during this process. Neither more nor less work can be done by the
process. Commonly, no mechanical work in the common sense is done
by chemical force, but usually it produces only heat ; hence the
amount of heat produced by any chemical process must be independent
of the way in which that chemical process goes on. The way may be
    We see, by
determined    therefore,
                 the will that
                           of the
                                theexperimenter
                                       energy of every       likes.in nature can be
                                                      as heforce
measured by the same measure, by foot-pounds, and that the energy
of the whole system of bodies which are not under the influence of

    1861.]      Conservation of Force applied to Organic Nature.           351
   any exterior body must be constant ; that it cannot be lessened or
   increased by any change. Now the whole universe represents such a
   system of bodies endowed with different sorts of forces and of energy,
   and therefore we conclude from the facts I have brought before you,
   that the amount of working power, or the amount of energy in the
   whole system of the universe must remain the same, quite steady and
   unalterable, whatever changes may go on in the universe. If we
   accept the hypothesis of Laplace, that in the first state the- universe
   was formed by a chaos of nebulous matter, spread out through infinite
   space, then we must conclude, that at this time the only form of
   energy existing in this system was the attraction of gravitation, and
   it was therefore the same sort of energy as is possessed by a raised
   weight. Afterwards, astronomers suppose, this nebulous matter was
   conglomerated and aggregated to solid masses. Great quantities of
   this nebulous matter, possibly from a great distance, fell together, and
   thus their attraction, or the energy of their attraction was destroyed,
   and hence heat must have been produced ; and the facts we know at
   present are sufficient to enable us to calculate the amount of this heat,
   that is, of the whole heat which must have been produced during the
• whole process of conglomeration. This amount of heat is immensely
   great, so that it surpasses all our ideas and all the limits of our
   imagination. If we calculate this quantity of heat, and suppose that
   the sun contained at the same time the whole heat, and that the sun
  had the same specific heat as water, the sun would be heated to twenty-
  eight millions of degrees, that is, to a temperature surpassing all
   temperatures we know on earth ; however, this temperature could not
   exist at any time in the sun, because the heat which was produced by
   the aggregation of the masses, must also be spent partially by radiation
   into space. I give only the result of these calculations, in order that
  you may see from it what a great amount of heat could be produced
  in this way. The same process goes on also at present in the falling stars
  and meteors which come down to the earth from planetary spaces.
   Their velocity is destroyed by the friction of the air and by the con
  cussion with the surface of the earth, and we see how they become
       The sunand
  luminous,        if they
                 also      are found
                      at present  is hotter
                                        on the
                                            than  any we
                                               earth,    find them
                                                      heated       hot. on the
                                                              body here
   earth. That is shown by the latest experiments made by Professors
   Kirchhoff and Bunsen, of Heidelberg, on the spectrum of the sun, by
  which it is proved, that in the atmosphere of the sun, iron and other
  metals are contained as vapours which cannot be changed into vapours
       Ouramount
  by any            of heat ona the
             earth contains          earth.
                                 great   amount of energy in the form of its
  interior heat. This part of its energy produces the volcanic phenomena ;
  but it is without great influence upon the phenomena of the surface,
  because only a very small amount of this heat comes through. It can
  be calculated that the amount of heat which goes from the interior to
  the surface cannot raise the temperature of the surface any higher
  than the thirteenth part of a degree.

 352               Professor Helmholtz on the Law of the        [April 12,
     We have another power which produces motion on the surface of
 the earth. I mean the attraction of the sun and of the moon producing
     tides.the other phenomena on the surface of the earth are produced
 the All
 by the radiation of the sun, by the sunbeams ; and the greater part of
 those changes which occur on the surface of our earth, are caused by
 the heat of the sun. As the heat of the sun is distributed unequally
 over the surface, some parts of the atmosphere become heated more
 than other parts ; the heated parts of the atmosphere rise up, and so
 winds and vapours are produced. They come down at first as clouds
 in the higher parts of the atmosphere, and then as rain upon the sur
 face of the earth ; they are collected as rivers, and go again down into
 the sea. So you see that all the meteorological phenomena of our
 earth are produced by the effect of the solar beams by the heat of the
 sun.The light of the sun is the cause of another series of phenomena,
 and the principal products of the light of the sun are plants, because
 plants can only grow with the help of the sun-light. It is only by
 the help of the sun-light, that they can produce the inflammable
matter which is deposited in the bodies of plants, and which is extracted
from the carbonic acid and the water contained in the atmosphere, and
     This
 in the     mayitself.
        earth    give you an idea of the sense and bearing of the general
principle on which I purpose to speak. As many English philosophers
have been occupied with working out the consequences of this most
general and important principle for the theory of heat, for the energy
of the solar system, for the construction of machines, you will hear
these results better explained by your own countrymen ; I shall abstain
 from entering farther into this part of the subject. At the same time
 that Mr. Grove showed that every force of nature is capable of bring
ing into action every other force of nature, Mr. Joule, of Manches
ter, began to search for the value of the mechanical equivalent of heat,
and to prove its constancy, principally guided by the more practical
interests of engineering. The first exposition of the general principle
was published in Germany by Mr. Mayer, of Heilbron, in the year 1842.
Mr. Mayer was a medical man, and much interested in the solution of
physiological questions, and he found out the principle of the conser
vation of force guided by these physiological questions. At the same
time also, I myself began to work on this subject. I published my
researches a little later than Mr. Mayer, in 1845. Now, at first sight,
it seems very remarkable and curious, that even physiologists should
come to such a law. It appears more natural, that it should be
detected by natural philosophers or engineers, as it was in England ;
but there is, indeed, a close connection between both the fundamental
questions of engineering and the fundamental questions of physiology
with the conservation of force. For getting machines into motion, it
is always necessary to have motive-power, either in water, fuel, or
living animal matter. The constructors of machines, instruments,

1861.]      Conservation of Force applied to Organic Nature.           353
watches, within the last century, who did not know the conservation of
force, were induced to try if they could not keep a machine in motion
without any expenditure for getting the motive power, Many of them
worked for a long time very industriously to find out such a machine
which would give perpetual motion, and produce any mechanical work
which they liked. They called such a machine a perpetual mover.
They thought they had an example of such a machine in the body of
every animal. There, indeed, motive-power seemed to be produced
every day without the help of any external mechanical force. They
were not aware that eating could be connected with the production of
mechanical power. Food they believed was wanted only to restore
the little damages in the machine, or to keep off friction, like the fat
which made the axles of wheels to run smoothly. Now at first by the
mathematicians of the last century, the so-called principle of the con
servation of vis viva was detected, and it was shown that by the action
of the purely mechanical powers, it was not possible to construct a
perpetual mover ; but it remained still doubtful if it would not be
possible to do so by the interposition of heat, or electricity, or chemical
force. At last, the general law of conservation of force was dis
covered, and stated, and established ; and this law shows that also by
the connection of mechanical powers with heat, with electricity, or with
chemical force, no such machine can be constructed to give a per
    Wemotion,
petual           and to produce
          must consider the living
                                work
                                   bodies    nothing.
                                       fromunder  the same point of view,
and see how it stands with them. Now if you compare the living
body with a steam-engine, then you have the completest analogy.
The living animals take in food that consists of inflammable sub
stances, fat and the so-called hydrocarbons, as starch and sugar, and
nitrogenous substances, as albumen, flesh, cheese, and so on. Living
animals take in these inflammable substances and oxygen ; the oxygen
of the air, by respiration. Therefore, if you take, in the place of fat,
starch, and sugar, coals or wood, and the oxygen of the air, you have
the substances in the steam-engine. The living bodies give out car
bonic acid and water ; and then if we neglect very small quantities of
more complicated matters which are too small to be reckoned here,
they give up their nitrogen in the form of urea. Now let us suppose
that we take an animal on one day, and on any day afterwards ;
and let us suppose that this animal is of the same weight the first day
and the second day, and that its body is composed quite in the same
way on both days. During the time—the interval of time—between
these two days the animal has taken in food and oxygen, and has given
out carbonic acid, water, and urea. Therefore, a certain quantity of
inflammable substance, of nutriment, has combined with oxygen, and
has produced nearly the same substances, the same combinations,
which would be produced by burning the food in an open fire, at least,
fat, sugar, starch, and so on ; and those substances which contained
no qitrogen would give us quite in the same way carbonic acid and
water, if they are burnt in the open fire, as if they are burnt in the
   Vol. III. (No. 34.)                                           2 n

354             Professor Helmholtz on the Law of the           [April 12,
living body ; only the oxidation in the living body goes on more slowly.
The albuminous substances would give us the same substances, and
also nitrogen, as if they were burnt in the fire. You may suppose, for
making both cases equal, that the amount of urea which is produced
in the body of the animal, may be changed without any very great
development of heat, into carbonate of ammonia, and carbonate of
ammonia may be burnt, and gives nitrogen, water, and carbonic acid.
The amount of heat which would be produced by burning urea into
carbonic acid and nitrogen, would be of no great value when compared
with the great quantity of heat which is produced by burning the fat,
the sugar, and the starch. Therefore we can change a certain amount
of food into carbonic acid, water, and nitrogen, either by burning the
whole in the open fire, or by giving it to living animals as food, and
burning afterwards only the urea. In both cases we come to the
      result.
sameNow    I have said that the conservation of force for chemical pro
cesses requires a fixed amount of mechanical work, or its equivalent, to
be given out during this process ; and the amount is exactly the same
in whatever way the process may go on. And therefore we must
conclude that by the animal as much work must be done, must be
given out—the same equivalent of mechanical work—as by the
chemical process of burning. Now let us remark that the mechanical
work which is spent by an animal, and which is given to the external
world, consists, firstly, in heat ; and secondly, in real mechanical work.
We have no other forms of work, or of equivalent of work, given out
by living animals. If the animal is reposing, then the whole work
must be given out in the form of heat ; and therefore we must conclude
that a reposing animal must produce as much heat as would be pro
duced by burning its food. A small difference would remain for the
urea ; we must suppose that the urea produced by the animal is also
burnt, and taken together with the heat immediately produced by the
animal itself. Now we have experiments made upon this subject by
the French philosophers Dulong and Desprez. They found that these
two quantities of heat—the one emitted by burning, the other by the
living animal—are nearly identical ; at least, so far as could be esta
blished at that time, and with those previous researches which existed
at that time. The heat which is produced by burning the materials of the
food is not quite known even now. We want to have researches on the
heat produced by the more complicated combinations which are used as
food. Uulong and Desprez have calculated the heat according to the
theoretical supposition of Lavoisier—which supposition is nearly right,
but not quite right—therefore there is a little doubt as to the amount
of the heat, but experiments show that at least to the tenth part of that
heat the quantities are really equal ; and we may hope if we have
better researches on the heat produced by burning the food, that these
quantities will also be more equal than they were found to be by
    Nowand
Dulong        Desprez.
           if the body be not reposing, but if muscular exertion take

 1861.]     Conservation of Force applied to Organic Nature.          355
place, then also mechanical work is done. The mechanical work is
very different according to the different kinds of muscular exertion.
If we walk only on a plane surface, we must overpower the resistance
of friction and the resistance of the air ; but these resistances are not
so great that the work which we do by walking on a plane is of
great amount. Our muscles can do work in very different ways. By
the researches of Mr. Redtenbacher, the director of the Polytechnic
School of Carlsruhe, it is proved that the best method of getting the
greatest amount of work from a human body is by the treadmill, that
is, by going up a declivity. If we go up the declivity of a hill we
raise the weight of our own body. In the treadmill the same work is
done, only the mill goes always down, and the man on the mill remains
     Now
in his    we have researches on the amount of air which is taken in
       place.
and of carbonic acid given out during such work in the treadmill,
made by Dr. Edward Smith. He found that a most astouishing
increase of respiration takes place during such work. Now you all
know that if you go up a hill you are hindered in going too fast by the
great frequency and the great difficulty of respiration. This, then,
becomes far greater than by the greatest exertion of walking on a
plain, and really the difficulty is produced by the great mechanical
work which is done in the same time. Now, partly from the experi
ments of Dulong and Desprez, and partly from the experiments of
Dr. Edward Smith, we can calculate that the human body, if it be in a
reposing state, but not- sleeping, consumes so much oxygen, and burns
so much carbon and hydrogen, that during one hour so much heat is
produced that the whole body, or a weight of water equal to the weight
of the body, would be raised in temperature one degree and two-
tenths centigrade (two degrees and two-tenths Fahrenheit). Now
Dr. Edward Smith found that by going in the treadmill at such a rate
that if he went up a hill at the same rate, he would have risen during
one hour 1712 feet, that during such a motion he exhaled five times
as much carbonic acid as in the quiet state, and ten times as much as
in sleeping. Therefore the amount of respiration was increased in a
most remarkable way. If we now calculate these numbers we find that
the quantity of heat which is produced during one hour of repose is one
degree and two-tenths centigrade, and that these are nearly equivalent
to rising 1712 feet, so that therefore the amount of mechanical work
done in a treadmill, or done in ascending a hill at a good rate, is equi
valent to the whole amount of heat which is produced in a quiescent
state. The whole amount of the decomposition in the living body is
five times as great as in a reposing and wakeful state. Of these five
quantities, one quantity is spent for mechanical work, and four-fifths
remain in the form of heat. Always in ascending a hill, or in doing
great mechanical work, you become hot, and the production of heat is
extremely great, as you well know, without making particular experi
ments. Hence you see how much the decomposition in the body is
increased by doing really mechanical work.
                                                            2 b 2

356               Professor Helmholtz on the Law of the            [April 12,
     Now these measurements give us another analogy. We see that in
 ascending a mountain we produce heat and mechanical work, and that
the fifth part of the equivalent of the work which is produced by the
chemical process is really gained as mechanical work. Now if we take
our steam-engine, or a hot-air engine, or any other engine which is
driven by heat in such a way that one body is heated and expands,
 and by the expansion other bodies are moved,—I say, if we take any
thermo-dynamic engine, we find that the greatest amount of mechanical
work which can be gained by chemical decomposition or chemical com
bination is only an eighth part of the equivalent of the chemical force,
and seven-eighths of the whole are lost in the form of heat ; and this
amount of mechanical work can only be gained if we have the greatest
difference of temperature which can be produced in such a machine.
In the living body we have no great difference of temperature ; and in
the living body the amount of mechanical work which could be gained
if the living body were a thermo-dynamic engine, like the steam-engine
or the hot-air engine, would be much smaller than one-eighth. Really,
we find from the great amount of work done, that the human body is
in this way a better machine than the steam-engine, only its fuel is
       expensive
moreThere         than themachine
             is another              which changes chemical force into
                            fuel of steam-engines.
mechanical power ; that is, the magneto-electric machine. By these
magneto-electric machines a greater amount of electrical power can be
changed into mechanical work than in our artificial thermo-dynamic
machines. We produce an electric current by dissolving zinc in
sulphuric acid, and liberating another oxidizable matter. Generally it
is only the difference of the attraction of zinc for oxygen compared
with the attraction of copper or nitrous acid for oxygen. In the
human body we burn substances which contain carbon and hydrogen,
and therefore the whole amount of attraction of carbon and hydrogen
for oxygen is put into action to move the machine ; and in this way
the power of the living body is greater and more advantageous than
     power
the Let         theconsider
          usofnow            what consequences
                    magneto-electric  machine. must be drawn when we
find that the laws of animal life agree with the law of the conservation
of force, at least as far as we can judge at present regarding this sub
ject. As yet we cannot prove that the work produced by living bodies
is an exact equivalent of the chemical forces which have been set into
action. It is not yet possible to determine the exact value of either
of these quantities so accurately as will be done ultimately ; but we
may hope that at no distant time it may be possible to determine
this with greater accuracy. There is no difficulty opposed to this task.
Even at present I think we may consider it as extremely probable that
     law ofwe
the Now          conservation
            the may   ask, whatofferee
                                  follows
                                        holds
                                            from     forfact
                                              goodthis       as bodies.
                                                         living  regards the
    Theofmajority
nature              of which
           the forces         act in the living
                        the physiologists          last? century, and in the
                                           in thebody
beginning of this century, were of opinion that the processes in living

  1861.]        Conservation of Force applied to Organic Nature.                357
  bodies were determined by one principal agent which they chose to
  call the " vital principle." The physical forces in the living body they
  supposed could be suspended or again set free at any moment, by the
  influence of the vital principle ; and that by this means this agent
  could produce changes in the interior of the body, so that the health of
       body would
  the Now             be thereby of
              the conservation       preserved
                                        force can   restored.
                                                 or exist only in those systems in
  which the forces in action (like all forces of inorganic nature) have
  always the same intensity and direction if the circumstances under
  which they act are the same. If it were possible to deprive any body
  of its gravity, and afterwards to restore its gravity, then indeed we
  should have the perpetual motion. Let the weight come down as
* long as it is heavy ; let it rise if its gravity is lost ; then you have
  produced mechanical work from nothing. Therefore this opinion
  that the chemical or mechanical power of the elements can be sus
  pended, or changed, or removed in the interior of the living body,
         be given
  mustThere     mayup be ifother
                             thereagents
                                   is complete     in the livingofbody,
                                           acting conservation     force.than those
  agents which act in the inorganic world ; but those forces, as far as they
  cause chemical and mechanical influences in the body, must be quite of
  the same character as inorganic forces, in this at least, that their effects
  must be ruled by necessity, and must be always the same, when acting
  in the same conditions, and that there cannot exist any arbitrary choice
      This
  in the      is thatoffundamental
          direction       their actions.principle of physiology which I men
      Stillinatthethe
  tioned              beginning
                    beginning       this
                                 ofof       century physiologists believed that it
                                      thisdiscourse.
  was the vital principle which caused the processes of life, and that
  it detracted from the dignity and nature of life, if anybody expressed
  his belief that the blood was driven through the vessels by the
  mechanical action of the heart, or that respiration took place accord
       to thepresent
  ing The       common  generation,
                            laws of the    the contrary,
                                       ondiffusion         is hard at work to find
                                                    of gases.
  out the real causes of the processes which go on in the living body.
  They do not suppose that there is any other difference between the
  chemical and the mechanical actions in the living body, and out of it,
  than can be explained by the more complicated circumstances and
  conditions under which these actions take place ; and we have seen
  that the law of the conservation of force legitimizes this supposition.
  This law, moreover, shows the way in which this fundamental question,
  which has excited so many theoretical speculations, can be really and
  completely solved by experiment.

358                                 Mr. Ruskin                         [April 19,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, April 19, 1861.
   Sib Roderick I. Murchison, D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
                                John Ruskin, Esq.
                                  On Tree Twigs.
The speaker's purpose was to exhibit the development of the common
forms of branch, in dicotyledonous trees, from the fixed type of the
annual shoot. Three principal modes of increase and growth might be
     1st. Simple
distinguished     in aggregation,
                     all accumulative
                                    having   no periodical
                                          change.;           :—otherwise defined
                                                     namely or
limit ; and subject only to laws of cohesion and crystallization, as in
    2nd. Addition
inorganic    matter. of similar parts to each other, under some law fixing
       limits
their3rd.       and securing
           Enlargement,         systematic
                             or their unity.change in arrangement, of a typical
    The
form,      in the growth
        as growth     of trees
                             of came
                                 the members
                                        under the   second
                                                 of an      of these heads.
                                                       animal.                  A
tree did not increase in stem and bough as the wrist and hand of a
child increased to the wrist and hand of a man ; but it was built up by
additions of similar parts, as a city is increased by the building of new
rowsAny     annual shoot was most conveniently to be considered as a
       of houses.
    Every
single         whichrod
        rod, such      would
                          or pillar
                               alwayswas,
                                        grow    common if
                                            in vertically   possible.
                                                          timber  trees, typically
    If polygonal,
either  polygonal in      leaves were
                      thesection,        arranged on it in a spiral order, as in
                                   or rectangular.
     elmrectangular,
the If    or oak.        the leaves were arranged on it in pairs, set alter
    Intermediate
nately                 formsto connected
         at right angles       each other.each of these types with those of
mpnocotyledonous trees. The structure of the arbor vitce might be
considered as typically representing the link between the rectangular
structure and that of monocotyledons ; and that of the pine, between
     polygonal
the Every          during itsand
              leafstructure        that secreting
                                vitality            carbon from the atmosphere,
                                         of monocotyledons.
with the elements of water, formed a certain quantity of woody tissue,

1861.]                           on Tree Twigs.                        359
which extended down the outside of the tree to the ground, and
farther, to the extremities of the roots. The mode in which this
descending masonry was added, appeared to depend on the peculiar
functions of cambium ; and (the speaker believed) was as yet unex
     Every
plained        botanists.
           by leaf,  besides forming this masonry all down the tree, pro
tected a bud at the base of its own stalk. From this bud, unless
rendered abortive, a new shoot would spring next year. Now, suppos
ing that out of the leaf-buds on each shoot of a pentagonal tree, only
five at its extremity or on its sides were permitted to develope them
selves, even under this limitation the number of shoots developed from
a single one in the seventh year would be 78,125. The external form
 of a healthily-grown tree at any period of its development was therefore
 composed of a mass of sprays, whose vitality was approximately distri
 buted over the surface of the tree to an equal depth. The branches
 beneath at once supported, and were fed by, this orbicular field, or
 animated external garment of vegetation ; from every several leaf of
 which, as from an innumerable multitude of small green fountains, the
 streams of woody fibre descended, met, united as rivers do, and gathered
        full principal
 theirThe                the strength
              flood into errors          the stem.
                                 whichofhad   been committed by artists in
 drawing trees had arisen from their regarding the bough as ramifying
 irregularly, and somewhat losing in energy towards the extremity ;
 whereas the real boughs threw their whole energy, and multiplied their
 substance, towards the extremities, ranking themselves in more or less
 cup-shaped tiers round the trunk, and forming a compact united surface
      In exterior
 at the   the course    of tree.
                    of the  arrival at this form, the bough, throughout its
 whole length, showed itself to be influenced by a force like that of an
 animal's instinct. Its minor curves and angles were all subjected to
 one strong ruling tendency and law of advance, dependent partly on
 the aim of every shoot to raise itself upright, partly on the necessity
 which each was under to yield due place to the neighbouring leaves,
 and obtain for itself as much light and air as possible. It had indeed
  been ascertained that vegetable tissue was liable to contraction and
  expansion (under fixed mechanical conditions) by light, heat, moisture,
  &c. But vegetable tissue in the living branch did not contract nor
  expand under external influence alone. The principle of life mani
  fested itself either by contention with, or felicitous recognition of,
  external force. It accepted with a visible, active, and apparently
 joyful concurrence, the influences which led the bough towards its due
  place in the economy of the tree ; and it obeyed reluctantly, partially,
  and with distorted curvatures, those which forced it to violate the
  typical organic form. The attention of painters of foliage had seldom
  been drawn with sufficient accuracy to the lines either of branch curva
  ture, or leaf contour, as expressing these subtle laws of incipient voli
  tion ; but the relative merit of the great schools of figure-design might,
  in absence of all other evidence, be determined, almost without error,

360                      Mr. Raskin on Tree Twigs.                 [April 19,
by observing the precision of their treatment of leaf curvature. The
leaf-painting round, the head of Ariosto by Titian, in the National
     The leaf
Gallery,       thus
           might     instanced.
                 be differed   from the flower in forming and protecting
behind it, not only the bud in which was the germ of a new shoot like
itself, but a piece of permanent work ; and produced substance, by
which every following shoot would be placed under different circum
stances from its predecessor. Every leaf laboured to solidify this
substance during its own life ; but the seed left by the flower matured
      as the
onlyThis     flower perished.
          difference  in the action and endurance of the flower and leaf,
had been applied by nearly all great nations as the type of the variously
active or productive states of life, among individuals or commonwealths.
Chaucer's poem of the " Flower and Leaf" is the most definite expres
sion of the mediaeval feeling in this respect, while the fables of the rape
of Proserpine and of Apollo and Daphne embody that of the Greeks.
There is no Greek goddess corresponding to the Flora of the Romans.
Their Flora is Persephone, " the bringer of death." She plays for a
little while in the Sicilian fields, gathering flowers ; then, snatched away
by Pluto, receives her chief power as she vanishes from our sight, and is
crowned in the grave. Daphne, on the other hand, is the daughter of
one of the great Arcadian river gods, and of the earth ; she is the type
of the river mist filling the rocky vales of Arcadia ; the sun, pursuing
this mist from dell to dell, is Apollo pursuing Daphne ; —where the
mist is protected from his rays by the rock shadows, the laurel and
other richest vegetation spring by the river-sides, so that the laurel-leaf
becomes the type, in the Greek mind, of the beneficent ministry and
vitality of the rivers and the earth, under the beams of sunshine ; and
therefore it is chosen to form the signet-crown of highest honour for
gods or men ; honour for work born of the strength and dew of the
earth, and informed by the central light of heaven ;— work living,
                 WEEKLY
perennial, and beneficent.       EVENING
                           Friday,                MEETING,
                                     April 26, 1861.               [J. R.]
      The Duke of Northumberland. K.G. F.R.S. President,
                      Professor      the Chair.
                                  in Owen,    F.R.S., &c.
                       FULLERIAN PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY, R.I.
    On the Scope and Appliances of a National Museum of Natural
                                     History.

1861.]                           Annual Meeting.                                 361
                          Wednesday, May
                          ANNUAL                  1, 1861.
                                            MEETING,
      The Duke of Northumberland, K.G-. F.R.S. President,
     The Annual Report ofinthe             Chair.
                                      the Committee     of Visitors for the year
1860The       read and of
        wasstatement        Sums Received continues to show a gradual
                         adopted.
increase in the yearly income. The amount of Annual Contributions
of Members and Subscribers in 1860 amounted to £2967. 6s., the
Eeceipts and Subscriptions to Lectures were £946. lis. 6d. ; the
          December
totalOnAnnual        31 , amounted
                 Income                 to £4808.
                          1860, the Funded           2s. was £27,750. 9s. 8d. ;
                                                 Property
and the Balance at the Bankers, £1182. 12s. Id., with Six Exchequer
           £100
BillsAofList       Books There
               of each.    Presented       no Liabilities.the Report, amounting
                                     were accompanies
in number to 386 volumes ; making, with those purchased by the
Managers and Patrons, a total of 758 volumes (including Periodicals)
added    to thewere
     Thanks          votedintothetheyear.
                Library                President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor Faraday,
     their following
for The                  the Institution
            services to Gentlemen               unanimously
                                         wereduring            elected as Officers
                                                     the past year.
      President—The
for the    ensuing year :—Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
       Treasurer—William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
       George Appold, Esq. F.R.S.
John Secretary—Henry            Bence     Jones, M.A. M.D. F.R.S.
                                      Managers.
                                               John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
The Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.              Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L.
 John J. Bigsby, M.D. F.G.S.                      F.R.S.Jennings, Esq. M.A.
                                                Richard
William Bowman, Esq. F.R.S.
 Warren De la Rue, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.            John Lubbock, Esq. F.R.S.
 George Dodd, Esq. F.S.A.                       Lewis Powell, M.D. F.S.A.
 Col. Sir George Everest, C.B. F.R.S.           The Lord Stanley, M.P. F.R.S.
 John Peter Gassiot, Esq. F.R.S.                The Lord Wensleydale.

362                              Professor Faraday                        [May 3,
                                        Visitors.
Neil
GeorgeAniott,
         J. Bosanquet,
              M.D. F.R.S.Esq.                  John MacDonnell, Esq.
                                               Edmund Macrory, Esq. M.A.
Archibald
John
Rev.
George      Boyd,
      Charles
       Charles
         Busk, John
               Burgoyne,
                Esq.Esq.
                      Fynes   F.L.S. M.A.
                      F.R.S.Esq.
                             Clinton,          James Nasmyth, Esq.
                                               Henry MinchiD Noad, Esq. F.K.S.
                                               George Stodart, Esq.
                   WEEKLY           EVENING
                               Friday,    May The
                                               Arthur
                                                3, 1861.
                                                   Viscount
                                                    MEETING,
                                                      De NoeTempletown.
                                                               Walker, Esq.
Edward Enfield, Esq.
Gordon Willoughby James Gyll, Esq.
       The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                      in the Chair.
                     Professor Faraday, D.C.L. F.R.S.
      On Mr. Warren De la Rues Photographic Eclipse Results.
The speaker commenced by drawing attention to the sun as the great
 source of light and heat to the planets of our system ; and to the phe
nomena which occur from time to time when the earth and the moon
are brought by their orbital revolutions nearly or absolutely in the
 same plane. The sun, casting shadows of the moon and of the earth
 in an opposite direction to their illumined sides, there would always be
 produced a total eclipse of the sun, or the moon, when these bodies
 were situated in the same line on the same side of the sun, if the dis
 tances of the earth or moon invariably admitted of the one falling
 within the shadow of the other. In consequence, however, of the
 elliptical form of the orbits of the earth and moon, the distances of
 these planets from each other and the sun are constantly varying, and
 sometimes the shadow of the earth does not reach the moon, or that of
 the moon does not reach the earth. "We might consequently have, in
 the case of the sun, either a partial eclipse when the sun, moon, and
 earth were not exactly in the same plane, or an annular or a total
 eclipse when they were so situated. A total eclipse might be only just
 total, or be of a shorter or longer duration as the apparent diameter
 of the moon exceeded by little or much the apparent diameter of the
 sun ; no eclipse of the sun is so great, however, as to shut off the light
 of the sun from the whole hemisphere of the earth ; on the contrary,
 the shadow of the moon can never cover more than a very small
 extent of the earth's surface. On the 18th of July of last year, it

1861.]         on De la Rue's Photographic Eclipse Results.                  363
happened that under unusually favourable circumstances there occurred
a total solar eclipse ; the sun was nearly at his greatest possible dis
tance from us, and therefore had almost a minimum apparent diameter,
and the moon was nearly at her least possible distance, and therefore
had a nearly maximum apparent diameter, so that the breadth and
duration of the total eclipse were nearly at a maximum ; moreover,
the shadow of the moon passed over a country easily accessible to
European astronomers. The speaker, after pointing out the course of
the eclipse, from sun rising in Greenland, across the Atlantic, across
Spain, the Mediterranean, and Africa, stated that for a belt of 60 miles
broad, the duration of the eclipse in Spain was fully three minutes,
and about three minutes and a half in the central line of that belt.
Such favourable circumstances were not likely to occur again within
the probable lifetime or opportunities of the observers, who went out
to Spain to observe the eclipse. Hence the desirability of placing
before scientific men the means used by various persons to record
and measure the appearances visible at total eclipses, with a view to
     Curious
facilitate      labours
           theand        of futureasobservers.
                    paradoxical       it might at first appear, it is necessary
to shut out the sun in order to see it ; for example, said the speaker,
look on this electric light, could any one conjecture from its aspect
what it is ? One sees a brilliant centre surrounded by rays, but one
cannot see the two charcoal points which are producing it ; and if it
were magnified and projected against a screen by means of lenses,
although the ignited points would be rendered evident, still there are
matters about them which would remain invisible. So it is with the
sun ; one can so reduce his light, by means of dark glasses, or other
contrivances, as to enable us to scrutinize by means of telescopes his
photosphere ; or we might project his image on to a screen, and thus
examine it : but we should not see the sun, that is the whole sun. His
mottled surface, his bright markings, his dark spots would undoubtedly
be thus shown ; but we should fail to discern those curious appen
dages which were first observed a few years back on the occasion of a
total eclipse. These so-called red flames, about the nature of which
many conjectures have been made, are, as it now appears, true
belongings of the sun, and are not subjective phenomena, produced,
as some philosophers suppose, by a deflection or diffraction of the sun's
      in passing
lightThe           through
           object of   the speaker
                             the valleys
                                     being,  thebefore
                                          on as           profile.to bring under
                                                 moon'sstated,
the notice of the Members of the Institution, Mr. De la Rue's photo
graphic results : he now described the Kew Photoheliograph. A
photograph of the instrument and temporary observatory, taken in
Spain, being projected on the screen by the electric lamp. The helio
graph consists of a telescope, the tube of which is square in section,
and which can be made to follow the sun accurately by means of clock
work. The optical part consists of an object glass (actinically cor
rected), and a secondary combination of lenses, situated near the focus
of the object glass, for the purpose of magnifying the sun's image to

 364                          Professor Faraday                     [May 3,
 four inches in diameter. The image so magnified together with posi
 tion wires are depicted on the collodion plate placed in the telescope.
 In taking ordinary sun pictures, or pictures of the partial phases of the
 eclipse, the light is allowed to act on the sensitive plate by the passage
 of a narrow slit in a brass plate drawn with great rapidity across the
 secondary magnifying lens. By this contrivance, the sun's image is
 allowed to act for a very small fraction of a second of time. Thirty-
 one pictures of the various partial phases of the eclipse were obtained
 in this way by Mr. De la Rue and his assistants. Several of the most
 interesting were projected on to the screen by means of the electric lamp.
 The two totality pictures were, however, obtained in another way ; the
 brass plate with the slit was drawn aside, and the picture of the pro
 tuberances allowed to fall for a whole minute on the collodion plate.
 The first picture was procured exactly from the commencement of the
totality and during the minute precisely succeeding it. The second
 picture from about a minute preceding the reappearance of the sun
       just before
untilThese          hewere
             pictures       shown on the screen by means of the electric
                       reappeared.
 lamp, and it was seen that the luminous prominences extended for a
 long distance beyond the moon's dark limb. In the first picture, some
prominences were completely detached, and were at some considerable
distance from the moon's limb ; these, in the second picture, were reached
by the moon, which during the interval had been travelling across the
sun's disc. Fresh prominences had come into view in the second pic
ture on the western limb, while some of the prominences on the eastern
limbThe     been shut
       hadspeaker      offreferred
                    then           to diagrams,
                          by the moon's  motion.which had been enlarged
from actual photographs, etched upon glass by hydrofluoric acid, and
graduated in accordance with the data furnished by the images of
position wires on the photographs. These diagrams showed that a
luminous prominence situated at a right angle to the path of the
moon's motion across the solar disc had hung back in reference to the
moon's centre an angular distance of about 5i°, while prominences
situated in the direction of the moon's path had not shifted angularly,
but were covered and uncovered to an extent of about 93" during the
period of totality. Such results were in accordance with the hypo
thesis that the prominences belong to the sun, and opposed to the
theory that they are subjective phenomena produced by the deflection
    In sun's
of the         to render evident the relative positions of the whole of the
        orderlight.
protuberances visible during the eclipse, attention was drawn to a
diagram enlarged from an etched photograph of the sun, on which were
etched also the protuberances visible in the first and second totality
—photographs which coincided exactly when superposed in respect of
those parts visible in both. It was seen on the diagram, that in con
sequence of Rivabellosa not being exactly in the centre of the shadow
path, the moon's centre was depressed below the sun's centre, and thus
at the nearest approach of the two centres they were distant about 14".

1861.]        on De la Rue's Photographic Eclipse Results.               365
This had the effect of rendering visible a little more of the prominences
on the northern limb, and of shutting off a portion on the southern
limbThe     speaker
       of the  sun. drew attention to the heights of many of the pro
minences ; to the circumstance of their brilliancy in some cases being
greatest in those parts nearest the sun, while in others the brightest
part was on that edge most distant from the sun. One prominence,
upwards of 70,000 miles distant from the sun's limb, was particularly
pointed out—this had not been seen by human eyes, but there was its
image fixed and recorded by the heliograph in both the pictures.
Photography could therefore render evident to us phenomena of the
sun which the human eye could not discern ; and here we had another
of the many proofs of the importance of varying our means of observa
tion. This prominence was not the less real because we could not see
it ; it existed and emitted a radiant force ; invisible it was true, but still
nevertheless a force, and even possibly a greater chemical force than
that of the visible prominences. In order to render this apparent, a
spectrum was produced by means of the electric light and projected on
to a collodion plate recently made sensitive, and placed in full view of
the audience ; during the thirty seconds of exposure, marks were made
by scratching through the collodion film to indicate the position of red,
yellow, green, and violet bands ; on developing the picture and pro
jecting the image on to the screen, it was seen, by reference to the
scratches, that up to the violet band very little effect had been pro
duced, but that the invisible rays beyond the violet had produced a very
intense image, to an extent equal to the breadth of the visible spectrum,
     The speaker
consisting           now well-marked
             of several  drew attention
                                     bands
                                        to the corona : intensity.
                                            of varying  on Mr. De la Rue's
photographs the corona to some extent was visible, but recourse was
had to a photograph of a drawing showing the whole phenomena, which
was also projected against the screen. It was pointed out that observa
tions in Spain had proved that the corona polarized light, and as light
coming .direct from a luminous body is not polarized, but that after
reflection it is so ; the fact of polarization tended to show that the
corona must be a consequence of an atmosphere around the sun reflect
      the sun's
ing The          light.
           speaker   concluded by drawing attention to some phenomena
connected with the sun's spots, their rotation, the sudden bursting out of
a brilliant light observed by two astronomers distant from each other ;
and also to a curious foliated appearance in the sun's spots, observed by
 Mr. Nasmyth. What are these vast masses which reach to such
enormous distances beyond the sun, as we see him under ordinary cir
cumstances ? One, we perceive, extends nearly as far from the sun as
three times the entire circumference of the earth, and another is sus
pended away from the sun's limb about once that distance ! Modern
science places at our disposal methods of determining the nature of
 some of the constituents of the sun's atmosphere, with a degree of cer
tainty equal, perhaps, to any of our laboratory methods, could we bring

368                Mr. Savory on the Relation of the             [May 10,
                 "WEEKLY       EVENING
                          Friday,             MEETING,
                                   May 10, 1861.
      The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
                William
  On the Relation             Vegetable
                      of theScovell      and Animal
                                      Savory,          to the Inorganic
                                                Esq. F.R.S.
                                  Kingdom.
After some introductory remarks to show that Plants and Animals,
when viewed in the relation in which they stand to Inorganic substances,
may fairly be regarded as together constituting one great kingdom of
nature—the organized, the speaker proceeded to consider the relation
of organized to inorganic bodies, in structure, in composition, and in
function. He challenged the truth of the cell doctrine, and asserted
that its leading propositions were not tenable. Not only are some of
the simplest tissues of the most complex plants and animals formed with
out the direct agency of cells, but also that elaborate tissue, striated
muscular fibre. He referred to the common Amoeba or Proteus, as
an example of a living form, simpler than an unicellular organism,
inasmuch as it exhibits no distinction of cell wall and cell contents ;
and to Actinophrys, as an illustration of a structure apparently cel
lular, produced by simple reticulation of a structureless amorphous
substance. Vegetable cellular tissue has been generally supposed to
be formed by the multiplication of distinct cells, but there is better
evidence of its production by a similar process of reticulation of proto
plasm. The simplest forms of life, and the simplest tissues of the
highest, reveal no difference in structure, —no distinction of parts to the
severest scrutiny, and cannot, therefore, as heterogeneous bodies, be
     Chemistryfrom
distinguished          no line of demarcation
                drawshomogeneous               between the organized and
                                    inorganic matter.
inorganic kingdoms. All questions of composition are of degree only,
     of kind.
not Life  constitutes the grand distinction. The difference is infinitely
greater between living and dead organic matter than between dead
organic and inorganic substances. Without attempting to describe it,
life may be distinguished by its effects. In life, when reduced to its
simplest terms, and separated from all those elaborate details which
invest it in the more complex forms, there exists a definite relation
between destruction and renewal, a regulated adjustment between

 1861.]       Vegetable and Animal to the Inorganic Kingdom.                   369
 waste and repair whereby the condition is maintained, notwithstanding
     Life ischange.
 constant     not a state of resistance. The proofs of this are clear and
complete. Waste or destruction is a necessary, an inevitable condition
 of its manifestation. It is involved in every vital act. And the power
 of compensating for this waste or change, the repair or reproduction
 necessary to the continuance of life, involves that of assimilation,—the
 power of converting foreign matters into the structure of the organism :
     We cannot
 in other  language,conceive
                        the power
                                life without  includingfood.
                                     of appropriating    these two conditions—
consumption and supply. Life is not a state of change only, as op
posed to stability ; for this is simply a question of degree everywhere,
and dependent on the conditions to which bodies are exposed. Neither
dead organic nor inorganic bodies are immune from change. Nor is
life peculiar as a process of repair only ; for this may occur in inor
ganic bodies, as crystals, under favourable circumstances. But in life
there is the constant and concurrent operation of these two processes,
whereby it is distinguished from mere change on the one hand, and
        does not
 fromItrepair        appear
                on the   other.that we can at present safely venture further
than this. If we attempt to define the vital process of nutrition, dis
     The investigation
tinctions   fail us.        of the phenomena of life has not been in any way
assisted, our knowledge of the vital processes has not been in any
measure advanced, by the assumption of what has been styled a " vital
principle ;"—an empirical term, which, like some others when employed
in physiology, is, even at the best, equivalent to nothing more than the
final letters of the alphabet in an algebraical formula : for it is, when
used in its least objectionable sense, a mere expression of something
unknown. But the assumption of such an agent or principle, how
ever designated, annihilating or suspending the operation of forces
acting elsewhere, has not proved altogether harmless in its influence
upon the progress of knowledge. By referring all vital actions to this
obscure agency, while nothing was thereby explained, inquiry was lo a
great extent, and for a long while, checked. Many, dazzled by the
idea that the nature of vital phenomena was exalted by thus associat
ing them with some mysterious and peculiar principle apart from, and
opposed to those agencies which act elsewhere, missed the grander con
ception, that even in the vital functions may be recognized the operation
of forces, some of which, at least, are common to both kingdoms of
nature ; while, between these and others, which appear to be peculiar
to living tissues, it is probable that a relation may exist like that which
     Again,
prevails      it is needful
           between    the chemical
                              to beware
                                      and how  we create
                                           physical forces.artificial distinctions.
Is there not much assumption involved in the confession that we are
unable to construct the simplest form of living tissue ? Men some
times talk as if their powers were limited only by life. But can we
construct a crystal any more than a nucleated cell ? We may fulfil
   Vol. III. (No. 34.)                                                 2c

 370                      Professor J. C. Maxwell                  [May 17,
 certain conditions, under which, as we have learned from experience,
 crystals are formed ; but what is our share in the act itself? In like
manner we may take a seed or an egg, and place them under cir
 cumstances in which they will develope. In either case we are
 acquainted with the necessary conditions, and we fulfil them. We can
     The
 do no    speaker concluded with some remarks on the fact that the
        more.
 tendency of advancing knowledge is to efface the lines of demarcation
 which have been    hitherto
                 WEEKLY      drawn
                          Friday,
                                EVENING
                                   May
                                    between    1861.
                                                MEETING,
                                          17, the             [W. S. S.]
                                                  natural kingdoms.
      The Duke of Nobthumbebland, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
                     Pbofessob J. Clebk. Maxwell,
              On the Theory of Three Primary Colours.
The speaker commenced by showing that our power of vision depends
entirely on our being able to distinguish the intensity and quality of
colours. The forms of visible objects are indicated to us only by
differences in colour or brightness between them and surrounding ob
jects. To classify and arrange these colours, to ascertain the physical
conditions on which the differences of coloured rays depend, and to
trace, as far as we are able, the physiological process by which these
different rays excite in us various sensations of colour, we must avail
ourselves of the united experience of painters, opticians, and physiolo
gists. The speaker then proceeded to state the results obtained by
these three classes of inquirers, to explain their apparent inconsistency
by means of Young's Theory of Primary Colours, and to describe the
      to whichhave
testsPainters        studied
                he had        the relations
                         subjected           of colours, in order to imitate
                                   that theory.
them by means of pigments. As there are only a limited number of
coloured substances adapted for painting, while the number of tints in
nature is infinite, painters are obliged to produce the tints they require
by mixing their pigments in proper proportions. This leads them to
regard these tints as actually compounded of other colours, correspond
ing to the pure pigments in the mixture. It is found, that by using
three pigments only, we can produce all colours lying within certain

   1861.]          on the Theory of Three Primary Colours.                     371
  limits of intensity and purity. For instance, if we take carmine (red),
  chrome yellow, and ultramarine (blue), we get by mixing the carmine
  and the chrome, all varieties of orange, passing through scarlet to
  crimson on the one side, and to yellow on the other ; by mixing
  chrome and ultramarine we get all hues of green ; and by mixing
  ultramarine with carmine, we get all hues of purple, from violet to
  mauve and crimson. Now these are all the strong colours that we
» ever seeOuror three
  tint.                colours : can
                 can imagine      all be
                                      others
                                         mixed       as tothese,
                                              areso like          a neutral
                                                            formonly        greyin;
                                                                      less pure
  and if this grey be mixed with any of the hues produced by mixing two
  colours only, all the tints of that hue will be exhibited, from the pure
  colour to neutral grey. If we could assume that the colour of a mix
  ture of different kinds of paint is a true mixture of the colours of the
  pigments, and in the same proportion, then an analysis of colour might
  be made with the same ease as a chemical analysis of a mixture of sub
       The colour of a mixture of pigments, however, is often very
  stances.
  different from a true mixture of the colours of the pure pigments. It
  is found to depend on the size of the particles, a finely ground pigment
  producing more effect than one coarsely ground. It has also been
  shown by Professor Helmholtz, that when light falls on a mixture of
  pigments, part of it is acted on by one pigment only, and part of it by
  another ; while a third portion is acted on by both pigments in succession
  before it is sent back to the eye. The two parts reflected directly from
  the pure pigments enter the eye together, and form a true mixture of
  colours ; but the third portion, which has suffered absorption from
  both pigments, is often so considerable as to give its own character
  to the resulting tint. This is the explanation of the green tint pro
  duced   studying
       In by  mixingthe
                      most
                         mixture
                            blue and   yellow pigments.
                                   of colours,  we must avoid these sources of
  error, either by mixing the rays of light themselves, or by combining
  the impressions of colours within the eye by the rotation of coloured
      Theonspeaker
  papers      a disc. then stated what the opticians had discovered about
  colour. White light, according to Newton, consists of a great number
  of different kinds of coloured light which can be separated by a prism.
  Newton divided these into seven classes, but we now recognize many
  thousand distinct kinds of light in the spectrum, none of which can be
  shown to be a compound of more elementary rays. If we accept the
  theory that light is an undulation, then, as there are undulations of
  every different period from the one end of the spectrum to the other,
  there are an infinite number of possible kinds of light, no one of
  which   can be optics
       Physical   regarded
                         doesas not
                                 compounded       any theory
                                     lead us toof any   others. of three primary
  colours, but leaves us in possession of an infinite number of pure rays
  with an infinitely more infinite number of compound beams of light,
        containing
  eachThese   beamsanyof light,
                          proportions
                                 passingofthrough
                                           any number     of the pure parts
                                                    the transparent   rays. of the
                                                                     2c2

372                         Professor J. C. Maxwell                    [May 17,
eye, fall on a sensitive membrane, and we become aware of various
colours. We know that the colour we see depends on the nature of
the light ; but the opticians say there are an infinite number of kinds of
light ; while the painters, and all who pay attention to what they see,
tell us that they can account for all actual colours by supposing them
     The speaker
mixtures              primary
            of threethen         colours.
                          next drew    attention to the physiological difficulties
in accounting for the perception of colour. Some have supposed that
the different kinds of light are distinguished by the time of their vibra
tion. There are about 447 billions of vibrations of red light in a
second ; and 577 billions of vibrations of green light in the same time.
It is certainly not by any mental process of which we are conscious
that we distinguish between these infinitesimal portions of time, and it
is difficult to conceive any mechanism by which the vibrations could be
counted so that we should become conscious of the results, especially
when many rays of different periods of vibration act on the same part
     Besides,
of the           once.
         eye at all the evidence we have on the nature of nervous action
goes to prove that whatever be the nature of the agent which excites a
nerve, the sensation will differ only in being more or less acute. By
acting on a nerve in various ways, we may produce the faintest sensa
tion or the most violent pain ; but if the intensity of the sensation is
     same, we
the Now,         may perceive
             its quality  must be     oursame.
                                  bythe    eyes a faint red light which may be
made stronger and stronger till our eyes are dazzled. We may then
perform the same experiment with a green light or a blue light. We
shall thus see that our sensation of colour may differ in other ways,
besides in being stronger or fainter. The sensation of colour, there
       cannot
fore,The        be due
            speaker   then
                         to one  nerve only.
                             proceeded    to state the theory of Dr. Thomas
Young, as the only theory which completely reconciles these difficulties
     Young supposes
in accounting              perception
                  for thethat  the eye of   provided with three distinct sets of
                                         is colour.
nervous fibres, each set extending over the whole sensitive surface of
the eye. Each of these three systems of nerves, when excited, gives
us a different sensation. One of them, which gives us the sensation we
call red, is excited most by the red rays, but also by the orange and
yellow, and slightly by the violet ; another is acted on by the green
rays, but also by the orange and yellow and part of the blue ; while the
             couldonexcite
thirdIfisweacted      by theoneblueofand  violet
                                        these       of nerves without acting on
                                              setsrays.
the others, we should have the pure sensation corresponding to that
set of nerves. This would be truly a primary colour, whether the
nerve were excited by pure or by compound light, or even by the action
     If such experiments
of pressure    or disease. could be made, we should be able to see the
primary colours separately, and to describe their appearance by re
ference to the scale of colours in the spectrum.

1861.]           on the Theory of Three Primary Colours.                            373
    But we have no direct consciousness of the contrivances of our
own bodies, and we never feel any sensation which is not infinitely
complex, so that we can never know directly how many sensations are
combined when we see a colour. Still less can we isolate one or more
sensations by artificial means, so that in general when a ray enters the
eye, though it should be one of the pure rays of the spectrum, it may
excite more than one of the three sets of nerves, and thus produce a
    The terms
compound          simple and compound, therefore, as applied to colour-
              sensation.
 ensation, have by no means the same meaning as they have when
    The tospeaker
applied                 light.
              a ray ofthen   stated some of the consequences of Young's
    2nd.
theory,
     1st. and
           There
            Every
               described
                     colour
                   are threetheisprimary
                                  tests
                                   either   which
                                             a primary
                                         to colours. he had colour,
                                                              subjected      :—
                                                                     or ait mixture   of
     3rd. colours.
primary     Four colours may always be arranged in one of two ways.
Either one of them is a mixture of the other three, or a mixture of two
     4th. can
of them    Thesebe results
                    found, identical
                             maybe stated             the form
                                           with a inmixture       of colour-equations,
                                                              of the  other two.
giving the numerical value of the amount of each colour entering into
any mixture. By means of the Colour Top,* such equations can be
obtained for coloured papers, and they may be obtained with a degree
of accuracy showing that the colour-judgment of the eye may be ren
dered      speaker
     Thevery         had tested in this way more than 100 different pig
               perfect.
ments and mixtures, and had found the results agree with the theory
of three primaries in every case. He had also examined all the
     The of
colours      the spectrum
           experiments     with with   the samedoresult.
                                    pigments          not indicate what colours are
to be considered as primary ; but experiments on the prismatic spec
trum show that all the colours of the spectrum, and therefore all the
colours in nature, are equivalent to mixtures of three colours of the spec
trum itself, namely, red, green (near the line E), and blue (near the
      G). speaker,
lineThe                was found
             Yellowassuming        red,to green,
                                           be a mixture
                                                  and blueofasred  and green.
                                                                 primary   colours, then
exhibited them on a screen by means of three magic lanterns, before
which were placed glass troughs containing respectively sulphocyanide
     A triangle
of iron,   chloridewas   thus illuminated,
                      of copper,                 so that copper.
                                     and ammoniated        the pure colours appeared
at its angles, while the rest of the triangle contained the various mix
    *The
 tures Described
        of graduated
           the colours
                  in theintensity
                          as in Young's
                         Trans,   of of
                                      thethe
                                           Royal
                                              triangle
                                              primary    colours
                                                 Societyof    Edinburgh,
                                                          ofcolour.       Vol. XXL,
                                                                   in different       of
                                                                                partsand
in the Phil. Mag.

374    Prof. Maxwell on Theory of Three Primary Colours. [May 17,
the spectrum was exhibited by three coloured images, which, when
superposed on the screen, gave an artificial representation of the spec
trum.Three photographs of a coloured ribbon taken through the three
coloured solutions respectively, were introduced into the camera, giving
images representing the red, the green, and the blue parts separately,
as they would be seen by each of Young's three sets of nerves
separately. When these were superposed, a coloured image was
seen, which, if the red and green images had been as fully photo
graphed as the blue, would have been a truly-coloured image of
the ribbon. By finding photographic materials more sensitive to the
less refrangible rays, the representation of the colours of objects might
    The speaker
be greatly          then proceeded to exhibit mixtures of the colours of
            improved.
the pure spectrum. Light from the electric lamp was passed through
a narrow slit, a lens and a prism, so as to throw a pure spectrum on a
screen containing three moveable slits, through which three distinct
portions of the spectrum were suffered to pass. These portions were
concentrated by a lens on a screen at a distance, forming a large,
    When coloured
uniformly               spectrum
            the wholeimage            prism.
                             of the was    allowed to pass, this image was
white, as in Newton's experiment of combining the rays of the spec
trum. When portions of the spectrum were allowed to pass through
the moveable slits, the image was uniformly illuminated with a mix
ture of the corresponding colours. In order to see these colours
separately, another lens was placed between the moveable slits and the
screen. A magnified image of the slits was thus thrown on the screen,
each slit showing, by its colour and its breadth, the quality and quan
tity of the colour which it suffered to pass. Several colours were thus
exhibited, first separately, and then in combination. Red and blue,
for instance, produced purple ; red and green produced yellow ; blue
and yellow produced a pale pink ; red, blue, and green produced
white ; and red and a bluish green near the line F produced a colour
    Theappears
which              concluded
         speakervery                 different
                      differentbyto stating       peculiarities of colour-blind
                                             theeyes.
vision, and by showing that the investigation into the theory of colour
is truly a physiological inquiry, and that it requires the observations
and testimony of persons of every kind in order to discover and explain
the various peculiarities of vision.                              [J. C. M.]

1 86 1 .] Professor Westwood on the Metamorphoses ofInsects.               375
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 24, 1861.
     The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
               John O. Westwood, Esq. M.A. F.L.S.
            HOPE FROFE880R OP ZOOLOGY ITS THE UNIVERSITY OP OXFORD,
                    On the Metamorphoses of Insects.
The marvellous in all ages has taken precedence in the human mind
over the everyday phenomena of the routine of existence, and every
thing not exactly in accordance with our ordinary ideas has become
invested with something of the marvellous. Hence the metamor
phoses sung by Ovid have been admired and extolled from the Roman
age to our own, and old and young alike enjoy our Christmas panto
mimes as much on account of the transformations effected by the wand
of Harlequin, as for the gorgeous scenery with which they are ac
companied. In nature, however, " truth is stranger than fiction," as
manifested in the extraordinary changes of the animals which formed
the subject of the discourse. To suppose a creature existing at one
period of its life as an egg ; then as a serpent ; next, as burying itself
in the ground, and encasing itself in a solid tomb, in which it remains
for a time swathed up like an Egyptian mummy, and from which it
ultimately bursts forth a changed and glorious being, flitting on
delicately-constructed wings from flower to flower, would be regarded
as the height of imagination without the truth were before us. And
yet these are the transformations which, year by year and day by day,
     being effected
are There   are twobefore
                      leading
                            ouroperations
                                 eyes in ourtofields      gardens.
                                                whichandevery   living thing is
constantly subjected—the taking in of new, and the rejection of
already worked-up materials. Breathing and exhaling are instances
of these operations, and it is mainly owing to these operations that
growth and the accompanying rejection of portions of the animal frame
(constituting what has been termed metamorphoses, in their most
striking forms) are effected. In the vertebrated animals the fleshy
covering is increased by constant depositions, but in animals encased
in an external skeleton there is a restriction and obstruction offered by
it to their growth, and the hard outer case must consequently be
periodically got rid of. And it is this periodical "casting off" the
outer envelope which results in the transformations of insects. A

376                          Professor Westwood                      [May 24,
gourmand, after his dinner, unbuttons his waistcoat and takes his nap.
Just the same is done by insects. The " Museum beetle," for example,
having eaten all it wants, splits open its waistcoat along the back, and
goes to sleep as a pupa, creeping out of its covering when it assumes
     final relations
the The    state. of the Crustacea and Arachnida with the true insects
was then dwelt upon, and it was stated that since the days of Linnaeus
it had itbeen
(when            discoveredthatthat
            was supposed         the equally
                                      latter only
                                               striking
                                                   underwent  transformations)
                                                        changes  of form are   '*
undergone by many of the wingless articulated animals having arti
culated legs. Even the barnacle (after the rejection of the old fancy
that it was transformed into a goose), which had been supposed to be
a mollusc, had been discovered to be subject to real transformations,
its earliest state proving its crustaceous character, being extremely
active and furnished with natatory limbs. These changes, first dis
covered by Mr. Vaughan Thompson, had been fully proved by Mr.
Darwin, whose monograph on the Cirrhopoda was one of the most
masterly works ever published. In like manner Mr. Vaughan
Thompson was also the discoverer of the changes to which most of
the true Crustacea are subject, the eggs of crabs, shrimps, &c.,
being developed into minute transparent animals, unlike their parents,
with long spines projecting from the front and sides of their shell, and
which swim about by the assistance of a long jointed tail and natatory
limbs, which, in a later state, become reduced in size and altered in
 function, forming the foot-jaws of the adult animals, the real locomo
tive limbs being then developed, although previously they only existed
      rudimentary
in a The   centipedes  andbeneath
                     state  millepedes,
                                      the carapace
                                           forming of
                                                    thethe young
                                                        class    animal. were
                                                              Myriapoda,  ,
 also subject to a series of changes, by which additional segments were
from time to time developed out of the penultimate ring of the body,
 to which the name of the germinal segment had been applied. At
 each moulting, also, a fixed number of additional legs were developed
 in double pairs, attached to those segments, which had been produced at
 a previous moulting. For the most accurate knowledge of the changes
 of this class we are indebted to the labours of.the late Mr. George
 Newport, whose early death was much to be lamented as a great loss
      The speaker then passed on to the true Insecta, which in their full
to science.
 development acquired wings. The great consumption of material here
 takes place in the larva state ; the perfect insects are rarely voracious.
 The gnat, it is true, stings, and takes food in the shape of blood ex
 tracted from its victim, and so some others ; but many perfect insects
 have only rudimental mouths, and all their sustenance has been taken
 in during their antecedent caterpillar state. The larvae hatched from
 one ounce of silkworms' eggs, require 1609ilbs. weight of leaves for
 their food ; but as their digestive powers are not so strong as those of
 the higher animals, only about 771 lbs. weight of the pure leaves are
 digested, from which 120 lbs. of silk cocoons are produced. A single

1861.]                 on the Metamorphoses of Insects.                   377
silkworm consumes, within thirty days, about 60,000 times its primi
tive weight ; one hundred worms, just hatched, weighing about one
grain. In their passage to the final winged state, a great difference is,
as might be expected, manifested in the size and condition of the
stomach. In the larva it occupies nearly the whole of the interior of
the body, but in the subsequent changes it becomes gradually reduced
to a very minute sac, a honey-stomach being developed, and becoming
     In the changes
proportionately        of insects
                   extended         there are two principal differences to be
                               in size.
observed ; some being active during their whole lives, without under
going any deathlike or inactive state in their existence : whilst the
others pass through an inactive pupa state, in which latter the meta
morphosis is said to be complete, the perfect insect being quite unlike
     earlier
the Of       formerofclass,
         the stages           the mole cricket was selected as one example,
                        its existence.
and the habit of the female in burying its eggs in an oval cell in the
soil, and the adaptation of the fore-legs of the parent to the operation
of burrowing, were described. The larva has no wings ; but in its
general form and the structure of its legs it agrees with the perfect
insect. In the pupa state the rudiments of wings are developed in the
shape of scales upon the back, whilst in the perfect state the wings
are of large size, of the most delicate gauze-like texture, and which,
in order to protect them from injury underground, are capable of
being folded up into a fan-like mass, scarcely thicker than a large pin,
lying upon the back, thus forming no impediment to the subterranean
progress of the insect. The larva and pupa states of the dragon-fly,
and its aquatic predaceous habits, and the remarkable structure of its
     Of the
mouth,          next described.
          wereinsects  which undergo a deathlike pupa state, the common
cockchafer served as an example, the larvae of which make oval cells
in the ground, in which they are transformed to inactive pupae, with
the limbs lying upon the breast. The grubs acquire their full size
and undergo their pupa state at the spring season of the year, and are
turned up in hundreds in the tillage of the ground required at that
season, forming a great attraction to the rooks, which are to be seen
following the plough in search, of them as it passes along, their young
being then newly hatched, and most ravenous in their demands for
food. Here, therefore, we have an exemplification of those " Har
     The" ant-lion,
monies     which existwitheverywhere
                            its funnel-shaped
                                        throughout  nature.
                                               pit for trapping its prey—the
ichneumon fly, depositing its eggs in the bodies of other insects—the
humble-bee, with its pollen brushes and pollen baskets— the common
gnat, with its boat-like raft of eggs floating on the surface of the
water —the cheese-hopper, with its hooked jaws and its two catches at
its tail, by which it is able to concentrate the force for effecting its
spring, and the common flea, were then described in detail as to their
changes and habits, the whole being illustrated with large highly-
magnified figures.

378                              Dr. Waller                          [May 31,
    Some remarks were also made on silkworms, and the disease
termed Muscardine, by which they are destroyed in vast numbers
in the South of France and North of Italy. Through the breathing-
pores at the sides of the body of the worms, the sporules or seeds of a
very minute white fungus are inhaled, and the development taking
place within the worm, the fungus plants grow out through the
orifices and segments in the form of white mould. In New Zealand,
one species of fungus attacks an underground species of caterpillar,
and, when fully grown, the entire plant extends to the length of five
    The
or six     metamorphoses of insects were most complete in the Lepi-
        inches.
doptera, or scaly-winged tribes (butterflies and moths) ; in the cabbage
butterfly, for instance, out of the egg comes the caterpillar, which,
after living its time of feasting, attaches itself by cords across its body,
and then assumes the chrysalis state ; bursting forth from this, the
butterfly assumes its aerial condition. No wonder, then, that poets
have seized upon this final transformation as a striking simile to
express the release of the soul of man from its earthly bondage, and to
typify its passage through the darkness of the grave to the bright
                WEEKLY
realms of happiness         heaven.
                               EVENING
                      andFriday,                1861.
                                    May 31, MEETING,            [J. O. W.]
      The Lord Wensletdale, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     Dr. Augustus Waller, F.R.S.
              On the ofNutrition
     [In consequence               and illness,
                         Dr. Waller's           the discourse
                                        Reparation            was given by
                                                       of Nerves.
                                 Dr. F. Bond.]
The speaker commenced by pointing out that a knowledge of the con
ditions by which the structure and vitality of nerves were maintained in
health, and their repair effected when injured by accident or disease,
was not only of great interest to the physiologist, as enabling him to
examine the distribution and functions of various portions of the ner
vous system, with which he must otherwise have remained unacquainted ;
but was also of the highest importance in a practical point of view, as
providing us with the means of availing ourselves of those conservative
powers of the animal economy which medical science was daily seeking
more actively to utilize. It was not at all improbable that the practi

 1861.]         on the Nutrition and Separation of Nerves.                     379
 cal applications which had been founded on recent researches as to the
reproductive power of bone, might be rivalled by similar ones based
        the reproductive
 uponWith                   explaining
             the view of energy          the tissue.
                                    of nerve   nature of the researches which
 Dr. Waller had undertaken on this subject, the speaker gave a general
 outline of the structure and relations of the various parts of the nervous
 system, pointing out the distinction between the nervous centres and
 trunks, and comparing the structure of the more common form of nerve
 fibre,—the white, to a wax taper inserted in a tightly-fitting cylinder
 of paper, of which the wick represented the central axisfilament, the
 paper cylinder the investing nerve sheath, and the wax the intervening
 medullary substance; the grey variety of nerve-fibre differing from
 the white in the absence of this medullary substance. The structure
 of nervous ganglia was also referred to, and the relations of the cells
 they contained to the fibres that passed through them was pointed out,
 as well as the important fact, first discovered by Sir C. Bell, that the
 sensory fibres of the ordinary spinal nerves alone pass through tne
 ganglia, and are connected with its cells.
     In order to become acquainted with the means by which the nutri
 tion of healthy nerves was maintained and their injuries repaired, it
 was necessary to study the effects which were produced in a nerve
 by separating it from its centre. Fontana and Michaelis, who were
 induced to examine the subject by Hunter, found that when a nerve
 was divided it reunited, and that new nerve-fibres were produced at
 the point of the union. Neither they, nor subsequent observers, how
 ever, had paid any attention to the lower portion of the divided nerve,
 into the condition of which Dr. Waller was the first to examine.
 The results of his researches had shown that the changes which took
 place here were of a most important character, consisting, in brief, of
 a complete disorganization of the medullary substance of nerve-fibre,
 which was then gradually removed, and afterwards re-created, whilst
the axial filament and investing membrane remained intact.* Hence,
if we examined the fibres of the lower end of a divided nerve a short
time after section, we should find that they all appeared to be under
going disorganization, and their medullary substance to be breaking
up. But if we examined it at a much later period, the nerve-fibres,
though rather smaller in size than before section, would have all the
appearance of being perfectly healthy. This fact, which Dr. Waller
had first attributed to a complete destruction of the old fibres and a
formation of new ones, he was now satisfied was owing only to the
changes he had just mentioned, that is, to the regeneration of the
     This process
medullary           of disorganization
             substance   alone, and not of was    whole fibre. by a complete
                                              theaccompanied
       Diagrams,
loss* of         illustrating
          functions in the nerve,
                              these which
                                    changes,were
                                              as well     most ofrecovered
                                                  onlyas slowly               facts
                                                                   the other after
alluded to in the discourse, were exhibited ; and microscopic specimens of disor
ganized nerve were afterwards shown in the Library.

380                                Dr. Waller                         [May 31,
the fibres had been reconstituted and re-united to their central organ.
This real loss of function was to be distinguished from the apparent
loss in which paralysis consists ; for a motor nerve that was paralyzed
by section, might still be stimulated to discharge its functions by gal
vanism for some days after it had been separated from its centre. " No
change, however, took place in the fibres of the upper portion of a
divided nerve. The slowness with which the regenerated nerve ac
quired its normal functions, was probably due to the small size and
    Some of
imperfect      the results
            conducting    power
                             which
                                 of the
                                     had new  fibres in
                                           followed     theacicatrix.
                                                     from    knowledge of this
process were then pointed out. In the first place, we learned from it
how essential the medullary substance of the nerve-fibres is to their
vitality, since its destruction and removal is followed by a complete
abolition of their functions. Was it, it was suggested, that it bore to
the less destructible axial filament and investing membrane a relation
analogous to that which the exciting fluid in a voltaic cell does to the
metallic poles with which it is in contact ? In either case, the removal
of the white substance, or the exciting fluid, caused a loss of power,
which was restored by their renewal. The nutritive energy of the
white substance, that is, the facility with which it underwent nutritive
changes, was also dwelt upon, as indicating that it was a source of
power, just as the chemical activity of the fluid in the voltaic cell
regulated its potential energy. The readiness which the fluid element,
in a voltaic cell, exhibits to undergo chemical change, and to enter
into new combinations is, to a great extent, the gauge of the voltaic
power which the cell of which it is a constituent is capable of developing.
So the readiness with which the medullary constituent of the nerve-
fibre undergoes decomposition, when compared with the more stable
axis cylinder and investing membrane, which indicate a corresponding
activity of nutrition, may be assumed to indicate that it is in some way
a reservoir of power for the nerve-fibre, or, at least, that the decom
position which its nutrition involves is a condition of the development
    Another
of nerve          in thewas,
           forceresult        the facility with which an application of this
                          fibre.
process of disorganization had enabled us to trace the distribution of
various important nerves. Thus, Dr. Waller had been enabled by it
to separate the fibres of the spinal accessory nerve from those of the
vagus, and to trace each of them to their distribution in the lungs,
heart, and stomach. It had also enabled him to determine the direc
tion of the fibres of the sympathetic nerve in the neck. In fact, it
provided physiologists with a means of tracing the course of nerves
analogous to that which they had long possessed for tracing vessels, by
injecting them with coloured fluids. He had traced in this way the
minute distribution of the nerves in the tongue. Thus, we were pro
vided with a means of research, the want of which an old anatomist
(Rusych) had expressed, when he said that " he would have nothing
further to wish for than to inject nerves, as he had succeeded in
injecting blood-vessels."

1861.]         on the Nutrition and Separation of Nerves.               381
     The speaker then referred to the important conclusions to which
the knowledge of the functions of these nerves so obtained had led
MM. Claude Bernard and Brown-Sequard, and Dr. Waller, more
especially as to the influence exerted by the sympathetic nerve over
the circulation in the blood-vessels ; and he mentioned a most in
teresting result which the latter had quite recently discovered, viz.,
that a powerful influence could be exerted on the functions of the
heart, lungs, stomach, &c., by pressure on the vagus nerve in the neck ;
and that this could be carried so far as to produce complete insensi
bility. He considered this fact to be not only of much physiological
interest, but also of great practical importance, as it provided us with
a new means of producing anaesthesia ; and he also believed that it
might be made very useful in facilitating the diagnosis of certain
     The affections.
nervous    researches of MM. Philippeaux and Vulpian, two French
physiologists, which were in continuation of Dr. Waller's, had shown
that the regenerative powers of nerves were even greater than he
had mentioned ; for they had found that a nerve could be regenerated,
though unconnected with its centre, and even when transplanted to
     The part
another        of the
           speaker     body.
                    then   referred to the influence over the nutrition of
nerves, which Dr. Waller's researches had shown their ganglia to"
possess, and to the corroboration which they gave to the theory of the
centrical action of the ganglia and of the cells of which they were
composed. If a nerve that was attached to a ganglion was divided a
little way from its point of attachment, all the fibres below the section
were decomposed, whilst those in connection with the ganglion retained
their healthy structure, even though the connection of the ganglion
itself with the great centres (the brain or spinal cord) was broken off".
This showed that the ganglion maintained and regulated the vitality
of the fibres which were attached to its cells. A ganglion, therefore,
was to the fibres connected with it what a fountain was to the rivulet
thatIn   conclusion,
      trickled from it,
                      he a drew
                           sourceattention
                                  of nutritive energy.
                                            to the  extensive results which
often flowed from very simple observations, instancing the discoveries
above mentioned which had all more or less followed from his obser
vance of the simple fact that a nerve-fibre when separated from its
centre became disorganized ; and he impressed upon his audience that
the knowledge of the functions of the body in health was the only sure
basis of treatment of its derangements in disease.
                                                                [A. W.]

382                          General Monthly Meeting.                            [June 3,
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, June 3, 1861.
TheThe       John Barlow,
      Rev.Secretary       announcedM.A. thatF.R.S.        Grace the President
                                                  HisVice-President,                  had
                                                                           in the Chair.
appointed
wereHenry
       elected
             the
             Alfred
              John
              The
              William
              SirMembers
                   following
                   John
                   William
                   Henry
                   Frederick
                    The
                     Henry
                      Lord
                      Rev.
                       Peter
                        Pitman,
                          Rev.
                           Pole,
                           Dobie,
                           Wells
                            John
                             Wells
                             Wensleydale.
                             Stanley,
                              Holland,
                               of
                               Gassiot,
                               W.
                                Vice-Presidents
                                 Augustus
                                 John
                                  the
                                  Esq.
                                   Esq.,
                                    Barlow,
                                    Wainwright,
                                     Gull,
                                     Esq.
                                      Foote,
                                         Philip
                                         M.P.
                                          F.R.S.
                                          Esq.
                                          Bart.
                                           was
                                        RoyalM.D.
                                              Burgett,
                                                Esq.
                                                M.A.
                                                admitted
                                                 Institution.
                                                 F.R.S.
                                                 F.R.S.
                                                  D.C.L.
                                                   Malleson,
                                                     the
                                                      for
                                                       M.D.
                                                          F.R.S.
                                                           the
                                                           Treasurer
                                                             and
                                                            Esq.
                                                             aD.D.
                                                               ensuing
                                                                Member
                                                                 B.A.F.R.S.
                                                                         and
                                                                          year  :—Royal
                                                                           of the
     The cordial thanks of the Members were returned to Sir Henry
Institution.
Holland, Bart. for his present of Forty Pounds, being the second
    Thecontinuation
annual                    of his Donation
           Presents received                       1 859.Meeting were laid on the
                                     since thein last
Secretary
  Fromand
table,       the thanks
          of Statefor       of the Sir
                        War—Col.    Members
                                        Henry James's
                                                 returned     for the for
                                                         Instructions     taking
                                                                       same       Meteoro
                                                                              : viz.—
Board   of Trade
     logical        (through Mr.
             Observations.             A. Bowriny)—Fourth Report of the Commis
                              8vo. E.1860.
Astronomical
Arts, Societyfor
     sioners   Society,
              of—Journal,
                 the Exhibition
                        Royal—Monthly
                             May of1861.   Notices,
                                             8vo. 1861.
                                      1851.8vo.       April 1861.

1861.]                          General Monthly Meeting.                                  383
Bavarian Academy, Royal—Sitzungsberichte ; 1860. Heft 4, 5. 8vo.
      (1852-4).
Cambridge           4to. 1861.
               Observatory    (the Syndicate)—Astronomical Observations, Vol. XIX.
      History
 Cobbold,          (the Author)—On
            T. S.Sciences.    8ro. 1860. the Scope, Tendency, and Value of the Natural
Dance, Rev. H. A.—Dion Cassius Nicseus ; .flSlius Spartianus ; Julius Capitolinus ;
     ,flSlius
      1544. Lampridius
Editors—American            ; Vulcatius
                        Journal    of Science,
                                          Gallicanus.
                                                by B. Silliman,     Egnatius.
                                                         Ed. J . B.&c.          1861. Parisiis
                                                                       for May12mo.    8vo.
   Artizan for May 1861. 4to.
   Athenaeum for May 1861. 4to.
   Chemical News for May 1861. 4to.
   Engineer for May 1861. fol.
   Horological Journal, Nos. 33, 34. 8vo. 1861.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for May 1861. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for May 1861. 8vo.
   Medical Circular for May 1861. 8vo.
   Practical Mechanic's Journal for May 1861. 4to.
     schaften
Faraday,    Professor,
                 zu Berlin
                        D.C.L.
                           : January     1861. 8yo.
                                   F.R.S.—Monatsberichte         der Academie der Wissen-
     Von K. Kreil.
   Jahrbiicher           BandCentral-Anstalt
                  der K.K.       VII. 4to. Ween,        1860.
                                                  fiir Meteorologie     und Erdmagnetismus.
     8vo. 1860.
   Academie              de Belgique
                RoyaleAnnuaire:         : Bulletins
                                    1861.    16to. des Seances de la Classe des Sciences.
   A. Quetelet: Sur le Congres International de Statistique, tenu a Londres, 1860.
     Observations
        4to. du Globe,
     Physique                  en Belgique.
                      des Phenomenes            8vo. 1861.
                                          Periodiques   : 1859. 4to.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XLII. No. 4. 8vo. 1861.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 2. 8yo. 1861.
   Journal, Society—Proceedings,
Geological    No. 66. 8v<>. 1861. May 1861. 8vo.
Hamel. Dr. J.—On the Cochinelle from Mount Ararat [in Russian], 8vo. 1836.
Irish Academy, Royal—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. Part 1. 4to. 1860.
     Plate : by F.
Londesborough,            Fairholt. 4to. Descriptive
                   theW.Lord—Illustrated       1860.          Catalogue of Antique Silver
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor}—The Geologist, May 1861.
Medical
     1861.Messrs.—London
Newton,    and Chirurgical Society
                                Journalof(New
                                           London,
                                                 Series)  for May 1861. 8vo.
                                                     Royal—Proceedings,     Vol. IH. No. 5.
Petermann, A.Society—Journal,
Photographic                          No. 109. 8vo. 1861.
                    Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen           auf der Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographie. 1861. No. 4. 4to. 1861.
Plateau, J. (the Author)—Recherches sur les Figures d'Equilibre d'une Masse
      liquide sans Pesanteur. 5" Serie. 4to. 1861.
      in Styria.
Roscoe,              H. E.1861.
          Professor8vo.       (the Author)—On the Alleged Practice of Arsenic-eating
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 15. 8vo. 1861.
      F.R.S.John,
 Webster,       8vo.M.D.    F.R.S.—On Iron, as a Material for Ship building, by a
                        1861.

 384                           C. T. Newton, Esq.                      [June 3,
                   EXTRA EVENING MEETING,
                           Monday, June 3, 1861.
  The Duke of Northumberland, E.G. President, in the Chair.
                             C. T. Newton, Esq.
                KEEPER OF CLASSICAL ANTIQUITIES AT TUB BRITISH MUSEUM.
                   On the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus.
The Mausoleum was originally constructed about the year b.c. 353,
in honour of her husband Mausolus and as his tomb, by Artemisia,
Queen of Halicarnassus. Two Greek architects, Satyrus and Phiteus,
were employed on its erection ; the most renowned sculptors of the age,
Bryaxis, Timotheus, Leochares, and Scopas, were chosen to adorn its
four sides with sculpture ; while a fifth, Pythis, executed the marble
quadriga which surmounted it. Several authors of antiquity have left
records of the general character of this building. Thus, Pliny states
that it was, in shape, a parallelogram, the northern and southern sides
of which were, respectively, 63 feet long, while those to east and west
were somewhat shorter ; that it was surrounded by 36 columns, the
support of a pyramid of 24 steps, which tapered towards the top ; and
that its total altitude was 140 feet. In Martial, it is described as
hanging in the air, in allusion, probably, to its peculiar structure ; a
description which recalls to memory the tale of the Hanging Gardens
of Babylon. Lucian, in one of his Dialogues, introduces Mausolus,
who speaks of his tomb as rich in sculpture of men and horses of the
choicest workmanship and material ; and lastly, Pausanias dwells
upon the fact of its great size, and declares that the Romans admired
it so much, that they called all subsequent great tombs after its name,
    It is clear, then, that it was of old regarded as an edifice of singular
Mausolea.
magnificence. Subsequently to the fall of the Roman empire, there
are but scanty notices of it, yet these are enough to show that it still
existed intact. Thus, in the fourth century, Gregory of Nazianzus
alludes to it, as do also Constantinus Porphyro-Gennetus, and Eudocia
in the tenth and eleventh ; till, finally, in the twelfth, Eustathius says
of it, " It was and is a wonder : " from which we may reasonably infer
that it was at that time standing. From this period there is no record
of it for some centuries, nor any means of ascertaining how far it had
become a ruin, or when, indeed, the earthquake, to which its final
overthrow may be most probably attributed, took place. In a.d. 1399,
however, the Christian knights of Rhodes took possession of Halicar

1861.]             on the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus.                      385
nassus, and fortified it with a citadel, which they called the Gastle of
St. Peter, and Fontanus, the historian of the siege of Rhodes, with
which he was contemporary, tells how a German knight, Henry
Schlegelholt, commenced building this fortress out of the ruins of the
tomb of Mausolus, a fact which, Mr. Newton adds, is completely
confirmed by his own examination of the present state of the site.
It is also mentioned that this castle was twice subsequently repaired
—first in a.d. 1482, and again in a.d. 1522. Of this last occasion
and of the discovery of what, Mr. Newton, with reason, supposes to
have been the actual tomb of Mausolus, a remarkable account has
been published by M. Guichard, in 1581, who states that he heard
this story from Dalechamp, the editor of Pliny, who received it from
M. de la Tourrette, who was himself present at the last demolition of
the Mausoleum, the object of which barbarous act was to procure
    Mr. Newton
squared             the construction
          stone forread                of the
                          an extract from         most curious narrative, and
                                            thiscastle.
expressed his opinion that the gold ornaments, &c., said to have been
seen by the knights within the tomb, were probably analogous with
    Having
those         givenin this
       discovered      the famous
                            slight sketch
                                    sepulchre
                                          of what     was previously
                                               of Koul-Oba,           known of
                                                                at Kertch.
the Mausoleum, Mr. Newton proceeded to describe the course of his
own researches, which have had the remarkable success, not only of
satisfactorily proving the position of this famous monument, above the
Agora, in the centre of the ancient city, but also of determining the
style of its art and the general character of its structure. He stated
that he was first led to make inquiries about the Mausoleum by the
arrival, in 1846, at the British Museum, of twelve sculptured slabs,
which had been obtained from the walls of the castle of St. Peter
through the influence of Lord Stratford de Redcliffe, then British
ambassador at Constantinople ; and that he was further stimulated
to make excavations, with the view of finding the actual site of the
tomb, by having noticed, in 1855, several lions' heads still projecting
from the walls of this castle, which, like the slabs previously procured,
    In no
he had      doubt
         1856  he had
                   commenced
                         once belonged   to theand
                                  excavating,         at intervals pursued his
                                                  Mausoleum.
researches till the spring of 1858, proceeding gradually, step by step,
by mining under ground covered by modern Turkish houses and
gardens, which he had to buy up. He began near a spot where, many
years ago, Professor Donaldson had noticed the remains of a superb
Ionic edifice, and where he had himself observed many fragments of
Ionic columns, the walls of the fields and the houses around being, for
the most part, built of fragments of sculpture and architecture in
Parian marble. He soon came upon a portion of the body of a
colossal lion built into a modern wall ; and shortly after, on several
fragments of frieze in high relief, and many architectural mouldings.
Not long after this, he met with the torso of a colossal equestrian
figure in an Asiatic dress, and four slabs of the frieze in the finest
condition ; after clearing out the site of the building itself, he dis-
    Vou III. (No. 34.)             •                                 2d

386      Mr. Newton on the Mausoleum of Halicarnassus.                  [June 3,
covered on the north the Peribolus wall on this side, in an almost
 perfect state, and beyond it many fragments of statues, which, on
 being reunited in England, have produced a male and female figure
 of exquisite workmanship (the former, doubtless, a representation of
 Mausolus himself, and the latter of a goddess who must have stood
 near him in the quadriga), together with all the architectural portions
 required for the determination of the Order, viz. drums of columns,
 bases, capitals, the two stones of the architrave, the bed-mould of the
 cornice, and the cornice itself. Besides these, great portions of two
 colossal horses, unquestionably those of the marble quadriga, executed
 by Pythis, were discovered, and a number of slabs which there is
 reason to believe formed the steps of the pyramid, together with
     By the
 portions     the felly,
           of middle  of spokes,
                          1857, Mr.     the outersucceeded
                                   andNewton                      its wheels.
                                                   rim of oneinoftracing out the
 base lines of the original building (nearly every fragment of which had
 been removed by the Knights, or subsequently), and had proved that
 the area wherein the edifice had stood was a parallelogram, the
 western side of which was 1 10 feet long and the southern 126. The
 whole of this arena was cut out of the native rock, to depths varying
       twoNewton
 fromMr.             then
            to sixteen        below the to
                         feetproceeded    surface
                                             discuss   the surrounding
                                                   of the                 to the
                                                            evidences asfields.
 character of the design of the Mausoleum, as determinable from the
 fragments he had excavated, and pointed out the difficulties which
 had beset earlier inquirers in their attempt to reconstruct the Mauso
 leum from the descriptions of the ancients. He remarked, that archi
 tects had been prone to imagine corruptions in the texts of the old
 writers, whenever the numbers given by them did not happen to square
 with their modern theories ; but, that in this case, a recent collation
 of the MSS. had shown that there was no important variation in the
 readings ; that Pliny's smaller dimensions of 63 feet must be taken
to be the measurement of the cella of the building ; and that his " totus
 circuitus " of 411 feet must relate to the entire area occupied by the
thirty-six columns which surrounded this cella. Mr. Newton further
showed that, by the dimensions afforded by the treads of the steps, this
circumference could be shown to be 412 feet, a coincidence of numbers
      that given
withFurther        by Pliny
               elements    for calculation
                               too remarkable       be accidental.
                                            weretoalso  provided by the happy
discovery of the piece of the rim of the chariot wheel ; for, by means
of this, it was easy to strike the curve, and to ascertain that the total
diameter of the wheel must have been 7 feet 7 inches. The length
of the horses was about 10 feet, and the entire length of the platform
might thus be easily calculated. In the same way the half-diameter
of the wheel combined with that of the statue of Mausolus gave the
means      calculating
     Mr.ofNewton    then the
                           went
                              height
                                 on toofshow  that it group.
                                         the chariot   might be further calcu
lated from existing remains, that the height of the order was the same
as that of the pyramidal portion it supported, and that, therefore, of the
1 40 feet of total height, 75 would be occupied by the columns, archi-

 1861.]          Professor Tyndall on Solar Chemistry.                  387
 trave, and pyramid, leaving 65 unaccounted for. This was a puzzle
which the theoretical restorers had failed hitherto to resolve ; but a
comparison with the tombs still existing in the adjoining country, in
Caria itself, at Mylasa in Lycia, and at ' Souma in Algeria, shows
that it was not unusual to erect such monuments on very lofty base
ments. He added, that the scattered composition of the frieze and
the elongated proportions of the figures on it were adapted to be seen
at a great height above the eye, as would be the case in the proposed
     Mr. Newton concluded his discourse by stating that he had, he
restoration.
believed, discovered the very stone which had closed the entrance to
the original sepulchre of the king,—a huge block of marble, weighing
ten tons, carefully grooved at the edges and then lowered by ma
chinery into sockets, like a portcullis. Close to it was also a staircase,
which he believed was made to enable the body of Mausolus to be
lowered into its resting-place. The numerous statues of lions which
had been met with, must have been placed round the tomb to guard
it. Lastly, Mr. Newton added, that the whole of the sculptures had
once been painted, the flesh generally a dun colour, with an ultra
marine background.
                 WEEKLY         EVENING
                           Friday,               MEETING, re. t. n.]
                                     June 7, 1861.
      The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                       John Tvndaix, Esq. F.R.S.
                PROFESSOR OP NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, ROYAL INSTITUTION.
             On the Physical Basis of Solar Chemistry.
Omitting all preface, the speaker drew attention to an experimental
arrangement intended to prove that gaseous bodies radiate heat in
different degrees. Behind a double screen of polished tin was placed
an ordinary ring gas-burner ; on this was placed a hot copper ball,
from which a column of heated air ascended : behind the screen, but
so placed that no ray from the ball could reach the instrument, was
an excellent thermo-electric pile, connected by wires with a very
delicate galvanometer. The thermo-electric pile was known to be an
instrument whereby heat was applied to the generation of electric
                                                                    2d2

388                          Professor Tyndall                    [June 7,
currents ; the strength of the current being an accurate measure of
the quantity of the heat. As long as both faces of the pile were at
the same temperature, no current was produced ; but the slightest
difference in the temperature of the two faces at once declared itself
by the production of a current, which, when carried through the gal
vanometer, indicated by the deflection of the needle both its strength
      its direction.
and The    two faces of the pile were in the first instance brought to the
same temperature ; the equilibrium being shown by the needle of the
galvanometer standing at zero. The rays emitted by the current of
hot air already referred to were permitted to fall upon one of the
faces of the pile ; and an extremely slight movement of the needle
showed that the radiation from the hot air, though sensible, was
extremely feeble. Connected with the ring-burner was a holder con
taining oxygen gas ; and by turning a cock, a stream of this gas was
permitted to issue from the burner, strike the copper ball, and ascend
in a heated column in front of the pile. The result was, that oxygen
showed itself, as a radiator of heat, to be quite as feeble as atmo
    A second
spheric   air. holder containing olefiant gas was also connected by
its own system of tubes with the ring-burner. Oxygen had already
flowed over the ball and cooled it in some degree. Hence, as a
radiator in comparison with oxygen, the olefiant gas laboured under a
disadvantage. It was purposely arranged that this should be the
case ; so that if, notwithstanding its being less hot, the olefiant gas
showed itself a better radiator, its claim to superiority in this respect
would be decisively proved. On permitting the gas to issue upwards,
it cast an amount of heat against the adjacent face of the pile sufficient
to impel the needle of the galvanometer almost to its stops at 90°.
This experiment proved the vast difference between two equally
transparent gases with regard to their powur of emitting radiant heat.
     The converse experiment was now performed. The thermo-electric
pile was removed and placed between two cubes filled with water kept in
a state of constant ebullition ; and it was so arranged that the quantities
of heat falling from the cubes on the opposite faces of the pile were
exactly equal, thus neutralizing each other. The needle of the
galvanometer being at zero, a sheet of oxygen gas was caused to issue
from a slit between one of the cubes and the adjacent face of the pile.
If this sheet of gas possessed any sensible power of intercepting the
thermal rays from the cube, one face of the pile being deprived of the
heat thus intercepted, a difference of temperature between its two
faces would instantly set in, and the result wodd be declared by the
galvanometer. The quantity absorbed by the oxygen under those
circumstances was too feeble to affect the galvanometer ; the gas, in
fact, proved sensibly transparent to the rays of heat. It had but a
feeble power of radiation : it had an equally feeble power of absorp
tion.
    The pile remaining in its position, a sheet of olefiant gas was

 1861.]          on the Physical Basis of Solar Chemistry.             389
caused to issue from the same slit as that through which the oxygen
had passed. No one present could see the gas ; it wa3 quite invisible,
the light went through it as freely as through oxygen or air ; but its
 effect upon the thermal rays emanating from the cube, was what
 might be expected from a sheet of metal. A quantity so large was
cut off, that the needle of the galvanometer, promptly quitting the zero
line, moved with energy to its stops : thus the olefiant gas, so light
and clear and pervious to luminous rays, was a most potent destroyer
of the rays emanating from an obscure source. The reciprocity of
action established in the case of oxygen comes out here ; the good
     This isresult,
radiator             by this was
              found which    experiment
                                 exhibited
                                        to before  a public
                                           be the good      audience this
                                                       absorber.
evening for the first time, was typical of what had been obtained with
gases generally. Going through the entire list of gases and vapours
in this way, we should find radiation and absorption to be as rigidly
associated as positive and negative in electricity, or as north and south
polarity in magnetism. The gas which, when heated, is most competent
to generate a calorific ray, is precisely that which is most competent
to stop such a ray. If the radiation be high, the absorption is high ;
if the radiation be moderate, the absorption is moderate ; if the
radiation be low, the absorption is low ; so that if we make the
number which expresses the absorptive power the numerator of a frac
tion, and that which expresses its radiative power, the denominator,
the result would be, that, on account of the numerator and denominator
varying in the same proportion, the value of that fraction would
always remain the same, whatever might be the gas or vapour ex
     But whywith.
perimented      should this reciprocity exist ? What is the meaning of
absorption ? what is the meaning of radiation ? When you cast a
stone into still water, rings of waves surround the place where it falls ;
motion is radiated on all sides from the centre of disturbance. When
the hammer strikes a bell, the latter vibrates ; and sound, which is
nothing more than an undulatory motion of the air, is radiated in all
directions. Modern philosophy reduces light and heat to the same me
chanical category. A luminous body is one with its particles in a state
of vibration ; a hot body is one with its particles also vibrating, but at
a rate which is incompetent to excite the sense of vision ; and, as a
sounding body has the air around it, through which it propagates its
vibrations, so also the luminous or heated body has a medium, called
ether, which accepts its motions and carries them forward with incon
ceivable velocity. Radiation, then, as regards both light and heat,
is the transference of motion from the vibrating body to the ether in
which it swings : and, as in the case of sound, the motion imparted
to the air is soon transferred to the surrounding objects, against which
the aerial undulations strike, the sound being, in technical language,
absorbed; so also with regard to light and heat, absorption consists in
the transference of motion from the agitated ether to the particles of the
absorbing body.

390                          Professor Tyndall                       [June 7,
    The simple atoms are found to be bad radiators ; the compound
atoms good ones : and the higher the degree of complexity in the
atomic grouping, the more potent, as a general rule, is the radiation
and absorption. Let us get definite ideas here, however gross, and
purify them afterwards by the process of abstraction. Imagine our
simple atoms swinging like single spheres in the ether ; they cannot
create the swell which a group of them united to form a system can
produce. An oar runs freely edgeways through the water, and im
parts far less of its motion to the water than when its broad flat side
is brought to bear upon it. In our present language the oar, broad
side vertical, is a good radiator ; broad side horizontal, it is a bad
radiator. Conversely the waves of water, impinging upon the flat
face of the oar-blade, will impart a greater amount of motion to it
than when impinging upon the edge. In the position in which the
oar radiates well, it also absorbs well. Simple atoms glide through
the ether without much resistance ; compound ones encounter this, and
yield up more speedily their motion to the ether. Mix oxygen and
nitrogen mechanically, they absorb and radiate a certain amount.
Cause these gases to combine chemically and form nitrous oxide, both
     absorption
the In           we radiation
        this wayand   look with are
                                 the thereby
                                      telescope of the intellect
                                              augmented          into! atomic
                                                         250 times
systems, and obtain a conception of processes which the eye of sense
can never reach. But gases and vapours possess a power of choice
as to the rays which they absorb. They single out certain groups of
rays for destruction, and allow other groups to pass unharmed. This
is best illustrated by a famous experiment of Sir David Brewster's,
modified to suit the requirements of the present discourse. Into a
glass cylinder, with its ends stopped by discs of plate-glass, a small
quantity of nitrous acid gas was introduced ; the presence of the gas
being indicated by its rich brown colour. The beam from an electric
lamp being sent through two prisms of bisulphide of carbon, a
spectrum seven feet long and eighteen inches wide was cast upon a
screen. Introducing the cylinder containing the nitrous acid into the
path of the beam as it issued from the lamp, the splendid and con
tinuous spectrum became instantly furrowed by numerous dark bands,
the rays answering to which were struck down by the nitric gas, while
it permitted the light which fell upon the intervening spaces to pass
      comparative
withHere              principle of reciprocity, as regards radiation and
           also the impunity.
absorption, holds good ; and could we, without otherwise altering its
physical character, render that nitrous gas luminous, we should find
that the very rays which it absorbs are precisely those which it would
emit. When atmospheric air and other gases are brought to a state
of intense incandescence by the passage of an electric spark, the
spectra which we obtain from them consist of a series of bright bands.
But such spectra are produced with the greatest brilliancy, when,
instead of ordinary gases, we make use of metals heated so highly as
to volatilize them. This is easily done by the voltaic current. A

 1861.]          on the Physical Basis of Solar Chemistry.                     391
capsule of carbon was filled with mercury, which formed the positive
electrode of the electric lamp ; a carbon point was brought down upon
this ; and on separating one from the other, a brilliant arc containing
the mercury in a volatilized condition passed between them. The
spectrum of this arc was not continuous like that from the solid carbon
points, but consisted of a series of vivid bands, each corresponding
in colour to that particular portion of the spectrum to which its rays
belonged. Copper gave its system of bands ; zinc gave its system ;
and brass, which is an alloy of copper and zinc, gave a splendid
     Not only,
spectrum           up of thewhen
            madehowever,       bandsmetals
                                      belonging
                                            are united      metals.
                                                  to bothlike    zinc and copper
to form an alloy, is it possible to obtain the bands which belonged to
them. No matter how we may disguise the metal—allowing it to
unite with oxygen to form an oxide, and this again with an acid to
form a salt ; if the heat applied be sufficiently intense, the bands
belonging to the metal reveal themselves with perfect definition.
Holes were drilled in a cylinder of retort carbon, and these being
filled with pure culinary salt, the carbon was made the positive elec
trode of the lamp : the resultant spectrum showed the brilliant yellow
lines of the metal sodium. Similar experiments were made with the
chlorides of strontium, calcium, lithium,* and other metals ; each
salt gave the bands due to the metal. Different salts were then mixed
together, and rammed into the holes in the carbon ; a spectrum was
     The position
obtained             of these the
           which contained      bright
                                    bands
                                        bands   never
                                           of them  all.varies, and each metal
has its own system. Hence the competent observer can infer from the
bands of the spectrum the metals which produce it. It is a language
addressed to the eye instead of the ear ; and the certainty would not be
augmented if each metal possessed the power of audibly calling out,
" I am here 1" Nor is this language affected by distance. If we
find that the sun or the stars give us the bands of our terrestrial
metals, it is a declaration on the part of these orbs that such metals
enter into their composition. Does the sun give us any such inti
mation ? Does the solar spectrum exhibit bright lines which we
might compare with those produced by our terrestrial metals, and
prove either their identity or difference ? No. The solar spectrum,
when closely examined, gives us a multitude of fine dark lines instead
of bright ones. They were first noticed by Dr. Wollaston, were
investigated with profound skill by Fraunhofer, and named from him
Fraunhofer's lines. They have been long a standing puzzle to
philosophers. The bright lines which the metals give us have been
      The vividness
also* known          of the
              to us for      colours
                          years  ; but
                                     of the
                                        the lithium spectrum
                                             connection        is extraordinary
                                                           between              : it
                                                                      both classes
contained a blue band of indescribable splendour. It was thought by many,
during the discourse, that I had mistaken strontium for lithium, as this blue band
had never before been seen. I have obtained it many times since ; and my friend
Dr. Miller, having kindly analyzed the substance made use of, pronounces it
chloride of lithium.—J. T,

 392                          Professor Tyndall                      [June 7,
 of phenomena was wholly unknown, until Kirchhoff, with admirable
 acuteness, revealed the secret, and placed it at the same time in our
 power      chemically
      Wetohave  now some    hard the
                        analyze   worksun.before us ; hitherto we have been
 delighted by objects which addressed themselves rather to our aesthetic
 taste than to our scientific faculty. We have ridden pleasantly to
 the base of the final cone of Etna, and must now dismount and march
 wearily through ashes and lava, if we would enjoy the prospect from
 the summit. Our problem is to connect the dark lines of Fraunhofer
 with the bright ones of the metals. The white beam of the lamp is
 refracted in passing through our two prisms, but its different compo
 nents are refracted in different degrees, and thus its colours are drawn
 apart. Now the colour depends solely upon the rate of oscillation of
 the particles of the luminous body ; red light being produced by one
 rate, blue light by a much quicker rate, and the colours between red
 and blue by the intermediate rates. The solid incandescent coal-points
 give us a continuous spectrum ; or in other words they emit rays of
 all possible periods between the two extremes of the spectrum. They
 have particles oscillating so as to produce red ; others, to produce orange ;
 others, to produce yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet respectively.
 Colour, as many of you know, is to light what pitch is to sound.
When a violin-player presses his finger on a string he makes it shorter
and tighter, and thus, causing it to vibrate more speedily, augments the
pitch. Imagine such a player to move his finger slowly along the
string, shortening it gradually as he draws his bow, the note would rise
in pitch by a regular gradation ; there would be no gap intervening
between note and note. Here we have the analogue to the continuous
spectrum, whose colours insensibly blend together without gap or
interruption, from the red of the lowest pitch to the violet of the
highest. But suppose the player, instead of gradually shortening his
string, to press his finger on a certain point, and to sound the corre
sponding note ; then to pass on to another point more or less distant,
and sound its note ; then to another, and so on, thus sounding particular
notes separated from each other by gaps which correspond to the
intervals of the string passed over ; we should then have the exact
analogue of a spectrum composed of separate bright bands with
intervals of darkness between them. But this, though a perfectly true
and intelligible analogy, is not sufficient for our purpose ; we must look
with the mind's eye at the very oscillating atoms of the volatilized
metal. Figure these atoms connected by springs of a certain tension, and
which, if the atoms are squeezed, together push them asunder, or if the
atoms are drawn apart, pull them together, causing them, before coming
to rest, to quiver at a certain definite rate determined by the strength
of the spring. Now the volatilized metal which gives us one bright
band is to be figured as having its atoms united by springs all of the
same tension, its vibrations are all of one kind. The metal which gives
us two bands may be figured as having some of its atoms united by
springs of one tension, and others by a second series of springs of a

1861.]         on the Physical Basis of Solar Chemistry.                    393
different tension. Its vibrations are of two distinct kinds ; so also when
we have three or more bands, we are to figure as many distinct sets of
springs, each set capable of vibrating in its own particular time and at
a different rate from the other. If we seize this idea definitely, we shall
have no difficulty in dropping the metaphor of springs, and substituting
for it mentally the forces by which the atoms act upon each other.
     Herethus
Having          pendulum,—a
           is afar cleared our way,
                                  heavylet
                                         ivory
                                            us make  another effort
                                                ball suspended  from   a string.
                                                                    to advance.
I blow against this ball ; a single puff of my breath moves it a little
way from its position of rest ; it swings back towards me, and when
it reaches the limit of its swing I puff again. It now swings further ;
and thus by timing my puffs I can so accumulate their action as to
produce oscillations of large amplitude. The ivory ball here has
absorbed the motions which my breath communicated to the air. I
now bring the ball to rest. Suppose, instead of my breath, a wave of
air to strike against it, and that this wave is followed by a series of
others which succeed each other exactly in the same intervals as my
puffs ; it is perfectly manifest that these waves would communicate
their motion to the ball and cause it to swing as the puffs did. And
it is equally manifest that this would not be the case if the impulses of
the waves were not properly timed ; for then the motion imparted to
the pendulum by one wave would be neutralized by another, and there
could not be that accumulation of effect which we have when the
periods of the waves correspond with the periods of the pendulum.
So much for the kind of impulses absorbed by the pendulum. But such
a pendulum set oscillating in air produces waves in the air ; and we
see that the waves which it produces must be of the same period as
those whose motions it would take up or absorb most copiously if they
struck against it. Just in passing I may remark, that if the periods of
the waves be double, treble, quadruple, &c., the periods of the pendulum,
 the shocks imparted to the latter would also be so timed as to produce
     Perhaps the of
 an accumulation      motion.
                    most   curious effect of these timed impulses ever
 described was that observed by a watchmaker, named Ellicott, in the
 year 1741. He set two clocks leaning against the same rail; one of
 them, which we may call A, was set going ; the other, B, not. Some
 time afterwards he found, to his surprise, that B was ticking also. The
 pendulums being of the same length the shocks imparted by the tick
 ing of A to the rail against which both clocks rested were propagated
 to B, and were so timed as to set B going. Other curious effects were
 at the same time observed. When the pendulums differed from each
 other a certain amount, A set B going, but the re-action of B stopped
 A. Then B set A going, and the re-action of A stopped B. If the
 periods of oscillation were close to each other, but still not quite alike,
 the clocks mutually controlled fach other, and by a kind of mutual
     But whatthey
 compromise         all thisin toperfect
                has ticked               unison.
                                   do with   our present subject ? They are
 mechanically identical. The varied actions of the universe are all

 394                             Professor Tyndall                    [June 7,
 modes of motion ; and the vibration of a ray claims strict brotherhood
 with the vibrations of our pendulum. Suppose ethereal waves striking
 upon atoms which oscillate in the same periods as the waves succeed
 each other, the motion of the waves will be absorbed by the atoms ;
 suppose we send our beam of white light through a sodium flame, the
 particles of that flame will be chiefly affected by those undulations
 which are synchronous with their own periods of vibration. There will
 be on the part of those particular rays a transference of motion from
 the agitated ether to the atoms of the volatilized sodium, which, as
 already defined, is absorption. We use glass screens to defend us
 from the heat of our fires ; how do they act ? Thus : —The heat ema
 nating from the fire is for the most part due to radiations which are
 incompetent to excite the sense of vision ; we call these rays obscure.
 Glass, though pervious to the luminous rays, is opaque in a high degree
 to those obscure rays, and cuts them off, while the cheerful light of the
 fire is allowed to pass. Now mark me clearly. The heat cut off from
 your person is to be found in the glass, the latter becomes heated and
 radiates towards your person ; what then is the use of the glass if it
 merely thus acts as a temporary halting-place for the rays, and sends
 them on afterwards. It does this:—It not only sends the heat it
 receives towards you, but scatters it also in all other directions round
 the room. Thus the rays which, were the glass not interposed, would
 be shot directly against your person, are for the most part diverted
 fromNow          our experiment.
        theirfororiginal              I pass
                         direction, and  you the
                                             are beam
                                                 preserved  the electric
                                                      from from          lamp
                                                                their impact.
 through the two prisms, and the spectrum spreads its colours upon the
screen. Between the lamp and the prism I interpose this snapdragon
light. Alcohol and water are here mixed up with a quantity of common
salt, and the metal dish that contains them is heated by a spirit-lamp.
 The vapour from the mixture ignites and we have this monochromatic
flame. Through this flame the beam from the lamp is now passing ;
and observe the result upon the spectrum. You see a dark band cut
out of the yellow,—not very dark, but sufficiently so to be seen by
 everybody present. Observe how the band quivers and varies in shade
as the amount of yellow light cut off by the unsteady flame varies in
amount. The flame of this monochromatic lamp is at the present
 moment casting its proper yellow light upon that shaded line ; and
more than this, it casts, in part, the light which it absorbs from the
electric lamp upon it ; but it scatters the greater portion of this light
in other directions, and thus withdraws it from its place upon the
screen, as the glass, in the case above supposed, diverted the heat of
the fire from your person. Hence the band appears dark ; not abso
lutely, but dark in comparison with the adjacent brilliant portions of
     spectrum.
the But   let me exalt this effect. I place in front of the electric lamp
the intense flame of a large Bunsen's burner. I have here a platinum
capsule into which I put a bit of sodium less than a pea in magnitude.
The sodium placed in the flame soon volatilizes and burns with bril

1861.]           on the Physical Basis of Solar Chemistry.             395
liant incandescence. Observe the spectrum. The yellow band is
clearly and sharply cut out, and a band of intense obscurity occupies
its place. I withdraw the sodium, the brilliant yellow of the spectrum
takes its proper place : I reintroduce the sodium and the black band
     Let me be more precise:—The yellow colour of the spectrum
appears.
extends over a sensible space, blending on one side into orange and on
the other into green. The term " yellow band " is therefore somewhat
indefinite. I want to show you that it is the precise yellow band
emitted by the volatilized sodium which the same substance absorbs.
By dipping the coal-point used for the positive electrode into a solu
tion of common salt, and replacing it in the lamp, I obtain that bright
yellow band which you now see drawn across the spectrum. Observe
the fate of that band when I interpose my sodium light. It is first
obliterated, and instantly that black streak occupies its place. See
how it alternately flashes and vanishes as I withdraw and introduce
     sodium
the And        flame ! that instead of the flame of sodium alone, I intro
            supposing
duce into the path of the beam a flame in which lithium, strontium,
magnesium, calcium, &c., are in a state of volatilization, each metallic
vapour would cut out its own system of bands, each corresponding
exactly in position with the bright band which that metal itself would
cast upon the screen. The light of our electric lamp then shining
through such a composite flame would give us a spectrum cut up by
dark lines, exactly as the solar spectrum is cut up by the lines of
     And hence we infer the constitution of the great centre of our
Fraunhofer.
system. The sun consists of a nucleus which is surrounded by a
flaming atmosphere. The light of the nucleus would give us a con
tinuous spectrum, as our common coal-points did ; but having to pass
through the photosphere, as our beam through the flame, those rays of
the nucleus which the photosphere can itself emit are absorbed, and
shaded spaces, corresponding to the particular rays absorbed, occur in
the spectrum. Abolish the solar nucleus, and we should have a
spectrum showing a bright band in the place of every dark line of
Fraunhofer. These lines are therefore not absolutely dark, but dark
by an amount corresponding to the difference between the light of the
nucleus intercepted by the photosphere, and the light which issues from
     latter.man to whom we owe this beautiful generalization is Kirchhoff,
the The
Professor of Natural Philosophy in the university of Heidelberg ;
but, like every other great discovery, it is compounded of various
elements. Mr. Talbot observed the bright lines in the spectra of
coloured flames. Sixteen years ago Dr. Miller gave drawings and de
scriptions of the spectra of various coloured flames. Wheatstone, with
his accustomed ingenuity, analyzed the light of the electric spark, and
showed that the metals between which the spark passed determined the
bright bands in the spectrum of the spark. Masson published a prize

 396                  General Monthly Meeting.                     [July 1,
 essay on these bands ; Van der Willigen, and more recently Pliicker,
have given us beautiful drawings of the spectra, obtained from the
discharge of Ruhmkorff's coil. But none of these distinguished men
betrayed the least knowledge of the connection between the bright
 bands of the metals and the dark lines of the solar spectrum. The
man who came nearest to the philosophy of the subject, was Angstrom.
In a paper translated from Poggendorff's " Annalen " by myself, and
published in the "Philosophical Magazine" for 1855, he indicates that
 the rays which a body absorbs are precisely those which it can emit
 when rendered luminous. In another place, he speaks of one of his
 spectra giving the general impression of reversal of the solar spectrum.
 Foucault, Stokes, and Thomson, have all been very close to the dis
 covery ; and, for my own part, the examination of the radiation and
 absorption of heat by gases and vapours, some of the results of which
 I placed before you at the commencement of this discourse, would
 have led me in 1859 to the law on which all Kirchhoff's speculations
 are founded, had not an accident withdrawn me from the investigation.
 But KirchhofFs claims are unaffected by these circumstances. True,
 much that I have referred to formed the necessary basis of his dis
 covery ; so did the laws of Kepler furnish to Newton the basis of the
theory of gravitation. But what Kirchhoff has done carries us far
 beyond all that had before been accomplished. He has introduced the
order of law amid a vast assemblage of empirical observations, and
has ennobled our previous knowledge by showing its relationship to
some of the most sublime of natural phenomena.
                                                                 [J. T.]
               GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, July 1, 1861.
  William Pole, Esq.     M.A.inBeckett,
                      William     the Chair.
                                 F.R.S.    Esq.
                                         Treasurer   and Vice-President,
                     Alexander John Ellis, Esq.
                      Hardinge Giffard, Esq. and
      elected Members
were admitted   Members
                     John
                     W.
                     Joseph
                          of
                          the
                       of H.Wells
                            Dobie,
                             the
                              Stone,
                              Neuberg,
                              Royal Wainwright,
                                     Esq.
                                      Institution.
                                  Royal  Institution.
                                          Esq.
                                       Esq.  and M.D.

1861.]                            General Monthly Meeting.                                  397
     The Secretary announced that the Fullerian Professorship of
Physiology was vacant, and that the Managers would appoint a
     The Presents
Professor     on May 12,          1862. since the last Meeting were laid on the
                            received
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
   Fromof Trade (through Capt. D. Gallon)—Report of Commissioners on Sub
Board
     marine
British       Telegraph
          Museum             Cables, Cuneiform
                    Trustees—The          fol. 1861.Inscriptions of Western Asia. Vol. I.
     Prepared for Publication by Sir H. C. Rawlinson and E. Norris, Esq. fol.
Astronomer
Asiatic
Arts,
Bavarian
Astronomical
     1861.
       Society
         Society
         Society,
            Academy,
              Royal—Report
               Society,
                  of
                   Royal—Journal,
                of—Journal,
                     Bengal—Journal,
                       Royal—Sitzungsberichte,
                          Royal—Monthly
                                 June
                                   on Greenwich
                                          Vol.No.
                                         1861.   Notices,
                                                    8vo.
                                                    280.
                                                XVIII.Observatory.
                                                          1861
                                                           8vo.
                                                           Part
                                                            May; 1860.
                                                                   1861.
                                                                       8vo.
                                                                       1861.8vo.
                                                                 2.Heftl.     1861.
Commissioners
Cornwall          in Lunacy—Eighteenth
           Polytechnic                            Report. 8vo. Annual
                          Society, Royal—Twenty-eighth                1861. Report. 8vo. 1860.
Editors—Artizan for June 1861. 4to.
   Athenaeum
   Chemical
   Journal
   Horological
   Medical
   Mechanics'
   Engineerof
   Practical Circular
              Mechanics'
              for
               News
               Gas-Lighting
                for
                Magazine
                 Journal,
                   June
                    June
                      forfor
                          1861.
                            June
                             1861.
                              Journal,
                              No.
                              June
                               for for
                                    June
                                    fol.
                                     1861.
                                    35.
                                      1861.
                                       4to.
                                        June
                                         for
                                          8vo.
                                           1861.
                                              June
                                               1861.
                                               8vo.1861.
                                              4to.   1861.
                                                        4to. 4to.
                                                     8vo.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XLII. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1861.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 2. 8vo. 1861.
Geological Society— Proceedings, May 1861. 8vo.
   Annual Report.
Geological                India—Memoirs.
             Survey of1859-60.          8vo.        Vol.11. Part 2. 8vo. 1860.
        Joseph,8vo.
Gill,Fluids.               (the Author)—Essay on the Thermo-Dynamics of Elastic
                  Esq. 1860.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 25. 8vo. 1861.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, No. 20, and 2nd Supplement to Botany. 8vo. 1861.
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, June 1861.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series) for June 1861. 8vo.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf der Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographie. 1861. No. 5. 4to. 1861.
Photographic
Poey,           Society—Journal,
        Andres (the  Author)—Catalogue                 8vo. 1860.des Tremblements de Terre
                                         No. 110.Chronologique
      ressentis dans les Indes Occidentales de 1530 k 1858. 8vo. 1858.
   Various Meteorological Papers (in French). 8vo and 4to. 1859-60.
   Relation Historique et Theorie des Images Photo-electriques de la Fondre.
     (A.D. 360-1860.) 16to. 1861.
Seguin, M. (the Author)—Origine et Propagation de la Force, Paris. 8vo. 1859.
   Considerations sur les Lois qui president a l'Accomplissement des Phenomcnes
     Naturelles, rapportes a l'Attraction Newtonienne. 8vo. Paris, 1861.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXIV. Part 2. 8vo. 1860.
     for Universal
 Vincent,                 of Library10th
           B. KeeperReference.                  {the Editor)—Haydn's
                                         R.I.Edition.                          Copies.) of Dates
                                                           8vo. 1861. (2Dictionary
 Whitecross, James W. Esq. (the Author)—Sketches and Characters; or, tbe
      Natural History of Human Intellects. 8vo. 1853.


i

         Hogal         Institution          of   ©reat Britain.
                                      1861.
 WilliamThe      GENERAL
             Pole,       Wm.
                         Monday,
                  Eev.Esq.   M.A.
                                H.MONTHLY
                                  inA.
                                    November
                                     F.R.S.
                                     theWentworth
                                           Chair. 4,MEETING,
                                                      1861.
                                              Treasurer    and Vice-President,
                                                       Bowyer,   M.A.
                             of the Royal
 was elected a MemberAlexander                Institution.
                                        J. Ellis,   Esq.
       admitted
 was The   Secretary
                  a Member
                        announced
                                of the     the Institution.
                                     thatRoyal   following arrangements had
 been made for the Lectures during the ensuing season : —
      Christmas Lectures.— Professor Tyndall —Six Lectures on
Light    (adapted
     Before         to a1862.—Professor
              Easter,     Juvenile Auditory).J. Marshall, F.R.S.—Twelve
     Rev.
     Professor
Lectures   on J.the
           A.   Tyndall,
                  D'Orsey—Five
                      Physiology
                             F.R.S.—Twelve
                                     of
                                     Lectures   on
                                                 Lectures
                                          the Senses.       on Heat.
                                                     the English   Language.
     H. F. Chohley,
     Professor           Esq.—Four Lectures
                 H. E. Roscoe—Three         Lectures
                                                  on National
                                                       on Spectrum    Analy
                                                                  Music.
sis.                          •
     After Easter.—C. T. Newton, Esq. —Four Lectures on the
History of Ancient Art ; illustrated by Examples in the British
     Rev. G. Butler—Three Lectures on the Art of the Last
Museum.
     Professor Lyon Playfair, C.B. F.R.S.—-Six Lectures on some
Century.
of the Chemical Arts, with reference to their Progress
BETWEEN THE TwO GREAT EXHIBITIONS OF 1851 AND 1862.
     Vol. III. (No. 35.)                                            2e

 400                              General Monthly Meeting.                                   [Nov. 4,
     Professor T. Anderson, M.D. F.R.S.E.—Seven Lectures on
 Agricultural, Chemistry.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
HerFromMajesty's Government (through Sir R. I. Murchison)—Memoirs of the
      Geological Survey :—
   Mineral Statistics for 1858. Part 2 ; and for 1860. 8vo. 1860-1.
   Geology of Parts of England and Scotland. 10 Parts. 8vo. 1860.
   Geology of Trinidad. 8vo. 1860.
   Iron Ores of Great Britain. Part 3. 8vo. 1861.
 Secretary of State for War (through Sir H. James)—Abstracts of the Principal
      Lines of Spirit-levelling in England and Wales. By Sir H. James. 2 vols.
     4to. 1861.
 Meterotogical Department of the Board of Trade (through Admiral Fitzroy)—
           Compiled by
      Meteorological         Admiral
                          Papers,           3, 5, 6,:—7, 8, 9, 10. 4to and 8vo. 1861.
                                     Nos.Fitzroy
      Barometer and Weather Guide. 8vo. 1861.
 Governor
     Passage-Table
      Barometer
Secretary   of the
               StateManual.
                    State
                       forand
                            India—
                            of  Arkansas,
                               Sailing
                                  8vo.Report
                                         Directions.
                                           1861.
                                              U.S.—Second
                                                 of Three(LSurveysReport
                                                                 13)   8vo.
                                                                        of of
                                                                            India.
                                                                               1861.
                                                                               the Geological      1861.
                                                                                    (P 5) fol. Recon
Agricultural
American
Actuaries,
     Vol.
      naissance
            V.Academy
              Institute
                Society,
                Nos.
                   of Arkansas.
                       1-29.
                          of—Assurance
                           of
                           Royal—Journal,
                                 8vo. 8vo.
                                Arts   and1859-60.
                                              Sciences—Proceedings,
                                              Magazine,
                                               1860.
                                                   No. 47. No.  8vo.     8vo.Vol.1861.
                                                                    44. 1861.        IV. Nos. 32-55.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 63. 8vo 1860.
     fromNeil,
Arnolt,           M.D. State
             the Savage                the Highest
                            F.R.S.to 'M.S.I,       (the Civilization
                                                          Author)—Survey        of Human
                                                                        yet attained.            1861.
                                                                                         8vo.Progress,
Arts, Society of—Journal, July to October 1861. 8vo.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 281. 8vo. 1861.
Asiatic Society, Soyal—Journal, Vol. XIX. Parti. 8vo. 1861.
   Memoirs, Vol.
Astronomical          XXIX'.
                Socieli),          4to. 1861. Notices, No. 9. 1861.
                            Royal—Monthly
Bavurian Academy, Royal—Sitzungsberichte, 1861 ; Heft 2, 3. 8vo.
     VIII.
Boston        Nos. 1-4.
         Natural     Historu8vo.      1860-1.
                                Society,   U.S.—Proceedings, Vol. VII. Nos. 16-28. Vol.
British
     4to.Architects,
Botfield,    1861. Esq.
            Beriah,     SoyalM.P.Institute
                                       F.R.S.     M.R.I, read
                                             of—Papers       (the in   Session 1860-1. of
                                                                     Author)—Notices            1861.
                                                                                          4to.Libraries.
British Association for the Advancement of Science—Report of the 30th Meeting,
      Ik Id at Oxford, 1860. 8vo. 1861.
 Chemical
      1860. Society—Quarterly
 Corporation    of the City of London  Journal,
                                             i Supplement
                                                   Nos. 54, 55.        8vo.Library
                                                                  to the       1861. Catalogue. 8vo.
      Watches.
 Denirnn,             Esq. Q.C.
             E. B. 12mo.        1861. F.S.S.—Appendix to his Treatise on Clocks and
 Dove. H. (the Author)—Meteorological Papers on North Germany. 4to. 1859-61.
 Editors— American Journal of Science, by B. Silliman, &c. for July and Septem
      ber 1861
   Artizan   for July8vo.to October 1861. 4to.
   Horological
   Engineer
   Athenseum
   Chemicaloffor
   Journal      News
                 Gas-Lighting
                  for
                   Journal,
                    July
                      July
                        fortoJuly
                             toOctober
                               No.
                                 October
                                   for
                                    36-39.
                                    to October
                                         1861.
                                        July    to
                                             1861.
                                                8vo.
                                                   October
                                                    1861.
                                                    fol.4to.    1861. 4to.
                                                          1861.4to.

1861.]                             General Monthly Meeting.                                             401
   Mechanics' Magazine for July to October 1861. 8vo.
   Medical Circular for July to October 1861. 8vo.
   Practical Mechanics' Journal for July to October 1861. 4to.
   St. James's Medley, No. 27. 1861. Svo.
   Technologist, July to October 1861. 8vo.
      Abhandlungen,
Faraday,      Professor, 1859,D.C.L.1860.     4to. 1861.
                                         F.S.S.—Akademie            der Wissenschaften zu Berlin:
   Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien : Math.-Nat. Classe : Denkschriften.
          Sitzungsberichte,
       Band    XIX. 4to. 1861.    1861. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XL1II. Nos. 1,2, 3. 8vo. 1861.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. V. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1861.
Gibb, G. D.,
Geological          M.D. (the Author)—On
                Society—Journal,                     8vo. 1861.
                                        No. 67. Canadian          Caverns. (K 87) 8vo. 1861.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 1. Svo. 1860.
       and on Dropsy.
Goodfellow,      S. J., M.D.      M.R.I,
                               12mo.         (the Author)—Lectures on Diseases of the Kidney
                                          1861.
Greenwich Observatory, Royal—Greenwich Observations for 1859. 4to. 1861.
Guidi,     M. Luigi
       ultimo             (the Author)—Lavori
                 quinquennio.        (K 87) 8vo. dell'       Accademia Agraria di Pesaro nell'
                                                         1861.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Proceedings, Nos. 26-29. 8vo. 1861.
       Second Edwin,
Lanhester,        Course. M.D.          1861. M.R.I, (the Author)—Lectures on Food.
                               16to. F.R.S.
Locke, John,
Unman               Esq. (the Author)—
             Society—Proceedings,               21 . 8vo. 1 Discoveries
                                           No. Remarkable       80 1 .             in Central Australia.
       Svo.
       &c. Sir
Lubbock,        1861.
               Part    10. W.8vo.Bart.1860.
                    John                  F.R.S. (the Author)—On the Theory of the Moon,
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist, "July to October 1861.
Montagu,
Medical       M. Chirurgical
       1861.and     Esq. M.R.I,Society
                                     (the Author^—Fifty
                                             of London, Royal   more    Sonnets. 8vo.
                                                                    —Proceedings,              III. No. 6.
                                                                                         Vol. 1861.
       at the
Miiller,    Max,RoyalM.A. Institution
                             (the A nthor)—
                                        of Great
                                               Lectures              Science
                                                    Britainoninthe1861.               1861.
                                                                            8vo.of Language      : delivered
       Geographical
Murchison,       Sir R. I.,    D.C.L.May
                           Society.        F.R.S.
                                               27, M.R.I,
                                                    1861. Svo.         1861.
                                                              (the Author)—Address             to the Royal
 Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series) for July to October 1861. 8vo.
 Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf der Gesammtgebiete der
       Geographic 1861. Nos. 6-9. 4to. 1861.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 111-114. 8vo. 1860.
Roma : Accademia de' Nuovi Lincei—Atti : Anno XIII. Sess. 3, 4. fol. I860.
 St.Bulletins,
Royal   1861.
          Society
           Society
      Petersburg  Tome
                     Academy
                     ofofLondon—Proceedings,
                           II. etofTome
                                    Sciences—Memoires,
                                            III. NosNos.
                           Literature—Transactions.     1-5.2nd
                                                            44,Tome
                                                                 45,
                                                                   Series.
                                                                4to.   46.III.
                                                                          1860-1.
                                                                               8vo.
                                                                                Vol.
                                                                                  Nos.VII.
                                                                                         2-9. Part
                                                                                        1861.           8vo.
                                                                                                4to.1. 1860.
Saxonto
Savory,1861.
          Society
            the
             W. InorganicSciences,
                  S. ofEsq.   F.R.S.
                                 Kingdom.
                                    Royal—Abhandlungen.
                                        (the Author)—Relation
                                                 A Lecture at 6 the     Parts.
                                                                       of   the
                                                                             Royal
                                                                                 Vegetable
                                                                                    4to.Institution.
                                                                                               and Animal
                                                                                           1860-1.      8vo.
    Berichte,
Smith,    Edward,       M.D. 8vo.
                  6 Parts.                 (the Author)—Physiological Papers :—On Respira
                                 F. R.S.1860-1.
       tion ; and
 Smithsonian          ou Diet, Tea,
                   Institution,          Alcohol,U.S.—Smithsonian
                                   Washington,       &c. 8vo. 1857-61.         Contributions to Know
       ledge. Vol. XII. 4to. 1860.
 Taylor,
    Smithsonian
 Statistical         W.,
                      Reports,
             Rev.Society—Journal,
                           F.R.S.1859.
                                     M.R.I,
                                         Vol.    (the1860.
                                            8vo.XXIV.      Tart 3. 8vo.. G.1860.
                                                        Translator)—S                Knie, Guide to the
        Education and Management of Blind Children. 16to. 1861.
                                                                                            2 e2

402                               General Monthly Meeting.                                  [Dec. 2,
      Gases.Professor
 Tyndall,                 (the Author)—On
                (Phil. Trans.     1861.) 4to. the1861.   Absorption and Radiation of Heat by
   On Experimental Physics. A Lecture. 8vo. 1861.
 United Service Institution, Royal— Journal, Nos. 16 -18. 8vo. 1861.
 United States Patent Office.— Report for 1859. Mechanics. 2 vols, 8vo. 1860.
 Vereins zur Bejorderuny des Gewerhfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Marz und
      April, Mai und Juni. 4to. 1861.
      Constructive
 Weale,   Mr. John (the        published by him. Notices
                       Arts,Author}—Statistical                         Works1861.
                                                          1822-61.of 8vo.         on the Fine and the
   Report
      8vo. John,
 Webster,       Murray's
           on1860.  M.D. F.R.S.
                              Lunatic (the
                                         Asylum,     Perth. 8to.
                                               Author)—On               1861. Hospital at Granada.
                                                                  the Leper
    Report on Sussex County Lunatic Asylum. 8vo. 1861.
 Westminster, the Dean of (the Editor)—Journal of a Visit to Germauy in 1 798-1800.
      (Not published.)
William          Pole,
                     GENERAL
                        Rev.
                        James  16to.
                                Monday,
                                George
                             Esq.   Eass,
                                      M.A.
                                         1861.
                                            in
                                            MONTHLY
                                               Bowes
                                                December
                                                F.R.S.
                                                 the Chair.
                                              Esq.         Macilwain,
                                                            Treasurer
                                                                2, MEETING, and "Vice-President,
                                                                     1861. B.A.
wereThe      Presents
        elected         David
                    Members   received
                                    Ricardo,
                                     of thesince   Esq.
                                                Royal       last Meeting were laid on the
                                                      the Institution.
table,
Bidder,
   From
Actuaries,
     of the
         and
          George
             Institute
              Proceedings
                        Esq.
                          of—of
                theP.thanks    Jun.
                               Assurance
                                 ofCivil
                                      the
                                      (theEngineers.)
                                           Members
                                            Author)—
                                              Magazine,     8vo.
                                                            No.
                                                             National
                                                         Onreturned
                                                                  45.1861.
                                                                        for
                                                                        Defences.
                                                                         8vo. the1861.
                                                                                     (From
                                                                                   same     Vol. XX.
                                                                                         : viz.
        Hue, Mars,
De laPlanet    Warren,as seen
                            Esq.byF.R.S.
                                      a Newtonian
                                              M.R.I, Equatorial,       April 20, Engravings
                                                         (the Author)—Two          1856.       of the
   Artizan
      8vo. for November
Editors—American                1861.of 4to.
                           Journal         Science, by B. Silliman, &c. for November 1861.
  Journal
  Practical
  Medical
  Technologist
  St.
  Mechanics'
   Horological
   Engineer
   Athenamm
   Chemical
       James's
             of
              Circular
               Mechanics'
               for
               News
                 Gas-Lighting
                  Medley,
                  Magazine
                  for
                   Journal,
                    for
                    November
                        for
                      November
                         November
                          forNovember
                              No.
                               No.
                               November
                               Journal
                               for 1861.
                                    for
                                    November
                                     40.
                                   28.  1861.
                                         November
                                          for
                                      1861.
                                          1861.
                                            1861.
                                            8vo.
                                             fol.
                                              1861.
                                               November
                                                4to.
                                                  8vo.
                                                    8vo.
                                                     1861.
                                                      4to.
                                                       8vo.
                                                   1861.      1861.
                                                        1861.8vo.4to. 4to.

1861.]                            General Monthly Meeting.                                     403
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Academie der Wissenschaften. Wien :
     No. 3, 4, 5.Classe.
   Math.-Nat.                  Sitzungsberichte,
                      Abtheilung                        6, 7. 8vo.
                                      II. No. 3, 5, 1860.        No. 29. 1S61. Abtheilung I.
   Memorie della
   Almanach           Reale Accademie
                fur 1861.      12to.          delle Scienze di Torino. IP Serie. Tome XIX.
      4to. Institute
Franklin     1861. of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XLIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1861.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 5. 8vo. 1861.
Geological
Hamel,        J. (the Author)—Bishop
          Dr.Society—Journal,                     8vo. and
                                      No. 68. Watson      1861.the Electric Telegraph. (O 10)
      16to. Sir
Hamilton,         Charles J., Bart. C.B. M.R.I.—Lieut.-Col. W. Congreve on Mount
              1861.
     ing Naval Ordnance. 4to. 1811.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 30. 8to. 1861.
     Shakespeare's
Jervis,  Swynfen, Esq. Plays.
                          M.R.I,       87) Author)—Proposed
                                  (K(the       8vo. 1861.           Emendations of the Text of
     RussieA.: 1858.
Kupffer,                    vols. 4to. 1861. de l'Observatoire Physique Central de
                T. (the 2Director)—Annales
   Comptes Eendus, 1859, 1860. 4to.
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist for November 1861.
     Organ.Edmund,
Macrory,                Esq. M.A.
                2nd Edition.           M.R.I,1861.
                                   12mo.          (the Author)— A. Few Notes on the Temple
Mechanical Engineers' Institution; Birmingham—Proceedings, 1849-61. 8vo.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series) for November 1861. 8vo.
North of England Institute of Mining Engineers—Transactions, Vol. IX. 8vo. 1861.
     du H.R.H.
Paris,              d'unCount
          Journal the     Voyageof, M.R.I,
                                      en Syrie(the
                                                 au printemps    de 1860. et 8vo.
                                                     Author}—Damas                   1861. Extraits
                                                                              le Liban.
     Geographie.
Pelermann,     A. Esq.1861.       Editor)—Mittheilungen
                           (the No.    10. 4to. 1861.             auf der Gesammtgebiete der
   Dr.
Philadelphia,
   Proceedings
     of
      1828-37.
        W.
         theRuschenberger—Notice
             Academy.
                  Academy
                   for 1857-61.
                             8vo.
                              of Naturalvols.of Sciences—Journal,
                                     51860.      8vo.Origin, Progress,
                                                 the                               and VII.
                                                                      Vols.andVI.Present       8vo.
                                                                                         Condition
   Act of Incorporation
   Catalogue   of HumanofCrania          in the Society's
                                the Academy.                  Museum. By J. A. Meigs. 8vo.
                                                      8vo. 1857.
Photographic
Royal   SocietySociety—Journal,
     1857.       of London—Philosophical             8vo. 1860. for 1860, Part II. ; for 1861,
                                        No. 115. Transactions
     Parti.
Royalat  Hobarton,
        Society  of Tasmania—Results
                4to.   1861. 4to. 1861. of Twenty Years' Meteorological Observations
                      1841.
Upsal Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta. 3e Serie. Vol. III. 4to. 1861.
     Arsskrift. 8vo. 1861.

404                           Professor Tyndall                           [Jan. 17,
                                      1862.
                    John
       The Rev.SPECIAL      Barlow,
                         Monday, GENERAL
                                     January
                                        M.A. 13,  MEETING,
                                                     1862.Vice-President,
                                                F.R.S.,
     The following Address to         the Chair.
                                  in Her    Majesty the Queen, in reference
to the decease of H.R.H. the Prince Consort, Vice-Patron of the
Royal Institution, on December 14th, 1861, was read and unanimously
adopted :— " To the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty :
     " May it please Your Majesty,
        " We, the Members of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, respectfully
desire to express to Your Majesty our grief for the loss which has fallen upon the
Kingdom, upon our Institution, and, with exceeding weight, upon Your Majesty
personally.
    " May it please God, who grants consolation in His own due time, to give it to
Your Majesty, even while Your thoughts are directed towards Him that is gone,
and may the recollection of our Prince's doings whilst in life, have an abiding
influence for good upon the many millions who have heard of and rejoiced in His
name."            WEEKLY         EVENING
                           Friday,                  1862.
                                     January 17, MEETING,
 Sir Henby Holland,            Bart.
                       John Tyndall,
                                   in the
                                       M.D.Chair.
                                            F.R.S.
                                              D.C.L.      &c. Vice-President,
                                                     &c.F.R.S.
               PROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
      On the Absorption
 Resuming     with a new and apparatus
                                  Radiation
                                          his experiments    on the influence
                                              of Heat by Gaseous         Matter. of
 Chemical Combination on the Absorption and Radiation of Heat by
 Gases, the speaker, in the investigation of which the evening's dis

1862.]         on the Absorption and Radiation of Heat, tfc.               405
course would be a risumi, first examines the deportment of chlorine
as compared with hydrochloric acid, and of bromine as compared
with hydrobromic acid, and finds that the act of combination which
in each of these two cases notably diminishes the density of the gas
and renders the coloured gas perfectly transparent to light, renders it
more opaque for obscure heat. He also draws attention to the fact
that sulphur, which is partially opaque to light, is transparent to 54
per cent, of the rays issuing from a source of 100 C. while its com
pound, heavy spar, which is sensibly transparent to light, is quite
opaque to the rays from a source of 100 C. He demonstrates, in
confirmation of Melloni, the transparency of lampblack in thin layers ;
but shows how irreconcilable its deportment to radiant heat is with
the idea generally prevalent at the present day, that lampblack ab
          his of
sorbsAllheat      all kinds with
               experiments   with thegases
                                         same
                                           have  been repeated with a different
                                               intensity.
source of heat, and he finds the result still more pronounced than
formerly, that the compound gases far transcend the elementary ones
in absorptive power. Taking air as unity, ammonia, at 30 inches
tension, is 1195, this latter figure representing all the heat that issued
from the source. A layer of ammonia, 3 feet long, is perfectly black
to heat emanating from an obscure source. The coloured gases,
 chlorine and bromine, though much superior in absorptive power to
 the transparent elementary gases, are exceeded in this respect by
 every compound gas that has been hitherto examined. When, instead
 of tensions of 30 inches, we compare tensions of 1 inch, the differences
 between the gases come out still more strikingly. At this tension,
 for example, the absorption of sulphurous acid is eight thousand times
       of air.
 thatThe    speaker also referred to a new and extensive series of ex
 periments on the Absorption of Radiant Heat by Vapours. The least
 energetic, as before, he finds to be bisulphide of carbon; the most
 energetic, boracic ether. He shows that the absorption of the latter
 vapour (which is quite transparent) at 0*1 of an inch of tension
 is 600 times the absorption of the densely coloured vapour of bromine,
 whileThe   all probability
         in speaker   was leditbyis a186,000
                                      series of
                                              times  that of air.
                                                 perplexing  experiments, which
  are fully described in a Memoir recently presented to the Royal
  Society, to the solution of the following remarkable and at first sight
 utterly paradoxical problem — " To determine the absorption and
 radiation of a gas or vapour without any source of heat external
  to the gaseous body itself."
      When air enters a vacuum it is heated by the stoppage of its
 motion ; when a vessel containing air is exhausted by an air-pump,
 chilling is produced by the application of a portion of the heat of the air
 to generate vis viva. Let us call the heating in the first case dynamic
 heating, and the chilling in the second case dynamic chilling. Let us
  further call the radiation of a gas which has been heated dynamically,
  dynamic radiation, and the absorption of a gas which has been chilled
                                       •

 406 Prof. Tyndall on Absorption and Radiation of Heat, Sfc. [Jan. 17,
 dynamically, dynamic absorption. Placing a thermo-electric pile at
 the end of his experimental tube, the latter being exhausted, the gas
 to be examined is permitted to enter the tube ; the gas is heated, and
 if it possess any sensible radiative power, the pile will receive its
 radiation, and the galvanometer connected with the pile will de
        it.
 clareProceeding    in this way with gases, Professor Tyndall found that
 the radiation thus manifested, and which was sometimes so intense as
 to urge the needle of the galvanometer through an arc of more than
 sixty degrees, followed the exact order of the absorptions which he had
 already determined. After the heat of the radiating column of gas
 had wasted itself, the air-pump was worked at a certain rate, the
 rarefied gas within the tube became chilled, and the face of the pile
 turned towards the chilled gas became correspondingly lowered in
 temperature. The dynamic absorptions of various gases were thus
 determined, and they were found to go strictly hand in hand with the
     In the
 dynamic       case of vapours the following method was pursued. A
            radiation.
 quantity of the vapour sufficient to depress the mercury column 0*5 of
 an inch was admitted into the tube, and this was heated dynamically
by allowing dry air to enter till the tube was filled. The radiation of
the vapours thus determined followed exactly the same order as the
absorption which had already been measured. The dynamic absorp
tion of the vapour was obtained by pumpirig out in the manner just
described, and it was found to follow the same order as the dynamic
radiation. In these experiments the air bore the same relationship to
the vapour that a polished silver surface does to a coat of varnish laid
over it. Neither the silver nor the air, both of which are elements or
mixtures of elements, possesses the power of agitating in any marked
degree the luminiferous ether. But the motion of the silver being
communicated to the varnish, and the motion of the air being commu
nicated to the vapour, molecules are agitated which have the power
of disturbing, in a very considerable degree, the ether in which they
     The speaker finds by strict experiments that the dynamic radia
swing.
tion of an amount of boracic ether vapour, possessing a tension of only
ToHs'ooooo^ of an atmosphere is easily measurable. He also shows
and explains the fact that with a tube 33 inches long, the dynamic
radiation of acetic ether considerably exceeds that of olefiant gas ;
while in a tube 3 inches long, the dynamic radiation of olefiant gas
considerably exceeds that of the ether. Aqueous vapour has been
subjected to a special examination, and Professor Tyndall finds it a
common fact for the aqueous vapour contained in the atmosphere to
exercise 60 times the absorption of the air itself. The further he has
pursued his attempts to obtain perfectly pure and dry air, the more
has the air approached the character of a vacuum. He further points
to the possibility of determining the temperature of space by direct
experiment.

 r
1862.]          Prof. Rolleston on the Brain ofMan, $c.               407
    Scents of various kinds have been examined. Dry air was passed
over bibulous paper moistened by the essential oils, and carried into
the experimental tube. Small as the amount of matter here entering
the tube is known to be, it was found that the absorption of radiant
heat by those odours varies from 30 times to 372 times that of the air
which formed the vehicle. The speaker remarked that the absorption
of terrestrial rays by the odour of a flower-bed may exceed in amount
that of the entire oxygen and nitrogen of the atmosphere above the
bed.Ozone has also been subjected to examination. The substance was
obtained by the electrolysis of water, and from decomposing cells con
taining electrodes of various sizes. Calling the action of the ordinary
oxygen, which entered the experimental tube with the ozone unity, the
absorption of the ozone itself was in six different experiments,—21, 36,
47, 65, 85, 136. The augmenting action of the ozone accompanied
the diminution of the size of the electrodes used in the decomposing
cells. Professor Tyndall points out the perfect correspondence of
these last results with those of M. Meidinger by a totally different
                 WEEKLY
method of experiment.             January 24,MEETING,
                        Friday,EVENING            1862.         [J. T.]
      The Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                      George Rolleston, M.D.
                    LINACRE PROFES80R OF PHYSIOLOGY, OXFORD.
 On the Affinities and Differences between the Brain of Man and the
                       Brains of certain Animals.
The speaker having commenced by giving a short explanation of his
diagrams of human and other brains, proceeded to enumerate the several
sets of opinions which men might bring with them to an investigation
of his subject. It was possible to combine either view of the origin
of species with either of the two creeds of the idealist or of the
materialist ; and to the four sets of opinions thus made up, a fifth—
that of Positivism—must be added. It was not asserted that these
conflicting theories could all be true simultaneously ; but the facts to
be detailed were elastic enough to bear compression within any one of
those formulae.

408                      Professor Rolleston on the                 [Jan. 24,
     Beginning with the internal anatomy of the brains which he had to
compare and contrast, the speaker said that the question as between
man and the ape might be stated thus :—Has the ape such a biradiate,
two-horned ventricular cavity within its brain as has the dog, or has it
not rather such a one as has man himself, triradiate and three-horned?
By the aid of drawings of dissected brains of the dog, of an old-world
and of a new-world monkey, and of man, it was seen that the interior
of the simious brain was even more pre-eminently a three-horned
cavity than was that of the human brain ; and that the new-world
monkey contrasted with man to even greater advantage in this, and the
disputed point of the closely-allied hippocampus minor, than did the
much more anthropomorphous old-world ape. Tiedemann's retracta
tion of his error as to the processus digitati of the greater hippocampus
was alluded to ; the speaker insisting that though such discoveries
and rectifications might seem of weight and consequence to persons
imbued, as was Tiedemann, with materialistic views, they possessed no
     Certain anatomical
anthropological            whatever
                  interestplates      for the idealist.
                                  of Eustachius',  published some 150 years
ago, were shown to give representations of the interior of the human
brain which coincided in all points with figures of the interior of the
brain of the orang, which had been published within the current month
     Passing,
by two          anatomists,
         Dutchthen,   from thein the
                                  anatomy
                                     Englishof' the
                                                 Natural  History
                                                     internal     Review.'
                                                              to that of the
external surface of the brain, the speaker said that the points of agree
ment and of difference upon which he should have to dwell could be
arranged under two heads—either they were such as the eye could
judge of even though its owner were not an anatomist ex professo,
depending as they did upon general outline and configuration ; or they
were such as a deeply-going analysis of the convolutions alone could
     Under the first head were enumerated the more elegantly ovoidal
elicit.
and tapering shape, the more accurate semicircularity of the superior,
and the irregularity of the inferior boundary line, as signs of defect
and diminishment in the ape's brain ; but the outcropping of the
cerebellum from beneath the overlying cerebral hemispheres, which
had been so much insisted upon as a distinctive mark of the inferiority
of the simious encephalon, was shown to depend largely upon the
changes of relative position which the several masses of nervous matter,
comprised under the one term " encephalon," undergo when they are
     The absolute
removed             necessity
           from their          of comparing
                       supporting   brain-case.the configuration and propor
tions of brains preserved in spirits with the configuration and propor
tions of plaster-casts of the cavities they occupied during life, was
dwelt upon with special reference to Mr. Marshall's observations upon
this point in the 1 Natural History Review ' for July, J 861. It was in
the gorilla alone of the Simiadae that M. Gratiolet (' Comptes Rendus,'
 1 860, p. 803) had found the posterior cerebral lobes doing otherwise
than "recouvrant completement le cervelet;" and it was this peculi

1S62.]       Brain of Man and the Brains of certain Animals.              409
arity, together with other characteristics of its encephalon and other
structures, which had induced him to speak of it as " the last, the most
degraded of all the anthropomorphous apes ; " and to class it with the
baboons, whilst he ranked the chimpanzee with the macaques, and the
orang      lastthe
     Thewith        gibbons.
                 point of general configuration and measurement in which
the simious was contrasted with the human brain was that of their
several altitudes ; and it was shown that whilst men differed but little
inter se as to the height of their brains, it was precisely in this very
dimension that they differed, perhaps more widely than in any other,
       all apes
fromAfter         whatsoever.
              expressing   his sense of the obligations which anatomy owed
to M. Gratiolet's analysis of the cerebral convolutions, the speaker
proceeded to give in detail the points of resemblance and of contrast
which that analysis had enabled us to detect as subsisting between
human or simious brains. The chief points in which, under this head,
the human was seen to contrast to advantage with the ape's brain were
two. First : The absence in man of " the external perpendicular
fissure," or, in other words, the filling up in him of what is more or
less of a chasm in the ape, by a large quadrangular mass of convolu
tions. Second : The much greater size and complexity of the frontal
 lobes. But it was shown that these differences affected what have
 been called " secondary " and " tertiary " convolutions, and indeed
 the latter of these chiefly, whilst the " primary" convolutions, the
 great typical lines and ridges, were the same in both classes of brains.
 The apparatus for the mechanical, (and possibly also physiological,)
 unification of the hemispheres, which is known as the corpus callosum,
 was stated to have in man just double the sectional area which it had
 in the apes ; whilst the very lowest weight which an adult and healthy
 human encephalon was recorded to have fallen to, was yet double, and
 more than double, of the very highest which had ever been attained
      Theweighing
 in the     results of   an ape's
                      of the       brain. investigation were summed up thus.
                             anatomical
 " This doubly and more than doubly greater weight, the doubly
 greater corpus callosum, that subquadrate lobule, lettered a. and /8 in
 the diagram, those complexly convoluted frontal lobes, 1, 2, and 3, are,
 I believe, the four great points in which the human brain asserts its
      The metaphysical
 superiority                       ape."
                over that ofortheanthropological  bearings of the investigation
 might be summed up thus. How similar soever the simious might
 be shown to be to the human brain, the argument which Bossuet drew
  thence for the essential difference between mind and matter, would
  but be rendered the stronger. If organs are common to man and to
  brutes, one is necessarily forced to the conclusion that intelligence is
  not attached to organs ; and the cogency of this argument, M. St.
  Hilaire remarks, increases as the number of organs, common to the
  two subjects of comparison, becomes more numerous and their resem
  blance more striking.

 410                         Mr. W. Hopkins                        [Jan. 31,
      The anatomist, however, though not obliged to concede, could yet
 afford to argue upon, the assumption that mind and matter always
 vary concomitantly. For, granting this, it by no means followed, that,
 of the two terms of the comparison, mind was the second, body the
 first. The effects of prolonged mental states of different natures, the
 operation of education in marring or in elevating the physical
 features, the instinctive value which we all give to physiognomy,
 whether before us in actuality, or reproduced and preserved for us
 by art, as affording indications of character, were glanced at as lines
 of evidence to show that the mind might modify, whilst the body was
 adapted ; that the immaterial might fashion, whilst the corporal was
 conformed into accordance with it. " All alike, when coldly and
 dispassionately viewed as concomitantly varying phenomena, lead us
 to hold that our higher and diviner life is not a mere result of the
 abundance of our convolutions. How harmony may have come to
 exist between them our faculties are incompetent either to decide or
 to discover ; but this shortcoming of man's intelligence affects neither
 his duties nor his hopes, neither his fears nor his aspirations."
                                                                 [G. E.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                      Friday, January 31, 1862.
     Wiiliam Pole, M.A. F.E.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                           the Motion
              WilliamOnHopkins,             Gloxiers.
                                    Esq.ofM.A.    F.E.S. &c.
In the introductory part of this discourse Mr. Hopkins insisted on the
necessity of a more exact definition of terms, and more accurate
modes of mechanical reasoning than those which had too often charac
terized the discussion of glacial phenomena. Nor had careful experi
mental investigations respecting the properties of ice been adequately
appreciated in laying the foundations of theories of glacial motion,
till the experiments of Mr. Faraday and Dr. Tyndall reminded us
how defective and erroneous might be our conceptions on this subject
without the guidance of such careful research. These experiments
had revealed to us a property of ice, that of regelation, of which we
were previously entirely unconscious, though it is now probably re
cognized by nearly all glacialists as the fundamental property by

 1862.]                  on the Motion of Glaciers.                      411
 means of which a glacier preserves both the continuity of its motion
 and that of its mass in a degree with which the external conditions
 under which it is placed might, at first sight, appear to be totally
 inconsistent. Attempts had been made to confound the explanation of
 glacial motion which rests on the property of regelation, with that
 afforded by the property of the assumed viscosity of ice according to
 the viscous theory. The speaker first endeavoured to remove this
 vague and erroneous impression by a more careful definition of the
 term viscous, as expressing a determinate property of the aggregates of
 material particles which constitute bodies. He remarked that any
 body might, in a greater or less degree, be extended by tension, com
 pressed by pressure, or angularly distorted by forces acting in couples.
 The same might be asserted of every indefinitely small element of the
 body, the volume of which would be increased, and its density
 diminished by tension, and the opposite effects would be produced by
 pressure, while the forces acting as couples would distort or twist the
 element without changing its volume or density. It might be said in
 general terms that, if the force required to produce any of these
 changes of volume or form in the elements composing the body were
 comparatively large, the body was solid; if the required force were
 much smaller, the body might be termed plastic, or if smaller still,
 viscous or semifluid. Rigidity would be the limit of solidity, and
perfectfluidity, that of imperfect fluidity, two limits which of course
 were never attained in nature, since in the first case an infinite force
 would be required to produce any relative displacements of the con
 stituent particles ; and in the second, such displacement might be pro
 duced by a force which should be infinitely small. Such definitions,
 however, would be far too vague and indeterminate for our immediate
 purpose. If we would designate by any of these terms determinate
 properties of a body, we must endeavour to give to the definitions of
 them a degree of determinateness corresponding to that required in
 the properties to be expressed. When a body, or each of its com
 ponent elementary portions, was affected by pressures or tensions as
 above described, such pressures or tensions, whether acting externally
 or internally, were called forces of displacement. If such forces were
 of sufficient magnitude, they would of course dislocate the mass on
 which they acted ; but in these definitions they were not supposed
 sufficient to produce any kind of dislocation, but only a distortion
 from the forms which the body or its component elements would have,
 if acted on by no external forces whatever. When thus distorted,
 every element of the mass would exert a certain force to regain its
 undistorted form and position. This force was usually termed the
force of restitution ; in its greatest limit it would be equal to, but was in
 fact always less than the force of displacement. The ratio (less than
 unity) which it bore to the former force, measured what is termed the
 elasticity of the mass. But it was to be observed that this property of
 a body might not only be different at different points of it, if the body
 were not homogeneous, but that it might be different at the same point

412                          Mr. W. Hopkins                      [Jan. 31,
for different modes of displacement. Thus if the body, or any of its
elements, were compressed, the elasticity developed might not be the
same as if it were extended, or as if it were twisted or contorted
without a change of volume. Thus hard bodies, like wood, metal,
stone, &c., would usually exhibit nearly the same amount of elasticity
whether they were compressed or extended, provided the compression
or extension should not exceed certain small limits. On the contrary,
semifluid masses generally exert a large force of restitution when
under compression, but a very small one when extended, i. e. in the
former case the elasticity developed is very large, in the latter it is
very small. And again, if a semifluid mass, such as soft paste for
instance, or any portion of it, were angularly distorted without altera
tion of volume, it would exhibit but a small amount of elasticity, and
little or no tendency to regain its original form and position. More
over, in the class of substances first mentioned, such as wood, metal,
&c., the cohesive power was very great, while it was manifestly small
     With
in the      the preceding preliminary observations, it was easy to define
        others.
with the required degree of exactness the terms solid and plastic, or
viscous. When a substance admitted of only a small extension without
being dislocated, and of only a small compression without being
crushed, and having its structure destroyed ; when its cohesion as
opposing direct tension or torsion was comparatively great, as well as
its power of resistance to direct pressure ; and also, when the elasticity
developed by each of the three displacements or changes of form
above described—then might such a substance be emphatically called
solid. To define the term plastic, it was most simple to conceive the
form of the mass, or of its elements to be changed by angular distor
tion alone without any change of volume. In such case, if the cohesive
power resisting this change should be small, and the elasticity developed
by it should become sensibly = zero ; and if, moreover, the substance
should be able to bear any number of repetitions of this change of
form, and therefore an indefinite elongation without rupture and dis
location—then might it be emphatically termed plastic. In all such
substances in nature, the force of displacement for the change of form
here described would always be small. Viscosity might be regarded,
so far as we were directly concerned with these properties, as a higher
degree of plasticity. A viscous body would differ from a plastic one
only so far as the required force of displacement should be smaller.
Tar, soft paste, and fluid lava afforded obvious examples of plastic or
viscous substances. When the relative positions of their component
particles were disturbed they exhibited no sensible elasticity, and
made no effort to regain the position from which they had been dis
turbed. They admitted of any degree of elongation without change of
    The or
volume       discontinuity
          most             character
                important in         of plasticity was the absence of all
                             their mass.
elasticity when the particles of a body were displaced without change
of volume, and the consequent capability of an indefinite extension of

1862.]                    on the Motion of Glaciers.                         413
the mass without dislocation. So far this property was as definite as
that of fluidity. In nature the cohesive power of plastic bodies was
generally comparatively small, but this was a less definite and less
important character than the other. With respect to ice, the question
before us was this : Is glacial ice a solid or a plastic substance, accord
ing to the definitions which had just been given of those terms ?
Whether others might agree to those definitions or not was immaterial,
for they were here used to denote the exact properties which they had
been defined to express. Taking them in this sense, it would seem
to be impossible to say that ice was not distinctly solid. It breaks into
an indefinite number of fragments when crushed, and will bear only
a small elongation without fracture. But these were the properties
of a solid, and those which are directly antagonistic to the properties
which could alone justify our designating any proposed substance as
    It would
plastic,           a violation
         withoutseem   not improbable,
                                of all the Mr.
                                           strictness
                                                Hopkins    proceeded
                                                      of scientific     to state,
                                                                    language.
that the advocates of the Viscous Theory had reserved to themselves,
as it were, a more comprehensive, and consequently a more vague
and indeterminate meaning for the terms viscous and plastic. The
defect of that theory was, in fact, that it gave no definition of the term
by which it designated the property of ice on which it was founded.
When such definition was demanded, it was said that glacial ice must
be viscous, because a glacier was capable of adapting itself to the
inequalities of the valley containing it, as if it were viscous. This
was equivalent to the assumption that ice possessed no other property
by virtue of which a glacier might change its form, without losing its
continuity, and thus adapt itself to external conditions as if it were
viscous. Dr. TyndalPs experiments showed at once that ice did
possess such a property—that of regelation—by virtue of which a
glacier, after being crushed and broken by any unusual compression to
which it might be exposed, perfectly regained by pressure and contact
its continuity as a vitreous or crystalline, hard, and brittle mass. It
was this phenomenon, apparently so inexplicable, that formed till
recently the great stumbling-block in our glacial theories. It was to
meet this difficulty, that the author of the Viscous Theory introduced
the fundamental idea of that theory, the viscosity of ice. No attempt
was made to establish this property by experimental investigation, in
any sense in which it might be applied. It was only founded, as had
 been already stated, on an induction, the fallacy of which was imme
diately proved by Dr. Tyndall's beautiful and decisive experiment.
By that experiment the theory of glacial motion was made to rest on
a property of ice, established by clear and determinate experimental
evidence, instead of resting on a property which was never proved, and
which, if it meant anything definite, appeared to be in opposition to
     directit evidence
the Still                  ourthat
               might beofsaid       there must be substances possessing pro
                               senses.
perties similar to those which had been designated by the terms solid
 and plastic, but intermediate to them. This was doubtless the case ;

 414                             Mr. W. Hopkins                              [Jan. 31,
 but Mr. Hopkins contended that there was not the slightest evidence
 that ice was characterized by any such ambiguous property. It might
 bear somewhat more or less of extension or compression without dis
 location ; experiment had not yet determined that point with exact
 ness. But it might at all events be deemed certain, that ice possesses
no such capability of elongation as really plastic substances possessed,
nor such as would be sufficient to account in the least degree for that
 elongation of the marginal parts of a glacier which must necessarily
     Again,
 result             more
        from tothesay  thatrapid
                             the capability
                                  motion of of        glacierportion.
                                               its acentral    to move, as had just
been stated, was due to the breaking, bruising, and tearing of the mass,
was not to attribute that capability to viscosity or any other distinctive
property of ice. This modus operandi belonged to solid and not to
viscous masses ; and was, in fact, a part of the process required by
the regelation theory, according to which the ice of a glacier must be
dislocated by tearing or crushing as above described, immediately
regaining the continuity of its mass and of its crystalline structure
by regelation.* In this process there was not the slightest reference
to any property which could, in any received meaning of the term, be
     But,viscosity.
called      the speaker proceeded to observe, although regelation was
unquestionably the property of ice on which the molecular mobility of
a glacial mass conjoined with the preservation of its continuity de
pended, it was not the physical cause of the general motion of the
glaciers. That cause was gravity, tending, first, to make the whole
mass slide bodily down the containing valley ; and, secondly, to
make the upper portions of the mass move faster than the lower ;
in consequence of the retarding action on its base, and the
central portions to move faster than the lateral ones, in conse
quence of the retarding action of the sides of the valley. De
Saussure had been the first to suggest the sliding of glaciers along the
 bottoms of their valleys ; but when a more careful attention was subse
quently given to glacial phenomena by M. Agassiz, Professor Forbes,
and others, grave and apparently insurmountable objections were
urged against this view of glacier motion. It was said to be most
improbable, if not impossible, that a glacier should descend in this
manner down a surface inclined to the horizon at an angle not
unfrequently less than 5°, at the same time overcoming numerous
obstacles to its motion ; and, moreover, that if the mass did so move
at all, it must necessarily be with an accelerated motion, like that with
which a body ordinarily slides down an inclined plane, and then be
finally discharged from the mouth of its valley like an avalanche.
But whatever apparent force might belong to these objections, they
arose from an erroneous conception of the real nature of the mechani
cal problem which the motion in question presented to us. In the
    * Dr. Tyndall
common                   body
            case ofhada the     slidingto down
                             kindness     elucidate
                                                 an this
                                                      inclined     hy repeating
                                                         process,plane,         found
                                                                         it was his ex
periment on regelation before the audience.

1862.]                  on the Motion of Glaciers.                         415
by experiment that the retarding force of friction was independent of
the body's velocity, which consequently went on constantly increasing ;
but this result involved the condition that the surfaces of the body and
of the plane which were in contact, should not be affected by their
action against each other. Now this condition was not fulfilled in the
case of the glacier. The temperature of its whole mass beyond very
small depths was found by observation and theory to remain constantly
at the freezing point, and in that state the cohesive power of ice was
found to be considerably more feeble than at lower temperatures.
In fact, it must necessarily, at the lower surface of the glacier, be con
stantly in a state of disintegration from its thawing. Hence, as each
successive thin layer at the bottom of the mass is converted into water,
the mass of the glacier is let down, as it were, and advances through
a corresponding small space along its inclined bed. At the same time
this advance must depend on the rate at which the ice melts, and as
that rate is very slow and uniform, the motion of the glacier must be
      and important
slowThis              conclusion was not left to mere abstract mechanical
           uniform likewise.
reasoning. Mr. Hopkins had verified it by a very simple experiment.
He placed a lump of ice on a rough paving slab, which could easily
be placed at different inclinations to the horizon. When the tempera
ture of the surrounding atmosphere and the slab were below that of
freezing, the lump of ice remained stationary on the slab at all inclina
tions less than about 20° ; at greater inclinations it moved down the
slab, as in ordinary cases, with an accelerated motion. But when the
temperature of the slab and of the air was above the freezing tempera
ture, the ice descended with a very slow and uniform motion, even at
inclinations as small as half a degree.* The greater the inclination
of the plane and the greater the weight of the sliding mass, the greater
was the uniform velocity with which it moved. Mr. Hopkins regarded
this experiment as supplying a complete answer to the objections above
    That
stated     glaciers
       against  the sliding
                     do slide    over oftheir
                             motion             beds was indeed established
                                          glaciers.
on indubitable evidence. It was easily seen, on examining almost
any glacial valley, that its glacier had been formerly continued
beyond the position of its present extremity, far below which, along
the sides and bottoms of the valley, were observed the rounded
and striated surfaces frequently so conspicuous at the in mediate
termination of the glacier, where they were manifestly due to the
sliding of its general mass. All valleys in which ancient glaciers
were believed to have existed likewise bore the same testimony.
But the most direct evidence of this fact is to be found in the
observations of Professor Forbes, and those of Dr. Tyndall, from
which it appeared that, of the whole observed motion of the upper
surfaces of the glaciers at the points where the observations were made,
             * The
about one-half        due to thewassliding
                 wasexperiment       exhibited
                                            of the
                                               during the discourse.
                                                   general  mass, and the other
    Vol. III.     (No. 35.)                                          2f

416                            Mr. W. Hopkins                          [Jan. 31,
to its molecular mobility as above explained. No glacialist, Mr. Hop
kinsAnd     yet, though
       conceived,  could nearly
                          at present
                                 the same
                                     doubt evidence   hadtheexisted
                                            the fact of                  the fact
                                                              slidingofmotion.
in question, and the above explanation of it had been given upwards
of fifteen years ago, both the fact and the explanation had, till a recent
     But been
period,         almost of
           the sliding     a glacier
                        entirely     was not only important as an integral
                                 ignored.
part of its motion, but it also increased the internal pressures and
tensions, which were thus enabled to overcome the cohesive power
of the mass, to dislocate it, and leave it free to move onwards when its
motion might otherwise have been arrested. The action of the bed
of the valley on the bottom of the glacier had this apparently anoma
lous property—that while it prevented the mass from moving with
more than a very slow uniform velocity, it exerted a force to hold it
absolutely at rest little greater than if the plane had been perfectly
smooth, and the glacier had moved with perfect freedom. It was so
far like the force of resistance afforded by water to the descent of a
heavy body within it. Such resistance, while it had no power to hold
the body at rest, soon increased with the motion sufficiently to coun
teract almost entirely the accelerating effect of gravity, and to reduce
the body very approximately to a uniform velocity which it could
never exceed. And such was the analogous case of the glacier. To
hold the heavy body in the water at rest would require a force equal
to the excess of the weight of the body over an equal volume of water ;
and so to hold any portion of a glacier at rest would require a force
nearly equal to the resolved part of its weight along the inclined plane
of its valley : whereas, if its motion were impeded by a large amount
of friction on its bed, it would require a far less force to hold it at
rest, and it would be capable of exerting only a far less force on any
obstacle impeding its onward progress. Thus, suppose the motion of
the glacier to be more or less impeded by the narrowing of its valley,
an enormous pressure would be produced on the impeded portion of
the mass, by the tendency of the less impeded portion behind to press
forward, and the more freely this latter portion should slide over its
bed, the greater would manifestly be the pressure which would be
thrown on the impeded portion before it. We might thus see how
enormously the sliding of the glacier might increase the fracturing
power of the internal pressures and tensions, and help to preserve the
continuity of the process of alternate dislocation and regelation on
which the continuity of the mass and structure of the glacier and that
     According
of its            to the views which Mr. Hopkins had been endeavouring
        motion depend.
to develope, if we conceived a glacier to be placed in its valley at
rest and in a state of no constraint, it would begin to move, partly
by sliding on its bed and partly by virtue of that small relative dis
placement of the molecules of the mass of which all bodies are sus
ceptible in some degree, without dislocation. The whole glacier
would thus become a continuous mass in a state of constraint, and

1862.]                   on the Motion of Glaciers.                      417
therefore subject to internal pressures and tensions. These internal
strains might become, from the sliding of the glacier, of enormous
intensity. When they became large enough to overcome the cohesion
of the particles to each other, the mass, supposed always to be solid in
the sense which had been defined, would be broken into open fissures,
or crushed into numerous solid fragments. Its state of internal con
straint would be thus relieved, its onward motion would be continued,
and the continuity of its mass and of its crystalline structure imme
diately restored by regelation. The continuous motion of the glacier
would result from the repetition of this process, and the approximate
uniformity of the motion of the whole mass, notwithstanding the oppo
sition of local obstacles, would result from the fact that those obstacles,
considered with reference to the whole glacier, would at all different
times   be two
      The  actingimportant
                   in the same  manner.
                            points in this theory were the sliding of the
 glacier, and its dislocation and regelation. The fact of the sliding
 had been established by observation, and the nature of the motion
resulting from it had been explained by means of a simple and accu
 rate experiment. The property of regelation in ice, regarded as a
 brittle crystalline substance, also rested on the clearest experimental evi
 dence. What more could be required to complete our theory of the
 general and ordinary phenomena of the motion of glaciers? The
 experimental results on which this view of the subject was founded
 were clear and certain ; while the Viscous Theory was founded on an
 assumed property of ice, which, so far from being proved, was never
 even clearly defined. That theory the speaker doubted not had
 effectively passed away, however some of its advocates might still be
 disposed to cling to it. At the same time he should be sorry not to
 do justice to the claims which its author had established to the best
 thanks of all those who interest themselves in glacial phenomena. By
 the number of Alpine objects and phenomena which he had observed,
 and the force and vigour with which he had delineated them, he had
 been the first to excite in this country an interest in the subject of
 glaciers, which was still maintained both in a popular and scientific point
 of view. Mr. Hopkins had always been a declared opponent, and he
 hoped a candid one, of the Viscous Theory. He had never been satis
 fied with the principle on which it rested, and had always contended
 that much of its mechanical reasoning, and the conclusions drawn
 therefrom, were essentially erroneous. At the same time he considered
  Principal Forbes, though not absolutely the first to observe certain
  fundamental characters in the motion of glaciers, was undoubtedly the
 first glacialist whose mind was fully imbued with a sense of the im
 portance of taking account of the molecular mobility within the mass
 of a glacier in any theory of its motion ; and though the theory which
 he was thus led to put forth was, in Mr. Hopkins's opinion, erroneous, it
 had had the effect of leading the thoughts of other glacialists in the
  same direction, and in this manner could hardly have failed to have
  its influence in advancing the science, and in conducting to the dis-
                                                                 2f2

418                       General Monthly Meeting.                        [Feb. 3,
covery of the real physical cause which accounts for the preservation
of continuity in the mass of a glacier, notwithstanding the molecular
     Time of
mobility      its particles.
            would   not allow Mr. Hopkins to speak of other phenomena
which appeared to be essentially connected with the motion of glaciers,
but of which the theory was far more imperfect than that of the general
motion of their masses.
                                                                      [W. H.]
                GENERAL  Monday,      February 3, MEETING,
                                  MONTHLY            1862.
William Pole,         Esq. Russell
                 Robert      M.A.in F.E.S.
                                      Carew,
                                       the Chair.
                                                Esq.
                                               Treasurer   and Vice-President,
                 William Whitaker Collins, Esq.
                 John Parnell, Esq. M.A. and
                 Major-General Edward Sabine, R.A. D.C.L.
wereThe   following
       elected        letter
                MembersPresident
                             of
                              to the
                                 theofPresident
                                        the Royal
                                      Royal       was
                                                    Society.
                                                       read :—
                                              Institution.
                                                   "Whitehall, 19th Jan., 1862.
     "My Lord Duke,
         " I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of the loyal and dutiful
Address of the Members of the Royal Institution of Great Britain, on the occasion
of the death of His Royal Highness the Prince Consort ; and to inform your
Grace that I "will take an early opportunity of laying the Address before Her
Majesty.                             " I have the honour to be,
                                                  "My Lord Duke,
                                           " Your Grace's obedient Servant,
                                                                     " G. Grey.
  " His Grace the Duke or Northumberland,
              &c. Thanks
     The special                        &c."
                          &c.of the Members        were returned to Warren
De la Rue, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, for his valuable present of an
Electric Lamp, by Duboscq, with its accompanying Microscope.

1862.]                             General Monthly Meeting.
     The Pbesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
able, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
Anonymous—3.
Anderdon,
Secretary
   From
      J. Akerson.
            ofJ.Statefor
                      Esq.
                        (L {the
                  L. Dumesnil-Marigny
                             India—Report
                              13) Author)—The
                                     8vo. 1861.        Survey
                                                 ; onThe   Free ofTrade
                                                        Messiah.      India.
                                                                        8vo.Question.
                                                                                1861.
                                                                                 (P 6.) foL      1858-9.by
                                                                                            Translated
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XIX. Part 2. 8vo. 1861.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Nov. and Dec. 1861. 6vo.
   Abhandlungen,
   AnnalenAcademy,
Bavarian       der Kon.    Royal—Sitzungsberichte,
                           Sternwarte
                        Band    IX. lste bei  Abtheilung.
                                                  Miinchen. 1861   Band
                                                                 4to.    Heft
                                                                           XII.4, 5.
                                                                       ; 1861.      8vo.Svo.1860.
Bombay Medical Department—Deaths in Bombay in 1860. 8vo. 1861.
      the Court
Browning,           Ernst,
               W. for        Esq. and
                        Divorce      M.R.I,      (the Author)—Tbe
                                            Matrimonial      Causes. 16to.  Practice    and Procedure of
                                                                                    1862.
 Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 56, 8vo. 1861.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, Dec. 1861 and Jan. 1862. 8vo.
Dublin Geological Society—Journal, Vol. IX. Part 1. 8vo. 1861.
Editors—American
   Technologist,
   Practical
   Medical
   St.
   Athenaeum
   Horological
   Mechanics'
   Engineer
   Journal
   Artizau
   Chemical
        James's
              of
              for
              Circular
                Mechanics'
                for
                 News
                  Gas-Lighting
                  for
                   Medley,
                   Magazine
                   Dec.
                    Journal,
                      Dec.
                       Dec.
                     Dec. 1861
                         for
                          Journal
                          for1861
                              1861
                               Dec.
                               1861
                               No.
                                Dec.
                                Journal
                                No.
                                 for
                                  and
                                    and
                                    and
                                     29.
                                     for
                                      and
                                      Dec.
                                      41.
                                      1861
                                      of1861
                                        Jan.
                                          Dec.
                                          Science,
                                            Jan.
                                             for
                                          Jan.
                                             Jan.
                                             8vo.
                                              8vo.
                                               and
                                               1861
                                                1862.
                                                and
                                                 Dec.
                                                  1862.
                                                  1861
                                                    1862.
                                                    Jan.
                                                      and
                                                      Jan.
                                                      1862.
                                                       by
                                                   1862.
                                                       1861.
                                                         1861
                                                         and
                                                         4to.
                                                          B.
                                                           1862.
                                                           Jan.
                                                            fol.
                                                             1862.
                                                             4to.
                                                               Silliman,
                                                               Jan.
                                                                and
                                                             8vo. 1862.
                                                                     4to.
                                                                      1862.
                                                                      Jan.
                                                                        8vo.8vo.
                                                                             1862.
                                                                            &c.   for Nov.
                                                                                4to.  4to. 1861. 8vo.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania —Journal, Vol. XLIII. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1861.
Geneva, Sociite de Physique—Memoires: Tome XVI. Partie 1. 4to. 1861.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. VI. No. 1. 8vo. 1862.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1860. No. 2. 8vo.
Greenwich Royal Observatory (through the Royal Society)—Greenwich Observa
      tions for 1858. 4to. 1860.
Gyll, Gordon Willoughby James, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—History of the Parish
      of Wraysbury, Ankerwycke Priory, and Magna Charta Island ; with the
      History of Horton and the Town of Colnbrook, Bucks. 4to. 1862.
Held, Dr. Joseph (the Author)—System des Verfassungsrechts der Monarchischen
      Staaten Deutschlands, mit besonderer Riicksicht auf den Constitutionalismus.
      2 vols. 8vo. Wiirzburg, 1856-7.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Proceedings, 1861, No. 31 ; 1862, No. 1.
Jablonowsky Society, Leipsic—Preisschriften, VIII. und X. 8vo. 1861.
Ladd, Mr. W. (the Publisher)—Dr. H. M. Noad: The Improved Induction Coil.
       16to. 1861.
       (FromJohn,
Lubbock,               Hist. F.R.S.
                Nat. Esq.                M.R.I.—On
                               Rev. Vol.11.)            1862.the Lake Habitations of Switzerland.
Mechanical
Mackie,            Esq. F.G.S.
       8vo.S. J.Engineers'     Institution,
                                     (the Editor)—The
                                                Birmingham—Proceedings,
                                                                Geologist for Dec.         and; Aug.
                                                                                     May1861          1861.
                                                                                                 Jan. 1862.
MedicalXLIV.       Chirurgical
            and 8vo.       1861. Society, Royal—Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series) for Dec. 1861 ; Jan. 1862. 8vo.
ParkersMusic;
           and Bourn,
       Britain,   a Course
                  in 1861.Messrs.
                                of
                                16to.Lectures
                                       (the1862.    delivered atHullah
                                              Publishers)—J.                  : TheInstitution
                                                                       the Royal                      Great
                                                                                       History ofofModern
       Geographie.
Petermann,       A. Esq.1861. (the Nos.
                                     Editor)—Mittheilungen
                                             11, 12 ; Erganzungsheft                 Gesammtgebiete
                                                                         auf 7.der 4to.   1861.         der

420                            Professor T. H. Huxley                                  [Feb. 7,
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 116, 117. 8vo. 1861-62.
     the Radcliffe
Hadcliffe               Oxford—Professor
            Trustees, Library   to the Oxford  H. University
                                                   W. Acland's   Report on
                                                              Museum.                Transfer of
                                                                          8vo.the 1861.
   Proceedings,
Royal  Society ofNo.    53. 8vo. 1860-1.
                    Edinburgh—Transactions,         Vol. XXII. Part 3. 4to. 1861.
St.
Scottish
San  Fernando,
     Bizantino
     4to.
     1861.Society
     Petersburg
           1861. Royal
                 en
                  Academy
                   ofBulletins,
                       Espana
                       Arts, Royal—Transactions,
                              ofyTome
                          Academy  lasof—
                                       Coronas
                                        III.
                                 Sciences,D.Imperial—Memoires,
                                              Nos.
                                              Jos£Visigodas
                                                    6-8
                                                     Amador
                                                        Vol.
                                                         ; Tome
                                                              de
                                                              de IV.
                                                             VI.  Part
                                                                  losTome
                                                                     Nos.
                                                                      Rios
                                                                 Guarrazar.
                                                                       1. 1,:8vo.
                                                                             III.
                                                                              El2.4to.
                                                                                    Nos.
                                                                                     4to.
                                                                                      1861.
                                                                                   Arte   Latino-
                                                                                           10-12.
                                                                                            1861.
                                                                                         Madrid,
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXIV. Part 4. 8vo. 1860.
     August.
 Vereins         4to.WEEKLY
         zur Befbrderung      des
                          1861.Friday,
                                   Gewerbfleisses
                                       EVENING
                                          February        7,MEETING,
                                                             1862.
                                                     in Preussen—Verhandlungen,         Juli und
  Sib Henry Holland, Bart.                   M.D.
                                        in the        D.C.L. F.E.S. Vice-President,
                                                   Chair,
                         Professor T. H. Huxley, F.E.S.
                             On Fossil Remains of Man.
 The purpose of the discourse was to give an explanation of the interest
 attaching to two casts upon the table— the one that of a skull, dis
 covered and described by Professor Schmerling, from the Cave of
 Engis, in Belgium ; the other, discovered by Dr. Fuhlrott and de
 scribed by Professor Schaaffhausen, from a cave in the Neanderthal,
 near Dusseldorf—the former being the oldest skull whose age is
 geologically definable, the latter the most aberrant and degraded of
     The skulls.
 human       nature and extent of the cranial modifications exhibited by
 the man-like apes and by man were discussed ; and their modifications
 were shown to depend upon variations in the capacity and in the form
 of the cranium, in the greater or less development of its ridges, and
 in the size and form of the face. In respect of such differences, skulls
 have been called dolichocephalic and brachycephalic, orthognathous
      prognathous,
 and Neither              &c.
                 orthognathism         or prognathism are necessarily correlated
 with brachycephaly or dolichocephaly. But the most extreme pro
 gnathism is accompanied by a dolichocephalic cranium, while perfect
      The knownmay
 orthognathism               occur with
                         varieties          extreme
                                       of the               have a certain geographical
                                                   skullbrachycephalism.

1862.]                   on Fossil Remains of Man.                        421
distribution, which may be broadly expressed by drawing a line upon
a map of the world from Russian Tartary to the Gulf of Guinea,
and by regarding the two ends of that line as ethnological poles, while
another line, drawn at right angles to it, from Western Europe to
    At the may
Hindostan,         be called the
              north-eastern         are situatedequator.
                              poleethnological    the people with the most
eminently brachycephalic and orthognathous skulls ; at the south
western pole, those people who have the most eminently dolichocephalic
and prognathous skulls ; while along the ethnological equator the
races of men are, for the most part, oval-headed, or, if dolichocephalic,
they are orthognathous. Passing from the ethnological poles, in either
direction, there is a tendency to the softening down of the extreme
types of skull. Turning from this general view of cranial modifica
tion, which was expressly stated to be open to many exceptions in
detail, the question was next raised whether the distribution of cranial
forms had been the same in all periods of the world's history, or
whether the older races, in any locality, possessed a different cranial
    No evidence
character          of the
           from their      existence of such older and different races has
                        successors.
yet been obtained from Northern Asia, from Africa beyond the shores
of the Mediterranean, or from Australia ; it may be that the Alfourons
and the mound-builders of the Mississippi valley are to be regarded
as ancient stocks which preceded modern immigration ; but definite
evidence is wanting with regard to these and similar cases. In North
ern and Western Europe, however, there is little doubt that several
races, different in cranial conformation and in civilization, have suc
ceeded one another. Below and beyond the traces of Roman civiliza
tion, archaeologists find evidence, first, of people who used iron, then
of those who employed bronze, and then of those who were acquainted
only with stone and flint (or bone) weapons and implements. How
far these various weapons may have been used at different epochs by
the same people, is a question yet to be decided ; but that in some
parts of Europe, at any rate, they characterize people of different cra
     structure,
nialThe          appears
          remarkable   crania
                          to befrom
                                 tolerably
                                     tumuliwell  made
                                             of the    out.period at Borreby,
                                                    stone
in Denmark, figured by Mr. Busk, were cited as authentic examples
of the skulls of people of the epoch in which stone axes ground to an
edgeThe   evidence
       were         of weapons.
            the chief  the antiquity of these people afforded by the peat
bogs of Denmark, and the probability of their contemporaneity with
the makers of the " refuse-heaps " of Denmark, and of the pile-works
of Switzerland, were next considered. Ancient as the Borreby race
may be, they peopled Denmark subsequently to its assumption of its
present physical geography, and since its only great quadrupeds were
     urus,Engis
the The          skull,and
           the bison,       the other hand, is of a date antecedent to the
                        on deer.
last great physical changes of Europe, and its owner was a contemporary
of the mammoth, the tichorine rhinoceros, (he cave bear, and the cave

 422                           Mr. W. Odling                          [Feb. 14,
 hyaena, so that a vast gulf of time separates him from the Borreby men.
 The skull was shown, however, by all its measurements, to be nearly
     Thedeveloped
 as well   Neanderthal
                     as that
                          skull,
                             of anwhose    age European.
                                     average     is not exactly known, on the
 contrary, is the lowest and most ape-like in its characters of any
 human skull yet discovered, though it presents certain points of resem
     Great
 blance      as are
         to the     the differences
                 Borreby  skulls.      between the Engis, the Borreby, and
 the Neanderthal skulls, the speaker stated that it would not be justi
 fiable to assign them even to distinct races of men ; for by a careful
 examination of the crania of one of the purest of living races of men,
 —the Australian,—it is possible to discover skulls which differ from
 one another in similar characters, though not quite to the same extent,
     Thus
 as the     it appears
        ancient  ones. that the oldest known races of men differed com
 paratively but little in cranial conformation from those savage races
 now living, whom they seem to have resembled most in habits ; and it
 may be concluded that these most ancient races at present known were
 at least as remote from the original stock of the human species as they
are from us. WEEKLY EVENING MEETING, [T. H. H.]
                        Friday, February 14, 1862.
  Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                    William Odling, M.B. F.R.S.
                                  SEC. CHEU. SOC,
                On Mr. Graham's
 Vial Diffusion.—When                    vial, filled on
                             an openResearches              a solution of some
                                                      withDialysis.
salt or other substance, is introduced into a jar of water, a portion of
the dissolved salt passes gradually from the vial into the external
water. This portion is known as the diffusate. The diffusates yielded
by different substances under precisely the same circumstances vary
greatly. Thus, common salt yields double the amount of diffusate that
Epsom salt yields, while Epsom salt diffuses twice as rapidly as gum-
arabic. Every substance has its own definite rate of diffusibility in the
same liquid medium, dependent upon the nature of the medium,—

 1862.]         on Mr. Graham's Researches on Dialysis.              423
 whether water or alcohol, for instance. The diffusion of any particular
salt is scarcely affected by the presence of a different salt, though
materially affected by the presence of the same salt in the external
liquid. The general law seems to be, that the velocity with which a
dissolved salt diffuses from a stronger into a weaker solution is propor
tional to the difference of concentration, quoad that salt, between the
contiguous solutions. The phenomena of liquid diffusion are mani
fested most simply and uniformly when dilute solutions only are
    Jar Diffusion.—When the solution of the salt to be diffused,
employed.
instead of being placed in a vial, is conveyed by means of a pipette to
the bottom of a jar of water, the dissolved salt gradually rises through
the superincumbent water to a height or extent proportional to its
diffusibility. The results of jar diffusion bear out generally those of
vial diffusion. They show, moreover, the absolute rate or velocity of
the diffusive movement. Thus, during a fourteen days' aqueous diffu
sion from ten per cent. solutions of gum-arabic, Epsom salt, and
common salt respectively, the gum-arabic rose only through -rrths of
the superincumbent water, or to a height of 55"5 millimetres ; while
the Epsom salt rose through the whole iiths of the superincumbent
water, or to a height of 1 1 1 millimetres ; while the common salt not
only rose to the top, but could have risen much higher, seeing that the
uppermost or 14th stratum of water into which it had diffused, con
tained about fifteen times as much salt as was contained in the upper
most or 14th stratum of water into which the Epsom salt had
diffused.
    Diffusive Separations.—If a solution containing equal weights
of common salt and gum arabic be poured into a jar of water, the ratio
of salt to gum in the dilute liquid in the jar will be the same as in
the original solution. But if the original solution be poured into a
diffusion vial from which the dissolved compounds can diffuse into
a jar of water, for every 100 milligrammes of salt, about 22£
milligrammes of gum will pass out into the external water, or the
ratio of salt to gum in the dilute liquid in the jar will be as 100
to 22£, instead of as 100 to 100, or a separation of the gum from
the salt to the extent of 77% per cent. will have been effected.
Again, when a solution containing 5 per cent. of common salt and
5 per cent. Glauber's salt (the diffusive rates of which salts are
to one another as 100 to 70) is submitted for seven days to the process
of jar diffusion, the upper half, or Aths of superincumbent water, will
be found to contain 380 milligrammes of common salt and only 53
milligrammes of Glauber's salt, or the ratio of common salt to Glau
ber's salt on the upper half of the liquid will be as 100 to 14, instead
of as 100 to 100, or a separation of the Glauber's salt from the
common salt to the extent of 86 per cent. will have been effected. Not
only the partial separation of mixed bodies, but the partial decomposi
tion of definite chemical compounds may be effected by diffusion. Thus
when alum, which is a double sulphate of the two metals, potassium

424                           Mr. W. Odling                       [Feb. 14,
and aluminium, is allowed to diffuse from its aqueous solution, the
diffusive tendency of potassium compounds being much greater than
that of aluminium compounds, a portion of sulphate of potassium
actually breaks away from the sulphate of aluminium with which it was
in combination, in order to diffuse into the external or superincumbent
water more freely than the sulphate of aluminium can diffuse.
     Crystalloids and Colloids.—Diffusibility does not seem to be asso
ciated in any definite way with chemical composition. Thus, complex
organic bodies, like picric acid and sugar, have much the same diffusion-
rates as common salt and Epsom salt respectively. Isomorphous com
pounds, however, are for the most part equi-diffusive, but the groups of
equi-diffusive are larger than those of isomorphous bodies. The com
mon salt group, for instance, includes not only chloride, bromide, and
iodide of sodium, which are similar in composition and isomorphous in
form, but also nitrate of sodium, which is dissimilar in composition and
heteromorphous in form. But in comparing highly diffusive sub
stances on the one hand, with feebly diffusive substances on the other,
one broad dissimilarity becomes apparent, namely, that highly diffu
sive substances affect the crystalline state, while feebly diffusive sub
stances are amorphous, and, in particular, are characterized by a capa
bility of forming gelatinous hydrates. Hence the distinction established
by Mr. Graham between highly diffusive bodies, or crystalloids, and
feebly diffusive bodies, or colloids. There are very many compounds
which can exist, both in the crystalline and gelatinous states, and
which present two distinct diffusion-rates corresponding respectively
    Nature of Diffusion.—Liquid diffusion may be attributed to a
thereto.
self-repulsion of the particles of the salt or other body which diffuses
on the one hand, and of the particles of water or other liquid into
which it diffuses on the other ; qr it may be attributed to a particular
kind of mutual attraction existing between the particles of the salt and
of the water. Assuming the truth of this latter hypothesis, it is clear
that the diffusive attraction of crystalloid particles for water is greater
than that of colloid particles ; and, recognizing this superior diffusive
attraction of saline particles, it is conceivable that a salt should be
able to unite diffusively, not only with free water, but also with water
that is already in a low form of combination, as it exists in a soft solid,
for instance, such as jelly : and this is found to be the case. Common
salt, for example, diffuses into a mass of solid jelly almost as easily and
extensively as into a similar bulk of free water. But although the intro
duction of a gelatinous substance does not interfere in any appreciable
way with the diffusion of a crystalloid, it arrests almost completely the
diffusion of a colloid body. The colloid has but very little tendency
to unite diffusively, even with free water, and is quite incapable of
abstracting and uniting diffusively with water that is in any state of
     Dialysis.—Although
combination,                 a simple diffusion into water can effect the
               however feeble.
partial separation of a highly diffusible from a feebly diffusible

 1862.]          on Mr. Graham's Researches on Dialysis.               425
substance, yet a much better result may be obtained by causing; the
diffusion to take place, not into free water, but into or through the
combined water of a soft solid, which, as before observed, scarcely
affects the diffusion of crystalloid, but almost arrests that of a colloid
 body. When a piece of vellum, or of membrane, or of parchment-
paper, or even a layer of mucus, is interposed between a colloid
solution and a quantity of water, the colloid, in order to get to the free
water, must pass through the membrane, that is to say, must unite
diffusively with the combined water of the membrane, which however
it is incapable of doing. The crystalloid body can pass through, but
the colloid cannot. This constitutes dialysis, which means the separa
tion of crystalloid from colloid bodies, through a membrane that will
allow the passage of crystalloid, but will not allow that of colloid
particles; because the crystalloid particles, having a highly diffusive
power, can unite diffusively with the combined water of the soft solid
septum, so as to reach the external free water ; whereas the colloid
particles, having a very feebly diffusive power, cannot. The process of
dialysis is altogether different from that of filtration. Filtration refers
to the passage of masses through appreciable pores, but in a dialytic
septum there are no pores, and the movement is not molar but mole
cular. The dialytic septum will allow chemical action to take place,
or that low form of chemical action which constitutes diffusion ; but,
being quite impervious to the mechanical passage of liquid, it will not
        of filtration.
allowColloid   Solutions.—The solution of various colloids has been here
tofore effected by means of crystalloid chemicals, comprising acids,
bases, and salts. By dialyzing these liquids, the crystalloid reagents
diffuse away, and leave the colloid bodies in simple aqueous solution.
Mr. Graham has thus obtained pure colloidal solutions in water of
numerous mineral and organic substances, such, for instance, as silica,
tin-stone, alumina, haematite, chrome, Prussian blue, prussiate of copper,
sucrate of copper and other sucrates, tannin, gum, caramel, albumin, &c.
These colloidal solutions are for the most part unstable. Either spon
taneously, or on the addition of a very minute quantity of some or other
crystalloid reagent, they pectize, or become converted into solid jellies.
Hence Mr. Graham speaks of two colloidal states, the peptous, or dis
solved, and the pectoris or gelatinized. Colloid bodies are characterized
by their non-crystalline habit, by their low diffusibility, by their che
mical inertness, by their high atomicity, and above all by their mutabi
lity. All these properties are exceedingly well manifested by colloid
silica, or co-silicic acid.                                  [W. O.]

426                            Mr. J. Fergusson                     [Feb. 21,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, February 21, 1862.
William Pole, Esq. M.A. in            the Chair.
                                    F.R.S.  Treasurer and Vice-President,
                            James Fergusson, Esq.
             On the Site of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem.
The speaker commenced by stating that this was perhaps the most
interesting subject that could be addressed to a Christian audience,
being neither more nor less than the re-discovery of the true site of the
Holy Sepulchre, after a knowledge of it had been lost for eight
centuries ; and it was the more interesting, as having been made by
a process of direct philosophical deduction in archaeology—a new
    The which
science,  questionhadcommenced
                        as yet few necessarily
                                    such triumphs     record.
                                               withtothe undoubted fact that
the Emperor Constantine erected a magnificent church at Jerusalem,
over the site of the Sepulchre ; and the assumption that since his time
the church in the middle of the city always had been, and still was,
his " Church of the Sepulchre," coupled with the erroneous sup
    In carefully
position            studying
          that it had   replaced
                               thethe
                                   subject of building
                                      original              Constantine. from
                                               SaracenicofArchitecture,
its remains in India, Egypt, Persia, Constantinople, Spain, &c., he
had always been unable to account for the peculiarities of one remark
able building at Jerusalem—that generally known as the " Mosque of
Omar." This, however, was evidently a misnomer ; for the building
violated the invariable and essential principles of mosque architecture.
The precept of the Koran being, that all true believers should turn
their faces towards Mecca when they prayed, a mosque was really
only an indicator of the direction of the Holy City, whereas the build
ing in question had its principal entrance towards the South, so that
the worshipper on entering turned his back on Mecca—a sacrilege too
horrible to be conceived, and which is not to be found in any mosque
     Thewhole
in the         Mahomedan
          building             world.
                      in question   being within the Haram area, was not
generally accessible to travellers; and, until it had been surveyed,
measured, and drawn, in the year 1833, by Mr. Catherwood and Mr.
Arundale, no adequate representations of it had ever been made.
On examining these drawings, he had been at once so much struck
with the architectural and other features they displayed, that he im

1862.]       on the Site of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem.              427
mediately pronounced the building to be the identical church erected
by Constantine ; the internal evidence proved it to be a Christian
sepulchral building of that age ; and there could be no other answer
    that description
ing With               than theheoriginal
            this conviction        published
                                          church
                                               his of the Holy
                                                   " Essay       the Ancient
                                                             on Sepulchre.
Topography of Jerusalem," in the year 1847 ; and the result of four
teen years' consideration, notwithstanding his views had met with
much   opposition,
    Since  the classification
                     had only confirmed
                               and nomenclature     of opinion.
                                          his original  the different kinds of
Gothic architecture, by Eickman, the successive periods of that style
had become fixed and universally recognized. The date of a Gothic
structure, whether Norman, Early-English, Decorated, or Perpen
dicular, was irrevocably determined by the evidence of its style alone.
Classical architecture, since this mode of classification had been in
vented, was abused as Pagan, Heathen, sensuous, and sensual, and
accordingly neglected : but his own studies assured him that the same
regular progression which was admitted to mark Gothic architecture,
was to be traced in every other true style ; indeed there was not a
single building in the world anterior to the cinque-cento period which
did not bear upon it the impress of its age, and to which the educated
    In the
student     decadence
         could           of classical
                 not assign a date. architecture, the gradual conversion
of the noble sculptural frieze of the Corinthian order into a mere
rounded moulding, could be clearly traced, through successive stages,
in edifices the dates of which were known ; and in like manner the
entablature itself was seen gradually tending towards a curvilinear
form, until the arch became the real constructive feature, although a
trabeated or beam form was still for some time retained merely as an
ornament. Of this modification of classic architecture, the Palace of
Diocletian at Spalatro furnished a striking example; and the so-called
Mosque of Omar presented architectural characteristics equally marked
and peculiar. So clear was this progressive modification, that it might
be taken absolutely that no arch was to be met with as an essential
decorative feature in any building older than the year 300 ; nor any
entablature in a building erected later than the year 400 ; and hence
the architectural evidence clearly proved the so-called Mosque of Omar
    Again,
to have            form and
         beenitserected         age of Constantine.
                        in thearrangement    distinctly marked it, not as a
mosque, but as a sepulchral building. It presented the strictest
analogy in these respects to the Baptistry of the Lateran, built by
Constantine, it is said to contain his own tomb ; and that of Sta.
Agnese, erected by him, to contain the tomb of his daughter, Sta.
Costanza ; as also to other early sepulchral buildings in Italy, as
      as to all the
wellMoreover,        was the only tombs.
                  it Mahomedan     church or building in the world having
in its centre a large and prominent Rock, rising some height above the
floor, filling the space beneath the dome. The Rock, forming the
Holy Sepulchre, was expressly referred to by Eusebius, who described

428                              Mr. J. Fergusson                          [Feb. 21,
the church which Constantine erected over it ; and the rock in this
building had one cave in it exactly as described by this author. Every
word, in fact, which Eusebius uses in his narrative of the discovery
stantine,
of the Holy       completelyand
            is soSepulchre,      borne
                                     of the
                                          out building
                                                by what erected     over ithere,
                                                          is now found           and
                                                                             by Con-
is so essentially confirmed by the architecture, that it is impossible to
escape the conviction that what we now look upon is the identical
     It may
building       which
           to be       he that
                  added,  refers.although the proposition has now been for
more than fourteen years before the public, the architectural evidence
has never been disputed by any competent authority, notwithstanding
the opposition which the conclusions drawn from it have been met with
on other grounds ; and until it is refuted, the argument must be con
tine,The
      in as
sidered   description
         the   immediate
             proved.     which
                             vicinity
                                   Eusebius     gavesepulchral
                                          of this                church,ofpointed
                                                      of the Basilica             to
                                                                            Constan-
the " Golden Gateway," now forming part of the city wall, and
further tended to fix the site of the sepulchre. This gateway was
evidently not originally a city gate ; it had no carriage-way, and was
not fortified ; and its architecture, as in the case of the Dome of the
Rock,   bore unquestionable
     Besides   the direct evidenceevidence derived
                                              of thefrom      Constantine;
                                                      age ofthe  architectural cha
racter of these two buildings, there was almost as strong, though
negative evidence, derived from the examination of the Mosque el
Aksah situated in the same inclosure. That building was undoubtedly
erected by Abd El Malek in the first century of the Hegira, or
about a.d. 695, and showed such a difference of style, such a progress
towards mediaevalism, that some centuries must have elapsed between
     Anotherand
its erection        that ofcoincidence
                 curious     the buildings  was,just
                                                  that Justinian
                                                     referred  to. had erected his
Mary Church so near this spot, that most travellers contended that the
Aksah must be the identical building. There was abundance of evi
dence to prove that that was not so. But the fact of that Emperor
having come to this corner of the city, so near to the accursed temple
of the Jews to erect his church, proved that the great group of sacred
     In concluding
localities must havethisbeen       thishisneighbourhood.
                            partinof        subject, the speaker contended that
the historical, local, and architectural evidence connected with these
four buildings made together so clear and tangible a proof of his pro
position, that no direct refutation of it had been attempted, and, in so
    Anheobjection
far as                to this
           could judge,           was possible.
                           nonetheory     had been raised, that the church of
Constantine was not within the city wall, whereas the Mosque of Omar
was. The difficulty was, however, at once removed by the knowledge
that the wall which now runs along the eastern side of the Haram area
was erected by Herod Agrippa twelve years after the crucifixion, and
consequently the locality was at that time certainly without the walls.
It was also clear that the site of this building was the Hill of Zion ;

1862.]      on the Site of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem.              429
and that the Tombs of the Kings of Judah were always in that locality ;
and there were many other tombs in the neighbourhood. The speaker
illustrated this branch of the argument by reference to the site of the
Temple of the Jews, as described by Josephus —the position of the
Jews' Wailing Place—the erection of the " El Aksah," avowedly on
the site of the temple, by the Mahomedans (a true mosque, pointing
towards Mecca) about the year 695, and to a small mosque really built
by Omar, which still exists attached to the aisle of the Aksah, and over
hanging the southern wall, and to the desecration of the Aksah by the
Knight Templars, who resided in and took their name from it. While,
on the other hand, the Crusaders reverenced the Dome of the Rock,
under the title of " Templuin Domini," and considered it as sacred, if
not more so than the " Sepulchrum Domini." All which proved that
from the time of Constantine to the Crusades the site and extent of
the Jewish temple were perfectly well known, and that Jews, Chris
tians, and Moslems knew perfectly well that this building was outside
it, and built by Christians, though for what purpose in that uncritical
      they did difficulty
age Another                 inquire.
               not care towas  the break in the tradition as to the true site
of the Sepulchre. Down to the time of the Crusaders, the Mosque of
Omar, or rather the " Dome of the Rock,"—for that was the only
name by which it was known to the Mahomedans—was recognized as
the Church of the Sepulchre ; but after that period the church of the
middle of the city assumed that title, without any record being pre
served of the change. The difficulty was startling, if judged by the
standard of the nineteenth century ; but to those who were familiar
with the depth of the darkness that prevailed in the eleventh, and what
strange things were then passed unnoticed, the difficulty would hardly
occur. Even in the present day, the jealousy of the Greek Christians
bid fair to establish a rival to the true Garden of Gethsemane in the
Valley of Kedron. The cause of the change was the fierce and dread
ful persecution of the Christians by the Caliph El Hakim, about the
year 1000. Every Christian was driven from Jerusalem for a period
of forty-eight years—long enough to impair their traditions. The
Basilica of Constantine was destroyed, but the Dome of the Rock was
respected, for the Mahomedans reverence Christ as the Sixth Prophet
in descent from Adam, Mahomet being the Seventh. On their return,
the Christians built a sepulchral church in the city for the celebration
of the Easter rites, similar to the round churches of this and all other
Christian countries ; and this became the resort of pilgrims when
pilgrimages again became a fashion. These pilgrims were led by the
priest to believe their church marked the Sepulchre ; and the delusion
was maintained with the Crusaders. Indeed, he believed at that
period no great importance was attached to the question of the exact
site.The church in the city was rebuilt by the Crusaders as it now exists,
      no portion
and Some    mediaeval
                  of it was
                        accounts
                             olderofthan the year were
                                      Jerusalem    1100.quoted, in proof that

430           Mr. Fergusson on the Holy Sepulchre.             [Feb. 21,
the Dome of the Rock was early regarded as the site of the Sepnlchre.
About A.D. 530, 'a pilgrim wrote that under the rock there was a well,
that by placing the ear to it the sound of water might be heard below,
and that if an apple were thrown into the cavity it would <U+FB02>oat onward
underground to the pool of Siloam, where it would be found. It was
most remarkable that all these conditions applied to the rock in the
Mosque of Omar at this day; the sound of running water could be
heard, and M. Pierrotti had actually traced its current to Siloam. On
the contrary, in the church in the city there was no rock, no cave, no
well, and no communication with Siloam. Other references by
medimval writers tended to con<U+FB01>rm this view.
    In the church in the city, instead of the natural rock, there was a
tabernacle of marble, built on the pavement, in the middle ages; and
the Golgotha, under the same roof, was built up of marble and granite :
the stone of the country being limestone.
    Although not of vital importance in a religious point of view, still
it was desirable that the Bible narrative should be reconciled with local
knowledge. The Dome of the Rock answered all the requirements of
the Bible narrative, and of Eusebius; the so-called Church of the
Sepnlchre answered none. It was true the main argument rested upon
architectural evidence ; but this, to the educated mind, was perfectly
conclusive.   It might not be agreeable to have the faith disturbed, or
old traditions upset, but the speaker felt the utmost con<U+FB01>dence that
it would and must be ultimately admitted that the building called
the Dome of the Rock, or the Mosque of Omar, was the identical
church which Constantine the Great built over, what he at least
believed to be, the Sepnlchre of Christ.
    The discourse was illustrated by a map of Jerusalem, and plans
and drawings of the buildings referred to; including Mr. Carl Haag’s
elaborate drawing of the rock and interior of the church.
                                                             U. R]
                                                                          .)h>4.4
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 28, 1862.
    Sm HENRY HOLLAND, Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                          A. E. DURHAM, Esq.
                      On Sleeping and Dreaming.
                            [Abstract Deferred.]

1862.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         4290
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, March 3, 1862.
 WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
         John Birkett, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.L.S.
         Jonathan Sparrow Crowley,                F.G.S.
         Major-General Charles James Green.
         Alexander Henderson Macdougall, Esq.
         The Rev. George Musgrave Musgrave, M.A. Oxon.
         A. C. Brisbane Neill, M.D.
         Francis Pirie, Esq.
         Robert Pryor, Esq.
         Sir Joshua Rowe, C.B.
         Samuel Scott, Esq.
         Edward Henry Sieveking, M.D.
         Oswald Augustus Smith, Esq.
         Alexander John Sutherland, M.D. F.R.S.
         James Thomas White, Esq.
         Herbert George Yatman, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                   Robert R. Carew, Esq.
                  William Whitaker Collins, Esq. and
                  John Parnell, Esq.,
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
     The following Letter from the Comte de Paris to the Secretary,
was read :—
            S                               “ WASHINGTON, February 2nd, 1862.
          n   In,
    “ I have just received noti<U+FB01>cation that the Members of the Royal Institution,
among whom my brother and I had the honour of being admitted last year,
were to meet on the 13th of January, to draw up an Address to the Queen on
occasion of the sudden and irreparable loss of the Prince Consort.
    “ While loyal England was offering to her af<U+FB02>icted Sovereign the tribute of an
unanimOns and touching sympathy, every man in the world felt the loss of the
Prince whose intelligence, energy, and untiring exertions had been, during a too
short career, exclusively devoted to the progress of civilization and the bene<U+FB01>t of
mankind. But the extent of that loss can only be fully appreciated by those who
had many opportunities of witnessing that domestic happiness so cruelly inter
rupted and who shall always keep, with as much gratitude as regret, the vivid
pemembrance of one who proved not only a kind relation but a friend to all their
 amily.
    “ We, therefore, deeply regret not to have heard of that Meeting in time to
send from this distant country our sincere adhesion to the homage paid to his
respected memory by the illustrious Society over which he so often presided, and
not to have been able to avail ourselves of our privilege as Members of the Royal

4296                               General Monthly Meeting.                                 [March 3,
Institution precisely in the circumstance where we should have been most anxious
to do so.
    " I beg you, Sir, to convey to the President the expression of these regrets, and
I remain,                                                        " Very truly yours,
                                                          " LOUIS- PHILIPPE D'ORLEANS,
                                                                       " Comte de Paris."
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
Astronomical
   From SocietySociety,
Asiatic                      Royal—Monthly
                    of Bengal—Journal,            No.Notices,
                                                        283. 8vo.        1861. 8vo.
                                                                  Jan. 1862.                             ,
Barclay, Mr. G. (the Author)—Monograms : D. 8vo. 1862.
Basel, Naturforschender Gesellscha/t—Verhandlungen : Theil III. Heft I, 2.
Chemical
     8vo. Branch
Bombay       1861. of the Royal Journal,
            Society—Quarterly                        Nos. 57, 58. 8vo.No.1862.
                                        Asiatic Society—Journal,                 21. 8vo. 1862.
CiviMEngineers' Institution—Proceedings, February, 1862. 8vo.
DelaRue, Warren, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, {the Author)—Engraving of the
     Great Comet of 1861, as seen by a Newtonian Equatorial of 13 inches, aper
     ture, July 3, 1861.
     English.
VOrsey,              A. J. B.D.
            Rev. 16to.        1860. (the Author)—Practical Grammar of Portuguese and
Dublin Society, Royal—Journal, Nos. 20-23. 8vo. 1861.
   Artizan for Feb. 1862.
Editors—American           Journal4to.of Science, by B. Silliman, &c., for Jan. 1862. 8vo.
   Chemical
   Mechanics'
   Journal
   Horological
   Engineer
   Medical
   Practical
   Technologist
   Athenaeum of
              Circular
               Mechanic?'
               for
                News
                 Gas-Lighting
                  for
                  Magazine
                   Journal,
                     Feb.
                     forFeb.
                           Feb.
                            for
                          for1862.
                               1862.
                               Feb.
                                No.
                                 Journal
                                 Feb.
                                 for
                                  1862.
                                      1862.
                                      for
                                      42.
                                       fol.
                                        1862.
                                         4to.
                                      Feb. Feb.
                                            for
                                            8vo.
                                             1862.
                                             8vo,4to.
                                                 Feb.
                                                   1 862.
                                                  8vo.  8vo.
                                                        1862.
                                                       1862.  4to. 4to.
     Jerusalem.
Fergusson,   James, (K                Author)—Notes
                         Esq.88)(the 8vo.    1861.           on the Site of the Holy Sepulchre at
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XLIV. No. 1. 8vo. 1862.
Horticultural
 Geological Society—Quarterly
Hungarian        Society, of
              Academy         Royal—Proceedings,
                                   Sciences—Transactions,
                                          Journal, No. 1862. 69. 8vo. No. 2.1862. and Reports (in.
                                                                     Proceedings,                        -i
     Hungarian). 4to. and 8vo. 23 vols. 1833-61.
Machie, E.
Mailly,                Author)
           S. J.(theEsq.   F.G.S. —Essai
                                      (the Editor)—The
                                              sur les Institutions           for Feb. 1862.
                                                                 GeologistScientifiques         Grande-
                                                                                         de la8vo.
      Bretagne
Mitchell,         et deEsq.
            George,             (the Author)—Letters
                           l'Irlande.      II. 16to. (0to13)Earl1862.     Russell, respecting the late
Pratt,Events
Newton,   Messrs.—London
        Henry          A. M.D.(K88)
               atF.Warsaw.          Journal,
                                     (the Author)—The
                                                8vo.
                                                 (New 1862.      Genealogy
                                                          Series),               Creation,
                                                                     for Feb.of1861.    8vo.newly trans
     lated from
Petermann,     A. the Esq.Unpointed
                              (the Editor)—Mittheilungen
                                          Hebrew Text of the Book             of Genesis.
                                                                        aus dem              8vo. 1861.
                                                                                   Gesammtgebiete    der
 Swanwick,
     Geographie.
      GoetheMiss
Photographic   and     Schiller.
                        Anna,
                  Society—Journal,
                          1862. M.R.I.
                                    No.
                                      8vo.1.No.
                                              1843.
                                                4to.
                                             (the    Translator)—Selections
                                                  118.     8vo. 1861.              from the Dramas of
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 19. 8vo. 1861.
 Vereins
      Oct.zur
Beavan,      4to.
          Hugh Befbrderung
                   J. 1861.
                        C. Esq.des     Gewerbjleisses
                                   (Annual                  in Preussen—Verhandlungen,
                                              Subscriber)—Spanish                               and Cap,
                                                                           Bandarilla, Knife, Sept.  und
   and Minerals and Fossils, from Funchal, Madeira, and other places.

1862.]       Prof. Oliver on the Distribution of Northern Plants.              431
                    WEEKLY    Friday,    March 7, MEETING,
                                      EVENING        1862.
        The Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                      in the Chair.
                               Professor D. Oliver,
                             OF UHITERSm COLLEGE, LONDON.
                 On the Distribution of Northern Plants.
The discourse referred primarily to the botanical evidence bearing
upon the hypothesis advanced by Professors Unger * and Heer f of an
Atlantic communication between Europe and America at some period
of the tertiary epoch. The close analogy which is to be traced between
the miocene flora of central Europe and the existing flora of the
Eastern American States, these authors conceive can only be explained
     The speaker
by assuming            direct overland
                 suchexplained       the basis
                                            connection
                                                upon which      two Continents.
                                                        of thecomparisons  between
two recent floras and between a recent and a fossil flora should rest,
referring to the peculiar conditions which affect the latter comparison
owing to the imperfect and partial character of the fossil element.
The general character of the tertiary flora of central Europe was
described. In the tertiary beds of Switzerland, according to Professor
Heer,J about 800 species of Phanerogamia have been discovered,
referable to 197 genera (exclusive of Phyllites, Carpolithes, &c.), of
          and
           are to
which76number      the
                    154present
                common   still
                           to the
                               exist.
                                   flora
                                    SwissOftertiary,
                                         of   .
                                             these    Europe.
                                                   .genera—
      77         ...... Japan.
      88                                              Ditto States, America.
     120         .     .       .       .     .          (taken together,
                                                   . Europe       and Asiaand
     It is to be noted that the 77 of Japan include            26 not
                                                        including     occurring in
                                                                   Japan).
    * ' Die: versunkene
Europe                   Insel Atlantis.-
              amongst them       several forms highly characteristic of the ter-
    t ' Flora Tertiaria Helvetia?.'
    X The Tertiary data were throughout derived from the ' Flora Tertiaria
Helvetia? ' of Professor Heer.
     Vol. III. (No. 35.)                                               2 o

432    Prof. Oliver on the Distribution ofNorthern Plants.          [March 7,
tiary, as Glyptostrobus, numerous Fid, coriaceous-leaved oaks and
     The genera,
Lauracece,          commonLiquidambar,
             Juglandece,      to the Swiss&c. tertiary and the United States,
which are not found also in the old world, are Sabal, Taxodium,
 Bumelia, Liriodendron, Ceanothus, Ptelea, and Carya. But in
respect to these 7 it was observed that at least 5 were very doubtful
determinations. The 9 largest orders of the ' Flora Tertiaria Hel-
vetiae' are Leguminosce, Amentacece, Cyperacece, Proteacece, Lau
racece, Graminece, Coniferce, Compositce, and Aceracece. Of these
Orders 3 are included in the 9 largest of Europe, 4 in the 9 largest of
the United States, and 6 in the 9 largest of Japan, while the remaining
3 of the tertiary, not included in the 9 largest orders of Japan, are
much more largely developed in Japan than in the United States.
They are Lauracece, Aceracece, and Proteacece.
     The proportion of ligneous to herbaceous species in the above
floras was alluded to. Heer estimates ligneous plants to have formed
about 66 per cent. of the phanerogamic vegetation of the tertiary
in Switzerland. The speaker considered this estimate as too high,
believing that sufficient allowance had not been made for the ad
 vantages that ligneous plants, which are often tall-stemmed, possess
over herbaceous species in securing access of their leaves and debris to
 He waters
 the          in which
      admitted,          they that
                  however,     had ligneous
                                     been floated,
                                               species   ultimately
                                                    and were         preserved.
                                                               relatively  very «
 numerous in the vegetation of the tertiary period. The proportion of
 ligneous plants he estimates in the existing flora of Japan at near 40
 per cent., in the Southern States 22, Northern States 18, Europe 9
     The intimate relationship traceable between the tertiary and
 to 12.
 Japanese floras in the numerous characteristic types common to both ;
 the issue of the ordinal and generic comparisons given above ; the
 larger proportion of ligneous species in the Japanese than in the
 Eastern American flora ; and the number of types peculiar, at the
 few restricted
 present              EuropeAmerica
          day, to toEastern    and America,
                                        and Eastern
                                                the speaker
                                                      Asia, compared     favour
                                                              contends,with the <
 the view advanced by Professor Asa Gray in reference to plants and by
 Mr. Darwin as to animals, viz.—that the migration of forms to which
 is due the community of types in the Eastern States of North America
 and the miocene of Europe, took place to the north of the Pacific ; an
 overland communication it may be supposed, having existed during
 the tertiary time somewhere about Behring's Straits or the line of the
 Aleutian Islands. This view is confirmed by the occurrence of
 miocene vegetable remains in North-west America (including genera
 yet growing in Japan but lost to America), which prove, further, the
 temperature of these latitudes to have been at that time sufficiently
       to have
 highThe   evidence
                permitted
                      in favour
                            theirofexistence so far 'north.
                                     the ' Atlantis    hypothesis might, more
 over, be expected to have been more marked in the existing vegetation
 of the Atlantic Islands than is the case. Professor Heer points out the

 1862.]    Mr. W. S. Savory on Motion in Plants and Animals. 433
genera Clethra, Bystropogon, Cedronella, and Oreodaphne as common
to the Atlantic Islands and America. Japanese species, however,
have been described of Clethra and Cedronella ; and Messrs. Webb
and Berthelot limit Bystropogon to Atlantic Island species. Oreo-
    A connection
daphne   occurs in between
                    South Africa
                              theseand
                                     Islands  and islands.
                                         adjacent Europe, at perhaps a late
period of the tertiary, may be considered as highly probable from the
predominance of Mediterranean forms in their flora. The few genera
characteristic of the tertiary which they possess may have been
derived during this connection ; but the hypothesis that a continent
should have extended westward as far as America, the speaker
considered the available botanical evidence did not in the least
    Through the kindness of Dr. Hooker the speaker was enabled
substantiate.
to exhibit numerous specimens,—living, dried, and fossil, illustrative
                  WEEKLY
of his observations.     Friday,   March 14, 1862.
                                EVENING         MEETING,[D. O.]
Sir Henry Holland, Bart.            M.D.
                                in the      D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President^
                                        Chair.
                William Scovell Savory, Esq. F.R.S.
                    On Motion in Plants and Animals.
Vital motion is at once associated with our idea of an animal. We
speak of Voluntary motion as emphatically an animal function. And
this truly and naturally : for it is in the animal kingdom that we are
accustomed to witness motion which depends on the vital property of
a structure ; and those movements with which we are most familiar—
those seen in ourselves and in the higher animals—we know to
be usually under the influence of a will. But while the power of
producing motion, and motion too which depends on the vital property
of a structure, is an attribute of the vegetable as well as of the animal
kingdom, voluntary motion in the proper acceptation of the term is
    Voluntary
restricted  to a portion
                 motion of
                         is the
                             therefore
                                animal an    animal function, inasmuch as
                                         kingdom.
there is no evidence whatever that any movement in plants is volun
tary ; at the same time it must be remembered that there is not a tittle
                                                             2 o 2

434                             Mr. W. S. Savory                     [March 14,
more evidence that the motion exhibited by far the largest number
     Nor is is
of animals        possible to say when or where the earliest indications of
              it voluntary.
voluntary motion appear—that is to say, a movement under the
influence of a will : but undoubtedly the application of the phrase
     Webeare
should           apt to within
             restricted           much
                           confound   thenarrower
                                           term ' voluntary   ' with
                                                    limits than       the visible
                                                                it commonly    is.
adaptation of a movement to an obvious purpose ; but a passing
consideration of some of our own functions will render this error
manifest. For example, what movements are more obviously adapted
to a definite purpose than those of the muscles of respiration—the
muscles by whose action the respiratory movements are effected ? Yet
we know that neither the will nor even consciousness is at all times
concerned in them, for they work most efficiently during the pro-
     Again,
foundest        the evident purpose and adaptation manifested in the
            sleep.
movements of animals—the cold-blooded for example—when beheaded,
must be admitted to be independent of will or consciousness, or we are
driven to the extravagant assumption that these faculties may remain
       the brain
afterPass   at once     to the other extreme of animal life and watch the
                    is removed.
movements of Infusoria. What actions do they exhibit more entitled
to be called voluntary than those just mentioned ? When we observe
the movements which these active atoms accomplish, we are prone,
from our preconceived ideas of motion as we commonly witness it in
the higher animals and in ourselves, to consider it voluntary without
     Nor isevidence.
sufficient     it only in the lowly organized Infusoria that we seek in
vain for any evidence of the existence of a will. There are no good
grounds for concluding that the actions of creatures far beyond these
     in their
are Be          nature voluntary.
         it remembered       that there is no more evidence of the existence
even of nerve-force in the simplest animals than in plants. No trace
     The visible adaptation
of nerve-structure                of ademonstrated.
                         has yet been   movement to an obvious purpose, is
therefore not necessarily evidence that it is voluntary. It by no means
     Stilleven
implies            closely is Locomotion
            moreconsciousness    ; far less ofassociated
                                               itself doeswith
                                                           it indicate a will.
                                                                our idea   of the
nature of an animal. And although, when the higher individuals or
extreme forms of the two kingdoms are compared, the power of
locomotion is undoubtedly a striking and distinctive attribute of an
animal, yet while on the one hand vast numbers of the lower animals
are fixed to one spot, on the other, many of the lowest forms of
vegetable life possess the power of locomotion. Amongst the lower
members of either kingdom many are locomotive in the earlier, and
fixed in the later, periods of their existence. Some others again are
     The movements
locomotive     only duringwhich
                              the later
                                    are stages
                                         exhibited   by existence.
                                                of their living beings are not

1862.]                on Motion in Plants and Animals.                            435
only very various in themselves, but obviously dependent on widely
     Molecular
different   causes.due
         Motion        They
                    movement—
                         to extraneous
                               may,the    peculiar
                                           causes.
                                      I think, be thus  classified :*
                                                      movement     visible in the
minutest granules or molecules of matter when placed in a fluid which
is not too tenacious, and viewed by the highest powers of the microscope
— is an example of this kind of motion. It is due, in great part at
         Movements
least, simply             which are due to osmotic currents and other
                 to vibration.
             hygroscopic changes.
     In the vegetable kingdom the expulsion of the seeds from the ripe
fruit of the spirting cucumber (Momordica Elaterium) maybe selected
as a remarkable example. Although we cannot bring forward from
the animal kingdom such striking illustrations of osmotic force as
this one, yet there is every reason to believe that it is constantly
     Elastic
playing   a most
               tissue
         Movement       plays
                   important
                        due toanthe
                                 part
                                    interesting
                                       in the transference
                                      physical    and important
                                                properties       tissue.
                                                                   part in various
                                                           ofofamatter.
movements of animals ; and this simply by means of its physical
property of elasticity which it possesses in perfection. This elastic
 tissue is of course passive, until either extended or compressed by some
force—and this force is usually muscular action—when as the force is
remitted it recoils with proportionate power. Thus we commonly
consider its use in relation to muscular action. It may either assist
muscular action—be accessory to it, or it may be opposed to muscular
action—acting in an opposite direction. Elastic tissue is commonly
rendered active by stretching, sometimes however it is compressed.
As illustrations of these several modes and purposes of action may be
mentioned the functions of the Ligamenlurn Nuchce, of the spring and
ligament at the hinge of the shell of bivalves, of the elastic ligaments
attached to the claws of Felidce, and of the vocal cords. Again,
movements produced by the elastic recoil of stretched or distended
tissues in plants are common enough. To elasticity the bursting of
seed cases and anthers is without doubt to be in great measure
referred.Movements due to a structure possessing the vital property of
     By vital   contractility is tomotion.
             contractility—vital        be understood the power which certain
structures possess of altering their form, of approximating distant
    *Examples
parts  by antheinherent
      From        causes
                  of  vitalof
                           force.
                              contractility
                               motion I exclude  the changes
                                             in animals         foundareeverywhere.
                                                          arewhich        involved in
nutrition ; for no attempt to review these could be brought within the scope of
this discourse.

 436                         Mr. W. S. Savory                    [Maroh 14,
 To certain structures in which this property is most plainly and
 strongly marked the term muscle is applied ; but these structures are
 so various in their characters, that the only common distinctive feature
 they possess is contractility. Moreover, other forms of contractile
 tissue occur in the animal kingdom, as certain cell-walls, or cell
 contents or globules. Nay more, a substance, presenting no structure
 or any definite form whatever, may yet possess this power. Now,
 although the term muscle is not commonly applied to all these forms
 of contractile substance, but usually restricted to those varieties which
 assume a definite shape, and appear as fibres, yet an extended exami
 nation of the various forms of contractile substance which occur in
 the animal kingdom will show that this distinction, although perhaps
 better than any other, and sufficient for ordinary purposes, is never
 theless an arbitrary one, and cannot be .applied in all cases. The
 several forms of contractile substance pass so insensibly into each
 other, that it is not practicable to point out when or where distinct
 and isolated fibres first appear ; so that those who insist upon the
 distinction are compelled to admit the existence of transitional forms :
 so numerous and gradual are the changes by which special parts—
 fully-formed muscular fibres, arise out of the general structure—
 amorphous, contractile substance. It is at least clear that the
 various structures, commonly called muscles, are not connected by any
 physiological characters which distinguish them from other forms of
 contractile tissue. We can but say of the muscles, as of all forms of
 contractile tissue, that they are distinguished only by the possession of
     But a structure
a peculiar   power. endowed with vital contractility is not peculiar to
 the animal kingdom. Although much more restricted in its occur
rence and extent, in the degree to which it is developed, and pro
portionally in its power of action, and never, so far as we know,
appearing in the form of striated fibre in the vegetable kingdom ; yet
a tissue possessing vital contractility is found in plants. A substance
 endowed with this power occurs in the vegetable kingdom, which,
 in structure and function, cannot be distinguished from the simplest
formThe    substance
       of animal        called ' tissue.
                   contractile    Protoplasm ' exhibits changes of form and
other movements which cannot be explained by any physical property,
or by any extraneous influences. These movements are most remark
ably shown at times in the spaces of young cellular tissue. The
movement termed rotation or gyration, which is often seen in the
contents of young " cells," and which, in some form or other, are
probably of general occurrence, may depend on the contractility of
protoplasm. They are said by those who have studied them to present
a close resemblance to those of Amoeba and its allies. No one has yet
shown a distinction of importance between protoplasm of the vegetable
     sarcode
and But           the animal
          thereof are          kingdom. in plants, the cause of which is
                       other movements
less equivocal.       Such movements are not confined to the lowest

  1862.]             on Motion in Plants and Animals.                   437
 plants,—as the Oscillatorice,—but are met with amongst the most
 highly organized members of the vegetable kingdom. The movements
 of sensitive plants, various species of Mimosa, of Dionaea Muscipula,
 of certain tropical species of Desmodium, of the stamens of Berberry,
 &c., can be referred only to vital contractility of certain of their
 tissues. "Whatever obscurity may hang over these, let it be remarked
 that there is the same evidence of the nature of this vital contractility
 in plants as in animals. It is dependent on life, and not, like any
 physical property, retained so long as the structure itself is not
 destroyed. So, also, these movements either occur spontaneously, or
 may be excited by various stimuli—touch for example. If these
 motions depend upon elasticity or hygroscopic changes, or any other
 physical cause which elsewhere operates, how could stimuli act to
 produce them ? Moreover, they appear to be governed by the same
 laws that regulate their action in the animal kingdom. Their energy
 varies with the vigour of the plant. Excessive exercise produces
 exhaustion, but the power is restored during subsequent repose. This
 evidence, thus clear and satisfactory, receives a remarkable and most
 interesting confirmation from the effects produced by the vapour of
     Now, it would be startling to talk of the muscles of plants, but,
 chloroform.
 nevertheless, we see that a structure endowed with vital contractility
occurs in them. This is simply a question of the relation of the term
 muscle to contractile tissue. The term must either be limited to
 certain forms only of contractile tissue in animals—and it may be
 doubted whether it be practicable even thus arbitrarily to define its
application—or it must be extended to the contractile tissues of plants.
At all events it is obvious that we can draw no physiological distinction
     The contractile
between               tissues
          the contractile  tissues
                              of the
                                   of plants  animals
                                      highes and      are indeed capable of
                                                 animals.
being excited to activity by a peculiar• stimulus—the nerve-force ; but
this special stimulus does not exclude the operation of others, and,
what is nearer to our purpose, there is no more evidence of the opera
tion of nerve-force exciting vital contractility in the substance of the
     Afteranimals
simplest           thanfrom
           excluding          both kingdoms all those movements which
                         in plants.
are due either to extraneous causes, or simply to the physical properties
of a tissue, there still remains in the vegetable, as in the animal
kingdom, motion which unquestionably depends on vital contractility,
and this is perhaps the most universal attribute of living beings.
                                                             [W. S. S.]

438            Mr. F. A. Abel on the Causes, Effects,                   [March 21,
        The Rev.      JohnFriday,
                  WEEKLY     Barlow,
                                  EVENING
                                     MarchM.A.     1862.
                                                    MEETING,
                                              21, F.R.S.    Vice-President,
                                      the Chair.
                           F. A. inAbel,    Esq. F.R.S.
            DIRFCTOH 01 THE CHEMICAL ESTABLISHMENT OT THE TTAR DEPARTMENT.
    On some of the Causes, Effects, and Military Applications of
                                    Explosions.
A ¦ glance was taken at the general nature and causes of the
phenomena termed Explosions, and attention was then specially
     In alltoinstances
directed       those explosions
                         of chemical
                                  whichaction
                                          are due   to chemicalbyagency.
                                                accompanied          an explosion,
the production and violence of the latter are either entirely or prin
cipally due to the sudden and very considerable development of heat,
which results from the disappearance, for the time, of chemical activity.
The violence of such explosions is therefore regulated by the energy of
the chemical action, or the degree of rapidity with which the chemical
change takes place. There are instances in which the change of state
(e. g. the conversion of solids into vapours and gases), resulting from
chemical action and the suddenness with which this transformation
occurs, would suffice to produce explosive effects, quite independently of
the effects of heat developed by the change ; but in all such instances
the sudden increase in volume of the matter, resulting simply from the
chemical change, is insignificant as compared with the expansive effect
exerted, at the same time, by the heat developed in consequence of the
sudden and violent disturbance of chemical equilibrium. Thus, the
actual volume of gas produced on the decomposition of gunpowder,
though very considerable in comparison with that of the original solid,
is but small when compared with the volume which it occupies at the
moment of its production, when under the influence of the intense
       resulting from
heatExplosions           occasionally
                    are the              change. by energetic chemical com
                              chemical produced
bination between elementary substances. Thus, potassium combines
with bromine with explosive violence, in consequence of the power
fully expansive effect of the heat resulting from the intense and sudden
chemical action between the two elements. Again, the union of
hydrogen with oxygen or chlorine is so energetic, that the resulting
water or hydrochloric acid is suddenly and enormously expanded by

1862.]         and Military Applications of Explosions.              439
the heat developed ; a powerfully explosive effect being consequently
    Explosions are much more frequently the result of chemical de
produced.
composition. Several classes of compounds are known, the unstable
character of which endows them with explosive properties. Thus the
compounds known as the chloride, iodide, and bromide of nitrogen are
highly susceptible of instantaneous decomposition ; the very slightest
disturbing causes sufficing to destroy the chemical equilibrium which
exists between their component particles. Compounds of silver and
gold with nitrogen, hydrogen, and oxygen (fulminating silver and gold),
and of silver and mercury with a peculiar organic group, generally
known as fulminic acid (the fulminates of mercury and silver), are
also highly susceptible of sudden, and therefore violently explosive,
decomposition. By the action of nitric and nitrous acids upon several
organic bodies, compounds of highly explosive characters are pro
duced, their formation resulting from the abstraction (by oxidation) of
a proportion of hydrogen-atoms from the original body, and the in
troduction, in their place, of a high oxide of nitrogen. The produnts
of the action of nitric acid upon starch and cotton, in different forms,
are the best known of. these ; among others, the substances known
as nitromannite (obtained by the action of nitric acid upon mannite)
and nitroglycerine, or glonoine (the product of the action of nitric
acid at low temperature upon glycerine), are remarkable for the
 violence with which they explode when submitted to friction or con-
cussiou. One of the most recently-discovered and curious of these
explosive organic bodies is the nitrate of diazobenzol, obtained by the
action of nitrous acid at a low temperature upon aniline. This sub
stance explodes at least as violently as iodide of nitrogen and ful
minate of silver, if exposed to a heat approaching that of boiling
water ; it is, however, far less sensitive to friction than those two
bodies. Similarly explosive substances have been quite recently ob
tained by Dr. Hofmann from derivatives of the interesting and im
portant base, rosaniline, the salts of which furnish some of the most
     Explosions
 beautiful         colours
           of the are  mostnow
                            readily
                               obtained from aniline.
                                     produced  by establishing chemical
action between certain substances, greatly opposed to each other in
their properties, and brought together in an intimate state of mix
ture. The substances applicable to the production of such mixtures
are, on the one hand, bodies remarkable for their great affinity for
 oxygen ; and, on the other, compounds containing that element in
abundance, and partly, or entirely, in a loose state of combination.
 To the first class belong the elements carbon, sulphur, and phos
phorus, and compounds of the last two, with readily oxidisable metals ;
 the second class includes a few of the higher metallic oxides (such as
 the higher oxides of manganese and lead) and combinations of metals
 with nitric, chloric, and perchloric acids. Mixtures produced with
 these two classes of bodies readily ignite, or afford explosions, either
 upon the direct application of heat, or by submitting them to friction,

 440            Mr. F. A. Abel on the Causes, Effects,        [March 21
 percussion, or concussion ; and, in a few instances, by establishing
 chemical action in a small portion of the mixture, with the aid of some
 other compound. These explosive mixtures vary greatly in the ease
 with which chemical action is established in them, and in the rapidity
 and violence of their transformation ; their properties are naturally
 regulated by the chemical and physical characters of their consti
     Theand
 tuents,      by the degree
           variation            intimacy properties,
                     in theirofexplosive             and the great extent
                                         of their mixture.
 to which the characters of any particular mixture may be modified,
are very important elements in their application to practical pur
 poses ; while the comparatively instantaneous nature of the de
composition of explosive compounds, and the facility with which
it is brought about, present very great, and in many cases in
superable, obstacles to their employment as explosive agents. By
the comparatively gradual decomposition of an explosive mixture,
such as gunpowder (when employed as a charge in a gun), the force
exerted, by the gases generated in the confined space, discovers,
before it attains its maximum, that portion of the chamber en
closing the powder (». e. the projectile) which is separated from
the remainder. By the motion which it immediately imparts to this,
the smaller mass, the strain upon the larger mass, forming all but one
6ide of the chamber (i. e. the breech of the gun), is at once relieved,
while the force continues, to the close of its development, to act in the
direction of the mass which has once yielded to its influence, and thus
propels the projectile. The explosion of a charge of a fulminate, on
the other hand, in the chamber of a gun, is so instantaneous that the
maximum of force is at once developed, and the strain thus exerted
within the chamber, at the same time that it overcomes the inertia of
the projectile (or the movable side of the chamber), will also over
whelm the cohesive force which maintains the mass of the chamber
entire, and the breech of the gun will therefore be shattered.
Enclosed in a shell, a charge of a fulminate will produce a much
greater shattering effect than gunpowder upon the metal enveloped,
reducing it to a much larger number of fragments ; but the pieces of
the shell, produced by employing gunpowder as the bursting agent, will
be propelled with much greater violence, because there is still a
development of force after the rupture of the shell, while, with the
fulminate, the entire force is at once expended upon the bursting of the
     The very great extent to which the rapidity of explosion of gun
shell.
powder may be modified to suit different applications, is one of the
most important properties possessed by this material. A very rapidly
burning powder is necessary in many instances; for example, in
shrapnel shells, in which the charge of powder is required to break
open the shell without interfering, by any great dispersive effect, with
the flight of the enclosed bullets or fragments of metal. In mortars,
and short guns also, a quickly burning powder is required, as they
afford a comparatively limited space for the combustion of the charge.

 1862.]         and Military Applications of Explosions.                 441
If a slowly burning powder be employed in such arms, a portion of the
unexploded charge is expelled together with the projectile, the period
between the first ignition of the powder, and the expulsion of the shot
or shell from the gun, being insufficient for the combustion of the
entire charge. In long guns and in rifled cannon it is very impor
tant, on the other hand, that the ignition of the charge of powder
should take place gradually, so that the pressure exerted thereby upon
the gun and the projectile should, after the first ignition, be as far as
possible uniformly continuous during the passage of the shot or shell
along the principal portion, if not the entire length, of the gun's bore.
 With the gunpowder which has been, until quite recently, in general
use for large cannon, the actual explosion of a charge is almost
entirely accomplished before the projectile has passed beyond the
trunnions of the gun. Hence the rear portion of the weapon is sub
ject to a strain which is enormous as compared to that sustained by
the front part of the cannon. Numerous important advantages natu
rally result from a more uniform distribution of the pressure over the
interior of the gun ; for instance, the necessity of constructing the
part reaching from the breech to the trunnions of very much greater
strength than the remainder (a measure which, in the production of
cast-iron cannon, involves considerable difficulties) is greatly dimi
nished, and the risk of fracture of guns, or of their serious injury from
submission to excessive strain, is considerably lessened. The explosive
action of gunpowder may, it need hardly be observed, be easily regu
lated by the introduction of modifications in the proportions of the
carbon, sulphur, and saltpetre employed in its manufacture, and in the
degree of intimacy with which the ingredients are mixed. Both of
these expedients interfere, however, with the extent of force ultimately
exerted by a given weight of the gunpowder ; since, in either case, the
chemical action between the ingredients would be modified. The
rapidity of combustion of gunpowder may, however, be admirably
regulated, without introducing any alteration in its composition or in
the perfection of its manufacture, simply by increasing or diminishing
the size of the particles or grains constituting a charge ; and also by
modifying the degree of compression to which the gunpowder is
    By combining
subject             thethe
         before, or at   application
                           time of, itsofconversion
                                          uniform and    grains or regulated
                                                    intoaccurately pellets.
pressure with modifications in the composition of gunpowder, and by
thoroughly confining the material within a case or receptacle, so that,
if ignited, it can only burn in one direction, admirable and valuable
arrangements (known as Fuzes and Time-Fuzes) are obtained for
igniting charges of gunpowder in shells at any period, during their
flight, which may have been determined upon previous to the loading
of the gun. By simple mechanical arrangements, regulating the
amount of the compressed gunpowder which shall burn before the
flame reaches the charge in the shell, the time of explosion is readily
adjusted with the greatest nicety (subject, however, to variations
depending upon the degree of density of the atmosphere, as recently

442              Mr. F. A. Abel on the Causes, Effects,        [March 21,
shown by Dr. Frankland's researches). The principle of regulated
compression, and of combustion in one direction, is applied to the pre
paration of rockets, signals, and numerous pyrotechnic arrangements,
other explosive mixtures being, in some instances, substituted for the
gunpowder.
   The advantages offered by materials of a much more powerfully or
rapidly explosive character than gunpowder, when employed simply as
destructive agents (for instance, in many classes of mining operations),
have led to repeated attempts at the application, as substitutes for gun
powder, of highly explosive mixtures, readily obtainable in large
quantities, in which chlorate of potassa is employed, in the place of
a nitrate, in conjunction with very oxidisable materials, such as the
sulphides of arsenic and antimony, and compounds containing carbon
and hydrogen (Callow's mining powder and white or German gun
powder are examples of such compounds). All attempts to manu
facture and employ such mixtures have, however, invariably terminated
in more or less disastrous results, in consequence of the comparatively
low temperature at which chlorate of potassa exerts its oxidizing power.
Very slight friction or percussion suffices to inflame many of these
mixtures, and the violence of their explosive action is, in many in
stances, as difficult to control as that of explosive chemical compounds.
Even in the manufacture and employment of comparatively so safe an
agent as gunpowder, which may be subjected, without ignition, to
tolerably powerful friction or percussion, and to the direct application
of any temperature below that which suffices to ignite sulphur (about
550° Pah.), the neglect of strict precautions, for excluding the pos
sibility of a particle of the powder being subjected to sudden and
powerful friction, may, and frequently does, lead to accidental explo
sions. The occasional accidents in gunpowder manufactories are
generally enveloped in mystery, in consequence of their fearfully
destructive effects ; in all cases, however, where it has been possible to
trace the causes of such explosions, they have been found in the wilful
or accidental neglect of simple precautionary measures, indispensable
to the positive safety of the works and operators.
    The more highly explosive mixtures, and some few explosive
compounds, though inapplicable as substitutes for gunpowder, on ac
count of their great sensitiveness to the effects of heat, have, in con
sequence of this very quality, received important applications in
numerous ingenious contrivances for effecting the ignition of gun
powder. Well-known instances of such applications are :—The em
ployment of fulminate of mercury in percussion-caps ; of a mixture
of chlorate of potassa and sulphide of antimony, in arrangements for
firing cannon by percussion and by friction, and for exploding shells
by percussion or concussion ; and of the same mixture, exploded at
will, by being brought into contact with a drop of strong sulphuric
acid, for the ignition of submarine mines or of signals.
   Other mixtures, combining a high degree of explosiveness with
 power of conducting electricity, have been successfully applied to

1862.]         and Military Applications of Explosions.              443
the simultaneous ignition of numerous charges of gunpowder by
electricity of high tension : by means of one of them, recently dis
covered, many mines may be simultaneously discharged, even by the
employment of small magneto-electric machines ; the necessity for
the employment of voltaic arrangements in mining operations being
thus entirely dispensed with.
    One of the most highly explosive mixtures at present known,
consisting of chlorate of potassa and amorphous phosphorus, has been
most ingeniously applied by Sir William Armstrong to the ignition of
his time-fuzes, and to the production of concussion and percussion-
fuzes, remarkable for the great ease with which they are exploded.
The above mixture may be ignited by the application of a gentle heat,
or by submission to moderate pressure ; if it is made up into a hard
mass by mixture with a little shellac-varnish, the friction resulting
from the rapid insertion of a pin's point into the material suffices
to ignite it, even when it is well covered with varnish. Thus, in
Armstrong's time-fuze, which, when fixed in its place in the head
of the shell, cannot, like ordinary fuzes employed in smooth-bore
guns, be ignited by the flame of the exploding charge of powder (as
the shell accurately fits the bore of the gun), the fuze-composition is
inflamed, immediately upon the firing of the gun, in the following
manner :—A small quantity of the phosphorus-mixture is deposited at
the bottom of a cylindrical cavity in the centre" of the fuze, and over it
is fixed a small plug of metal, with a pin's point projecting from its
lower end. This plug is held in its place by a pin of soft metal, which
by reason of the vis inertice of the plug, is broken when the gun is
fired, and the pin then instantly pierces the pellet of detonating mix
ture, which, by its ignition, sets into action the time-fuze. The dis
tance between the pin's point and the phosphorus-mixture, before the
explosion, is only one-tenth of an inch. This arrangement exemplifies
in a striking manner the delicacy of action which may be obtained by
a judicious combination of simple mechanical arrangements and highly
explosive materials.
     The variety of work accomplished by the explosion of a charge of
powder in an Armstrong gun loaded with a shell—no less than five
distinct and important operations being thereby effected before the
shell leaves the gun—affords a most interesting illustration of the pro
gress- made in the application of explosives, and of the comparatively
great control which may be exercised over the operations of those
destructive agents.
                                                            [F. A. A.]

444                         Admiral Fitz-Roy                 [March 28,
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 28, 1862.
 John Peter Gassiot, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   Rear-Admiral Fitz-Roy, F.R.S.
An Explanation of the Meteorological Telegraphy, and its Basis,
                  now under trial at the Board of Trade.
The telegraphic communication of meteorological changes from distant
stations to a central position, whence occasional warnings of impending
storms might be given, which has been organized and tried by Govern
ment, had its origin at a meeting of the British Association in 1859, at
Aberdeen, under the presidency of that deeply lamented Prince whose
short life was wholly devoted to the most useful objects. It was then
resolved by their Council that application should be made to Her
Majesty's Government for an organization and trial of a plan by which
the approach of storms might be telegraphed to distant localities. At
two meetings in Buckingham Palace, early the following year (1860),
minutes were authorized on this subject, and correspondence ensued
which resulted in establishing a telegraphic communication of meteoro
logical facts between twenty home stations, besides foreign ones—and
daily with Paris.
    The Aberdeen meeting had only just terminated, when public
attention was startled by the loss of the ' Royal Charter.' It so
happened that the storm which caused the destruction of that iron ship
(notwithstanding power of steam additional to that of sails—and while
a sailing ship, managed differently, was bearing its brunt uninjured
within a few miles distant *)—that storm, completely cyclonic, passed
over the middle of England, and could be more fully investigated than
any storm hitherto, because in every direction observers happened to
be ready, who recorded ample statical facts, and many valuable
dynamical results.
    Advancing gradually, the first cautionary or storm-warning signals
were made early in 1861, but on that occasion were unhappily dis
regarded in the Tyne, and on the following days awful losses of life
were witnessed on the north-east coasts. From that time to the present
similar warnings have been given there and elsewhere,—with increas
ingly advantageous effects, it appears—if one may judge, in the first
                             * ' The Cumming.'

1862.]                   on Meteorological Telegraphy.                             445
instance, by applications since sent officially from all the principal
ports, and from the chief associations of Underwriters, in addition to
Admiralty approval, and the co-operation of the Coast-guard.
      In August, 1861, the first published "forecasts " of weather were
tried ; and after another half-year had elapsed for gaining experience
by varied tentative arrangements, the present system was established.
Twenty reports are now received each morning (except Sundays), and
ten each afternoon, besides five from the Continent. Double forecasts
(two days in advance) are published, with the full tables (on which they
chiefly depend), and are sent to six daily papers, to one weekly,— to
Lloyds'—to the Admiralty, —and to the Horse Guards, besides the
Board of Trade.
      These forecasts add almost nothing to the pecuniary expense of the
system, —while their usefulness, practically, is said to be more and
more recognized.* Warnings of storms arise out of them ; and (scarcely
enough considered) the satisfaction of knowing that no very bad
weather is imminent, may be very great to a person about to cross
the sea. Thus their negative evidence may be actually little less
valuable than the positive.
      Prophecies or predictions they are not:—the term forecast is
strictly applicable to such an opinion as is the result of a scientific com
bination and calculation, liable to be occasionally, though rarely, mar
red by an unexpected " downrush," f of southerly wind, or by a rapid
electrical action not yet sufficiently indicated to our extremely limited
sight and feeling. We shall know more and more by degrees. At
 present it is satisfactory to know that the measures practised daily in
 these proceedings do not depend solely on one individual. They are
 the results of facts exactly recorded,—and deductions from their con
sideration, for which rules have been given. An assistant has been
 practised and is able to share their responsibility. Others are also
advancing in the subject of dynamical meteorology.
      Air currents sometimes flow side by side, though in opposite direc
 tions, as " parallel streams," for hundreds or even thousands of miles.
 Sometimes they are more or less superposed—occasionally, indeed
frequently, crossing at various angles ; sometimes combining, and by
 the composition of their forces and qualities causing those varieties of
 weather that are experienced as the wind veers more toward or from
 the equator or the nearest pole ; and sometimes so antagonistic in their
 angular collision as to cause those large circling eddies or rotatory
 storms called cyclones (in modern parlance), which are really like the
 greater storms in all parts of the world, although they do not quite
 assimilate to those local whirlwinds, dust-storms, and other commotions
     * At a recent meeting of the shareholders of the Great Western Docks, at
 Stonehonse, Plymouth, it was stated officially that "the deficiency (in revenue)
 is to be attributed chiefly to the absence of vessels requiring the use of the graving
 docks for the purpose of repairing the damages occasioned by storms and casual
 ties at sea."—(Feb. 24, 1862.)
     t Herschel.

 446                               Admiral Fitz-Roy                   [March 28,
 of atmosphere which seem to be more electrical in their characteristics,
 if not   in their origin.
       Whenever      a polar current prevails at any place, or is approaching,
 the air becomes heavy, and the barometer is high or rises. When . the
 opposite (equatorial or tropical) prevails or approaches, the mercury is
 low or falls, because the air is, or is becoming, specifically lighter, and
         changes take
 theseWhenever,           placeany
                       from           causes—electrical, chemical, or simply
                                  slowly.
 mechanical—either current, or any combination of currents, ceases to
 press onward without being opposed, a gradual lightening of the atmo
 sphere, through a greater or less area of hundreds, or perhaps thousands
 of miles occurs, not suddenly, but very gradually, and the barometer
            restoreisequilibrium,
 falls.To There        less tension. the nearest disposable body of air (so to
 speak) or most moveable, advances first ; but an impulse, at the same
 time, may be given to other and greater masses that — though later in
 arriving—may be stronger—last longer, and cause greater pressure
 mechanically as well as by combination. Air, like water, mingles
        slowly, with
 veryTaking,              from north-east
                  eitherDove,               and south-west (true) as the " wind-
                                 above or laterally.
 poles," all intermediate directions are found to be more or less assimi
 lated to the characteristics of those extremes ; while all the variations
of pressure, or tension, many of those caused by temperature, and all
 varieties of winds, may be clearly and directly traced to the operations
 of two constant principal currents—equatorial or tropical, and polar—
       north-east
 our Great          and south-west.
               distinction   should be marked between those ever alternate
and often conflicting main currents—tropical and polar, and the local
effects of their union, or antagonism, namely mixed winds—whether
westerly or easterly, with occasional cyclones or circulating eddies, on
     Considering
a large               scale.the lower current does not ordinarily extend far up
           or small that
ward (only a few thousand yards, or even feet), and that high land, moun
tains, especially ranges of mountains, »lter and impede its progress, a
variety of eddy winds, or as it were -streams of wind, with local and
     Electrical
apparently      anomalous
                    action, effects,
                              condensation
                                      must beoffrequently caused.
                                                vapour into  hail, snow, rain, or
fog, causing heat; or its other changes, namely, evaporation, rarefac
tion, and expansion—absorbing heat, and therefore causing cold—
immediately affect currents of air in a degree proportional to such
     The polar
influence            current
             ; inducing         always motion.
                           horizontal   advances from the polar quarter, while
laterally moving eastward (like a ship making lee-way), being pressed
towards the east by the tropical flow which advances from the south-
westward, usually above and at an angle with the polar stream or
current of air, often mixing with it, but at times separately penetrating
downward, then sweeping and warming the earth's surface, uncom-
bined with the polar current, even while feeling its approaching

1862.]                on Meteorological Telegraphy.                            447
influence : and thus, as it were, forcing passages between streams of
chilling polar air that at the same time are moving in opposite and
    Sometimes
nearly           directions.
        parallel their  opposition is so equal, and equilibrium is so com
plete, that a calm is the result, no sensible movement horizontally
    Self-registering
along                  barometers
       the earth's surface           show the alterations in tension, or, so to
                              being perceptible.
speak, the pulsations, on a large scale, of atmosphere, by hourly marks ;
and the diagram expresses to a practised observer what the " indicator
card " of a steam cylinder shows to a skilful engineer, or a stethoscope
     physician.
to aOur   own Islands have very peculiar facilities for meteorological
communication by telegraph, between outlying stations on the sea coast
and a central place—all being at nearly the same level, and nearly all
    And now, the
comparatively        results are,bythat,
                 uninfluenced              havingranges.
                                     mountain      daily knowledge of weather
(including ordinary facts of a meteorological nature), at the extreme
limits and centre of our British Islands, we are warned of any great
change taking place ; the greater atmospherical changes being measured
by days—rather than by hours. Only local changes, however violent
they may be occasionally (and dangerous in proportion to their
suddenness and violence),—only such changes are unfelt at a distance,
of atmosphere.
and  do not influence
    Extensive   changes, great
                            showing
                                breadths,—say,     of pressure,
                                      differences hundreds        aboveinorarea,—
                                                              of "miles      below
the normal or mean level, amounting to an inch or thereabouts, are
certain to be followed by a marked commotion of the elements in the
course of a few days. If the fall has been sudden, or the rise very
rapid,—swift, but brief, will be the resulting elementary movement ;
if slow, or gradual, —time will elapse before the change, and the
altered state of weather will take place more gradually, but last
    Notice may thus be obtained, and given, a few hours, or a day,
longer.
or even some days, before any important change in the weather actually
    Having such knowledge, it obviously follows that telegraphic
occurs.
warning may be sent in any direction reached by the wires, and that
occasionally, on the occurrence of very ominous signs, barometric and
other—including always those of the heavens—such cautions may be
given before storms as will tend to diminish the risks and loss of life
    It has been
so frequent       proved
             on our   exposed
                            also,and
                                  lately,  that storms,
                                     tempestuous         indeed all the greater
                                                    shores.
circulations of atmosphere between the tropics and polar regions, have
an eastward motion, bodily, while circulating around a centrical area.
    In answer
Within          to a it
         the tropics  question
                          is otherwise,
                                  from the    Eoyal Commissioners
                                          or westward,                  on Lights,
                                                         till they recurve.
Buoys, and Beacons, Sir John Herschel stated that—" the most im
portant meteorological communication which could be telegraphed,
    Vol. III. (No. 35.)                                                 2 h

448                       Admiral Fitz-Roy                    [March 28,
would be information just fresh received by telegraph, of a cyclone
actually in progress at a great distance, and working its way towards
the locality. There is no doubt that the progress of a cyclone may
be telegraphed, and might secure many a ship from danger by fore
warning."
    Successive, or rather, consecutive gyrations, circuits, or cyclones
often affect one another, acting as temporary mutual checks, until a
combination and joint action occurs ; their union causing even greater
effects : as may be seen even in water currents,—as well as in the
atmosphere.
    Between the tropics and the polar regions, or in temperate zones,
the main currents are incessantly active, while more or less antagonistic,
from the causes above mentioned : besides which, wherever considerable
changes of temperature, development of electricity, heavy rain, or
these in combination, cause temporary disturbance of atmospheric
equilibrium (or a much altered tension of air) these grand agents of
nature, the two great currents, speedily move by the least resisting lines,
to restore equilibrium, or fill the comparative void. One current
arrives, probably, or acts sooner than the other,—but invariably
collision occurs, of some kind or degree, usually occasioning a
circuit, a cyclonic or ellipsonic gyration ; however little noticed when
gentle, or moderate in force.
    As there must be resistance to moving air (or conflicting currents),
to cause gyration, and as there are no such causes, on a large scale,
near the equator, there are no storms (except local squalls) in very
low latitudes.
    It is at some distance, from about five to twenty degrees, from the
equator that hurricanes are occasionally felt in their violence.
    They originate in or near those hot and densely-clouded spaces,
sometimes spoken of as the " cloud-ring," where aggregated aqueous
vapour is at times condensed into heavy rain (partly with vivid electrical -
action) and a comparative vacuum is suddenly caused, towards which
air rushes from all sides. That which arrives from a higher latitude
has a westwardly, that from a lower an eastwardly tendency, due to the
earth's rotation, and to the change of latitude, whence a chief cause of
the cyclone's invariable rotation in one direction, as above explained.
    The hurricane or cyclone is impelled to the west, in low latitudes,
because the tendency of both currents there is to the westward, along
the surface : although one, the tropical, is much less so, and becomes
actually easterly near the tropic, after which its equatorial centrifugal
force is more and more evident, while the westwardly tendency of the
polar current diminishes ; and therefore, at that latitude, hurricane
cyclones cease to "move westward (re-curve), go then eastwardly, and
toward the polar quarter.
    Great and important changes of weather and wind are preceded, as
well as accompanied, by notable alterations in the state of the atmo
sphere. Such changes, being indicated at some places sooner than at
others around the British Islands, give frequent premonitions ; and

1862.]                on Meteorological Telegraphy.                         449
therefore, great differences of pressure (or tension) shown by barometer
of temperature, of dryness, or moisture, and direction of wind, should
    It will beasobserved,
be considered      signs of changes,
                               on any likely
                                           continued
                                                to occur  soon.
                                                       comparison   of weather
reports, that during the stronger winds a far greater degree of
uniformity and regularity is shown than during the prevalence of
     Whenorneither
moderate      light breezes
                       of the: and
                                 greater
                                     this should   be remembered.
                                            and more     extensive atmospheric
currents is sweeping across the British Islands,—currents of which the
causes are remote, and on a large scale,—the nature or character of
our winds approaches, and is rather like that of land and sea breezes
     Either
in low       the cooler
        latitudes         sea wind
                  ; especially        is drawn in, over land heated by the
                                 in summer.
summer sun ; or cold air from frosty heights, snow-covered lands, or
chilly valleys, moves towards the sea, which is so uniform in tempera
ture for many weeks together, changing so slowly, and but little, in
comparison with land, during the year. These light variables may at
such times be numerous, simultaneously, around the compass, on the
    Frequently
various              hasBritish
         coasts ofitthe           Islands." In this country, how much rise or
                          been asked,
fall of the glasses may foretell remarkable change, or a dangerous
    To? "which can now be replied,—great changes or storms are usually
storm
shown by falls of barometer exceeding an inch ; and by differences of
temperature exceeding about fifteen degrees. A tenth of an inch an
hour is a fall indicating a storm or very heavy rain. The more
rapidly such changes occur, the more risk there is of dangerous atmo
    As all
spheric     barometric instruments often, if not usually, show what may
         commotion.
be expected a day or even days in advance, rather than the weather of
the present or next few hours, and as wind, or its direction, affects
them much more than rain or snow, due allowance should always be
madeThe    days as effect
       forgeneral   well as
                          of for
                             storms   is felt
                                  hours       unequally in our islands, and less
                                         to come.
inland than on the coasts. Lord Wrottesley has shown, by the ane
mometer at his observatory in Staffordshire, that wind is diminished or
checked by its passage over land. The mountain ranges of Wales and
Scotland, rising two to four thousand feet above the ocean level, must
have great power to alter the direction, and probably the velocity of
wind, independently of alterations caused by changes of temperature.
    " It not unfrequently happens that a series of cyclones follow closely
upon each other for several weeks, the preceding members of the
series being often overtaken and interfered with by those succeeding.
It is, however, important to remark, that amidst all the complexity
necessarily occasioned by such combinations —the greater and more
violent storms, and particularly that portion of them which is most
dangerous and destructive, exhibit almost invariably the simple cyclonic
character. It is thus with the ' Law of Storms ' as with the ' Law of
                                                                  2 h 2

450                         Admiral Fitz-Roy                      [March 28,
Gravitation ;' the grand results of both are exceedingly simple, but
the minor details become more and more complicated in proportion to
       minuteness."storms,
theirConsecutive     *     at the meetings of main currents, in zones of
latitude, at certain periods, have had appearances of continuity. The
familiar instance of the ' Charles Heddle ' has so often been adduced as
proof of continuing circuitous action, or gyration, that it may seem
injudicious to doubt the evidence ; but knowing how frequently
circuits, or cyclones, succeed each other rapidly ; and how unreliable
are some of the earlier logs of events in a storm, written after its ces
sation, especially respecting directions of wind and courses steered,
when waves and storm blasts were the guides, not the oscillating
compass (if indeed that had not been washed away, as in the ' Charles
Heddle's ' case) ; it does not appear accordant to experience, and
enlarged acquaintance with the subject, to imagine that such atmo
spheric eddies are, mi generis, erratic, and so considerably independent,
as to cross a wide ocean.
    "When opposing currents meet, their masses must continue in
motion a certain time, either rotating, or ascending, or going onward
    Masses ofinair,
horizontally        either of polar or tropical origin, so to speak, return
                 combination.
ing, when driven back by stronger opposition,—at first, and for a
certain time, retain the characteristics of their peculiar and very
     In ournatures.
different    latitudes there is a continuous alternation of air currents—
each specifically different, and denoting approach by marked charac
teristics : and we have proved by successive series of simultaneous
statical observations, over a wide range,— embracing Scotland, Ireland,
all England, and adjacent islands,—that while these alternating or cir-
cuitously moving currents are thus incessantly passing—the whole body
of atmosphere filling our temperate zone is moving . gradually towards
     east—at strong
the During             westerly
               an average  rate ofwinds
                                   about this
                                           five geographical  miles isan greatly
                                                eastward motion           hour.
increased ; and in easterly gales it is proportionally diminished, as
measured by its passage along a horizontal surface of earth or ocean.
Knowing these circumstances, and having accurate statical observations
of these various currents, at selected outlying stations,—showing
pressure (or tension), temperature, and relative dryness, with the
direction and estimated horizontal force of wind at each place simul
taneously, the dynamical consequences are already measurable approxi
mately, on geometrical principles ; and, judging by the past, there
appears to be reasonable ground for expectation that, soon, meteorolo
gical dynamics will be subjected to mathematical analysis and accurate
formulas. The facts now weighed and measured mentally—in what
may be correctly called "forecasting" weather—are—the direction
                          W. Stevenson,
and force of each air *current,         of —reported
                                  or wind  Dunse, 1853. telegraphically to the

1862.]                on Meteorological Telegraphy.                       451
central station in London, from many distant stations ; their respective
tension and temperature, moisture or dryness, and their changes [since
     These
former       show
         recent     whether any or either movement or change is on the
                 observations.
increase, or decrease—whether a polar current is moving laterally off
—passing from our stations towards Europe—or approaching us from
the Atlantic —whether moving direct towards the south-westward with
great velocity, or with slow progress. If moving fast, in the direction
of its length, it will approach England more from the east—its speed
direct being twenty to fifty or eighty miles an hour—while its constant
lateral or easterly tendency (like a ship's leeway, in a current) being
only five miles an hour is then insensible to us —(though clearly
deducible from other facts ascertained), and is that much in alteration
of actual direction, as well as of what would otherwise be the velocity
    With
of the         current.
        polarthe  opposite principal current —the equatorial or south
westerly, more briefly and correctly tropical—similar but opposite
results occur—the direct motion from a south-tester/?/ quarter is
accelerated—sensibly to our perception—by part of the eastward
constant (about five miles hourly)—and therefore a body of air
approaches us sooner (other things being equal) from the westward,
thanTo    seamen
      it does        the eastward.to navigate in ships making leeway,
               from accustomed
while in currents setting variously over the ground, such movements,
complicated as they may appear, are familiar. Another important
consideration is the disposal or progress of bodies of air united, or
mixed, or contiguous to each other, after their meeting—either directly
opposed or at an angle—on the earth's (or ocean's) surface. They do
not vanish : —They cannot go directly upwards—against gravitation ;—
Westward they cannot generally go when there is collision or meeting,
because the momentum, elasticity, and extent of the tropical "anti
trade " * usually overpowers any direct polar current, or rises over it,
and more or less affects the subordinate below, by the friction of its
eastward pressure. Downward there is no exit—eastwardly (towards
the east) the accumulating air must go—and this tendency continued
causes the varieties of wind from the westward—being more or less
mixed—more or less purely polar or tropical as either one prevails in
    After a body of air has passed, and gone to some distance south
combination.
ward or northward, it may be stopped by an advancing and more
powerful mass of atmosphere which is moving in a direction contrary
to, or diagonally across its line of force. If their appulse be gradual
and gentle, only a check occurs—and the weaker body is pushed back
until its special qualities, respecting temperature and moisture, are so
masked by those of its opponent as to be almost obliterated. But, if
these currents meet* with      energy—at
                         Sir John            excellent
                                  Herschel's very      term, temperatures and
                                                   different

452                               Admiral Fitz-Roy                        [March 28,
tension, rapid changes are noticed as the wind shifts—and circuitous
     Otherwise—
eddies,                cyclones
          storms, orwhen             meeting is, as first mentioned, gradual—
                              theiroccur.
there is the return of a portion of either current (which previously
prevailed) either direct or deflected —deflected even through more than
one quadrant of a circle—by its advancing opponent—and retaining
     Thus considerable
for some     we have, for timeshortits
                                    times,
                                        own cold
                                             previous   characteristics.
                                                  dry Winds     from the south-west,
instead of the usual warm and moist ones ;—or winds of this latter kind
from the north, instead of cold ones. The circuitous tendency of air
in motion—and the numerous impediments to its horizontal progress,
such as land, ranges of mountains, hills, or even cliffs—induce many a
deviation from normal directions, extremely puzzling to the student of
 this subject ; but so retentive is air of its tension and temperature, for
 a time, that, like currents in the ocean, each may be traced by its
 characteristics as long as within our island web of stations. .When the
 polar current is driven back by a tropical advancing from a southerly
 direction gradually—their action united becomes south-easterly (from
 the south-eastward), and as the one or other prevails, the wind blows
          retentive
 moreSofrom           of temperature
                one side                 are the
                           of east or from        other.currents, that when H.M.S.
                                              oceanic
 'Nile' was going from Halifax to Bermuda, in May, 1861, Admiral
 Milne found the temperature 70° at the bow,—while only 40° at the
      Time
 stern,  as he   requiredtheto Gulf
              is entered               Stream.
                                 produce   motion in the air—horizontally—time
 is indispensable for its gradual cessation from movement. Statical
 effects are noticed, at observatories—or by careful observers anywhere
      The present
 —hours,                 before
             or days,daily    forecasts,
                                 dynamical    consequences of
                                          or premonitions         weather, are drawn
                                                               occur.
 up on the following arrangement. Districts are thus assumed :—
      As3.
         2.
         4.
         5.
         1.our
             North
             Central
             Ireland—generally—around
             East
             South
                space
                 of
                 coast.
                    Coast
                    Northumberland)
                     Britain
                      England
                       is(Wales
                           very
                             (from
                                 limited,
                                  to
                                (including
                                  (from
                                     Northumberland
                                      the Solway)
                                           the
                                           and
                                            along
                                             from
                                               as
                                                Thames
                                                   some
                                                   the
                                                 thethe
                                                     coast-wise.
                                                      coasts.
                                                        coast.
                                                         Moray
                                                          words
                                                          toround
                                                             the are
                                                                  Firth
                                                                    toused
                                                                       Wales)
                                                                        to in
                                                                 Thames).       middle
                                                                                by the
                                                                           thedifferent
 senses by different persons, extreme care is taken in selecting those
 for such brief, general, and yet sufficiently definite sentences, as will
       the purpose.
 suit Such   words as are on published scales of force, or nature of wind
 and weather, are generally understood, and therefore used in preference
      In saying, on any day, what the probable character of the weather
 to others.
 will be to-morrow, or the day after, at the foot of a table showing its
  observed nature that very morning, —a limited degree of information

1862.]                  on Meteorological Telegraphy.                       453
is offered, for about two days in advance, which is as far as may be
yet trusted generally, on an average, though at times a longer pre
monition might be given, with sufficient accuracy to be of occasional
use.Minute, or special details, such as showers at particular places, or
merely local squalls, are avoided ; but the general or average charac
teristics, those expected to be principally prevalent (with but few
exceptions) the following day, and the next after it, including the
nights—not those of the weather actually present—are cautiously ex
     It may
pressed,          careful
           afternow        consideration.
                      be seen,   after many months' trial, whether tolerably
correct forecasts of ordinary weather can be formed here sooner than
at distant, isolated places, where the published general Eeports arrive
a day or two later ; and whether they are practically useful as con
     Ordinary
clusions         variations
           available              cloudiness, or clear sky, or rain, of a local,
                       for theofpublic.
     A broad
or only         general
          temporary     character,
                          average, are
                                     or prevalence,  usually.
                                         not noticed is kept in view, referring
to a day, or more, in advance, and to a district, rather than only to
     time great
one The            practical
            or place             be remembered.
                      ; shoulddifficulty   is in separating the effect, on the
mind, of present states of air, weather, and clouds, from abstract con
siderations of what may be expected on the morrow, or next following
day. When in doubt, distrusting the indications, or inferences from
them (duly considered on purely scientific principles, and checked by
experience), the words " Uncertain" or " Doubtful" may be used,
     As meteorological
without   hesitation.        instruments usually foretell important changes
by at least a day, or much longer, we have to consider what wind and
weather may be expected from the morning observations, compared
with those of the days immediately previous, as indicative of the
morrow's weather, and of the day after, at each place—to take an
average of those expectations, for each district, collectively, in groups ;
      then to maps,
and Outline            with
                estimate      movableeffects.
                          dynamical      windmarkers, and cyclone glasses or
horns, are useful in forecasting weather : and full consideration should
 be given to the probable position, direction, extent, and degree of
progress of that centrical area, or node, round which the principal
currents usually circulate, or turn, as they meet and alter, combine
with,   or succeed
     Here   dynamical     another.
                     oneconsiderations,    with comprehensive comparisons of
statical facts, are most important ; and to treat them even approxi
mately well, with such quick despatch as is requisite, demands aptitude
      experience.
and Those     who are most concerned about approaching changes, who
 are going to sea, or on a journey, or a mere excursion ; those who
 have gardening, agricultural, or other out-door pursuits in view— may

 454                            Admiral Fitz-Roy                      [March 28,
 often derive useful cautionary notices from these published expecta
 tions of weather—although (from the nature of such subjects) they
      be but scanty,
 can Objection          and taken
                 has been    imperfect,
                                    to such
                                         under   presentbecause
                                             forecasts,           they cannot be
                                                          circumstances.
 always exactly correct,—for all places in one district. It is, however,
 considered by most persons that general, comprehensive expressions, in
 aid of local observers, who can form independent judgments from the
 tables and their own instruments, respecting their immediate vicinity,
though not so well for distant places, may be very useful, as well as
 interesting : while to an unprovided or otherwise uninformed person,
an idea of the kind of weather thought probable cannot be otherwise
 than acceptable, provided that he is in no way bound to act in accord
 ance with any such views, against his own judgment.
   " Like the storm signals, such notices should be merely cautionary
—to denote anticipated disturbance somewhere over these islands,—
without being in the least degree compulsory, or interfering arbi
     Certain
trarily  with it
               theis,movements
                       that although
                                  of vessels or individuals.
                                       our conclusions   may be incorrect—our
judgment erroneous—the laws of nature, and the signs afforded to man,
     invariablyknow
are Seamen                    the marked
                 true.wellAccurate    interpretation
                                             characteristics
                                                      is the real deficiency.
                                                              of the   two great
divisions of wind, in all parts of the world, and do not care to calcu
late the intermediate changes, or combinations, to two or three points.
They want to know the quarter whence a gale may be expected —
     Everynortherly
whether       seaman orwill    admit, that however useful, and therefore
                           southerly.
desirable, it would be to know exactly the hour of a storm's commence
ment—as our acquaintance with meteorology does not enable such times
to be fixed—the next best thing is to have limits assigned for extra
vigilance and due precaution, which limits are clearly stated, in all the
printed popular instructions, to be from the time of hoisting the signal
       two say
untilBut,       some,days
            or three          justly— are ships to remain waiting to avoid a
                        and afterwards.
gale that, after all, may not happen ? Are fishermen and coasters to
wait idle and miss their opportunities ? By no means. All that the
cautionary signals imply is—" Look out." " Be on your guard."
" Notice your glasses and the signs of the weather." " The atmo
     Many
sphere       remarkable
         is much            cases have occurred, which show the value of
                   disturbed."
such warnings, or cautionary notices. Some have been published in
newspapers, and need not be repeated ; others have been communicated
only by private letters ; and one or two of them may be mentioned
      as instances.
nowAdmiral      Evans wrote that on one evening, after a warning had
been given at Liverpool, such a sudden (though brief) storm swept
over the Mersey as would have done much harm, had not the harbour
master made due preparations, because of the signal.
     A. gentleman intending to cross the Irish Channel with an invalid

1862.]                 on Meteorological Telegraphy.                      455
lady, was warned to wait, though the weather then looked beautiful in
Loudon. That night it blew a " hurricane " on the west of Ireland,
     a galeships-of-war
andThree     in the Irishwere Sea which
                                   lying lasted
                                          in Plymouth
                                                the following day.
                                                         Sound,  ready to sail
for the West Indies. They waited two days, being cautioned, and
then put to sea, in the intervening lull (as it happened), between two
gales, the first of which was blowing while they were detained ; and
the second was a violent cyclone, that crossed France, the Netherlands,
and Denmark, of which the northern semicircle swept our south and
south-eastern coasts, but was just avoided by Her Majesty's squadron,
or, rather, utilized by them, as they steered to the westward, nearly
before its easterly wind, for some hours, and so passed out clear into
    Atlantic.
the Full  warning was given along our eastern coasts, of that storm, in
which the Prussian corvette ' Amazon ' was totally lost ; and so struck
were the "Prussian authorities by the facts of that period—taken in
connection with other known cases —that an official application was
soon afterwards made to the Board of Trade for information, with the
view of enabling a similar system to be organized in the Baltic, com
    On the 12th
municating,        of November,
              if possible,           1861, a Warning was sent to Yarmouth,
                             with England.
in the afternoon. Being nearly dusk—and having then no night
signals—nothing was done till next day, after all the fishing boats had
gone far out to sea—having started very early in the morning. That
afternoon there was a storm ; and to save their own lives, the fishermen
were obliged to cut from and abandon some 40,000/. worth of nets and
gear. Night signals might have saved that loss, and the imminent
     of many
riskOn         lives.the Such
         Friday,          7th ofmeans
                                    March,   the warning
                                        are ready now.     drum was hoisted
all day at Plymouth. Saturday was so fine, in appearance, that the
caution was not appreciated, and mackerel boats went to a distance
—as usual. That afternoon another signal was made— South Cone
under drum—to show that a heavy southerly gale was coming soon.
It was a beautiful afternoon. No one anticipated the sequel, except
those who, spider like, could " feel along the lines." Before midnight
there was a storm—which lasted much of the next day. One of the
boats was lost with eight men. " A more dangerous gale had not
been known," was written by an officer of experience and good judg
    Perhaps
ment,         sufficient
       in his letter        friend. has not always been given to the con
                      to a thought
sideration of mere pecuniary loss by wear and tear, risk, accident,
delay, and demurrage,—caused by a gale at sea ;—balanced against
the results of waiting for a tide or two, perhaps once in two months,
whenBut  be this as
       cautioned          may, with
                  by ita storm        coasters, short traders, or even screw
                                 signal.
colliers—the question is entirely different with ordinary over-sea or
foreign-going ships—especially when starting from a southern, or from
a western port. To such vessels a gale in the Channel, or even during

456 Admiral Fitz-Roy on Meteorological Telegraphy. [Mar. 28, 1862.
the first day or two after clearing the land, must always be very
prejudicial. Officers and men are mutually strange. Things are not
in their places ; often not secured—and the ship perhaps is untried at
sea. Of course, however, these remarks are inapplicable to fine first-
class ships—and to powerful, well-managed steamers, independent of
        conclusion,
windInand               appears
           weather, itwhich        at fixed
                            startthat         attention be paid on the coasts
                                      if duehours.
to cautionary signals— and at the central office—to the telegraphed
reports— no very dangerous storm need be anticipated, without more or
less notice of its approach being generally communicated around the
British Islands ; or to those coasts which are likely to be most affected
by its greatest strength.
                                                                  [11. F.]



          i£ogal Institution of ©teat Britain.
                 WEEKLY       EVENING
                         Friday,               MEETING,
                                   April 4, 1862.
Sir Henry Holland, Bart.          M.D.
                               in the      D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                       Chair.
                       Mr. Commissioner Hill,
                           KBCORDEU OF BIRHINGHAM.
                            On the Post-office.
The first indication of a letter post is stated by German authors to
have been found in the republic of the Hanse Towns as early as the
thirteenth century. Shortly afterwards it was adopted by the Teutonic
knights, who, like him of the Canterbury Tales, made war on the in
fidels in Lithuania and the adjacent districts eastward. We may next
trace a line of posts in the Tyrol, laid down in the reign of the Em
peror Maximilian, who naturally desired to connect Lombardy with
his Austrian dominions. The merit of this project is given by his
torians to the Lombard princes of the house of Thurn and Taxis, as
they were designated after their removal to Germany. Under the
Emperor Charles V. they established a line from Vienna to Brussels,
thus connecting the Empire with its outlying possessions in Flanders.
Until the reign of Henry VIII., letters in England were conveyed by
special messengers—sometimes on foot, sometimes on horseback—and,
again, by carriers who, as we learn from Shakespeare, had no relays, the
same horse either carrying its pack or drawing its cart from day to day.
How far England was behind some other nations in very important
social arrangements is indicated by the circumstance that long before
we had a post for inland letters, the foreign merchants resident here en
joyed a stated interchange of correspondence with the Continent. This
undertaking had its origin during the reign of Henry VIII., or prior
to its commencement. In that of James I., from a complaint by the
English merchants that the foreign postmaster delayed their letters,
the King took the appointment into his own hands. It might be fairly
presumed, even in the absence of direct evidence, that the postboy who
carried despatches or accompanied the traveller during a stage of his
journey to take back the post-horse, would be induced now and then to
carry a private letter, so that in the course of years a usage profitable
   Vol. III. (No. 36.)                                         2i

458                       Mr. Commissioner Hill                   [April 4,
to all parties would grow up which would engraft a letter post (of a
rude kind, perhaps,) on a system which the law intended only for des
patches and for travellers. The hypothesis is confirmed by history,
and this practice eventually became so extensive as to attract the at
tention of the Government. The years 1635 and 1637 witnessed the
issue by Charles I. of his famous proclamation establishing our post-
office on its present foundation, and directing that it should extend to
Scotland and Ireland. The merit of this enterprise would seem to
belong to Thomas Witherings, who was appointed first Inland Post
master-General, he being already one of the masters of the foreign
post. Soon afterwards the ever-memorable troubles of that unhappy
reign broke out. The proclamations had claimed for the Crown a
right of monopoly. It will create no surprise to learn that this pre
rogative was questioned by Parliament, nor that when the Houses be
came paramount over the King, they confirmed the monopoly, trans
 ferring it, however, to themselves, and closed a rival post-office, which,
 after Parliament had contested the King's right, had been set on foot
 by the city of London. As the conflict between the Parliament and
the city (no such unequal combatants in those da3's as they would be
in the present) would call for legal knowledge on the part of the Post
 master-General, his office was united to that of Attorney-General in
the person of Mr. Prideaux. He claimed, probably with justice, the
 credit of having so improved and expanded the system as to make it
not only self-supporting, but even to yield a profit. Taught by the
 success of the city enterprise he lowered the rates of postage and in
 creased the frequency of despatches, thus evincing that he not only
 apprehended, but acted upon principles which, although they have
 ever since received lip -homage, have too often been disregarded in
 practice, official men preferring immediate petty gain to large profits
 in the not distant future. In spite of great deficiencies in the service,
 the revenue of the Post-office, says Lord Macaulay, was from the first
increasing. In the year of the Restoration the net receipts were esti
 mated at about 20,000/. At the close of the reign of Charles II., the
 net receipts were little short of 50,000/., gross about 70,000/. But the
 proceeds came partly from the monopoly of post-horses, which was a
 considerable source of profit. About the year 1683, Robert Murray,
 an upholsterer of London, set up a penny post, which delivered letters
 and parcels six or eight times a day in the busy and crowded streets
near the Exchange, and four times a day in the outskirts of the capital,
the Royal Post-office having made no provision for correspondence
between one part of London and another. This undertaking he as
 signed to William Dockra ; but as soon as it became clear that the
 speculation would be lucrative, the Duke of York, on whom the whole
 net revenue of the Post-office had been settled by his brother, com
plained of the penny post as an infraction of his monopoly, and the
 courts of law decided in his favour. Murray's invention was thus
wrested from Dockra, and its profits went to swell the income of the
 Duke. The fusion of the two systems was imperfect, the letter

  1862.]                      on the Post-office.                      459
 carriers belonging to each being still confined to their former duties,
 so that they would often be found in the same street, and not seldom
 'would meet at the same door ; whereas if one had handed over his
 letters to the other, and had then retired, the work might have been
 performed just as well. It would hardly obtain belief, but for the
 notoriety of the fact, that this waste of labour, which to the public was
 a waste of money constantly increasing, survived to the year 1854.
 So dear, from long association, had this absurdity become to official
 men^that although it was attacked in the report of the Commissioners
 of Inquiry as early as 1829, and although its abolition was an object
 of earnest desire with the author of Penny Postage, who included the
 change in his proposal when he submitted it to the nation and to
 Parliament, yet it was not until fourteen years after he entered upon
 the administration of the Post-office that he was enabled to overcome
 the impediments which the usage of nearly two centuries had accu
 mulated in the way of this obvious improvement. Until 1720 the lines
 of postal communication had been radial from each metropolis of the
 three kingdoms, the number of cross-posts being comparatively few.
 But in that year the well-known Ralph Allen, then at the head of the
 Bath Post-office, made a contract with the Government to establish a
 cross-post between the cities of Exeter and Chester, by way of Bristol,
 Gloucester, and Worcester, thus connecting the West of England with
the mail route to Ireland, and giving postal intercommunication with
many towns of importance. His terms were—to bear himself all the
 cost of the service, to pay a fixed rent, and to retain the surplus. This
 contract was renewed and extended from time to time, so as to include
 other branches of road, and terminated only with his death in 1764.
 Mr. Palmer (a great name in the annals of the Post-office) says the
 net profits of this contract to its holder amounted to 12,000/. a year,
or in the total to rather more than half a million ! This is the only
instance of unclouded good fortune in the career of postal reformers.
Eighteen years after the death of Allen appears John Palmer, pro
prietor and manager of the theatres of Bristol and Bath. The most
obvious feature of his plans was the substitution of mail-coaches for
boys on horseback, or for mail-carts, though he introduced many other
improvements. He encountered much opposition, but the Minister,
the younger Pitt, adopted his plans, and Mr. Palmer was employed to
carry them into effect. His opponents bided their time, and two years
afterwards, when his plans were yet only in partial operation, he had
to encounter another struggle, and was defeated. The Minister,
although he gave up the inventor, retained the invention. It had been
agreed that Palmer was to have 1500Z. a year, and 2^ per cent. upon
all excess of revenue beyond a fixed sum. When ejected from the
Post-office, not only did his salary terminate, but instead of his 2i per
cent. he was obliged to accept a life annuity of 3000/. This, even at
that early date, was below the proceeds of his percentage, while the
rapidly advancing revenue soon made the difference far wider. He
appealed against this injustice, and eventually obtained a Par-
                                                              2 i 2

460                       Mr. Commissioner Hill                 [ [April 4,
liamentary grant of 50,000Z. ; an amount, however, wholly inade
quate     satisfy
     Totowhat     his claim. the young system was consigned on the loss
               foster-parents
of its father may be gathered from certain criticisms proffered by the
gentlemen of the Post-office on Palmer's proposals even after they had
had some brief and partial trial. Mr. Draper objects to mail coaches
as running too fast. He declares that the post cannot travel with the
expedition of chaises and diligences on account of business needing to be
done at the Post-office in each town through which it passes—the .fear
ful velocity which Mr. Draper deprecates rising possibly to six, or, in
some cases, even to seven miles an hour. Be it remembered, however,
that prior to Mr. Palmer's innovations, the average rate of the mail,
including stoppages, was only three miles and a half per hour, which,
in the opinion of the office, left nothing to be desired ! In truth, speed
appears to have been looked upon with great suspicion. Palmer had
maintained that the post should outstrip all other conveyances ; but tlie
judicious Mr. Hodgson says, " I do not see why the post should be the
swiftest conveyance. Personal conveyances, I apprehend, should be
much more, and particularly with people travelling on business." Palmer
found the net annual revenue of the Post-office about 150,000/. By
the year 1814, in the face of an enhanced tariff, it had risen tenfold,
namely, to 1,500,000/.—an augmentation chiefly attributable 1o the
 greater speed and punctuality secured by his improvements, though
aided unquestionably by the national advancement in population and
wealth. But thenceforward, until the epoch of penny postage, the
impulse given to the increase of letters by the causes already pointed
 out, and indeed, by all others—especially by Macadam's admirable in
 vention for bettering our roads, which enabled the mails to attain a rate,
including stoppages, of ten miles an hour—proved to have become ex
 hausted. For twenty years the number of letters passing through the
 Post-office remained stationary, amidst the rapid development of our
 manufactures and our commerce, the concentration of the national
mind on the arts of peace, the consequent expansion of correspondence,
and the innumerable facilities for its distribution which had been thus
created and had been necessarily displayed before the slumberous eyes
of the postal authorities. The augmentation of correspondence had
 broken through the monopoly of the Post-office, guarded although it
 was by high penalties, rigidly enforced. The mail coaches were out
 stripped by the improved stage coaches, which set the penal laws at
 defiance and carried an enormous number of contraband letters. But
 in spite of harsh laws harshly executed, of a straitened service, and of
 exorbitant rates, the Post-office still remained a popular and respected
 institution. At length, however, it discovered that it had traded too
 long on its reputation. Murmurs were heard among the people, and
 the discontented found a champion in the late Mr. Wallace, M.P. for
 Greenock, who frequently called the attention of the House to the
 preposterous rates of our postage. The desire for change grew with a
 Steady growth.

1862.]                       on the Post-office.                       461
     In the year 1837 Mr. Rowland Hill, then filling the position of
secretary to the Commissioners for managing the affairs of South Aus
tralia, a person scarcely known beyond the circle of his family and
his friends, put forth a scheme of postal reform which, being named
after its most striking feature, was called Penny Postage. He pro
posed the uniform rate of a penny for all letters under half an ounce, to
whatever part of the United Kingdom they might be carried. Hitherto,
if a letter consisted of two pieces of paper, however small, it was
charged double postage. Treble letters paid treble postage, quadruple
letters and all other multiples paid according to weight, but on a scale
still increasing in proportion to distance. Taking all matters into ac
count he struck an average, whence it appeared that by his plan the public
might command for Id. as much postal service as could be had on the
then established rates for 9d. The people at large, the manufacturing
and mercantile classes, the clergy—who witnessed every day the priva
tions endured by the poor for want of a post-office within their means
to use—all united in loud and earnest prayers to the Legislature to con
fer upon them the boon which had been held up before their eyes. On
the other hand the heads of both the great parties in the State were
impressed with the fiscal dangers of the proposed experiment ; many
believing that the project involved not merely an extinguishment of all
revenue from letters, but, in addition, a ruinous subsidy to defray the
expenses of the service. "Not that Mr. Hill had left his plan unsup
ported by allegations of fact and by arguments, which in the event of
the facts being sustained in proof, showed that the attractive results
promised might be achieved without any ultimate diminution of the
net revenue to a more serious extent than from 1,500,000/., at which
it then stood, to 1,200,000/. For a long series of years prior to
1837 the state of the Post-office had been a favourite subject of
inquiry both by Royal Commissioners and Parliamentary commit
tees, although the only very conspicuous product of these investi
gations was a formidable pile of blue books. To Mr. Hill, however,
who had never entered a post-office in his life, these books were a
mine of knowledge enabling him to frame a set of queries, to some
of which he succeeded in procuring answers. But these were
neither abundant nor accurate. For instance, it was essential that he
should ascertain within certain limits the number of chargeable letters
passing through the British post-offices in each year. No satisfactory
information on this head was the Post-office able to afford. Upon the
best data within his reach he computed the annual number at about 88£
millions ; but after some time, having to a certain extent been able to
correct his data, he revised his estimate, which he finally settled at 79-J-
millions. The Post-office estimated the number at 42 or 43 millions,
 then at 58 millions, next at 67 millions, and subsequently at 70 millions.
 But the Committee of 1838, after a most laborious and searching scru
tiny, conducted with untiring zeal and with a degree of ability which
cannot be too highly appreciated, arrived at the conclusion that the real
number was 77i millions. Eventually it was admitted by the Post

462                      Mr. Commissioner Bill                     [April 4,
office itself to amount to 76 millions, which number was finally adopted.
As the scheme of Penny Postage was based on the understanding that
the ultimate loss to the revenue would not exceed 3OO,OO0Z. per annum,
a tolerably accurate computation of the real number of letters was one
of the problems regarding the amount of increase in correspondence
required to fulfil this condition, it being self-evident that if the Post-
office had been correct in its estimate of 43 millions, the required mul
tiplication must be very much larger than if the then existing number,
as was now conceded, amounted to 76 millions. The Postmaster-
General contended that a twelvefold increase would be necessary, while
Mr. Hill calculated that a fivefold increase would suffice. To enable
the Committee to form a judgment of the sources of increase, he began
by adducing evidence to prove the vast multitude of contraband letters
which, if postage could be reduced to a penny, there would be no temp
tation to transmit through a surreptitious medium. He then proceeded
to show that the number of contraband letters, great as it was, must
sink into insignificance when compared with that which the high
tariff prevented from being written at all. It is believed that on the
institution of Penny Postage contraband transmission ceased altogether,
and yet the first year added but 93 millions of letters to the 76 millions
of the old system, while some portion of this 93 millions must clearly
be placed to the account of letters which, but for the reduction in post
age, would not have come into existence. The augmentations of sub
sequent years have exceeded the limits of the wildest aspirations. But
Mr. Hill did not depend altogether on the effect to be produced by
swelling the grand total of letters. He laid great stress on diminishing
to the Post-office the expense of the service : the cost per letter, not
the total expense. That by the expected great increase of letters was
sure to be enhanced. This important end he proposed to attain by
 the combination of two expedients. One was uniformity of post
age. The other the relief of the office, by the employment of stamps,
from the onerous duty of collecting postage. That both these changes
 must be highly economical is obvious. The taxation of letters, as it
was then called, meaning thereby the task of ascertaining the amount
 of postage for each letter, and registering it upon the letter itself, was a
slow and complex process, the greater part of which uniform postage
 did away with. But the principal item of cost had always been the
 delivery of letters from house to house. Under the old system the all
 but universal usage was for the sender to post his letter unpaid. The
inevitable consumption of time thus caused in the collection of postage
 would be fresh in the memory of a large portion of the audience.
 Neither of the two branches of postal service thus cheapened presented
 any obstacle to the application of the principle of uniformity ; but the
 third, namely, the journey which the letter made from the office of re
 ception to that of destination, would appear at first sight of necessity to
 demand different rates of remuneration. No one was prepared to be
lieve that the transit of a letter from St. Martin's -le-Grand to Barnet,
 the first stage on the road to Edinburgh, would cost practically the

 1862.]                        on the Post-office.                      463
same as the whole journey, and yet Mr. Hill found on laborious inves
tigation, that such was the fact—the sum for the whole journey only
amounting to one-ninth of a farthing ! Thus, it is clear that strict
justice, to say nothing of convenience to the Post-office, which means
economy, is more closely approached by making no variation of charge
in respect of greater or smaller distances of conveyance than could be
attained by acting on any differential scale imaginable, unless, indeed,
we had a coinage descending far below farthings. By the result of
this investigation, which I think I am justified in calling a discovery,
all objections to adopting the principle of uniformity were fully
answered, and Mr. Hill's case was complete. The Committee reported
in his favour ; the project was embodied in a Bill ; passed the Legis
lature the next session, and, at the commencement of the year 1840,
      carried
was And       intotime
           here        warns me to break off my narrative. I will con
                    operation.
clude with a brief comparison of postal affairs as they stood at the pub
lication of Mr. Rowland Hill's plan with their present state ; premising
that the results which I have now to exhibit could not have been ob
tained without hearty and intelligent co-operation on the part of many
gentlemen in the Post-office, who in the discharge of their respective
duties have laboured with fidelity and devotion to promote the new
 system to the best of their ability. I cannot bring myself to pass their
 exertions by in utter silence, although I have no space for a more
 explicit notification of their services. As late as the year 1838, of the
 2100 districts of the registrars of births, deaths, and marriages in Eng
 land and Wales, about 400, then containing 1,500,000 inhabitants, were
 destitute of a single post-office. The average extent of each district
was nearly 20 square miles. Several of these postal deserts were con
 siderably larger than the county of Middlesex ! The average population
 of the chief place of each district was 1400, and its average distance
 from the nearest post-office between four and five miles. Yet the rami
 fications of our postal system pervaded England far more thoroughly
 than they did the remaining divisions of the United Kingdom. Many
 other English and Welsh districts, though possessing post-offices, were
 yet so scantily supplied with them in proportion to their area, that in all
 probability 4,000,000 of the population of England and Wales, amount
 ing at that date to one-quarter of the whole, must be held to have been
 destitute of postal accommodation. The great extent of the deficiency
 might be also gathered from the single fact that, while England and Wales
 contain about 11,000 parishes, the total number of jtheir post-offices of
 all descriptions was only 3000. At the present day the comparison stands
 thus. The number in England and Wales has increased to 11,000,
 making it scarcely possible that any one of the registrars' districts
 should now remain unsupplied with a post-office. The offices in Scot
 land and Ireland have also received considerable augmentation, the
 number in the United Kingdom having risen from 4518 to 14,358. In
 1838 Mr. Hill suggested the institution of day mails to facilitate the
 despatch of letters. Now a mail by day as well as by night is despatched

464                      Mr. Commissioner Bill                     [April 4,
to most of the towns in England and Ireland. A large number have
the advantage of two day mails, and some have even three or more.
In the metropolis under the old system there were but six deliveries
per diem. There are now eleven. Several of the suburban districts
have six deliveries a day. The measure which rendered these improve
ments practicable was the division of the metropolis into ten postal dis
tricts. It came into partial operation iu 1856, and is now almost com
plete. Each of these districts is treated as a separate post town. This
arrangement has been followed by a vast and rapid increase of letters
posted and delivered within the London district. During the five
years preceding 1856 the average annual advance in the number of
metropolitan letters was only 3f per cent. By 1858 it had risen to
1 2 per cent. These letters far exceed the total number from all sources
home or foreign — delivered throughout the whole island of Great
Britain (London included) in 1839. They amount to 68 millions,
being only 8 millions less than the grand total of the United Kingdom
for that year. Subdividing London has also effected a considerable
acceleration in the first delivery of each day. Postage to and from the
colonies and foreign parts has been much lowered while the transit has
been greatly quickened. In 1839 the number of newspapers delivered
in the United Kingdom was about 44^ millions. At that date every
copy, by law, bore a stamp, which, however, had the advantage of
franking it when sent by post. This privilege furnished a strong motive
to proprietors and newsmen to distribute their impressions through that
channel ; whereas at present, if copies are sent by any other means than
through the post no expense is incurred in stamps. Nevertheless the num
ber despatched through the Post-office last year reached 72$ millions.
     The privilege of sending books and works of art by post at a reason
able charge is one of Mr. Hill's improvements. Medicines, watches,
patterns, botanical specimens, seeds, and many other articles now pass
largely through the office, to the convenience of all, but more especially
of residents in the country : for it is not undervaluing the great benefits
we have derived from the multiplication of railways to remark that they
do not, and probably never can without the aid of the Post-office, dis
tribute parcels even to all our towns much less to our villages and single
houses ; whereas the proportion of letters and other posted packets
delivered by the letter carriers at the houses of those to whom they are
addressed is now probably not less than 95 per cent. of the total number
despatched. Of late years the rapid development of the book-post, which
dates from 1848, ha^ been remarkable. In 1854 the number of such
     An was
packets      only 750,000,
         important   branchyetof last
                                  the year
                                       service,
                                           it had swollen
                                                largely   to twelvesince
                                                        developed         the
                                                                    millions.
institution of Penny Postage, is the system of money-orders. In 1839,
the total number issued for the United Kingdom was 188,921, and
the amount of money 313,124/. In 1861, the number reached
7,580,455, and the amount was 14,616,348/. And during that inter
val, although the prices of money-orders has been reduced to one-half,
the growth of the system has been accompanied by a change most

1862.]                        on the Post-office.                          465
advantageous to the department. In the first years the service entailed
a loss, which for 1847 amounted to 10,000/. In 1860, it brought a
profit of 28,000/. Intercommunication of every kind told upon the
increase of letters, and no doubt the last addition to the benefits con
ferred by the Post-ofiice, namely, its Savings-banks, now rapidly spread
     over the
ingFrom   the various
               land, will
                       causes
                          be followed   by similartoconsequences.
                               thus co-operating     the increase of letters, I
pass to effects. The number of chargeable letters delivered from the
British offices in the last complete year before the reduction of postage
was, as I have said, taken at 76 millions. The number in 1861 had risen
to the stupendous amount of 593 millions, being nearly an eightfold
multiplication of the former number. Let us study the proportion of
In England
letters        and Wales
        to population       fourtwo
                        at the    letters
                                     extremes.
                                          per annnm
                                                  In 1to  each
                                                       839,     individual,
                                                             it stood thus :—in
Ireland one, in Scotland three, being an average of three to each per
son in the United Kingdom. In 1861, it had grown in England and
Wales to twenty-four per head, in Ireland to nine, in Sootland to nine
teen, being an average of twenty per head for the United Kingdom.
This enormous increase might be placed in still another light. The
total weight of letters, exclusive of newspapers and other matter,
during the year 1839, was 758 tons. In 1861, it had risen to 4300
tons. The increase of the average daily mileage of the mails is very
striking. It was estimated that in 1839 it did not exceed 54,000 miles
per diem ; whereas in 1861 it had risen to 149,000, being six times the
circumference of the globe. The staff of officers of all ranks and both
sexes constantly employed in the labours of the Post-office was in 1 839,
by rough estimate, about 8000. In 1861, it was by exact enumeration,
 25,473. In addition to this force many persons are engaged for a
portion of their time. The gross revenue in 1838 was 2,346,278/.;
in 1861, upwards of three millions and a half. Hence it appears that
 notwithstanding the wonderful reduction, whereby the public now ob
 tains far more of the article postage for the same price than it did
 formerly, yet that its expenditure in postage exceeds by more than
one-half the amount so spent under the old exorbitant rates. The net
 revenue for the last year exceeds 1,500,000/., so that, as regards both
 gross and net revenue, the facts have gone beyond Mr. Hill's original
 estimate. Nor is the promise for the future less brilliant than the ex
perience of the past. Correspondence is still advancing by rapid
strides. One feature in this vast accession cannot but give rise to
sanguine expectations. Whatever the vicissitudes in our harvests—
whatever the fluctuations of our commerce—whether we are in the en
joyment of peace or suffer the privations of war—each revolving year
adds to the mass of our correspondence. The tide of our letters, like
that from the Pontic to the Propontic Sea, knows no ebb. 1861,
though by no means a year of unclouded prosperity, added an influx of
twenty-nine millions—an addition even beyond the average of former
years. Such, then, is the success of Penny Postage, and such are its
prospects. Still, though no peril can be discerned, the instinctive feel

 466                       General Monthly Meeting.                       [April 7,
 ings of mankind and the teachings of history warn us always to be pre
 pared, if not for reverses, yet for some interruption in this course of
 unexampled prosperity. That, should checks occur, they will be tran
 sient and casual, we may reasonably expect, since correspondence does
 not flourish or fade with the changes of manners or fashions. Its
 growth is governed by causes not peculiar to any one country, but
 common to all. This is demonstrated by the rapid spread of the new
 system throughout the civilized world. One source of danger is dried
 up. The Post-office no longer assumes to be perfect, and its con
 ductors have renounced their claims to infallibility. Suggested im
 provements, if they sustain the necessary test of rigid scrutiny, are
 welcomed, and not, as of old, frowned away. The department acts
 under the conviction that to thrive it must keep ahead of rivals—that
 it must discard the confidence heretofore placed in legal prohibitions,
                GENERAL
 and seek continuance          success
                           ofMonday,MONTHLY
                                          only
                                          Aprilby7,deserving
                                                       MEETING,
                                                      1862.    it. [M. D. H.]
  William
were   elected
            Jonathan
            Augustus
            Alexander
            Alfred
            John
            William
            Daniel
              Pole,
                Members
                   Tyndall,
                     Denison,
                      George
                       Esq.
                        Martin,
                         Sparrow
                         Thome,
                          Staveley
                              of
                               M.A.
                                Esq.
                                 Rees,
                                  the
                                   Esq.
                                   Esq.
                                     in
                                     Esq.
                                     Crowley,
                                        F.R.S.
                                        Royal
                                         the
                                           Esq.
                                       Hill, F.R.G.S.
                                              Chair.
                                               Esq.
                                                Institution.
                                                 Prof.
                                                 Treasurer
                                                  Esq.D.C.L.
                                                        Nat. and    R.I.
                                                              Phil.Vice-President,
            Major-General Charles James Green.
            Rev. George Musgrave Musgrave, A.M.
            A. C. Brisbane Neill, M.D.
            Sir Joshua Rowe, C.B.
wereThe    Presents
            Edward
       admitted        Henry
                        received
                   Members       of
                                 Sieveking,
                                     the Royal
                                    since        last
                                                   Institution.
                                            the M.D.   Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.—
   From Institute of—Assurance Magazine, No. 47. 8vo. 1862.
Actuaries,
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, No. 48. 8vo. 1862.

1862.]                              General Monthly Meeting.
Asiatic
Bakewell,
Astronomical
     Centrifugal
         Society,
             F. Society,
                 C. Royal—Journal,
                     Esq.
                      Force.Royal—Monthly
                                        88) Vol.
                              (the(KAuthor)—On   8vo.-XIX.
                                                        Notices,
                                                          the Figure
                                                          1862.   Part
                                                                     February
                                                                          3. of8vo.
                                                                                 the1862.
                                                                                        1862 8vo.
                                                                                       Earth   in Relation to
Bavarian Academy, Royal—Sitzungsberichte ; 1861. Band II. Heft 1,2. 8vo.
     Aguirre
Bollaert,           Search
            Wm.in Esq.              Eldorados and Omagua. of8vo.
                            (theofTranslator)—Expedition                               de Ursua and Lope de
                                                                              Pedro1861.
Editors—American
Civil
Chemical
Calcutta
  Technologist
  Engineer
  Horological
  Athenaeum
  Journal
  Artizan
   Chemical
   Practical
   Medical
   Mechanics'
     1859-60.
       Engineers'
            Society—Quarterly
            Council
             for
             of
             Circular
               for
               Mechanics'
                News
                 Gas-Lighting
                 for
                  March
                  Magazine
                  Journal,
                    forInstitution—Proceedings,
                       March
                        of
                    March March
                         for
                           Journal
                           forEducation—Report
                             1862.
                               March
                               1862.
                                No.
                                March
                                 Journal
                                  for
                                  1862.
                                      for
                                      43,
                                     1862.
                                       March
                                       of4to.
                                          Journal,
                                          1862.
                                           fol.
                                            Science,
                                            1862.
                                            March
                                             44.
                                              4to.
                                              for8vo.
                                                   1862.
                                                   March
                                                    8vo.
                                                     4to.
                                                      8vo.
                                                      No.
                                                       1862.
                                                         r on59.
                                                         by  March
                                                             8vo.
                                                             B.
                                                              1862.
                                                              18G2.
                                                                 Public
                                                                 Silliman,
                                                                  4to.
                                                                    8vo.1862.  1862.
                                                                                &c.8to.
                                                                                      for March
                                                                          4to.Instruction         1862. 8vo.
                                                                                             in Bengal.
  Jahrbuch
     Sitzungsberichte,
Faraday,        der K. D.C.L.
            Professor,      K.1861.
                                 Central-Anstalt
                                       F.R.S.—"&idSs.
                                          5 Parts. furAkademie   Meteorologie         und Erdmagnetismus
                                                                               der Wissenschaften,     Wien:
     Band VIII. 4to. 1861.
Forbes, Alexander C. Esq.—Memoir of Sir John Forbes, M.D. 8vo. 1862.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XLlV. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1862.
Geological Survey of India—Memoirs, Vol. III. Parti. 8vo. 1861.
Gould, John, Esq. F.R.S. (the Author)—Introduction to the Birds of Australia.
     8vo. 1848.to the Trochilidai, or Family of Humming-Birds. 8vo. 1861.
  Introduction
Horticultural Society, Royal—Proceedings, 1862. Nos. 3,4. 8vo.
  Transactions,
Linnean    Society—  Vol.journal
                             XXIII.of Part         2. 4to. No.
                                            Proceedings,          1861.22. 8vo. 1862.
Locke, John, Esq. (the Author)—Discoveries in Central Australia. (K 88) 8vo.
     1862.John, Esq. F.R.S. M.B.I.—Notes on the Generative Organs, and on the
Lubbock,
     Egg in the Annulosa. (From the Phil. Trans. R.S., 1862.) 4to.
Mackie, Royal
Madrid            Academy
          S. J. Esq.      F.G.S. of Sciences—Memorias
                                      (the Editor)—The Geologist   : Tomos III.        IV. V. 1862.
                                                                                 for March            8vo.
                                                                                                4to. 1859-62.
  Resumen deThe
Marlborough,            Actas.of, 1853-9.
                   las Duke                         8vo.
                                     M.R.I.—Catalogue               Raisonne of the Pictures in Blen
     heim Palace,
Mechanical              with Institution,
               Engineers'                          Scharf: Part 1. 8vo. 1862.
                                Notes by G.Birmingham—Proceedings,                      July, Aug. and Nov.
Nystrom,
     be
Newton,
     1861.
        called
          Messrs.—London
           John' TheW. C.E.Tonal(theJournal
                                    System.'
                                         Author)—Project
                                                 (New         Philadelphia,
                                                     8vo.Series)           MarchSystem
                                                                    offora New       1861. of8vo.
                                                                                  1862.        Arithmetic, to
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen aus dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographie. 1862. No. 2. 4to.
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences—Proceedings, 1861. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 119. 8vo. 1861.
Boyal Society of London— Proceedings, No. 47. 8vo. 1860-1.
     theirG.Phenomena,
Scrope,       Poulett, Esq.&c.M.P.            edition.(the8vo.
                                       2ndF.R.S.                      1862.
                                                              Author)—Volcanoes            : the Character of
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXV. Part 1. 8vo. 1861.
     (K 88)D.8vo.
Treadwell,                  (the Author)—On the Construction of Improved Ordnance.
                    Esq. 1862.

468                            Dr. A. W.Hofmann                       [April 11,
     Dec.zur 4to.
Vereins             1861. des Gewerbfieisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Nov. und
              Beforderung
 Vienna, Imperial Geological Institute—Jahrbuch, 1861-2. 8vo.
Parnell, John, Esq. M.R.I.—K Bottle excavated near Old London Wall, Basinghall-
     Street.        WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, April 11, 1862.
  John Peter Gassiot, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  Dr. A. W. Hofmann, F.R.S. Pres. C.S.
                             On Mauve and Magenta.
 The fact of the beautiful colouring matters known by these fanciful
terms being substances derived from coal, must, I presume, be familiar
 to every one of you. But there may be many unacquainted with the
 means by which this transformation is accomplished. It is to them that
     Coal to
 I address        become
              myself        evening.has to pass through a series of stages of
                       this colour,
 transition, each of which claims our attention for a moment. Briefly
 expressed, the aim of this address may be said to be, to show you the
 way from coal to colour. Now let me at once tell you this way is
 rather long ; we may have to travel over country rough and intri
 cate, and now and then to pass through territories which—I confess
 it with an appeal to the ladies — may not, perhaps, be altogether
 remarkable for their fragrance and sweetness. But on such occasions
 we shall accelerate our steps, and, on the whole, I venture to hope that
      Colour
 we shall       is intimately
             arrive  at our journey's
                                 associated
                                       end without
                                              with light  ; without
                                                      too much       light there
                                                               inconvenience.
 is no colour. This remark applies in a double sense to the colours
 derived from coal ; for it is to the introduction of gas-light for
 illuminating our streets and houses, that we are indebted for the
 acquisition of these colours. This statement may appear strange, for
 nearly half a century has elapsed during which we have been in the
 possession of gas, whilst the transformation of coal into colouring
 matters has been achieved only recently under our own eyes. But you
 will immediately appreciate the truth of my assertion, if I tell you that
 these substances are obtained from a secondary product, generated in
 the manufacture of gas, a product long used for a variety of purposes,
 but which, only within the last few years, the researches of chemists
       proved
 haveThe    starting-point
                  to be an inexhaustible
                             then for the production
                                            mine of wealth   and interest.
                                                        of Mauve   and Magenta,

1862.]                    on Mauve and Magenta.                       469
is the manufacture of coal-gas ; but this is so well known as not to
need any detailed description. Let me briefly remind you of the
principal features of the distillation of coal, by directing your
attention to the two large diagrams representing the " retort house "
and the " condensers " of a gas-work. You observe how the coal is
heated in stupendous retorts, five or seven of which are generally
associated in one furnace. The gas ascends from these retorts in
vertical tubes, the bent ends of which dip into a large horizontal pipe,
partly filled with water, called the hydraulic main, a considerable
amount of the oily and tarry substances generated with the gas being
separated by the water. The gas, so far purified, passes on through the
condensers—immense vertical iron pipes constantly cooled by a cur
rent of cold water which surrounds their external surface. In these
condensers an additional quantity of oily matter is separated, which,
together with the oily substances deposited by the gas during its pas
sage through the hydraulic main, is collected in appropriately placed
cisterns. The gas, having traversed the condensers, passes through
a series of further purifications before it is delivered into the mains of
our streets ; but these, unconnected as they are with our subject, must
no longer occupy our attention.
    The distillation of coal being the fundamental operation in the
manufacture of Mauve and Magenta, it is but fair that it should
not remain without an experimental illustration. In this tubulated
retort of hard glass, I am heating fragments of coal. The beak of
the retort is inserted into a three-necked glass globe, the lower
neck of which terminates in a tube, communicating with a glass vessel
for the collection of the " oily products ;" while the third neck is pro
vided with a delivery-tube for the discharge of the gas, which finds its
way into a glass gas-holder. The coal has been heated only for a few
minutes, and the gas already begins to be freely evolved ; already I
may light it at the orifice of the delivery-tube, which, for this purpose,
I have removed from the gas-holder ; already it burns with the cha
racteristic luminous flame of coal-gas. In the meanwhile, you observe,
a considerable quantity of the " oily products " has accumulated in the
receiver. Their formation continues as long as the gas is evolved.
Ultimately the coal is entirely resolved into gas and oily products, a
non-volatile residue, the coke, remaining behind in the retort.
    It is in the oily products, the so-called " coal-tar-oil," that our
interest is centred. To my mind this coal-tar-oil * is one of the most
wonderful productions in the whole range of chemistry. That may be
rather a one-sided view, but having in younger years spent much time
in the investigation of this substance, I have acquired quite an affection
for it. Nor can you fail to appreciate the interest which coal-tar
presents to the chemist when you look at the diagram in which I have
endeavoured to arrange synoptically the various substances which have
been eliminated from it.
               A large specimen of coal-tar-oil was here exhibited.

470                       Dr. A. "7. Ho am                 [April 11,
    PRODUCTS OF THE DTRUCTIVE DISTILLATION OF COAL.
                 Name.                1    Formula.         gait}?
  Hydrogen . . . .         . . .    .         HH
 Marsh gas, or Hydride    of methyl .      C H,’ H
 Hydride of Hexyl           . . .   .     C, H“. H
 Hydride of Octyl . .      . . .    .     C, Hm H
 Hydride of Decyl . .       . . .   .     Clo H“, H
 Olefiant gas, or Ethylene     . .  .     C, H,
 Propylene, or Tetrylene      .  .  .     C, H,
 Caproylene, or Hexylene .       .  .     C, H,       . .   55°
 (Enanthylene, or Heptylene      .  .     C7 HN
  Paraf<U+FB01>n . . . . . . .
  Acetylene                               C“ H2
                                         Cs   H“
 Benzol .                                C, H,              84"
  Parabenzol                             Cu He
 Toluol                                  C, Hu             114°
 Xylol                                    Ca H“,           126°
 Cumol                                   C, H“,            150°
 Cymol               .  .  .             Cl0 H 1,          175°
 Naphtalin .      . .   .  .  .          Cw H0            212”
 Paranaphtalin, or Anthracen .           Cl Hlo
 Chrysen          . . . . .              C"l H4 (9)
 Pyren            . .                      so H4
 Water
 Eupion .         . .                         H}0         1000
                                              H     .
               .     .                        H
 Hydrosulphuric acid .                        H}S
 IIydrosulphocyanic acid                (0 gns
 Carbonic oxide        .                      C O
 Carbonic anhydride .                         C 02
 Disulphide of carbon                         C S.z       47°
 Sulphurous anhydride                         S O.
           .
      . acid
 Acetic                                       H 0)}0
                                         (0’ Es           120°
 Phenyhc acid, or alcohol, Phenol        (Co H5)    }0    188°

1862.]                  on Mauve and Magenta.                       471
      Prodocts of the Destructive Distillation of Coal—continued.
                                                           Boiling
                 Name.                     Formula.         Points.
  Cresylic acid, or alcohol, Cresol .    (C7H7) }°    •    203°
  Phlorylic acid, or alcohol, Phlorol    (C„H9)}°
                                              (?)
                                             H)
                                             hvn
                                             hJ
                                          C„H5 I
                                             h In     .    182°
                                             H j
                                        (0. H1a)"'N   .     ge
                                        (C. H„)'"N    .    ns0
                                        (0. H7)"'N    .    134°
                                        (Cr H9 )"'N   .    154°
                                        (Ca Hn)'"N    .    170°
                                        (C9 H1a)"'N   .    188°
                                        (C,„H15)'"N   .    211°
                                        (C„ H„)'"N    .    230°
                                        (C1S H19)"'N  .    251°
  Chinoline, or Leucoline ....           Ca H7N .     .    235°
                                         C10H9N .     .    260'
                                         C„ HUN
                                         C4 H5N(?)
                                           HCN
    This is rather a formidable list of compounds ; their names, too,
are not always remarkable for smoothness and melodious character,
although, I should not omit to state, they are tame and domestic
when compared with some of the terms which chemists of late have
been under the painful necessity of inventing and inflicting. You
need not be afraid, however, that I shall trouble you with many
details about these substances. Most of them, though highly interest
ing for more than one reason, more especially when considered from a
purely scientific point of view, are of no importance for our present

472                          Dr. A. W. Hofmann                         [April 11,
subject, and need not therefore specially be noticed. In fact, the only
coal-derivatives which, in connection with Mauve and Magenta, claim
our attention, are Benzol, Phenol, and Aniline ; those certainly we
mustBut   before doing
       by-and-by         so, somewhat
                    examine               more inexpect
                              you legitimately      detail. that I should endea
vour to give you some idea of the nature of the process, in which this
endless variety of compounds is generated from coal. Were I
to tell you simply that coal consists of Carbon, Hydrogen, Nitrogen,
 Oxygen, and Sulphur, not to mention the ash which is left after combus
tion, and that you may therefore look upon coal as a sort of magazine
of these several elements, capable, under the influence of heat, of
associating in an infinity of forms and proportions, you would have
learnt comparatively little. Let me attempt to convey to you a some
what more precise idea of the processes involved in the distillation of
coal. For this purpose you must allow me to remind you of some of
the general results elaborated by the researches of chemists during
the last ten years, which, at the first glance, appear but little connected
      Mauve
withThe        and Magenta.
           infinite  number of substances, mineral, vegetal, or animal,
which form our planet, variously as they are composed, may be re
ferred,—chemists now pretty generally agree,—to a comparatively
small number of types of construction. Opinions are divided respect
ing the actual number of these types, and even the choice of typical
bodies is still a subject of discussion among chemists. But whatever
the special views of particular schools may be, the number of types is
always small, and among them almost invariably figure Hydrogen,
 Water, and Ammonia. The comprehension of the meaning attached
by chemists to the term types may perhaps be facilitated to you by
a glance at three models which I have had constructed for this pur
pose, and which for the sake of convenience I may be allowed to
   * Chemists
     These type-moulds
designate       assume consisted
            as type-moulds*that theessentially
                                      smallestofparticle
                                                  wire frames,   presenting the
                                                            of hydrogen,        out
                                                                             which
lines of cubes, associated, two, three, or four of them, in the manner indicated
in the diagram
and capable of receiving zinc-cubes variously painted and marked, representing
elementary and compound atoms.

 1862.]                  on Mauve and Magenta.                        473
exists in the free state, or, to use the chemical phrase, the molecule of
hydrogen, consists of two atoms of hydrogen. The first of our type-
moulds then, charged as it is with one atom (one volume) of hydrogen,
molecule ofwith
associated       another atom i (one volume)
             hydrogen.                  i     of hydrogen, represents the
                                  H       H
    In water, as you know, we have two atoms (two volumes) of hydrogen,
associated with one atom (one volume) of oxygen.* You are reminded
of this fact by our second type-mould, which represents the molecule of
water.                                1
                                  H
                                          0
                                  H
    In ammonia, lastly, you have three atoms (three volumes) of hy
drogen, united with one atom (one volume) of nitrogen, a form of con
struction which is recorded in our third type-mould representing the
molecule of ammonia.
                                 s
                                  H       N
                                  H
    Nothing is easier now than to trace the derivation of other substances
from hydrogen, from water, from ammonia. Let me remove from our
three type-moulds one atom respectively of hydrogen, oxygen, and
nitrogen, and fill the places thus vacated with atoms of chlorine,
sulphur, and phosphorus, and I have, without giving you the slightest
inconvenience, converted hydrogen into hydrochloric acid, water into
sulphuretted, and ammonia into phosphoretted hydrogen.
                                                         H
                                 H
                                                         H        P
    0        0                 rFi EE
   * Equivalents used: H=»l ; 0=16; S=32 ; C=12 ; N=14; Cl-33-5 ;- &c.
   Vol. III. (No. 36.)                                         2k

  474                        Dr. A. W. Hofmann                    [April 11,
       You observe the molecules of hydrochloric acid, of sulphuretted and
  of phosphoretted hydrogen respectively contain the same number of
  atoms which are present in the molecules of hydrogen, of water, and of
  ammonia. We have thus indicated that hydrochloric acid is con
  structed upon the hydrogen-type, sulphuretted hydrogen upon the
  water-type, phosphoretted hydrogen, lastly, upon the type of ammonia.
  The three bodies just considered were formed by the insertion of ele
  mentary atoms ; but our type-moulds receive compound atoms with
  the same facility. Let me take as an illustration the compound atom
  ethyl, consisting of two atoms of carbon and five of hydrogen,
  (Ca H5 = E), which is familiar to the members of the Royal Insti
  tution. By inserting one or two ethyl-atoms into the hydrogen-
  mould I generate the molecules of ethylated hydrogen, or ethylated
 ethyl (free ethyl).
      In a similar manner, by introducing either one or two ethyl-atoms
 into water, I convert the molecule of water into the molecules of the
 two ethylated waters, alcohol and ether.
                                                          0
      Displace, lastly, one, two, or three hydrogen-atoms in ammonia, by
 one, two, or three ethyl-atoms, and you give rise to the formation of
the molecules of the three ethylated ammonias,
     Atknown
better    the risk
                as ethylamine,
                   of exhausting   your patience,
                                diethylamine,         repeat some of these
                                               and Itriethylamine.
changes with another compound atom of a composition differing from
that of ethyl. These mauve-coloured cubes may represent a com
pound atom, containing six atoms of carbon and five of hydrogen
(C0 H5 = Ph), to which chemists have given the name of phenyl.

1862.]                     on Mauve and Magenta.                             475
Charge each of our type-moulds with an atom of phenyl, and you
accomplish the construction of phenylated hydrogen, phenylated
water, and phenylated ammonia,
substances better known as benzol, phenol, and aniline;* and the
     But itofis which
existence              in coal-tar-oil
                 time for us to returnI tohave
                                            thealready
                                                point from
                                                        pointed
                                                            which    to started.
                                                                 outwe  you.
What has the recognition of our types to do with the distillation of coal ?
In what manner do they explain the formation of the variety of sub
stances generated in this process. In coal we have the elements of the
three types of matter, and we find that hydrogen, water, and ammonia
are in fact produced to a very appreciable extent during its distillation.
The quantity of free hydrogen is generally small ; moreover, mixed as
it is with the carbonetted hydrogens of coal gas, its presence among the
products of distillation of coal is not easily demonstrated by experi
ment. Water and ammonia, on the other hand, are abundantly gene
rated, and nothing is easier than to exhibit their production. In fact,
the coal-tar-oil which we have produced in our distillation-experi
ment, is covered, as you observe, with a layer of water, and the appli
cation of test-papers to the latter shows that it contains a large amount
of ammonia. Now consider that our types are generated from coal
in the presence of large quantities of carbon and hydrogen, two ele
ments which, in proportions varying to an almost unlimited extent,
may aggregate under the influence of heat to compound atoms similar
to ethyl and phenyl ; remember, moreover, that these atoms are
capable of displacing, partly or entirely, the hydrogen of our types,
and you will realize without difficulty the number of compounds which
may be formed by the distillation of coal ; I say which may be formed,
for the diagram which I have exhibited to you enumerates only the
bodies which have actually been obtained ; but every day brings forth
new substances. It is obvious that the nature of the compound atoms
generated must, in a measure, depend upon the composition of the coal
distilled. The composition of coal, however, varies between very
considerable limits. In the subjoined diagram I give you a synopsis
of the results obtained in the analysis of several specimens of coal.
    * Large specimens of these three substances were exhibited upon the table.
                                                                  2K2

 476                          Dr. A. W. Hofmann                        [April 11,
                                            100 PARTS COALS.
                          ANALYSIS OF DIFFERENT        OF DRY COAL
                                              Contain                    Leave
           Locality of Coal.        a                               V
                                        £        |      i       Sto
                                                 I      t        >,   4<
                                   !o   3        K      1      O               61
   Anthracite, Wales . . .       91-44 3-36     0-21   0-79 2-58 1-52 92-20
        ti           n • * *     90-39 3-28     0-83   091 2-97 1-61 92 10
   Caking CoaLNewcastle .        81-41 5-83     2-05   0-75 7-90 2-07 66-70
   Cannel Coal, iVigan . .       80-07 5-53    2-12    1-50 8-09 2-70 60-36
   Coal, Wolverhampton . .       78-57 5-29     1-84   0-39 12-88 10-30 57-21
   Wallsend, Elgin ....          76-09 5-22     1-41   1-53 5-05 10-70 58-40
   St. Helen's, Lancashire .     75-80 5-21     1-92   0-90 11-89 5-17 65-50
   Methill Brown Coal . .        65-96 7-78    0-96    0-75 9-23 15-32
   Bohemian Brown Coal . .       55-59 416
      A glance at this diagram shows you that the                     the several
                                                      19-06carbon in21-19
specimens varies by more than 30 per cent., being 91*4 in Welsh anthra
 cite and 55*5 in Bohemian brown coal. Similar, though less marked,
 discrepancies are perceptible in the other constituents. If you recollect,
in addition, that the nature of the compound atoms generated in the
 distillation of coal must be influenced, moreover, by the temperature,
which again oscillates between limits widely apart, you cannot fail to
perceive that the destructive distillation of coal must be an almost
inexhaustible source of new compounds.
      The separation of the individual substances from the complex mix
ture called coal-tar-oil appears, at the first glance, to present almost
insurmountable obstacles. But the principles made use of for this pur
 pose are very simple. The individual compounds contained in coal-tar-
oil may be separated in a great measure by distillation, their boiling
points varying, as may be seen by a glance at the diagram, to a con
siderable extent. But additional means of purification offer themselves
in the different deportment which these substances exhibit under the
influence of chemical agents. I could not perhaps, in this respect,
bring under your notice a more instructive illustration than the
behaviour with acids and bases of the three coal-tar-oil-constituents,
repeatedly quoted. Benzol, phenol, and aniline may thus easily be
separated. To demonstrate this point experimentally, two glass
cylinders have been half-filled with benzol, two others with phenol,
and two further ones with aniline ; a solution of litmus having,
moreover, been added, each of the three substances is treated in one
cylinder with acid, in the other with alkali. In the case of benzol,
you observe, the indifferent hydrocarbon, insoluble both in acid and
alkali, floating colourless upon the coloured liquid ; phenol, being an
acid water-derivative, is not acted upon by the acid, but readily dis
solves in the alkali ; aniline, lastly, being a well-defined ammonia

1862.]                      on Mauve and Magenta.                           477
derivative, exhibits the converse deportment, resisting the action of
    alkali of
the Each    and
              theforming
                   three coal-tar-oil-constituents
                            a homogeneous solutionwhich     I have
                                                      with the  acid.mentioned,
and of which you have characteristic specimens upon the lecture-table,
has received important applications in the arts and manufactures.
Benzol is the most convenient solvent for caoutchouc ; as an agent for
removing oil and grease it has become an ordinary household article ;
phenol, when treated with nitric acid, yields us a beautiful yellow dye,
called by chemists carbazotic acid ; but the practical interest attached to
phenol you will more immediately appreciate if I tell you that this com
pound presents the greatest analogy with creosote, a substance, I am
afraid, but too well known to most of us,—a considerable portion of
the creosote of commerce being in fact simply phenol ; aniline, lastly,
is the source of Mauve and Magenta, and must therefore claim our
    The amount
attention            of aniline this
           more particularly         evening.
                                 which  exists in coal-tar is very limited ; a
preparation from this source upon a sufficiently large scale could
never be attempted. Fortunately, chemists are in the possession of a
series of processes by which aniline may be Droduced in any quantity.
Benzol, the phenylated hydrogen, may readily be converted into
aniline, the phenylated ammonia. Let us examine this transformation
    Benzol is readily attacked by fuming nitric acid ; it dissolves in it,
experimentally.
producing a liquid of a deep-red colour. On addition of water this
liquid deposits a heavy yellow oil, collecting at the bottom of the
cylinder, perfectly different from benzol, which floats on the surface of
the water. The reaction will be intelligible to you, if I remind you
that nitric acid when referred to our types, must be viewed as a water-
derivative ; it is water in which, for one of the elementary hydrogen-
atoms, there has been substituted a compound atom, consisting of nitro
gen and oxygen. Water.                            Nitric Acid.
                    II                           NO
                             0                             0
                                                  H
    Modern chemistry, you observe, returns to the conceptions of former
ages, which in the name aqua fortis appear to have anticipated in a
    Whenournitric
measure              acidnotions.
               present     acts on benzol, an interchange takes place be
tween the elementary atom of the latter and the compound atom of the
former, nitrobenzol, the heavy yellow liquid, which we have produced,
             Benzol.formed
and water being              :—Acid.
                          Nitric            Nitrobenzol.       Water.
          (C.HS)H + N°«}o _ (C<Hs)(N0a) + h}°

478                          Dr. A. W. Hofmann                     [April 11,
     The transformation of benzol into nitrobenzol, discovered by Mit-
scherlich, is only a preparatory operation for the production of aniline.
The method of converting nitrobenzol into aniline was discovered by
Zinin. It consists in submitting nitrobenzol to the action of nascent
hydrogen. Under the influence of this agent, the compound atom
N 02 , which in nitrobenzol is associated with phenyl, is decomposed ;
its oxygen is converted into water, the residue of nitrogen and phenyl
assimilating the necessary quantity of hydrogen to form phenylated
   Nitrobenzol.
ammonia,     or aniline. Hydrogen.                    Water.        Aniline.
(C8H5)NOO + HH+ HH + HH
     The hydrogen necessary for this transformation may be furnished
by numerous processes. The most convenient method for our pur
pose consists in submitting nitrobenzol to the action of metallic iron
and acetic acid, a process first proposed by M. Bechamp. I mix the
three bodies in a glass retort, and on application of a gentle heat
you observe how immeftiately a most powerful reaction manifests
itself. Let us hasten to connect the retort with a condenser ; I have
removed the gas-burner from the retort ; nevertheless the reaction
continues, and a considerable quantity of water, covering an oily layer,
has already accumulated in the receiver. This oily liquid is aniline.
We recognize it at once by its peculiar deportment with a solution of
chloride of lime. On pouring a single drop of our distillate into
this beaker which contains a solution of chloride of lime, a splendid
purple cloud is almost instantaneously diffused throughout the liquid.
You perceive we are approaching our subject. The beautiful colour
which aniline strikes with a solution of chloride of lime has been long
known. A solution of bleaching powder has always been used as a
test for aniline ; indeed it was by this colour-reaction that the presence
of our compound in coal-tar-oil was first pointed out, a fact recorded
in the name Kyanol (blue oil), originally given to aniline prepared
from coal-tar. Several other oxidizing agents, chromic acid for in
stance, were likewise known to produce coloured compounds from
aniline ; but all the colours thus obtained were of an highly ephemeral
character. Observe how the purple cloud which I produced by
means of chloride of lime has rapidly changed to a dingy reddish
precipitate. It was Mr. W. Perkin who had first the happy idea
of investigating the circumstances under which this beautiful purple
might be prepared in a form permanent and applicable for the pur
poses of the dyer. He succeeded in isolating this colour by submit
ting, under appropriately selected circumstances, aniline to the action
     Here then you
of bichromate          have, stepand
                  of potassium        step, the development
                                  by sulphuric  acid.        of this new and
     Through
important       the kindness
             branch            of my
                      of chemical      friend, Mr. Perkin, I am enabled to
                                   industry.
exhibit to you magnificent specimens of his aniline purple, or Mauve,

 1862.]                    on Mauve and Magenta.                         479
in the dry state and in solution. This brown lump, with the remark
able coppery lustre, is Mauve in the solid state ; its extraordinary
tinctorial powers will be appreciated, if I tell you that this beautiful
violet-coloured solution contains not more than -to of a grain of Mauve
in one gallon of alcohol ; you will also understand the considerable
commercial value of this substance. Weight for weight, I am told by
Mr. Perkin, this colouring matter, when pure, is sold at the price of
     Veryplatinum.
metallic   little is known regarding the chemical nature of Mauve ; its
composition is not yet made out, and as a matter of course the process
by which it is formed from aniline remains as yet perfectly unex
     Magenta is one of the fancy names given to the splendid crimson,
plained.
which is likewise generated from aniline by the action of oxidizing
agents. This substance was first observed in purely scientific researches,
and more especially in the action of tetrachloride of carbon upon
aniline. To a French chemist, M. Verguin, the merit is due of having
for the first time obtained this substance on a larger scale ; he pro
duced it by the action of tetrachloride of tin on aniline. Numerous
other processes were subsequently suggested, among which treatment
of aniline with chloride or nitrate of mercury, with arsenic acid, and
many other substances may be mentioned. Magenta, often called
fuchsine, roseine, &c., soon became an article of large consumption.
A great impetus to this new branch of industry was given in France
by Messrs. Renard and Franc, who were the first to manufacture the
new article on a commercial scale ; in this country, very soon after
wards, Messrs. Simpson, Maule, and Nicholson engaged with great
spirit in the manufacture of this splendid dye, the production of which
has attained already colossal proportions. To Mr. E. C. Nicholson
more especially belongs the credit of having developed this new in
    Before
dustry         unprecedented
        to anproceeding,       degreelet
                           however,        me show you the formation of
                                        of perfection.
Magenta by experiment. Among the many processes which I might
adopt for this purpose I select the action of corrosive sublimate upon
aniline, not because I consider this process superior to the others,—it
is, in fact, inferior to many,—but because it is, perhaps, the best
adapted for a lecture-experiment. This white powder is chloride of
mercury (corrosive sublimate) ; a small portion of this salt I mix in a
test-tube with perfectly colourless aniline. Let us stir the mixture
with a glass rod until it is converted into a perfectly homogeneous
liquid paste. This paste is still colourless ; but on gently heating it by
a gas-burner, it instantaneously assumes a splendid crimson of the
greatest intensity, a single drop of the liquid being capable of deeply
    In all athe
colouring     large
                 processes
                     beakerwhich
                            filled with  alcohol.
                                   convert   aniline into colouring matters,
a considerable number of secondary products are generated, which it is
rather difficult to separate from the principal product of the reaction.
These difficulties have been most perfectly overcome by Mr. Nicholson,

480                          Dr. A. TV. Hofmann                          [April 11,
who has succeeded in obtaining Magenta in a state of absolute purity.
Chemists have thus been enabled to analyze this substance, and to lift,
at all events, the corner of the veil which still covers the mysterious
     In theofpure
formation           state Magenta
                the coloured           is a of
                               derivatives           crystalline, and, remarkably
                                              fineaniline.
enough, perfectly colourless, or only slightly tinted body, which is repre
sented by the formula —
                      C, Hal Na 0 = Cw H,„ N„ Ha O.
     Rosaniline (this is the name by which chemists designate the
colourless body) is a base, or ammonia-derivative, which forms a series
of splendid salts. With hydrochloric acid, for instance, it produces a
beautifully crystalline salt of the formula—
                                Cso H,9 Na, H CI.
     It is in the state of saline combination that rosaniline acts as a
crimson dye. Into this shallow porcelain dish I have thrown a few
crystals of rosaniline, which at a distance you scarcely perceive ;
I now pour upon these crystals a small quantity of acetic acid,
when on gently heating the dish the crimson colour instantaneously
appears. But it is only in solution that even the salts of rosaniline
are crimson-coloured ; on slowly evaporating their solution, the red
 colour entirely vanishes, and a splendid green crystalline substance
 remains, presenting in an extraordinary manner the beautiful metal-
lustre which distinguishes the wings of the rose-beetle. Together
 with all the products involved in the manufacture of aniline and
 aniline-dyes, my friend Mr. Nicholson has placed before you the finest
 series of rosaniline-salts which has ever been produced ; and not con
tent with this display, he was kind enough to send us a specimen of
 acetate of rosaniline, such as no mortal eye has ever seen before.
 The specimen may be literally called the Crown of Magenta.* Crowns
 are always expensive articles, and often are the cost and trouble of
 getting them greater than their actual value. This remark applies in
 a measure to the Crown of Magenta. For the benefit of those who are
 fond of big figures—and who is not a little afflicted with this weak
 ness?—I may state that the crown was grown in a vessel containing
 not less than 8000/. worth of Magenta, the crown itself being worth
      Having
 upwards        now explained the several stages of transition through
           of 100/.
 which coal has to pass before it becomes either Mauve or Magenta, it
 may be of some interest to you to know the proportion which the
 finished dye bears to the coal from which it is derived. A set of
 specimens for which I am likewise indebted to Mr. Nicholson, is most
 instructive in this respect. Observe, it commences with a large mass
 of coal, weighing not less than 100 lbs. ; the bottles which follow
     * An immense
 contain             aggregate of
           the coal-tar-oil,     naphtha,
                                    sparklingbenzol,
                                                green octahedral   crystals,—some
                                                        nitrobenzol,              of
                                                                        and aniline,
 them as much as an inch in diameter,—deposited upon a large wire frame having
 the shape of an elegant crown, was here exhibited.

1862.]                     on Mauve and Magenta.                         481
obtainable in succession from 100 lbs. of coal ; remark how they
gradually diminish in size, and how small, I might almost say insig
nificant, appears the bulk of Magenta finally obtained. But compare
the bulk of wool which this minute quantity will dye. It approximates
to the bulk of coal with which we started. This comparison evinces
perhaps sufficiently the extraordinary tinctorial power which this class
of dyes possesses ; but a very simple experiment may possibly convey to
you this idea even in a more impressive manner. The white paper
which covers this large frame has been dusted over with a minute
quantity of Mauve ; a second one is treated in a similar manner with
Magenta. The quantity of colouring matter is so small, that the paper
has retained its original white colour, but observe how it changes,
when I dash a beaker full of spirit against these squares ; immediately
the lovely purple of Mauve is developed upon one of them, whilst
     otherletoneusexhibits
the But                    the dazzling
                    now proceed           crimson of
                                    to illustrate      mode of dyeing. For
                                                   theMagenta.
this purpose I introduce silk and wool, both unspun and woven, in
succession, into solutions of Mauve, of Magenta, and lastly, of a
splendid new Purple, lately discovered by Mr. Nicholson. Observe
 the extraordinary facility with which the coal-tar-colours are fixed
 both on wool and silk. These materials require no previous prepara
 tion, being dyed, in fact, simply by dipping, without the aid of any
 mordant. Silk and wool are animal substances; vegetal materials, such
 as cotton and linen, unless previously submitted to a special treat
 ment, are scarcely affected by these dyes. This fact admits of being
 beautifully illustrated by dyeing linen fabrics on which ornaments
 have been embroidered in silk ribbon. The articles, when coming out
 of the bath, appear uniformly dyed ; but by washing, first in pure
 water and then in dilute ammonia, the colour rapidly vanishes from
 the linen ground, leaving the silk embroidery in brilliant colours.
 This extraordinary predilection of the aniline-colours for animal sub
 stances is, moreover, strikingly illustrated by the condition of my
 hands, which by this time have acquired a thoroughly Magentic
 appearance. Fortunately, the coal-tar-colours are unable to resist the
 action of chloride of lime, and I have therefore only to immerse my
 hands  for a moment
      Already            into on
                 the colour    a solution
                                  my hand,   bleaching
                                          of you        powder.
                                                  observe, has gone, but with
 the colour, I am afraid, my time too. Let me endeavour to bring
 this lecture to a conclusion. I have fulfilled in a measure the promise
 which I gave you at the commencement of this discourse. We have
 crossed together the extensive field which stretches between coal and
 colour. I am impressed, deeply impressed with the clumsiness of my
  performance as your guide, but I hope that the interest attached to
  the territory we have explored may, to some extent at all events, have
  indemnified you for the imperfection of my explanations, and that you
  leave the Royal Institution this evening- with the kind of feeling every
  one of us has more than once experienced after travelling in similar
  company over a beautiful country—the guide is forgotten, but the
  impression of the scenery remains.

 482                           Dr. A. W. Hofmann                     [April 11,
      Having gone thus far, you may think that it is fully time for me to
 make my bow. But I venture, even at this late hour, to dwell for a
 moment on the moral of the story which I have told you, though you
 mayThe      disposed which
       feel material          I had this
                       to consider   to condense,
                                         story rather
                                                   I might  almost
                                                       a highly    say to one.
                                                                coloured   force,
 into the short space of an hour, has been overwhelming ; and whilst
 explaining the formation of the various substances which I had to
 describe, whilst illustrating their properties by experiment, I have
 scarcely had time to glance at the history of our subject. This history
 is not without interest. You readily perceive that a branch of industry
 like the one I have endeavoured to sketch could not possibly have risen
 like Minerva from the head of Jupiter—a sudden inspiration happily
 realized. The time, the toil, the thought of a host of inquirers were
 necessary to accomplish so remarkable an achievement. You cannot
 expect me at this late hour to examine minutely into this part of the
 subject, but I must not take leave of you without alluding to some
 facts which cannot fail to rivet the lively interest of the Members
 of this Institution. Let me tell you then that Mauve and Magenta
are essentially Royal Institution colours; the foundation of this new
industry was laid in Albemarle Street. Benzol, which I have so
repeatedly mentioned,—benzol, which may be looked upon as the
raw material, capable, under the influence of chemical agents, of
assuming such wonderful shapes,—benzol is the discovery of our great
master, may I not add of our kind friend, Mr. Faraday. This volume,
'The Philosophical Transactions for 1825,' contains the description of
his experiments. In 1825, thirty-seven years ago, the laboratory of
the Royal Institution witnessed the birth of this remarkable body.
Yesterday, under the auspices of Mr. Anderson, I invaded the same
laboratory, a diligent search was made, and in my hand I hold the
trophies of our expedition, the original specimens of benzol which
Mr. Faraday prepared. In thus reminding you of one of the early la
bours of Mr. Faraday,—which, owing to the number and vastness of his
subsequent discoveries, appears almost to have escaped from his memory
like a tradition of years gone by,—I have opened a glorious page
in the glorious history of the Royal Institution. Benzol has furnished
us Mauve and Magenta, but it has done much more than this.
Ever since chemistry became endowed with this wonderful body, benzol
has been the carrier of many of the leading ideas in our science. In
the hands of Mitscherlich, Zinin, Gerhardt and Laurent, in the hands
of Charles Mansfield—never to be forgotten by his friends—and
many others, benzol has been a powerful lever for the advancement
of chemical science. Benzol and its derivatives form one of the most
interesting chapters in organic chemistry, the progress of which is
     But what
intimately       has the
              allied withhistory
                           the history
                                 of benzol  to do
                                        of this   with the moral of Mauve and
                                                compound.
Magenta ? Well, ladies and gentlemen, ask Mr. Faraday ; ask him what
in 1825 was his object in examining benzol. I have perhaps no right to
answer this question in Mr. Faraday's presence ; but I venture to
say that we owe his remarkable inquiry to the pure delight he felt

1862.]                   on Mauve and Mdijenta.                        483
in the elaboration of truth. It was in the same spirit that his suc
cessors continued the work. Patiently they elicited fact after fact ;
observation was recorded after observation ; it was the labour of love
performed for the sake of truth ; ultimately, by the united efforts of so
many ardent inquirers, exerted year after year in the same direction,
the chemical history of benzol and its derivatives had been traced. The
scientific foundation having thus been laid, the time of application had
arrived, and by one bound, as it were, these substances, hitherto exclu
   Need
sively       say any of
       theI property more
                        the?philosopher,
                               The moralappear
                                          of Mauve    market-place
                                               in theand               life.
                                                         Magenta isoftrans
parent enough. I read it in your eyes,—we understand each other.
Whenever in future one of your chemical friends, full of enthusiasm,
exhibits and explains to you his newly-discovered compound, you will
not cool his noble ardour by asking him that most terrible ofall questions,
" What is its use ? Will your compound bleach or dye? Will it shave ?
May it be used as a substitute for leather ? " Let him quietly go on with
his work. The dye, the lather, the leatherwill make their appearance
in due time. Let him, I repeat it, perform his task. Let him indulge
in the pursuit of truth,—of truth pure and simple,—of truth not for the
sake of Mauve, not for the sake of Magenta—let him pursue truth for
the sake of truth !                                        [A. W. H.]
                      Illustrations of Aniline Colours.
                                   Mauve.
               Magenta.                            New Purple.

484                              Annual Meeting.                         [May 1,
                           ANNUAL MEETING,
                            Thursday, May 1, 1862.
      The Duke of Northumberland, K.G-. F.R.S. President,
    The Annual Report ofinthe             Chair.
                                     the Committee     of Visitors for the year
1861The       read and
        wasamount        adopted.
                     of Contributions    of Members and Subscribers in 1861
amounted to £3013. 10s., the Receipts for Subscriptions to Lectures
were £740. 1 Is. 6d. ; the total Income for the year amounted to
     On Dec.
£4693.     9*. 31, 1861, the Funded Property was £28,655. 17*. 2d. ;
and the Balance at the Bankers, £968. 16s. 8d., with Six Exchequer
           £100
BillsAofList      each. Presented accompanies the -Report, amounting in
               of Books
number to 524 volumes ; making, with those purchased by the
Managers and Patrons, a total of 524 volumes (including Periodicals)
added    to the Library
     Sixty-three           in the
                    Lectures          Twenty-one Evening Discourses were
                                andYear.
     Thanksduring
delivered             voted
                were the          the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
                          yearto 1861.
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor .Faraday,
     their following
for The                  the Institution
            services toGentlemen              unanimously
                                       wereduring            elected as Officers
                                                    the past year.
for the   ensuing year :—Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
       President—The
       Treasurer—William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
      Secretary—Henry
The Rev.                         Bence
            John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.    Jones, M.A. M.D. F.R.S.
                                     Managers.
                                             Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L.
William Bowman, Esq. F.R.S.                     F.R.S.
Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie, Bart. D.C.L.    The Lord Lovaine, M.P.
   F.R.S.                                    William Frederick Pollock, Esq. M.A.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.          Lewis Powell, M.D. F.S.A.
George Dodd, Esq. F.S.A.                     Robert P. Roupell, Esq. M.A. Q.C.
The Earl of Ducie, F.R.S.                      of Royal Society.
                                             Major-Gen.  Edward Sabine, R.A. Pres.
John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
William Robert Grove, Esq. M.A. Q.C.         Colonel Philip James Yorke, F.R.S.
   F.R.S.

 1862.]       Mr. R. M. Milnes on the International Exhibition.                         485
                                         Visitors.
 Neill Arnott, M.D. F.R.S.                        Edward Enfield, Esq.
 Hon. and Rev. Samuel Best.                       Captain Frederick Gaussen.
 George J. Bosanquet, Esq.                        The Duke of Manchester.
 Archibald Boyd, Esq.                             John MacDonnell, Esq.
 Bernard Edward Brodburst, Esq.                   Colonel William Pinney, M.P.
 John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.                      George Stodart, Esq.
 George Frederick Chambers, Esq.                  Hon. Sir James P. Wilde, Baron of the
 Hon.His     CharlestheCrompton,
        Sir Grace        President  Justice  of
                                       nominated       the following Vice-Presidents
                                                     Exchequer.
   Queen's Bench.
 William
 for       Pole, F.R.S.
     the ensuing     yearEsq.:—the Treasurer.
                    WEEKLY           EVENING
                                Friday,    May W.Major-Gen.
                                                   2, H.
                                                 Sir  R.1862.
                                                        MEETING,
                                                         Holland,
                                                          Grove,Edward
                                                                   Bt. M.A.
                                                                 Esq.    Sabine,
                                                                       M.D.  D.C.L.
                                                                             Q.C.       R.S.
                                                                                 Pres.F.R.S.
 The Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.
 Sir B. C. Brodie, Bart. D.CX. F.R.S
        The Rev. John           Barlow,
                        R. Monckton   in theMilnes,
                                              M.A.
                                               Chair.F.R.S.      Vice-President,
                                                         Esq. M.P.                       •
The speaker statedOn thethat    .the Managers
                              International         of the Institution
                                                Exhibition      of 1862. had arranged
that some discourses should be there delivered, on the most important "
natural products to be exhibited at the Great International Festival,
and had thought it advisable that these special addresses should be pre
faced by a few considerations of the nature and scope of this wonderful
congregation of the industries and intelligences of the world. He was
much flattered at being selected to perform this duty, and could assure
the members present that he should come into no competition with the
eminent persons that would follow him, but should confine himself to
those generalities and common-places, which are not always the more
     It was the
displeasing         beingofinthis
               for habit        someSociety
                                       sort the
                                              to deal
                                                 reflection       their
                                                        ratherofwith     ownthan
                                                                      facts        specu
                                                                               minds.
lations, and he would therefore direct their attention to the geographical

486                          Mr. JR. Monckton Milnes                              [May 2,
and political conditions which alone rendered possible such an event as
this. It had been written with sufficient accuracy for verse, that—
                Is now
            " The         surface ofbythis
                    total surveyed          sphered earth
                                         philosophic   eyes ;
                     the wide
              NorIn East        oceanconceals
                          nor West              a secret
                                       no Atlantis   lies :worth—
                Thou knowest,
              Nations   and men, canthatdowould
                                            no more
                                                 be great    menwise,
                                                      than and     have done ;
              NoCan
     The accessibility
                Civilization's
                  wond'rous
                       bringofthis
                               the
                               impulse,
                                 prize
                                   planet
                                    ocean-waters
                                        nono
                                           nearer
                                            royal
                                              divine
                                                   to surprise,
                                                  road ofhas
                                                      the   sun,—
                                                           the   globe was a first neces
                                                               won.
sity to this end, and this had been now accomplished from the ice-bound
fires of Mount Erebus to the grave of Franklin. We could not say
quite as much of our knowledge of the land of the world, but we per
fectly understood the limits of our ignorance, and could fairly assume
that there was no position of the earth yet unsurveyed which could in
any notable degree add to our physical science, or extend our observa
      of the habits
tionAlthough    greatand     destiniesare
                         continents          mankind. in our Exhibition only by
                                          of represented
their fringes, we can hardly contemplate any such conversion of nature
or. man as should people the sandy spaces of Africa, the vast pastoral
steppes of central Asia, or those huge fields of the unlimited liberty
of animal and vegetable life which stretch in South America from the
tropics to the polar snows, with the higher forms of industry, art, and
civilization. It is enough that no longer can Tartar hordes swoop
 down on richer and fairer lands, and that the sage and saleratus prairies
of North America cannot check the enterprising outgrowth of the
     And this brings
Anglo-Saxon      race. us to another necessary condition of our Exhibi
tion, the security of the seas, and the general facility of commercial
intercourse. The exceptional piracy which obstructs the trade of the
waters of Oceania, and which the energy of Sir James Brooke has
done it
with      no notions
       much   to repress,     was once
                         of cruelty     or disgrace.
                                            the custom This  of the   world,
                                                                    evil       and carried
                                                                         was partially re
medied by placing commerce under the safeguard of religion. Where
the modern state establishes a factory or a free port, the old state built
a temple. Thus the Tyrian Hercules linked together the trade of
Greece and Phoenicia in a common worship : thus the fane of Jupiter
Amnion was the great resting-place and protection of the caravans of
the desert : thus the lines of the chief Catholic pilgrimages were the
paths not only of all travellers but of all merchants in the middle ages.
The interchange of the gifts of God was sanctioned by Pagan and by
 Christian piety, and the notion of connecting trade with any inferiority
 of social station or intellectual power is a perverted remnant of the
 feudal system, where the jealousy between town and country tended to
     The speaker
discredit  labour and      to idealize
                      proceeded           brutetheforce.
                                    to draw          distinction between ancient and

                         •
 1862.]          on the International Exhibition of 1862.                487
 modern trade. In the old Asiatic nations, where influence is still pal
 pable among mankind on the score of authority and the bond of
 religion, the ideas of free trade and competition would have been
 incomprehensible. The exclusion of foreigners from the internal
 navigation of the several countries was universal, and none were per
 mitted even to enter foreign ports, except with the tessera hospitalis,
 or some other symbol of a commercial treaty. Bars were thrown
 across the mouths of some rivers, as by the Persians across the Tigris
 after their conquest of Babylon ; traces of which impediments to navi
 gation still remain. And in modern Europe the growth of liberal
 commerce has been slow indeed, and it is one of the happiest privileges
 of our time, that as regards ourselves at least, we have come to see its
 consummation. In Sir Dudley North's ' Discourse on Trade,' published
 in 1691, the principle is laid down "that the whole world as to trade
 is but as one nation or people, and therein nations are as persons."
 But the Hollander and the Portuguese long remained the objects of a
 commercial animosity, which did not prevent the one from occupying
 our fisheries up to the very coast, and the other from sharing with us
     dominion
 the The           India.
          socialofand  political conditions represented by our Exhibition
 next occupied the attention of the speaker. The whole of this marvel
lous combination of energy and art is the result of free labour—of the
spontaneous industry of mankind. It is not the mere application of local
nature to local designs, but the collation and transmutation of most
diverse and distinct elements to the use and benefit of our race : the
juxta-position of our coal and iron have suggested the manufactures
of Sheffield, but it is the borax of Tuscany which assists the ingenious
labourers of Colebrooke Dale. It is the sign and symbol of the
general education of the world, which renders it impossible that dis
coveries can be neglected or arts be lost. The ignorance and supersti
tion which kept mankind in unnecessary physical pain after the inven
tion of the "spongia somnifera " of the 12th century, can no longer
check the annaesthetic powers of a -beneficial nature, nor would it
require a Harvey to revive, however he might be required to develope,
     knowledge
the But           the intercommunication
         besides that                       of nations
                      perished with the ashes          in space, the speaker
                                                of Servetus.
remarked, our Exhibition surely owes much to what he would call the
trade of time, the thoughts, the feelings, the interests, that pass from
generation to generation ; the arts of Greece, the laws of Rome, the
religion of the Semitic peoples, the triple elements of modern civilization.
The silent East gave the alphabetic character which has transmitted
all the speeches and varied literature of the West ; the Brahmin pre
serves the sacred language in which the linguistic science of modern
times traces the mother-tongue of all the Indo-Germanic dialects that
      fromsingularity
passThe                of the beneath
            mouth to mouth             these lofty
                               circumstance        England should be the
                                              that domes.
scene of this meeting of the nations was next alluded to. It was an
illustration of the advantage of our insular position, which being com

488       Mr. R. M. Milnes on the International Exhibition.        [May 2,
 bined with sufficient territory, gave us at once the best political condi
tions of external power and domestic independence. Our greatest
 danger in history has been not our own conquest, but the conquest of
 France, which must have absorbed us into the continental system.
 Now, the peril of our power lay in the rapid political and moral
elevation of the other European nations, but we could well afford to
     The speaker
sacrifice         concludedsuperiority
           some individual    with noting
                                        to some
                                            the common   gain of mankind.
                                                 of the probable  effects of
this great jubilee of commerce. Large congregations of men had
always vividly struck the imagination, and the jubilee of Pope Boniface
so occupied the mind of Dante that he illustrates by it one of his super
natural pictures, and fixed it as the date of his spiritual journey. Such
assemblies have always been looked on as harbingers of peace, and we
know what were the expectations of 1851. But though that hope
has proved delusive, we may yet feel thankful that, with the excep
tion of the American calamity, all the disturbances of the world since
that time have been the conflicts of a lower against a higher civilization,
in which the higher has had the mastery. The materials here brought
together must impress on the spectators the mutual dependence of
nations, and the interests of amity. One of the chief objects of interest
would be the various applications of art to industry ; advantages perhaps
somewhat balanced by the injury of the application of industry to art.
As art becomes mechanical, it loses the spontaneous dignity which
makes it most divine, and it seems impossible to diffuse and repeat
it, without some diminution of its highest faculties. But this qualifica
tion does not extend to the relations between industry and science, there
the moral is as certain as the material profit ; intelligent labour is sub
stituted for the mere exertion of brute strength ; the supply of comforts
is extended from the luxurious classes even to the necessitous ; the
diseases consequent on"physical hardship are diminished, and the average
longevity of man increased. To the progress of scientific education
not only the philosopher but the statesman looks for the diffusion of
public happiness and the permanence of modern civilization. If the
states that now rule the world are to escape the doom of Babylon and
Rome, of Egypt and of Greece, it is in that they have not made their
science the monopoly of a caste or a priesthood, but they have placed
it more or less within the reach of the individual intelligence of the
humblest citizen. Let the education that enables mankind to apprehend
and value truth proceed commensurately with the discoveries of science,
and the community will gradually but continuously absorb into itself
that knowledge which makes decay impossible, and our country may
boldly and confidently meet whatever destiny remains for it in the in
scrutable designs of the Creator and Ruler of the universe. [R. M. M.]

1862.]                          General Monthly Meeting.                              489
                     GKNERAL      Monday,      May 5, 1862.
                                         MONTHLY           MEETING.
  William
were     elected
               William
               Harry
               Miss
               James
               Hugh
               Claud
               Capt.
                Major-Gen.
                  Pole,
                   Members
                      Margaret
                       Edward
                        Mair,
                        Hamilton,
                        Footner,
                        Spedding,
                            Esq.
                           Vansittart,
                                Edward
                                Esq.
                                  of
                                   Southwell
                                   M.A.
                                     Esq.
                                      the
                                       Esq.
                                         inEsq.
                                    Laurie. Royal
                                            Sabine,
                                             F.R.S.
                                             the Sotheby,
                                                 M.P.
                                                  Chair.
                                                      R.A.
                                                      Treasurer
                                                             R.N.
                                                              President
                                                     Institution.    C.B.Vice-President,
                                                                   and    R.S.
was The
William    offollowing
       admitted  Thomas
                     a Member
                Chemistry.Professors
                               Brande,
                                     of were
                                         theEsq.re-elected
                                               Royal    Institution.
                                                    D.C.L.         •
                                                             :—F.R.S      Hon. Professor
John          PresentsEsq.
     TheTyndall,                  F.R.S.since
                            received         Professor
                                                 the lastofMeeting      Philosophy.
                                                              Natural were    laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
  Fromof Trade, Meteorological Department (by Admiral Filzlioy, the Superin
Board
      tendent)—Report for 1862. 8vo.
   1st, 2nd, and 3rd Reports of the Liverpool Compass Committee. 1855-56,
      fol. 1857-62.
      Human
Arnolt,           M.D. F.R.S.
          Neil,Progress.'             1862. (the Author)—Supplement to his ' Survey of
                              8vo. M.R.I,
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, March 1862. 8vo.
  Annuaire.
Belgique,         1862. Royale
            Acadifmie      16to. des Sciences, I.c.—Bulletin, Annee 1861. 8vo.
Brodie, Sir B. C. Bart. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Psychological
       Inquiries. Part II. 16to. 1862.
      Ministers
Chambers,         F. Esq.
              G. of   1662,M.R.I.—How
                             by the Rev. G.didVenables.
                                                  they get (0there?  12mo.
                                                               13) or,       1862.
                                                                        The Nonconforming
  Warning
  Popular
      8vo. Inquiry
              1856.
               to Churchmen.
                        into the Moon's       18mo. on1862.
                                   (O 10) Rotation       her Axis. By J. Von Gumpach.
    Vol. III.         (No. 36.)                                                2l

490                            General Monthly Meeting.                         [May 5,
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 60. 8vo. 1862.
Civil Engineer/ Institution—Proceedings, April 1862. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science, by B. Silliman, &c. for March 1862. 8vo.
   Artizan for April 1862. 4to.
   Athenaeum for April 1862. 4to.
   Chemical News for April 1862. 4to.
   Engineer for April 1862. fol.
   Horological Journal, No. 45. 8vo. 1862.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for April 1862. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for April 1862. 8vo.
   Medical Circular for April 1862. 8vo.
   Practical Mechanics' Journal for April 1862. 4to.
   St. James's Medley for May 1862. 8vo.
   Technologist for April 1862. 8vo.
      added
Foster,       a Colonial
          Frank            Directory. 8vo.One1862.
                  (the Author)—Number           ; or, The Way of the World ; to which is
Granville,
      SalineInstitute
Franklin      Chalybeates,
             A.  B. M.D.
                       of Pennsylvania.—Journal,
                              F.R.S-
                              &c. (KM.R.I.—Account
                                        88) 8vo. Vol.      of the Kissingen
                                                     1862.XLIV.              Effervescing
                                                                   No. 4. 8vo.    1862.
                                                              No. 2. 8vo. 1862.
Mackie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist for April 1862. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Eoyal—Proceedings, Vol. IV. No. 1. 8vo. 1862.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series) for April 1862. 8vo.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen auf dem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographie. 1862. No. 3. 4to.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 120. 8vo. 1862.
      Science.
Eeddie,    James,(KEsq.      8vo.Author)—Vis
                       88) (the     1862.        Inertiae Victa ; or, Fallacies affecting
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 48. 8vo. 1862.
Scharf, G. Esq. (the Secretary)—Catalogue of the National Portrait Gallery. 8vo.
      1862.
         J. F. Esq.
South,Prospects       St. Thomas-s
                   of (the Author)—Observations
                                     Hospital. (K88)        Present
                                                    on the8vo.      Condition and Future
                                                                1862.
 Tyndall,
Ladd,     Mr.
       1862.John,W.Esq.
                    — Electric
                          F.R.S. Machine
                                  M.R.I. (the    McCulloch, London), which
                                            (by Author)—Mountaineering           formerly
                                                                           in 1861.   8vo.
      belonged to the Princess Charlotte.
   Paper showing the effect produced by the burning various metallic wires, by
      means of the very powerful Electric Machine and Leyden Battery, formerly
      at the Panopticon, Leicester Square.

1862.]         Mr. W. Fuirbairn on the Properties of Iron.                  491
                 WEEKLY         EVENING
                           Friday,   May 9, 1862.MEETING,
     The Duke of Northumberland, E.G. F.R.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                   William
     On the Properties          Fairbairn,
                          of Iron,              Esq. F.R.S.
                                    and its Resistance    to Projectiles at
                               High Velocities.
We have no correct record as to the exact time when wrought-iron
plates were first employed for the purpose of building vessels. It
is, however, certain that iron barges were in use on canals at the close
of the last century. In 1824 Mr. Manley, of Staffordshire, built an iron
steam-boat for the navigation of the river Seine, and this was the first
iron vessel that attempted a sea voyage. She was navigated from this
country to Havre, by the late Admiral Sir Charles Napier, and although
constructed for shallow rivers, she nevertheless crossed the channel in
perfect safety. From that time to 1830, no attempt was made to build
iron vessels, and nothing was done towards ascertaining the properties
     A series
of iron        of experiments
         as a material            instituted by the Forth and Clyde Canal
                        for ship-building.
Company in 1829-30, to ascertain the law of traction of light boats at
high velocities on canals led to the application of iron for the con
struction of vessels, and the lightness of these new vessels, combined
with their increased strength, suggested the extended application of the
material in the construction of vessels of much larger dimensions, and
ultimately to those of the largest class both in the war and the mercantile
navy. Considerable difficulty, however, existed with regard to the
navy ; and although the principle of iron construction as applied to
merchant vessels and packets was fully established, it was nevertheless
considered inapplicable, until of late years, for ships of war. It is true
that until the new system of casing the sides of vessels, first introduced
by the Emperor of the French in 1854, was established, the iron ship
was even more dangerous under fire than one built entirely of wood.
Now, however, that thick iron plates are found sufficiently strong,
under ordinary circumstances, to resist the action of guns, not exceeding
120-pounders, for a considerable length of time, the state of the navy and
the minds of our naval officers have entirely changed. We must, there
fore, now look to new conditions, new materials, and an entirely new con
struction, if we are to retain our su periority as mistress of the seas. There
yet remain amongst us those who contend for the wooden walls, but they

492             Mr. W. Fairlairn on the Properties of Iron,                  [May 9,
 are no longer applicable to the wants of the state ; and I am clearly of
 opinion that we cannot afford to trifle with so important a branch of the
 public service as to fall behind any nation, however powerful and efficient
they may be in naval construction. Having satisfied ourselves that
this desideratum must be attained, at whatever cost, I shall now
endeavour to point out such facts as in my opinion relate to the changes
      1st. now
that are          description
            Thebefore     us, andofsimply
                                    iron best   calculated
                                             endeavour        to secure strength and
                                                          to show—
      2nd. The      distribution
                durability    in theand
                                     construction
                                         best formsof of     construction
                                                         ships  of war.    to attain
                 Theobject
      Lastly. this            ; and,of iron best calculated to resist the pene
                       properties
     Properties     of Iron.—If
                tration               we are
                         of shot at high         desirous to attain perfection in
                                             velocities.
mechanical, architectural, or ship-building construction, it is essential
that the engineer or architect should make himself thoroughly ac
quainted with the properties of the materials which he employs. .It is
unimportant whether the construction be a house, a ship, or a bridge.
We must possess correct ideas of the strength, proportion, and combina
tion of the parts, before we can arrive at satisfactory results ; and to
effect these objects the naval architect should be conversant with the
following facts relating to the resisting powers of malleable and rolled
      to aresistance
ironThe     Yorkshire
            tensile  strain.
                        in Iron  per square
                            tons is       . inch. of—. 24 * 50 tons.
            Derbyshire            „        .       .       . 20-25 „
            Shropshire            „       .        .           22 "50 „
     Strength    of Rivetted Joints.—The
             Staffordshire        „       .       architect
                                                   .      . having      „
                                                               20-00 fortified  him
self with the above facts, will be better able to carry out a judicious
distribution of the frames, ribs, and plates of an iron ship, so as to meet
the various strains to which it may be subjected, and ultimately to
arrive at a distribution where the whole in combination presents uni
formity- of resistance to repeated strains, and the various changes it has
     There is, in
to encounter        actual service.
                 however,     another circumstance of deep importance to the
'naval architect, which should on no account be lost sight of, and
that is, the comparative values of the rivetted joints of plates to the
plates themselves. These, according to experiment, give the following
results:— Taking the cohesive strength of the plate at . 100
            The    strength
                found                         .
                        to beof the .double-rivetted .      . was.70
                                                          joint
             And the single-rivetted joint           ...                56

1862.]      and its Resistance to Projectiles at High Velocities.                 493
    These proportions apply with great force to vessels requiring close
rivetting, such as ships and boilers that must be water-tight, and in
    Strengthit of
calculation          Ships.—Of
                 is necessary   to make
                                    late years
                                           allowances   been
                                                it has in         ratio.convenient to
                                                            thatfound
increase the length of steamers and sailing vessels to as much as eight
or nine times their breadth of beam, and this for two reasons ; first, to
obtain an increase of speed by giving fine sharp lines to the bow and
stern ; and second, to secure an increase of capacity for the same mid
ship section, by which the carrying powers of the ship are greatly
augmented. Now, there is no serious objection to this increase of length,
which may or may not have reached the maximum. But, unfortunately,
it has hitherto been accomplished at a great sacrifice to the strength of
the ship. Vessels floating on water and subjected to the swell of a
rolling sea,—to say nothing of their being stranded or beaten upon the
rocks or sand banks of a lee shore,—;are governed by the same laws of
transverse strain as simple hollow beams, like the tubes of the Conway
and Britannia tubular bridges. Assuming this to be true, and indeed
it scarcely requires demonstration, it follows that we cannot lengthen a
ship with impunity without adding to her depth or to the sectional area
     If plates
of the         in the
         we take     a vessel
                        middleofalong     ordinary
                                     the the          the upper deck.
                                             line ofconstruction,     or what some
years ago was considered the best— 300 feet long, 41 feet 6 inches
beam, and 26 feet 6 inches deep—we shall be able to show how in
adequately she is designed to resist the strains to which she would be
subjected. To arrive at these facts we shall approximate nearly to the
truth by treating it as a simple beam ; and this is actually the case, to
some extent, when a vessel is supported at each end by two waves, or
when rising on the crest of another, supported at the centre with the
stem and stern partially suspended. Now in these positions the ship
undergoes, alternately, a strain of compression and of tension along the
whole section of the deck, corresponding with equal strains of tension
a/id compression along the section of the keel, the strains being reversed
according as the vessel is supported at the ends or the centre. These
are, in fact, the alternate strains to which every long vessel is exposed,
particularly in seas where the distance between the crests of the waves
        is exceed
doesItnot  true that        vesselofmay
                    the alength          ship.
                                     the continue    for a number of voyages to
resist the continuous strains to which she is subjected whilst resting on
water. But supposing in stress of weather, or from some other cause,
she is driven on rocks, with her bow and stern suspended, the proba
bility is that she would break in two, separating from the insufficiency
of the deck on the one hand, and the weakness of the hull on the other.
This is the great source of weakness in wrought-iron vessels of this
construction, as well as of wooden ones, when placed in similar trying
circumstances.*
   * See Vol. I. of the ' Transactions of the Institution of Naval Architects,' on the
Strength of Iron Ships.

 494           Mr. W. Faii-bairn on the Properties of Iron,        [May 9,
      Changes in Progress.—Having directed attention to the strength
 of ships, and the necessity for their improved construction, we may now
 advert to the changes by which we are surrounded and to the revolution
 now pending over the destinies of the navy, and the deadly weapons
 now forging for its destruction. It is not for us alone, but for all
 other maritime nations, that these Cyclopean monsters are now issuing
 from the furnaces of Vulcan ; and it behoves all those exposed to such
 merciless enemies to be upon their guard, and to have their ' Warriors,'
 ' Merrimacs,' and ' Monitors ' ever ready, clothed in mail from stem to
 stern to encounter such formidable foes. It has been seen, and every
 experiment exemplifies the same fact, that the iron ship with its coat of
 armour is a totally different construction to that of the wooden walls
 which for centuries have been the pride and glory of the country.
 Three-deckers, like the ' Victory ' and the ' Ville de Paris ' of the last
 century, would not exist an hour against the sea-monsters now coming
      use. days of our wooden walls are therefore gone ; and instead of
 intoThe
 the gallant bearing of a 100-gun ship, with every inch of canvas set,
 dashing the spray from her bows and careering merrily over the
 ocean, we shall find in its place a black demon, some five or six hun
 dred feet long, stealing along with a black funnel and flag-staff on her
 mission of destruction and scarcely seen above water, excepting only to
 show a row of teeth on each side, as formidable as the immense iron
 carcass that is floating below. This may, with our present impressions,
 be considered a perspective of the future navy of England,—probably
 ultimately
 not         have to depend,
     encouraging,—but     one and
                               on which
                                   to thethe
                                          construction     which
                                             security ofofthe    the whole
                                                              country   may .
 power and skill of the nation should be directed. I have noticed these
 changes, which are fast approaching, from the conviction that the pro
 gress of the applied sciences is not only revolutionizing our habits in
 the development of naval constructions, as in every other branch of in
dustry, but the art of war is undergoing the same changes as those
which have done so much for the industrial resources of the country in
times of peace. It is therefore necessary to prepare for the changes
now in progress, and endeavour to effect them on principles calculated,
not only to ensure security, but to place this country at the head of
constructive art. It is to attain these objects that a long and laborious
class of experiments have been undertaken by the Government, to de
termine how the future navy of England shall be built ; how it should
be armed ; and under what conditions it can best maintain the supre
macy of the seas. This question does not exclusively confine itself to
armour-plated vessels, but also to the construction of ships which, in
every case, should be strong and powerful enough to contend against
either winds and waves or to battle with the enemy. It is for these
reasons that I have ventured to direct attention to the strength of vessels,
and to show that 6ome of our mercantile ships are exceedingly weak,
arising probably from causes of a mistaken economy on the one hand,
or a deficiency of knowledge or neglect of first principles on the other.

 1862.]      and its Resistance to Projectiles at High Velocities.        495
     Now, it is evident that our future ships of war of the first class
 must be long and shallow ; moreover, they must contain elements of
strength and powers of resistance that do not enter into the construc
 tion of vessels that are shorter and nearly double the depth. If we
 take a first-rate ship of the present construction, such as the ' Duke of
 Wellington,' and compare it with one of the new or forthcoming con
struction, carrying the same weight of ordnance, we should require a
vessel nearly twice the length and little more than half her depth.
Let us, for example, suppose the ' Duke of Wellington ' to be 340 feet
long and 60 feet deep, and the new construction 500 feet long and
46 feet deep ; we should then have for the resistance of the ' Duke of
Wellington ' to a transverse strain tending to break her back,
                                  W= a-0
Taking 60 as the constant, and the area of the bottom and upper deck
as 1060 square inches, we have
                   W = 1060 X3460°X 60 = 11,223 tons,
as the weight that would break her in the middle. Let us now take
the new ship, and give her the same area top and bottom, and again
we have
                   W= 1060 X 46 X 60 = 5851 tons,
                                 500
which is little more than half the strength. From this it is obvious—if
we are correct ia our calculations—that the utmost care and atten
tion is requisite in design and construction to ensure stability and
perfect security in the build of ships.
     Mechanical Properties of Iron.—It is unnecessary to give more
examples in regard to strength, and the proportions that should be ob
served in the construction of our future navy. I have simply directed
attention to it as a subject of great importance, and one that I am
satisfied will receive careful consideration on the part of the Admiralty
     the Comptroller
and The   next question     the Navy.
                        of for  consideration is, the properties of iron best
calculated to resist the penetration of shot at high velocities, and in this
I am fortunate in having before me the experiments of the Committee
on Iron Plates, which may be enumerated as under :—
                                                            Statical
                      Tensile Strength Compression       Resistance to
            Specific     in Tons per      per Unit of     Punching in
           Gravity.     Square Inch. Length in Tons.         Tons;
           7-7621                                        1-inch Plate.
                           24-802          14-203          40 1804

 496           Mr. W. Fairbairn on the Properties of Iron,                       [May 9,
      Remarks.—The specimens subjected to compression gradually
 squeezed down to one-half their original height, increasing at the same
           diameter
  timeInin these   experiments,
                       till they attained
                                      four descriptions
                                               90 tons on the      iron were
                                                              of square   inch. selected,
  marked A, B, C, D : the two first and last were taken from rolled and
  hammered iron plates, excepting C, which was homogeneous, and gave
      In density
  higher    Mark on
          results   and
                    to Plates.
                        tension
                          tenacity
                                 andthey      pressure
                                        deadstood        than the others.
                                                   as follows:—
                                            Density.       Tenacity in        Remarks.
                                                              Tons.
                                                            24-644
                                            7-7035          23- 354
     C Plates, homogeneous .                7-8083
                                            7-9042          27-032
                                            7-6322          24- 171
      Here it will be observed, that the strengths are in the ratio of the
      On theexcepting
  densities,     resistance only
                               to compression,
                                   the B plates, itwhich
                                                       will deviate
                                                             be seenfrom       in none
                                                                         thatthat law. of
  the experiments was the specimen actually crushed ; but they evidently
  gave way at a pressure of 13 to 14 tons per square inch, and were con
      From cracked
  siderably              and reduced
              the experiments        on inpunching,
                                             height bywe      derive pressure.
                                                          increased     the resistance of
  A, B, C, D plates to a flat-ended instrument forced through the plate
  by dead pressure, as follows :—                                     •
                                          Shearing
                                            Square  Strain
                   Mark on Plates.           in TonsInch.
                                                     per       Ratio, taking
                                                                A as Unity.
                  A   Plates     .    .        19-511              1-000
                  B   Plates     .    .        17-719              0- 907
                  C   Plates     .    .        27-704              1- 168
                  D   Plates     .    .        17-035              0-873
       Here may be noticed, that the difference between the steel plates of
  series C, and the iron plates of series A, is not considerable, though in
       Having
  all the           the steel plates
           othersascertained,      by direct
                                         exhibitexperiment,
                                                  a superiority       statical resistance.
                                                                thein mechanical    resist
  ance of different kinds of iron and steel plates to forces tending to
• rupture, it is interesting to observe the close relation which exists
   between not only the chemical analysis as obtained by Dr. Percy, but
   how nearly they approximate to the force of impact, as exhibited in the
       Dr. Percy,
   experiments    with    his analysis,
                      in ordnance          observes, that of all the plates tested at
                                     at Shoeburyness.
   Shoeburyness, none have been found to resist better than those lettered

1862.]      and its Resistance to Projectiles at High Velocities.                   497
A, B, C, TX, with the exception of C. The iron of plate E contained
less phosphorus than either of the three, A, B, D; and it is clearly
established that phosphorus is an impurity which tends in a remarkable
     Thetofollowing
degree               table
            render the   metal
                            shows
                                "cold
                                    the chemical       brittle when
                                        short," i.e.composition         cold. irons :—
                                                                    of these
  Mark.      Carbon.      Sulphur.      Phosphorus.        Silicon.       Manganese.
     A      0-01636       0 104           0-106           0-122            0-28
     B      0-03272       0-121           0-173           0-160            0-029
     C      0-023         0-190           0-020           0-014            0-110
     D      0-0436        0-118           0-228           0-174            0-250
     E      0 170          0-0577         0-0894          0-110            0-330
      Comparing the chemical analysis with the mechanical properties of
 the irons experimented upon, we find that the presence of 0-23 per cent,
of carbon causes brittleness in the iron; and this was found to be the
case in the homogeneous iron plates marked C ; and although it was
found equal to A plates in its resistance to tension and compression, it
was very inferior to the others in resisting concussion or the force of
impact. It therefore follows, that toughness combined with tenacity is
the description of iron plate best adapted to resist shot at high veloci
 ties. It is also found that wrought-iron, which exhibits a fibrous
 fracture when broken by bendiny, presents a widely different aspect
 when suddenly snapped asunder by vibration, or by a sharp blow from
 a shot. In the former case the fibre is elongated by bending, and be
 comes developed in the shape of threads as fine as silk, whilst in the
 latter the fibres are broken short, and exhibit a decidedly crystalline
 fracture. But, in fact, every description of iron is crystalline in the
 first instance ; and these crystals, by every succeeding process of ham
 mering, rolling, &c., become elongated, and resolvo themselves into
 fibres. There is, therefore, a wide difference in the appearance of the
 fracture of iron when broken by tearing and bending, and when broken
      If we examine
 by impact,            withisordinary
              where time      not an element
                                        care theinstate
                                                     the force     iron manufacture
                                                          of ourproducing      rupture.
 as it existed half-a-century ayo, we shall find that our knowledge of its
 properties was of a very crude and most imperfect character. We have
 yet much to learn, but the necessities arising from our position as a
 nation and the changes by which we are surrounded, will stimulate our
 exertions to the acquisition of knowledge and the application of science
 to a more extended investigation of a material destined, in course of
 time, to become the bulwark of the nation. It is, therefore, of primary
 importance, that we should make ourselves thoroughly acquainted, not
 only with the mechanical and chemical properties of iron, but we should
 moreover be able to apply it in such forms and conditions*as are best
      Entertaining
 calculated   to meetthese
                       the requirements
                            view s, I cheerfully
                                           of thecommenced
                                                    age in whichwith  we mylive.talented

498            Mr, W. Fairbairn on the Properties of Iron,             [May 9,
colleagues the laborious investigations in which we are now engaged,
and looking at the results of the recent experiment with the 300-pounder
gun on the one hand, and the resisting targets on the other, there is
every   prospect
     From         of an arduousexperiments,
             the Manchester                   to whichcontest.
                                  and long-continued     I have alluded, we
find that with plates of different thicknesses, the resistance varies directly
as the thickness, that is, if the thickness be as the numbers 1, 2, 3, &c.,
the resistance will be as 1, 2, 3, &c. ; but those obtained by impact at
Shoeburyness show, that up to a certain thickness of plate, the resist
ance to projectiles increases nearly as the square of the thickness. That
is, if the thickness be as the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, &c, the resistance will
be as the numbers 1, 4, 9, 16, &c. respectively. The measure there
fore of the absolute destructive power of shot is its vis viva, not its
momentum as has been sometimes supposed, but the work accumulated
in it varies directly as the weight of the shot multiplied into the square
     There
of the      is therefore a great difference between statical pressure and
        velocity.
dynamical effect ; and in order to ascertain the difference between flat-
ended and round-ended shot, a series of experiments were undertaken
with an instrument or punch exactly similar in size and diameter and
precisely corresponding with the steel shot of the wall piece -85
diameter employed in the experiments at Shoeburyness. The results
on the A, B, C, and D plates are as follows :—
                                                        Resistance in lbs.
                 Character of Plates.                 Punch          Punch
                                                    Flat-ended. Round-ended.
          thick . . .         A Plates    .           57,956        61,886
    Half-inch thick . * B Plates
    Three-quarter-inch                    .   .       57,060        48,788
                              C Plates    .   .       71,035        85,524
                              D Plates    .   .       84,587
                                                      49,080        43,337
                              B Plates    .   .                     98,420
                              D Plates    .   .       82,381        98,571
                              Mean .                  67,017        72,754
     These figures show, that the statical resistance to punching is about
the same whether the punch be flat-ended or round-ended, the mean
being in the ratio of 1000 : 1085 or 8i per cent. greater in the round-
ended punch. It is, however, widely different, when" we consider the
depth of indentation of the flat-ended punch and compare it with that
produced by the round-ended one, which is 3J- times greater. Hence,
we derive tfcis remarkable deduction, that whilst the statical resistance
of plates to punching is nearly the same, whatever may be the form of
the punch, yet the dynamic resistance or work done in punching is

 1862.]      and its Resistance to Projectiles at High Velocities.                499
 twice as great with a round-ended punch as with a flat-ended one.
 This of course only approximately expresses the true law ; but it exhibits
 a remarkable coincidence with the results obtained by ordnance at
 Shoeburyness, and explains the difference which has been observed iu
 these experiments, more particularly in those instances where round
 shot was discharged from smooth-bored guns at high velocities. To
 show more clearly the dynamic effect or work done by the weight of
 shot which struck some of the targets at different velocities, the follow
 ing results have been obtained.
                                        •   Weight           Work done on Target.
                                             of Shot
                   Target.                  striking
                                            Target ;        Total    Per Square Foot.
                                               lbs.       Foot lbs.     Foot lbs.
   Thorneycroft 8-inch Shield                 1253       312,000       29,078,000
   Thorneycroft 10-inch Embrasure             1511                     37,140,000
   Roberts's Target ....                       946       822,000       19,726,000
   Fairbairn's Target ....                    1024       324,000       23,311,000
   Warrior Target         ....               3229                     62,570,000
   The Committee's Target .                  6410                    124,098,780
     From the above, it will be observed, that the two last targets have
sustained in work done what would, if concentrated, be sufficient to
sinkWe     largest
      the are  all acquainted
                    vessel in the
                                with  the appearances
                                   British  navy. , and physical character
of artillery, but few are conversant with the nature of the operations
and the effects produced by shot on the sides of a ship or on resisting
      andshot
fortsThe         of a gun—to use the expression of my colleague, Mr.
            targets.
Pole—is simply the means of transferring mechanical power from one
place to another. The gunpowder in the gun developes by its com
bustion a certain quantity of mechanical force, or work as it is now
called, and the object of the shot is to convey this work to a distance,
and apply it to an object supposed to be otherwise inaccessible. The
effect of this, according to Mr. Pole's formula, is—
    Then, by the W   V   = its
                            weight
                      principle of vis
                                velocity
                                     of viva,
                                        the
                                          in shot
                                               the per
                                              feet      lbs.
                                                         second.
                                                    inquantity  of work stored up
by the moving mass, measured in lbs. one foot high, is—
                        _ W V'
g being the force of gravity = 32£.
    Thus, if we have a shot, like that recently used against the ' Warrior'

500           Mr, W. Fairbairn on the Properties of Iron,                  [May 9,
target, 156 lbs., moving at the rate of 1700 feet per second, the work
done will be—
                           156 x (1700)'
                       =         g~        '- = 7,008,238 one foot high.
 Showing at once the immense power that this small body is able to
deliver on every resisting medium tending to arrest its course and bring
 its particles to a state of rest. Or, in other words, it is equivalent to
      Theupwards
raising             of 3000
            Application  of Iron
                             tons for
                                   a foot
                                        Purposes   of Defence.—Having
                                          high in the   air.                   exa
mined in a very condensed and cursory manner the present state of our
knowledge in regard to iron, and its application to the purposes of
shipbuilding, let us now consider in what form and under what circum
stances it can best be applied for the" security of our vessels and forts.
 To the latter the answer is, Make the battery shields thick enough : but
a very different solution is required for the navy, where the weight and
thickness of the plates is limited to the carrying powers of the ship.
It has been observed with some truth that we have learnt a lesson from
the recent naval action on the American waters ; but it must be borne
in mind that neither of the vessels engaged nor the ordnance employed
wereTo     all comparable
       at those  who, like to
                            myself,
                               what have
                                     have been    through
                                            gone used        the whole series of
                                                       at Shoeburyness.
experiments, the late engagement will appear instructive, but not cal
culated to cause any great alarm, nor yet effect any other changes than
those primarily contemplated by the Government, and such as have
been deduced from our own experiments. It is, nevertheless, quite
evident that our future navy must be entirely of iron ; and judging
from the last experiment with the Armstrong smooth-bore gun, it would
almost appear as a problem yet to be solved, whether our ships of war
are not as safe without iron armour as with it. If our new construc
tion of ships are strong enough to carry armaments of 300-pounder
guns, which is assumed to be the case, our platiug of 6 or 7 inches
thick would be penetrated, and probably become more destructive to
those on board than if left to make a free passage through the ship.
In this case we should be exactly in the same position as we were in
former days with the wooden walls; but with this difference, that if
built of iron the ship would not take fire and might be made shell
proof. It is, however, very different with forts, where weight is not a
consideration, and those I am persuaded may be made sufficiently strong
to resist the heaviest ordnance that can be brought to bear against
them. In this statement I do not mean to say that ships of war should
not be protected ; but we have yet to learn in what form this protection
can be effected to resist the last powerful ordnance, and others of still
     A great
greater         which has
          forceoutcry      looming
                       are been  raised
                                      in about
                                         the distance,
                                               the inutility
                                                        and are   forts to
                                                               of sure      follow.
                                                                        ; and   the
Government, in compliance with the general wish, has suspended those
at Spithead : I think improperly so, as the recent experiments at Shoe

1862.]     and its Resistance to Projectiles at High Velocities.         501
buryness clearly demonstrate that no vessel, however well protected by
armour-plates, could resist the effects of such powerful artillery ; and
instead of the contest between the ' Merriinac ' and the ' Monitor,' and
that of the 300-pounder gun being against, they are to every appearance
in favour of forts. Should this be correct, we have now to consider
how we are to meet and how resist the smashing force of such powerful
     Duringas the
ordnance            levelled
               waswhole    of against
                               the experiments
                                       the ' Warrior  ' target.
                                                 at Shoeburyness I have most
intently watched -the effects of shot on iron plates. Every description
of form and quality of iron has been tried, and the results are still far
from satisfactory ; ami this is the more apparent since the introduction
of the large 300-pounder, just at a time when our previous experiments
were fairly on the balance with the 40, 68, ICO, and 126-pounders.
They now appear worthless, and nothing is left but to begin our labours
again   hasnovo.
     It de   been a question of great importance, after having determined
the law of resistance and the- requisite quality of the iron to be used as
armour-plates, how these plates should be supported and attached to the
sides of the ship. Great difference of opinion continues to exist on
this subject,—some are for entirely dispensing with wood ; probably
the greater number contend for a wood backing, the same as the
' Warrior ' and the ' Black Prince.' I confess myself in the minority
on this question ; and, judging from the experiments, I am inclined to
believe from past experience that wood combined with iron is inferior
to iron and iron in its power of resistance to shot ; and I am fully per
suaded that ultimately the iron armour-plates must be firmly attached
 to the side, technically called the skin, of the ship. It must, moreover,
form part of the ship itself, and be so arranged and jointed as to give
     The and
 security       stability instituted
           experiments               by the Committee on Iron Plates have
                          to the structure.
been well considered and carefully conducted : they commenced with a
series of plates selected from different makers of varying thicknesses,
and these have been tested both as respects quality and their powers of
 resistance to shot. They have, moreover, been placed at different
 angles and in a variety of positions, and we had just arrived at the
desired point of security, when the thundering 300-pounder smooth
bore upset our calculations and levelled the whole fabric with the
ground. We are, however, not yet defeated ; and true to the national
 character, we shall, like the knights of old, resist to the last—
                      " And though our legs are smitten off,
     And thus it willWe'll     withupon
                           be fight       Iron
                                     the our    Committee and the Armstrong
                                             stumps."
and In     Whitworthallow
      theconclusion,    guns. me to direct attention to a drawing of the
 ' Warrior' target, with wood backing and its compeer entirely of iron.
The first underwent a severe battering, previous to the attack from the
 300-pounder, but the other sustained still greater, with less injury to

502            Mr. W. Fairbairn on the Properties of Iron.                [May 9,
the plates, notwithstanding the failure of the bolts in the first experi
ment. It must, however, be admitted that plates on wood backing
have certain advantages in softening the blow, but this is done at the
expense of the plate, which is much more deflected and driven into the
wood, which, from its compressibility, presents a feeble support to the
force of impact. Again, with wood intervening between the ship and
the iron plates, it is impossible to unite them with long bolts so as to
impart additional strength to it ; on the contrary, they hang as a dead
weight on her sides with a constant tendency to tear her to pieces.
Now, with iron on iron we arrive at very different and superior results.
In the latter, the armour-plates, if properly applied, will constitute the
strength and safety of the structure ; and, notwithstanding the increased
vibration arising from the force of impact of heavy shot, we are more
secure in the invulnerability of the plates and the superior resistance
which they present to the attack of the enemy's guns. In these re
marks I must not, however, attempt to defend iron constructions where
they are not defensible, and I am bound to state that in constructions
exclusively of iron there is a source of danger which it is ouly fair to
notice, and that is, that the result of two or more heavy shot, or a well
concentrated fire, might not only penetrate the plates but break the
ribs of the ship. This occurred in the last experiment on my own
target, where a salvo of six guns concentrated four on one spot, not
more than 14 inches diameter, went through the plates and carried
away a part of the frame behind. The same effect might have taken
place on the ' Warrior ' target ; and certainly 9 inches of wood is of
little value when assailed by a powerful battery of heavy ordnance and
     In concentrated
a well                   remarks, I have every confidence that the skill and
         closing these fire.*
energy of this country will keep us in advance of all competitors, and
that a few more years will exhibit to the world the Iron Navy of Eng
    * Since
land,         oldabove
       as ofthe          was Wooden
                   with its   written, another
                                        Walls,experiment
                                                unconquerable     on every
                                                            has been   [W. sea.
                                                                      made   F.]the
                                                                             on
' Warrior ' target with the 300-pounder smooth-bore gun. From this it appears
that the wood backing between the armour plates and the skin of the ship cannot
safely be dispensed with, and that some compressible or softer substance than iron
and iron is necessary to deaden the blow, and absorb the fragments of the shot and
the broken plates, which in this instance lodged in the wood, and did not perforate,
but only cracked, the skin of the target. From this fact it cannot be denied that
this experiment is more satisfactory than those on the iron on iron targets ; and
however desirous it may be to realize a more etFective construction as regards the
strength of the ship, it cannot be doubted, in so far as the security of the ship
and the lives of those on board are concerned, that a vessel with wood backing is
safer in action than one composed entirely of iron. In the present state of our
knowledge the experiments are therefore against iron and iron, as regards security
from the effects of shot, but they are unfavourable as respects the strength of the
 ship.

1862.]      Mr. Scott Bussell on the Iron Walls of England.          503
                WEEKLY       EVENING
                        Friday,            MEETING,
                                 May 16, 1862.
  Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
                    On the
                  John      IronRussell,
                         Scott             England.
                                  Walls ofEsq.  F.R.S.
It was not the first time the speaker had been allowed the honour of
expounding such truths as had been the object of his special study,
but he had never treated on one of so great national importance. He
was somewhat rash, perhaps, in accepting from the Managers the title
of this address,—rash because the subject was then in a state of transi
tion. It was even worse now, for it had come to what geologists had
called a " slip ;" he might almost say he found himself at " fault."
What he had to say now was as different as possible from what he
should have said when he made the promise. Six or eight months ago
he should have met here a formidable phalanx of adversaries—amongst
them nearly all the naval officers—arrayed against him as the advocate
of iron ships of war, and he should have had to argue every point as
he proceeded. But unfortunately now we were all on one side ; the
pugilistic encounter which might then have entertained his audience
could not come off. Twelve months ago he had written a pamphlet
showing that the end of wooden men-of-war was at hand, and that it
was a sin and a shame to send our sailors to sea in them ; but the
authorities of that day brought their guns to bear upon him and com
pletely demolished him. Since then, however, he had got up again ;
and his heterodoxy had become orthodoxy, and he thought there would
be no opponent of " iron walls " for the future. About the beginning
of the year we were on the eve of war with a people who, whatever
their faults, have never hesitated to adopt for war the fittest weapons,
—who, long before rifles were introduced into our army, were cele
brated for their use of them and for their manufacture,— to whom we
are indebted for the revolvers we found so useful in India, and which,
whether they invented them or not, they brought to perfection. That
people excelled also in ships ; for while the English people, priding
themselves on the beautiful " wave lines " on which their fast steamers
 were built, were slow to perceive the advantage of the same lines for
sailing ships ; the Americans adopted them for their sailing vessels,
and came over and beat our fleetest yachts in our own waters. It

504                      Mr. John Scott Russell                  [May 16,
was the Americans, too, who first built ships of large size, and carried
off our best freights in their large wave-line clippers. When going to
war with such a powerful nation it became necessary to take stock
of our fighting material. The Government did take stock of your
fleet ; and the extent of your navy, fit for a naval battle, at the begin
ning of the present year—as announced in a powerful leader in the
' Times '—was one ship of the line. At the present moment we have
two ships of the line fit for service, the ' Warrior ' and the ' Black
Prince,' and no more. This serious point is no longer a matter of
speculation. It is now universally accepted as a fact,—and accepted
by us on a very small naval engagement in American waters, the con
test of the ' Merrimac ' and ' Monitor,'—that an iron vessel of war is
better than a wooden. one; while the battle of the 'Merrimac' with
the ' Congress ' and ' Cumberland ' has settled the point in dispute
eight or nine months ago, viz. that a wooden vessel could not sustain the
attack of a ship of war in iron armour. Sir John Hay, the chairman
of the naval commission, is quoted in an excellent article in the ' Quar
 terly Eeview,' as using this expression,—" The man who goes into action
in a wooden vessel is a fool, and the man who sends him there is a
     Let us now inquire how this revolution has come about. How is it
 villain."
 that our brave sailors ought no longer to face our enemies from behind
our wooden walls ? This revolution has been chiefly brought about by
 the introduction in artillery of horizontal shell-Jiring. A certain
 General Paixhans, a Frenchman, contributed more than any one else
 to this result. He made cannon of eight to ten inches bore, by which
 explosive shells—which previously had been fired up in the air and
 had to come down again upon their object—could then be fired straight
 at the mark, especially at a wooden ship, which was as good a target as
 an enemy could possibly desire. This horizontal firing was for a long
 time a favourite idea with artillerists ; but they had very little oppor
 tunity of trying it in practical war. Sir Howard Douglas, speaking of
 its effects, says, " a shell exploding between decks acts in every di
 rection ; under the deck it would blow up all above it ; on deck it
 would make a prodigious breach below it, at the same time that it
 would act laterally." The shell which accidentally exploded in the
 ' Medea,' on the lower deck, killed the bombardier and several of the
 crew, knocked down all the bulkheads, and threw the whole squadron
 into consternation ; and the like effect was to be expected from an
 enemy's shell lodged before its explosion had taken place. The first
 experiment on a large scale in actual war was at the commencement of
 the Russian war. The Russian fleet, sneaking about the Black Sea,
 put into Sinope, and in a very short space of one morning sank and
 burnt the Turkish squadron. This battle was the entire effect of hori
 zontal shell-firing. The true nature of this horizontal fire has had
 another illustration. You were all astonished, and wanted to know
  why Sir Charles Napier did not take Cronstadt, and that our other
 fleet did not take Sebastopol. It was well known to professional men

     1862.]               on the Iron Walls of England.                      505
    then why we did not, and there is now no reason why the secret should
    be kept. Our enemies know it, so why not our friends? Our sailors
    were not fools enough to stand to their guns in wooden ships exposed
    to horizontal shell-firing. The speaker had read a letter from Lord
    Dundonald, one of the bravest sailors that ever trod the deck, written
    by him to Napier off" Cronstadt, in which he expresses the greatest ap
    prehension that Sir Charles would be goaded on to try the attack with
    what he called combustible ships. We tried Sebastopol—or rather we
    tried to " make-believe." We drew up our fleet a great way off, and
    one or two brave sailors did go in closer. But the Russian gunners
    were trained to horizontal shell-firing, and they soon found out it was
    best to be farther off. The admiral was to be considered the wisest man
    on board the fleet, for he anchored his ship the farthest off. Those
    ships that ventured in were rendered by these shells incapable of con
    tinuing the action, and it is not now considered a disgrace to those
    sailors to say that after three shells had exploded in one ship it was not
    possible to find men " fools " enough to stand to the guns. " Now,
   you know why we did not take Cronstadt ; and why you did not know
   it sooner, was because the Government did not wish you should fail to
   believe in the wooden walls. At last, however, the ' Monitor ' and
   ' Merrimac ' have let out the secret, and I am here to tell you the
   whole truth. It need not be said that those shells at Sinope and
   Sebastopol were not the perfect weapons we have now— the Armstrong
   shells are much more precise, and will scatter greater destruction
  around    them. has,
        Attention    Howtherefore,
                           much more
                                   sinceI 1854 not now,
                                           may till tell. been strongly directed
  to inventions for protecting ships from the effects of shells—and shot
  also, but chiefly shells. Men will stand against shot, but not against
  shells ; they will run the risk of being hit, but will not face the cer
  tainty of being blown up. The invention of iron armour took place
  fifty or sixty years ago. He was not prepared to name the first in
  ventor ; but long before we thought of using it in our navy, Mr. R. L.
* Stevens, a celebrated engineer, of New York, the builder of some of
  the fastest steam-vessels on the Hudson, was, he thought, the inventor.
  Certainly Mr. Stevens, between 1845 and 1850, gave him a full account
  of experiments made in America, partly at his own and partly at the
  State's expense, and found that six inches thickness of iron-plate armour
  was sufficient to resist every shot and shell of that day. In 1845,
  he (Mr. Stevens) proposed to the American Government to construct
  an iron-plated ship, and in 1854 the ship was begun. This ship is
  in progress, but not yet finished. Mr. Stevens is therefore the inventor
  of iron armour ; but no doubt the first man who applied it practically
  for warfare was the Emperor of the French. In 1854 he engaged in
  the Russian war, and being a great artillerist, he felt deeply what his
  fleet could not do in the Black Sea, and we could not do in the Baltic,
  and so he put his wise head to work to find out what could be done.
  In 1854, the Emperor built some floating batteries—four or five; we
  simply took his design, and made five or six.
      Vol. III. (No. 36.)                                           2m

506                      Mr. John Scott Russell                      [May 16,
     He had called the introduction of iron-armour ships, Stevens's and
the Emperor's ; but something he laid claim to for ourselves. Stevens
used thin flat plates one over the other ; but Mr. Lloyd, of the Admi
ralty, being consulted at that time, did express his opinion that solid
4^-inch plates would be more eff"ectual than the six inches of thickness
in a congeries of plates. Mr. Lloyd has some of the merit as well as
the Emperor for the adoption of this kind of armour. The speaker
exhibited a model of the first iron batteries. The form, he said, was
not very handsome ; in short, they were not only not good sea-boats,
but in a sea good for nothing. They did, however, in smooth water,
some good work ; at least three of the French Emperor's did. We
never got so far. They went to the Black Sea—to Kinburn ; and
when they came back they were covered with the marks of shot, but
not one of them was seriously damaged. This proved the value of
these coated vessels, and so convinced the Emperor, that he wisely de
termined the fleet of France in future should be an iron fleet. We all
know with what decision, what success, what economy he has carried
that idea out. " I have here," said the speaker, " the means of show
ing you what this armour is. Now to tell the secret of the efficacy
of an armour plate. First, as a matter of fact, it stops the shot, as an
anvil stops a hammer, and stops it outside the ship ; and so, therefore,
the armour acts practically as an anvil. When these plates were made
they were made to resist 8-pounders, and 4i inches thickness was ample ;
 but now they were firing shot very much larger. When a round ball,
or a round shell, strikes the iron plate, the first thing done is, that it stops
the bit of the ball that first touches the armour ; next, the bits round
it rush on until they too get stopped by the armour ; and so this little (!)
ball makes a dent for itself ; the remainder of the crushed ball seems,
as Mr. Faraday says, to be ' squermed ' out of shape. I stole the
word, it is so capitally expressive. The shape is not like the original
ball,—it is an entirely new form altogether. I call it ' Faraday's
squerm.' But we have not the full weight of mettle here/ We have
only a part of the shot left, the remainder is dispersed in numerous "
fragments. This is all that remains—a beautiful smooth, polished
cone ; the re3t has gone everywhere. What meanwhile has happened
to the armour ? The plate first gets a dent ; if Sir William Armstrong
hits it twice in the same place the dent gets deeper ; and if he hits it
again in the same hollow, as he so maliciously does, the dent parts
company with the plate and starts on a voyage of exploration for itself.
But if this ball (150-pounder) were used, I am sure that at the first
hit it would take a piece of its own size away with it. Now, if this
occurs with a solid shot, what would happen with a hollow ball made
to explode, and fired at the ship -i Fortunately we know what would
happen. We have seen it fired, and it not only got smashed to pieces,
but it forgot to explode; and the only excuse that can be made for this
is that it had not time to do so. I do not know if you know what takes
place inside of a gun ; but artillerists know it takes some 4 or 5-1000ths
of a second for the explosion to go from one end of the charge to the

1862.]                on the Iron Walls of England.                    507
other. Explosion in a shell also takes time, and what happens with the
shell striking the armour is that it gets shattered to pieces and the pow
der scattered about before it has time to explode ; and this not only
with four-inch iron, but with plates a great deal thinner." This power
of annihilating shell is one of the advantages which iron bestows on a
ship, and for which wood is powerless ; and upon this very fortunate
fact the new principle of naval construction is based, for whatever
armour will do against shot, it will infallibly keep out the shell. "What
kind of armour is best against shell and what against shot is still a sub
ject of discussion. The most important results were being worked out
by the committee on iron plates as to the best adaptation of armour for
the To   the speaker's
      purposes we want.mind, the best kind of armour and the best kind
of ship was that combined in the ' Warrior.' There was one gun-deck,
in which a battery of guns of the heaviest calibre was placed, and that
battery was entirely covered with iron plates, backed with eighteen
inches of wood lying between them and the iron skin of the ship. A
great effort was now being made to get rid of this wooden backing,
which was liable to rot and contributed no strength to the vessel.
When an effective iron backing was constructed, the last improvement
would be got that was looked for in the construction of an armour-
plated ship. He then explained what were the great difficulties to con
 tend with in the construction of the new fleet. There was no difficulty
in the armour ; we know we can keep out the shell and the shot ; for
 if Sir William Armstrong pushes us too hard, we know how much
 more iron will keep him out. What we have to do that is difficult, is
 to build a ship that will not merely keep out shell and resist shot, but
 also possess speed with good sea-going qualities—a monstrous difficulty.
 The problem was purely one of naval architecture. The difficulty
 arose in this way : the iron armour placed a very great weight in a
 very bad place ; it tended to make the ship top-heavy, and "crank."
 Now such a vessel rolls, and a very heavy roll might roll her upside
 under— an event to be avoided as long as possible. The puzzle was,
 therefore, to make a stable ship that should stand under this great
 top-weight of armour, and be a good sea-going vessel. The first iron
 batteries were totally devoid of this quality. They were not " ship
shape," but " sea-chest " shape. Those we sent out to the Black Sea—
and one was under a very good captain—never got there, or, if they
did, they never did anything but come back again. He referred to them
 because they were a class of ships that were now being agitated for.
 The question was now being entertained, in the highest quarters, as to
whether our new fleet of vessels should be fit for long voyages and able
to encounter heavy seas, such as were necessary for the protection of
our colonies and commerce ; or whether they should be made unsea-
worthy slow vessels, incapable of following the enemy if he ran away,
 still less of catching him. They were only adapted for staying at
 home ; and, in order to hurt the enemy, the enemy must come to them
 to be hurt.
                                                              2m2

508                      Mr. John Scott Russell                  [May 16,
    Mr. Scott Russell then went into the details of what he advocated
as the best class of shot-proof vessel—the improved ' Warrior ' class.
This class was 58 feet wide, 400 feet long, and more than 7000 tons in
size, and cost, fully armed and fitted for sea, not much short of half-a-
million. The distinguishing quality of the ' Warrior ' was, that she
had proved a very excellent sea-going vessel. He was happy to say
that four more of this class were building, and two already built.
Her armour consisted of 4J-inch iron plates, and extended over the
whole length to be protected, and came down about 5 feet below water.
This arrangement of armour was such, that its centre of gravity was
brought to 6 feet above the water. Now, for a comfortable ship it
was held, that the centre of gravity should be near the water-line, and
this was therefore a problem of some difficulty ; but the ship had
turned out, nevertheless, a faster man-of-war than any other, and also
    This good
an easy,         sea-boat.
          difficulty of top-weight was got over, in Stevens's early armour
vessel, by a different method from the ' Warrior.' Giving up the
problem of a sea-going ship, he took to smooth water, and built his
vessel much on the mid-ship section of a London barge ; the sides
sloped outwards under water, and sloped inwards above water, so as to
form a narrow upper deck, carrying seven guns, the angles of the sides
being usually a little above water, but capable of being sunk to the
level of it during action. So little, however, was she adapted for a
sea-going ship, that a false side was obliged to be put up to make her
at all seaworthy ; and he would only ask our naval officers if such
vessels were fit to protect our trade and our possessions on the wide
ocean ? The Stevens battery is as long as the ' Warrior,' is to have
as high a speed, and carry a central, shot-proof platform, with seven
large guns mounted on turn-tables, and worked below decks by machi
nery. The guns were pointed downwards for loading, and were re
turned to their positions, and worked thus by men and machinery below
the iron deck, and wholly under cover. There were points of this
battery so like some recently proposed to be constructed in this country,
that it was difficult to conceive the secret had not transpired. This
battery was begun in 1854, and is now about to be finished. The
Stevens battery is a favourable specimen of a ship built for action in
the smooth waters of America. But it is our duty to construct quite a
different class of ships, and the ' Warrior ' is the type of that class.
No one can help seeing the superiority, for our uses, of having such
vessels only as can go anywhere and do anything, and are faster, more
powerful, more enduring, and more seaworthy than any other steam
       of any
shipsThe       other navy.
           ' Merrimac,'  one of the most beautiful of the American fri
gates that first set the pattern which has been followed in so many of
our own noble vessels, was cut down by the Southerners, and said to
have been covered with rails ; but, in reality, covered with one coating
of plates, six inches broad, and an inch and a half thick, laid dia
gonally, and a second coating two inches and a half thick in an oppo

   1862.]                on the Iron Walls of England.                      509
   site direction, over a backing of wood. By this simple means she was
   converted into the formidable vessel that attacked so victoriously the
   ' Congress ' and ' Cumberland,' and disabling them by the shells poured
  in, as much as by her power as a ram, destroyed them in a short en
  counter. The ' Monitor,' improvised by Ericsson in three months, is
   160 feet long, 40 wide, and six feet deep, and below this upper body
  is another propelled by steam. She carries a revolving iron tower of
  six inches thick, containing two heavy guns. Now the upshot of the
  contest of these two vessels has decided two points for us. 1. That
  wooden men-of-war are worthless in presence of iron-coated ships ; for
  the ' Merrimac ' sank two of them without the slightest difficulty.
  2. That wooden ships, even coated with iron, are ineffective against
  iron ships coated with iron armour ; for after a long contest the ' Mer
  rimac   ' failed
       Capt.        to injure
               Coles's  shield the
                               vessel
                                   ' Monitor,'  described.
                                       was nextand          His plans were sub
                                                   had to retire.
  mitted to the Admiralty in 1859, long prior to the construction of
  Ericsson's battery. These shields and the ' Monitor's ' are much
  alike in principle, but Capt. Coles's vessel is a far better sea-boat than
  the ' Monitor,' and carries twelve guns instead of one as in that vessel.
  Coles's shield has a conical roof, and carries one or two Armstrong 100-
  pounders fixed in slides, which are parts of the interior of the shield,
  that moves round on a central pivot, and the men working the guns
  are turned round in it entirely under cover. The construction of the
 shield ship designed by the Admiralty is altogether better than the
 ' Monitor's '. The speaker does not wish, however, to see our war
 ships replaced by vessels of this class, but by those worthy of ourselves
 —a Mr.       of ' Warriors.'
       fleetScott    Russell hoped he had now shown how it had come to
 pass that we had got a useless navy of wooden ships, and only two iron
 ones ready for service. There were two more nearly ready, not of the
 ' Warrior ' clas3, about which the less he said the more he should praise
 them. The Government had, however, laid down the lines for four
 more enlarged ' Warriors,' and this was an atonement for the two he
 would not say anything about. We must then look to a long time
 before we shall have more than two ships of the ' Warrior' class. He
 considered this delay deplorable. When the Duke of Somerset was
 asked in the House why he had not sooner built more iron ships, he
 said, " the House of Commons had been in no particular hurry." And
 when he was asked about his tardy adoption of Capt. Coles's plan, he
 replied, " he delayed until he had consulted the House of Commons
about it." Now the serious difficulty was this, while the French
Emperor had been making rapid use of his experience of iron batteries,
we had not. In 1854, his were at Kinburn and up to their work. In
1856, Capt. Halsted made application to have one of our batteries
made the subject of experiment, in order to see if she would resist shot
and shell, with a view then to make an iron navy. The Admiralty
did have the 'Trusty' made ready; and had her out. Then they
took fright and sent her back again ; and so we lost two years' start. He

510                     Mr. Warington W. Smyth                    [May 23,
would now mention a fact of which there was no longer any grounds
for concealment. In 1855 he submitted to the surveyor of the navy a
drawing and model of the ' Warrior ' class of ships. That model was
now on the table, and exhibited all the important features of construc
tion of the 'Warrior' class. But the Admiralty delayed the construction
of the first ship of the class till 1859 ; and so we lost our just claim to
the original design of iron ships in armour, with sea-going qualities and
speed united. It was Sir John Pakington who, in 1858, first ordered
an iron fleet to be commenced, on a joint design of himself, Mr. Scott
Eussell, and the Surveyor of the Navy. But the French Emperor had
already commenced the ' Gloire ;' so that instead of being, as we might
have been, three years ahead of the French Emperor, our delay had
given him the lead, and deprived us of our true priority. He concluded
by expressing a hope, that the delays and doubts of the Admiralty
might now end ; that a fleet of enlarged ' Warriors' would speedily be
constructed, fit to carry English sailors on every sea where our colonies
and commerce required their protection ; and that no more of our
time or money would be wasted in the consideration or construction of
inferior classes of vessel, unfit for ocean navigation, and good only to
stay at home until the enemy should choose to come and be hurt. We
had now proved our ' Warrior ' class to be sound, wholesome sea-going
ships, and to be unparalleled in speed. Of course, improvements would
in future be made, and changes introduced. But when our construc
tions truly embodied the best knowledge and experience of their time,
our responsibility was fulfilled, and at present we know of no match for
the enlarged ' Warrior ' class of 7000 tons, and therefore there can
no longer remain any excuse for continuing in our present inefficient
     The DukeWEEKLY
condition.                Friday,
                  of Northumberland,
                               EVENING
                                    May 23, K.G.
                                              1862.
                                               MEETING,       [J. S. R.]
                                                    F.R.S., President,
                                in the Chair.
                  Warington W. Smyth, Esq. F.E.S.
                                   On Coal.
The speaker commenced by proposing to select one portion only of
a very large subject ; and, neglecting chemical and statistical and
mining particulars with reference to this important mineral, to confine
himself to the physical conditions under which it is found to occur.
The enormous value of the coal of this country might be understood
from the simple facts that nearly 300,000 of our fellow-subjects find

 1862.]                             on Coal.                             511
their employment in the coal-mines ; and that the total quantity raised
in 1860 amounted to no less than eighty-four millions of tons.
  " Mr. Smyth then proceeded to describe the nature of the various
substances with which the coal is associated, referring to specimens on
the table from the field of South Yorkshire. Comparison was made
between the total thickness of carboniferous rocks or coal measures of
different districts, as well as between the total thickness of coal (in the
aggregate of the seams) ; and hence, it was shown, we have one reason
for not estimating the value of a coal-field merely by its area, as we
find it laid down in a geological map. Thus, the well-known Durham
field, with a thickness of measures of about 2000 feet, has a total thick
ness of coal of 50 feet. The Derbyshire, 2000, and almost twice the
thickness of coal ; the North Staffordshire, 6000 feet of measures, and
130 of coal; whilst the South Welsh and Saarbrucken fields exhibit
thicknesses of 12 to 15,000 feet, with a proportionate increase (espe
    A insecond
cially           reason
          the latter)     coal.mistrusting area as a criterion of the im
                      of for
portance of a coal-district, is the various forms into which the coal
measures have been thrown or moulded by agencies operating at a later
date in the earth's crust, whence some districts may exhibit by outcrops
an indication of the full amount of their entire contents, whilst in
others the beds pass with a gradual inclination beneath newer for
mations, through which they may nevertheless be accessible. As
instances of this were quoted, the vast accession of mineral wealth
added, even in the last twelve years, to the Westphalian coal-field,
by the explorations carried out through the covering of cretaceous
rocks which clothe the northern side of the coal-field, and the remark
able pit lately completed by the Duke of Newcastle, at Shireoak,
which, commenced at a distance of several miles from any visible
coal-measures, pierced the new red sandstone and magnesian limestone,
     reached
and Mr.  Smyththethen
                   "top-hard"
                       describedcoal
                                   certain physical
                                       at 515       in depth.produced in the
                                              yardsfeatures
coal seams subsequently to their consolidation, such as the cleat and
backs, or various nearly vertical divisions, often more or less filled
with carbonate of lime or iron pyrites, which add greatly to the
    In referring
amount            afterwards
         of ash and   clinker. to the principal families of plants which are
found either in, or associated with, the coal, he wished to show that
their occurrence throws a light on the origin of the coal-seams, which
again becomes an important guide in enabling us to judge of the con
tinuity of various fields, a question fraught with vital importance, in
consequence of the rapid rate at which some of them are being ex
hausted. Thus the position of the stigmaria in the under-clay or floor
of the seam, and of the stems of sigillaria, lepidodendron, calamites,
&c, in the roof strata, point to the probability of the growth of the
vegetable matter in situ. The existence of numerous upright stems,
and especially those occurring so often and so dangerously to the miners
in the roof of certain coals, is a strong confirmation of the gradual

512                     Mr. Warington W. Smyth                     [May 23,
depression of the tract in which these plants grew ; and Goppert has
shown that the careful examination of a uumber of seams proves the
existence in the coal itself of every family of plant which has been met
       in the
withThus      coalhad
            much       referred to the true carboniferous period, in which
                   measures.
it is commonly supposed that a vigorous vegetation first arose, but the
speaker described his finding, a few months since, in the Laxey lead and
copper mine, in the Isle of Man, at 120 fathoms deep, a seam of anthracite
coal, three to four inches thick, in the midst of ancient schists, probably
Lower Silurian. He then referred to coaly and lignitic beds in newer
formations, especially to the tertiary brown-coal, which in continental,
and especially in Southern Europe, attains to great importance. The
excellent preservation of the vegetable remains in the lignite has enabled
Unger and Heer to make accurate comparison with existing floras, and to
show that the tertiary flora had nothing in common with our present flora
in Europe, but an extraordinary resemblance to that of modern North
 America. This was especially to be noticed in closely similar species
of the genera Liquidambar, Liriodendron, Pavia, Nyssa, Mobinia,
 Taxodium, Sequoia, Juglans, Glycyrrhiza, Cercis, Laurus, Rhodo
dendron, Cissus, and certain oaks and pines. There was hence no re
treating from the conclusion, that at this portion of the tertiary period
a land communication must have existed between America and Europe.
Fragments of that land, with relics of the same tertiary flora, still
exist in Iceland and the Azores, with their surturbrand and lignites ;
and thus, that Atlantis, which is generally set down as a dream of the
poets, is brought again into solid existence by the studies of the geolo
gist. A relation of this kind at a comparatively recent period, throws
a light on the causes of phenomena belonging to an earlier epoch, and
will enable us to form conclusions, if not upon the absolute contempora
neity of certain beds or groups of coal measures, at all events upon the
physical connection within a given period of the agencies which were
forming coal not only in the various fields of Europe, but also in North
America : and the speaker concluded by pointing out that the reason
ing on the continuity among one another of our British coal-fields, or
of them with those of Belgium and North France, depends on some
 what complex data which scientific investigation can alone afford.
      Specimens of Coal and Shale from Strafford Collieries.
                                                             Depth below Sur
  No.     Order of Minerals from Surface.      Thickness.     face at Strafford
                                                                 Colliery.
                                           Yds. Ft.      In.
    1 Black Shale above Joan Coal .          5     2      3 ]
    2                                               1     8 \ 30* yards.
    3
    4 Spavin—Floor of Joan Coal .                  2      0 )

1862.]                            on Coal.                                    513
               Specimens of Coal and Shale—continued.
                                                                Depth below Sur
 No.     Order of Minerals from Surface.       Thickness.        face at Strafford
                                                                    Colliery.
                                           Yds. Ft.      In.
   5  Black Rust                             1     0      0        441       do.
   6   Shale—Roof of Flockton Coal                ..      6 )
   7     „      Top of      do.                    2      5 \ 53*            do.
   8   Spavin—Floor of do.                         2      8 J
   9   Roof of Cannel—Bastard Shale               ».     8
  10   Top of Cannel Coal .                        1     7        84         do.
  11                                               1     2        86         do.
  12                                               1     2        86 1 2 do.
  12a                                                            103         do.
  13   Shale 3 ft. above Fenton Coal.
  13a  Shale 2 ft. above Fenton.
  14
  15   Spavin—Roof of Fenton Coal           1     0      4
  16   Fenton Coal (top) ....               1     0      0     j 107         do.
  17                                                         \
  18
  19                                        0     2      7
 20    Bottom part of Parkgate, Top                             >13H         do.
  21   Spavin—Middle of do.                        1     0
  22   Parkgate bottom Bed .                •*     1     3 ,
  23                                               1     7      216£         do.
  24   Ironstone — " Silkstone Black                     #•
            Mine"                           2                |220            do.
  25 Coal-" Black Mine". . .                             5 )
  26 Stone Bind—top of Silkstone.           9      0     4
  27 Brass Band and top of Silkstone
  28                                               2    11* >234             do.
  29                                                     4
  30   Bottom Bed—Silkstone         .              2     7*
  31                                                         <
                                                               [W. W. S.]

 514                       Mr. Thomas Bazley.                      [May 30,
                 WEEKLY
                  A Plea
                 George   Dodd,
                          for
                          Friday,
                       Thomas  EVENING
                               Cotton
                                Bazley,
                                  Esq.
                                   Mayand30,Esq.
                                             for
                                        F.S.A.  MEETING,
                                                  Industry.
                                                  M.P.
                                                  in the Chair.
                                               1862.
 The fact of the cotton trade in this country being dependent upon
 chiefly one source of supply for its raw material, has been at all times
 the cause of anxious solicitude to the thoughtful observer of the nation's
 progress ; but the dilemma in which that great industry is now placed
 by that sole dependence deserves the consideration alike of the states
man, of the economist, of the merchant, of the employers of labour, and
of the humane and patriotic public. Between cotton and labour there
was formed in Lancashire, three-quarters of a century ago, an alliance
which, combining mechanical with manufacturing skill, has created an
     Littleunparalleled
industry                century
            more than aand  unsurpassed
                                 since thein clothing
                                              any other country.
                                                      comforts of the masses
of the people were few in this country, and the abundant luxuries which
now prevail were to them almost unknown. The prepared skins of
animals were, up to that recent date, largely used in the clothing ofthe
peasant, and in every house and hamlet the distaff and spindle, and the
weaving loom, ministered to the supply of linens, woollens, and their
mixtures, in aid of domestic wants. In the reign of Elizabeth her sub
jects were only equal in number to the inhabitants of Lancashire and
Yorkshire at the present time, and greatly below the people of those
two counties with Cheshire added. The British people under Eliza
beth were powerful, and in splendour and position ranked with the
highest nations of the earth ; yet her army, navy, aristocracy, court,
and people did not exceed that portion of Queen Victoria's subjects who
directly and indirectly subsist upon the toils, industry, and capital of
the cotton trade. The kingdoms of Belgium, Portugal, Holland, and
Hanover, do not separately contain populations as extensive as the cot
ton trade supports in Great Britain ; hence this industry of five millions
of dependents, sustained by no separate regal power, and hitherto happy
and prosperous as a portion of the subjects of our gracious Sovereign,
may claim to be at least of some national importance. About three
centuries ago the whole people of this country might be equal to the
five millions who now subsist by the manipulations, products, and com
merce of cotton ; but at this moment the population of the United King
dom may be regarded as thirty millions, yet the same circumscribed

L862.]            A Plea for Cotton andfor Industry.                    515
and limited extent of land only exists to afford them the means of
labour and to yield them its fruits which supported their predecessors.
Even in Elizabeth's reign the people were deemed to be too numerous
for the extent of land in her British dominions, and restrictions upon
the building of dwellings in proportion to the areas of districts were
enacted. If, therefore, the augmentation within the period now men
tioned, of from five to thirty millions of people, be considered, it is
self-evident that new sources of industry have had to be developed to
supply increasing wants. Mineral and agricultural products have, in
past ages, furnished scanty exports to pay for foreign articles of neces
sity and luxury ; but, with a constantly increasing population, the yield
of the soil has been absorbed by the enlarged consumption at home ;
and now foreign supplies of corn, of other food, and of luxuries are re
quired for, and may be equal to the subsistence of one-third of the
entire population of the United Kingdom. But whilst supplies of food
have been needed for this increasing population, the other concomitants
of comfort have also been required, and all these necessaries of life
could only be obtained in this country by the magic power of skill and
     A sea-girt land with navigable rivers, thus possessing egress and
labour.
ingress, seems to invite foreign intercourse, and to be the first essential
to a great mercantile and manufacturing district ; but when such a
country is found to be immeasurably rich in its mines of coals and
 metals, when it possesses a temperate and healthy clime, and, aboveall,
 when its inhabitants are hardy, sagacious, toil-loving, free, and untiring,
 we may infer that the decree of Providence has ordained that the people
 with these advantages shall be blest with plenty, and shall contribute
 of their abundance to the families of mankind. To no country, how
 ever, has exclusive advantages been given ; but, wisely, mutual depend
 ence appears to be the pacific bond intended to promote the welfare of
 the common brotherhood. Probably beyond every other people the
 British possess the elements o£ successful trading and commercial in
 dustry ; but beyond the direct necessaries of life, which their labour
 ought to enable them to buy, they need raw materials whereon that
 labour can be employed. Sheep's wool and flax, Great Britain can, in
 part, produce towards the demand for them ; but still large quantities
 of them are required from foreign countries, and silk, cotton, and other
 productions of the warmer regions must always be imported as contri
 butions in aid of the manufacturing industry of the United Kingdom.
 Textile fabrics afford in their production the most extensive means of
 employment, and have become the indispensable clothing comforts of
 the people of every country. The fabrics and manufactures of cotton
 are, however, among the most useful, convenient, elegant, and econo
 mical productions of labour. From the quilt or bed-cover to the finest
 and most filmy muslin, from the fustian garments of the poor to the
 decorations of lace worn by the rich, and in the snow-white gift of the
 bleacher to the rainbow colours of the printer, cotton is prolific of com
 fort and of ornament.

516                       Mr. Thomas Bazley.                       [May 30,
     Cotton, almost the chief of the fibrous gifts of Providence, might
be grown in excess of the power of man to fabricate and consume. On
each side of the equator is a belt of twenty-five degrees of latitude, encir
cling the earth, and these two belts form immense fields, on which cot
ton could be produced ; consequently it might be obtained to an almost
illimitable extent. With, therefore, the natural facilities possessed by
the people of this country for entering upon a manufacturing career in
cotton, and with ample means existing for cultivating and producing the
raw material, no surprise need be felt that an energetic and industrious
people should avail themselves of their skill and inventive powers to
initiate a great industry founded upon their native talent, and in reli
ance of an abundant supply of the foreign fibres of cotton being always
     The persecutions of the Duke of Alva had banished from their
attainable.
homes the Flemish weavers who took refuge in Britain. These skilful
and ingenious workmen became valuable acquisitions in a country com
mencing the transition from the labours of the field to those of the
loom ; and the domestic manufactures of our country began to indicate
the progress and perfection which they were destined to attain. The
dawn of a great industry was perceptible. Industry was honoured, and
labour inculcated as the foundation of the nation's coming distinction
and prosperity. Even more than two centuries ago, when steam-engines
were unknown, canals not having been formed, nor large manufacturing
establishments erected, and while deer-forests surrounded this vast city,
there were merchants who promulgated sound economical principles, and
who taught lessons of wisdom to the possessors of regal power. In
London in 1641, Roberts, a son of commerce, published an enlightened
pamphlet, entitled " Treasures of Traffick," and in proof of the soundness
of his views the following extract cannot fail being interesting and
welcome. He said,—" Some princes are not satisfied with those mate
rials that grow among themselves, and in their own countries, but they
covet by all industry to draw others from their neighbours, or foreign
nations, to employ their subjects, and to put their people on work, by
this means much enriching themselves, and honouring their country ;
and adding a great help to the public traffick thereof, selling and vent
ing them thus wrought, even to those nations who many times have sold
and furnished them with the very first materials of the said manufac
tories." " Manchester, in Lancashire, must also herein be remembered,
and worthily, and for their industry commended, who buy yarn of the
Irish in great quantity and weaving it, return the same again in linen
to Ireland to sell. Neither doth the industry rest here, for they buy
cotton wool in London that comes first from Cyprus and Smyrna, and
at home work the same and perfect it into fustians, vermillions, dy mi-
ties, and such other stuffs, and then return it to London where the same
is vented and sold, and not seldom sent to foreign parts." Thus at a
period in English history when Charles the First was surrounded with
troubles, discord and distress prevailing, Roberts, in beautiful simpli
city of language, uttered the first plea for cotton and for its industry,

1862.]            A Plea for Cotton and for Industry.                   517
thereby throwing a lustre upon his own name and upon the seventeenth
     In the middle of the eighteenth century a considerable home manu
century.
facture had arisen. Cotton was spun by hand and afterwards blended
in the loom with linen or woollen, thus producing a mixed fabric. The
supply of cotton was then inconsiderable and was obtained from Turkey
and the Levant, and from the West Indies. Mechanical science now
escaped from the libraries and traditions of the learned, and offered
practical aid to the infant industry. Such a galaxy of talent and inven
tive genius as then stood forth to develope new methods of increasing the
comforts both of the palace and of the cottage the world had not seen.
By an almost mysterious combination of efforts, Hargreaves, Whyatt,
Arkwright, and Crompton were devising their several systems of spin
ning cotton ; Watt was rendering available the majestic power of vapour,
directing, controlling, and dooming it to become the universal drudge
of man ; Scheele and Berthollet, with their oxygenated muriatic acid
blanched the calico and the cambric ; and the Mauvillions, Nixons, and
Peels gave their coloured tints to print these new fabrics ; and as if
inspired by the inventions which sprang from the east of the Atlantic,
the Anglo-Saxon in the United States of America originated the culti
vation of cotton in that great territory : but in giving this boon, the pro
duction of slave labour, he conferred the bane whence the vast cotton
industry now suffers in the deprivations inflicted upon labour and capital.
In the year 1700, when mechanical appliances were comparatively un
 known in the manufacture of cotton, the consumption of this material
 might be one million pounds weight; but in 1860 the quantity had cul
minated in the consumption of one thousand million pounds weight in
that year. Cotton began to arrive from America in 1787 in sufficient
 quantity to prove the power of the States to produce it, and in that year
 Crompton triumphed over his mechanical difficulties and completed the
 mule, this machine being the great agent at the present time for the
 production of coarse as well as of fine yarns ; but spinning by rollers
 and Arkwright's throstle spinning frame had been invented twenty
years previously ; hence the history of the modern and mechanical cotton
        may beyears
tradeEighty            from
                datedago      cotton
                         the this     industry of our country was thus ini
                                  period.
 tiated, and from that time to the present, progress, improvements, and
extension have characterized it. The science, skill, and invention
which have accompanied its development are wonderful. It has
afforded employment, comfort, and prosperity to many millions of the
people of this country during that period, and it has contributed very
 largely to the national revenue. During the great struggle with the
first Napoleon our men were able to leave their country for the strife
of war, and yet the steam-engine and the mechanical agencies which
existed at home more than compensated for their physical loss ; but
 here was the waste of the nation's strength. Wiser would it have been
 had these new resources been developed for the moral, mental, and
 social improvement and comfort of the people at large. Most probably

 518                        Mr. Thomas Bazley.                     [May 30,
the cotton trade and the development of new mechanical powers, have
enabled the people of (his country to sustain a system of taxation which,
without that trade and those treasures, could not have been borne, and
have supported a national expenditure alike extravagant and injurious.
The state, therefore, has participated in the contributions of all who
      promoted
haveThe           and of
          capitalists  sustained
                         this trade
                                 thishave  now two
                                      industrial     hundred million pounds
                                                 fabric.
sterling invested in it, in fixed and floating property; and the people
directly and indirectly employed in it being now five millions, we arrive
at the important deduction that not only does the national exchequer
derive great benefit from it, but we have capitalists and labourers sup
ported by it as numerous as are the people of several European king
doms of the present time. Indifferent spectators of the abundance
which has happily prevailed in this country since the introduction of
the liberal commercial policy which is now established, rarely reflect
upon the obligations this vast industry has conferred in aid of the ele
ments of social comfort. Of late years the exports in cotton manufac
tures have been about fifty millions sterling per annum, or about one-
third of the gross exports of the United Kingdom. Well then, as
cotton exports constitute one-third of the whole, it becomes evident that
cotton buys one-third of the imports ; hence, as gold, silver, gems,"
coffee, tea, sugar, tobacco, wine, oil, and the fruits of sunny climes, as
well as corn and other food brought hither, are foreign products largely
imported into the United Kingdom, we must claim the merit for the
cotton trade of having bought and paid for one-third of these exotic
and foreign supplies. In 1860, the last year of active and full employ
ment for the whole of the cotton trade, its manufactured products
exceeded eighty millions sterling in value, something more than fifty of
which were exported, leaving about thirty millions as the value of the
home consumption of cotton manufactures ; but as this latter sum will
about equal the cost of the raw cotton imported, the beneficial interest
of the country in the cotton industry will be represented by its export
trade of upwards of fifty millions sterling. That so extensive and
prosperous an industry should have been founded upon the supply of
a foreign product, is not the least wonderful fact of its history ; but
that cotton should have been almost exclusively, as it has been, ob
tained from almost adverse sources, is a great reproach to the British
    Of the 2,523,000 bags of cotton consumed in this country in the
nation.
year 1860, 85 per cent, consisted of the growth of the United States,
8 per cent. of the growth of Egypt, Brazil, and other foreign districts ;
whilst of cotton from the British East and West Indies the consumption
was only seven per cent. ! In consequence of the convulsion in the
States of America, the consumption of cotton in Great Britain, in
1861, resulting from its contracted supply and the loss of the American
markets for its manufactured products, diminished 10 per cent. ; and
whilst of American and other foreign cotton the consumption became
only 85 per- cent. against 93 per cent. in the previous year, the con

1862.]            A Plea for Cotton and for Industry.                519
sumption of East Indian cotton was 15 per cent, against the previous
7 per cent. ; but of the present diminished consumption probably
75 per cent, may be East Indian. A very rapid increase has been
effected in the consumption of East India cotton, which, in 1860, was
3500 bags per week, in 1861, 7000 bags, and in this year is proceeding
at the rate of 15,000 bags or more per week, showing the increase to
be 100 per cent. per annum upon each successive year. The actual
power of consuming cotton in the United Kingdom is 55,000 bags
per week ; but lacking the requisite supply, the present total consump
      cannot
tionSuch     exceed
           then having
                     25,000
                        been bags  per progress,
                              the rise, week. productive and consuming
power of the cotton trade, are we blameless for allowing this immense
industry to exist and extend upon the frail basis of slavery upon which
it has largely depended ? Not only do prudential and political princi
ples condemn us, for the almost sole dependence for an essential raw
material upon a country which has often withheld from us the rights
which a free people should in the spirit of justice extend to its neigh
bour, but a moral inconsistency has beclouded both the nation and the
cotton trade. To the honour and advantage of our own country cotton
has been received here free from all import duty, but upon the very
manufactured goods containing only the untaxed cotton grown in the
States of America the Government of those States has exacted a duty of
twenty-five per cent. Now whilst as a people we abhor slavery, and
our Government has been expending a million per annum in its pre
tended suppression, we have been receiving yearly large supplies of
slave-grown cotton, tobacco, and sugar, requiring the thraldom of a
greater number of our fellow-creatures than by our costly hypocrisy we
 have liberated. A lesson of justice, humanity, and of economical pru
dence is now being taught the people depending upon cotton for labour
and profit ; and the Government of this country must not shield itself
 from the charge of culpability in having neglected to encourage the
 cultivation of cotton in the vast possessions of Great Britain. A warn
 ing voice has often been heard ; and ten years ago when the lamented
 late Prince Consort presided on the occasion of my speaking upon this
 subject at the Society of Arts, I inquired, " Whence comes the supply
 of the raw material for this wonderful trade? Is it not the duty of the
 statesman to ask this question from the interest which not only so large
 a portion of the community has in obtaining subsistence from it, but also
 from the general weal and a large amount of public revenue being
 involved in it? Is it not the duty of the merchant and manufacturer
 who is directly interested in this great trade to make the same inquiry ?
 And is it not the duly of the philanthropist and the patriot to also ask
 whether the supply of this raw material be providently secured and,
 whence do come, and shall come, supplies of cotton wool to sustain
 this immense national industry?" I added, — "May not an epidemic
 of disease or of revolt momentarily destroy the cotton-fields of
 America?" These first questions I now reiterate, and I grieve that
 they are practically necessary ; for when first uttered they were only

520                       Mr. Thomas Bazley.                   [May 30,
prospectively and prudentially put forth. How fearful is the contem
plation of a people, whose labours, directed by intelligence and right
principles, having supported them with- abundance, and still able and
willing to work, being deprived of the material on which their industry
has been advantageously engaged ? The deprivations in this great
industry have become lamentably severe. With less than half a supply
of raw material, and at the enhanced cost of a whole supply, only half
employment can be afforded, and consequently only half wages or less
can be earned. Already the working classes of the cotton trade are
subjected to diminished earnings of a million pounds sterling per month.
Generally the mills are working half-time, but many are wholly stopped
whilst a very few continue to give full employment, but the average
time now worked will be the half-time now stated ; and the consump
tion of cotton is only 25,000 bags weekly instead of the 55,000 bags
capable of being consumed ; but in this latter quantity is included the
probable consumption of many new mills which have not begun to work.
Of the consumption of cotton at the present moment, the East Indies
supply 75 per cent.,—12$ per cent. is America,—and 12£ per cent.
other foreign kinds. Last year the East Indies were exhausted of the
stocks of cotton usually held there ; and it is doubtful whether the
million bales then received can be repeated this year. No efforts to
obtain cotton from new fields commensurate with the necessity are being
made. Past monitions have been disregarded. The Chamber of Com
merce at Manchester has constantly recommended that cotton should
be obtained from British foreign possessions, and from every country
capable of supplying it. Having been a member of that Chamber for
more than a quarter of a century, my own attention during that time
has been unceasingly devoted to the urgent necessity of procuring
new supplies of cotton ; and in 1840, when my honourable friend,
Mr. J. B. Smith, the present member for Stockport, was the President
of the Chamber, I was so deeply impressed with the importance of
efforts being made to obtain superior cotton from the British East and
West Indies that I grew, as an incentive and example, some of the
most perfect and beautiful cotton ever produced, my cotton plantation
having been formed in the attic of one of my mills in Manchester, and
specimens of my efforts are now before you. In 1848 my honourable
friend, Mr. Bright, M.P. for Birmingham, proved by his parliamentary
committee the capability of the East Indies to grow and supply abun
dantly most excellent cotton. With many men of experience I gave
evidence before that committee ; but apathy in the Government, in the
trade, and in the public mind, has caused to be neglected the admoni
tory facts then elicited. The negro was doomed to enduring wrongs,
the cotton industry was left dangerously dependent upon one chief
source of supply for its raw material, the national resources remained
undeveloped, and our costly colonial system perpetuated for patronage,
     comparatively
but Essentially Great
                    without
                       Britain
                            profitable results.
                               possesses  the monopoly of the best land
found in the world for the growth of cotton.    With the proof that the

 1862.]            A Plea for Cotton and for Industry.                521
 finest and best cotton ever produced has been artificially grown in
 Manchester, why should not the mere trifling difficulties of the colonies
 be surmounted where soil, climate, and natural advantages exist? In
 the East Indies the policy under the rule of a nominally commercial
company has been absurdly political and despotic. The material pros
perity of- the people was neglected ; navigation, by improving the rivers,
has been discouraged ; few canals have'been formed ; roads have
scarcely existed ; ample means for irrigation have been withheld ;
quays are almost unknown ; and the land held by Governmental feudal
power has been largely unproductive. By the small water supplies of
Colonel Sir Arthur Cotton, immense benefits have been derived in
Madras, and by the recent changes in land tenure great improvements
 will doubtless result. Railways are now being established, and the
 general indications of the great dependency are becoming favourable
for the extension of cotton and other agriculture, and for trade and
commerce. For many years the improved navigation of the Godavery
has been a subject of contention and of hope deferred. This river
ought to connect the great cotton-fields of Berar with Coringa, and
other ports, in Madras. The rocky barriers of the Godavery should
be either removed, or they should be avoided by the aid of short links
of canals or by tramways. To what extent the works of the Godavery
have proceeded we are ignorant, but the advantages which would
accrue from their completion cannot be overstated. Its fertile valley
would yield immense supplies of excellent cotton and other products,
the markets to ten or twelve millions of people being opened would
yield double advantages alike to a home and a foreign trade. On the
banks of that river, at Ingelhaut, cotton of most acceptable quality to
the British spinner is already grown ; and in its vicinity, as also in
Berar, cottons could be cultivated which would equal, if they did not
surpass, the productions of New Orleans. Of the power of the East
Indies to produce superabundant supplies of most excellent cotton, no
doubt need be entertained. The communications within that vast de
pendency being effectively extended to its sea-board in every direction,
its agriculture being industriously conducted by the aid of practical
science, and the government of it becoming wise and just, benefits
would flow from and to it, fructifying and enriching the whole empire.
In 1860, the imports of cotton from the East Indies were 561,200 bags,
of which two-thirds were exported, and in 1861 there came 986,600 bays,
or nearly double the previous year's supply ; but though the importers
of this enlarged import have derived very great profits by the advance
which has taken place in the price of cotton, the ryot, or farmer, in
India, has not yet importantly obtained any advantage from the in
creased value of his produce ; but if the communication with the
interior of India, both as to intelligence and the conveyance of cotton,
be facilitated, then the ryot will be stimulated by compensating and
increased rewards to extend the cultivation of cotton, and to improve
the quality of it. As now stated, ample proof exists that India can
grow most excellent cotton, and many supplies of very useful qualities
    Vol. III. (No. 36.)                                        2s

522                         Mr. Thomas liazley.                     [May 30,
have been thence received ; and I now have the satisfaction of placing
before this meeting a sample of superior cotton sent by Dr. Short, from
Chingleput, in Madras. I am also enabled to display some very good
yarns, of above the average fineness, being 60$. warp and 80s. weft,
spun from it by Mr. Kirkpatrick at his mills near Manchester. India
has in truth been slandered, both as to its power to produce excellent
cotton, and the adaptability of it to the manufactures of Europe ; but
the cotton and yarn now shown afford all the evidence necessary to
prove the fact that our great dependency can supply cotton equal to
that obtained at New Orleans. It has also been asserted that Indian
cotton would neither bleach nor receive colours so perfectly as
American, but here again I am prepared to refute the error and mis
representation, for I have the pleasure of exhibiting cloth as good
made from Indian cotton, and as white and beautiful in the colours
of the bleacher and calico printer as a similar fabric would be made
from American cotton. Here we possess the foretaste of the now dor
mant means which would regenerate India, and resuscitate the drooping
cotton industry of the United Kingdom. Apathy must cease, and
remedial measures be applied to the evils which retard the prosperity
of India and embarrass our home trade and commerce. There are
duties to be performed by the. mercantile community, as well as obsta
cles to be removed by Government ; and without the performance of
these    Cottonprolonged
     A duties              disappointment
                 Supply Association         will ensue.
                                      was formed   in Manchester a few years
ago, and its labours are constantly directed to obtain corrective measures
 for the evils of India, and to promote the growth of cotton wherever
the soil and climate of any country will enable it to be produced. This
association has impelled a wiser policy for India, and has rendered
valuable services to that dependency and to other countries, having
made grants to upwards of 400 places of cotton seeds and of cleaning
gins, besides other agricultural implements. By the exertions of this
body small supplies of cotton have been received from many new fields
 of cultivation. Cotton growing is beiug slowly resumed in the British
 West Indies, whence encouraging supplies are now received ; but if the
 proprietors of estates in those islands did their duty to themselves and
to their country, an enlarged production of excellent cotton would com
pensate them and contribute to the nation's prosperity. The fine island
of Jamaica, which could produce very large quantities of superior cotton,
 is a territorial wreck ; but see the capability of this island by this sample
 of cloth made from its cotton. Demerara and other neighbouring pos
 sessions can produce more cotton than the United Kingdom could
 manufacture. From the Cape of Good Hope to Port Natal cotton can
 be abundantly produced. Africa has of late years sent small, but
 valuable supplies of cotton of qualities quite equal to the produce of
 New Orleans, but her Egyptian cotton has, from the time of Mehemet
 Ali to the present moment, been a large and most welcome contribu
 tion. If the million per annum which our fleet for the suppression of
 slavery costs had been devoted in our own colonies, or even in Africa, to

  1862.]              A Plea for Cotton and for Industry.                  523
 the encouragement of the growth of cotton, sugar, and other products,
  which the labour of the negro in slavery has yielded, then that disgrace
 ful traffic in human beings might have been annihilated, and our own
 pursuits untainted with the wrongs inflicted upon the coloured race.
  Australia, however, has amazing powers for the production of cotton,
 and in sections of that great country, Queensland, Victoria, and New
 South Wales, cotton of every class, from the lowest to the highest, might
 be cultivated and produced beyond the wants of all the world. Queens
 land has sent small lots of cotton of unsurpassed beauty and excellence,
 and from this colony and from New South Wales samples of cotton
 may be seen in the great International Exhibition of qualities adapted
 to the production of the finest muslins and laces which any skill could
 manipulate, as may be seen by this beautiful specimen of lace made from
 it. Labour appears to be almost alone the sole requisite for obtaining
 supplies of cotton of incalculable extent from Australia. On referring
 to the cultivation of cotton in America, we learn that there one million
 of negroes can produce cotton of nearly twice the extent of its consump
 tion in Great Britain, consequently half-a-million of labourers would
 suffice to produce the cotton needed by the latter, and the question arises
 whether it would not be an act of prudence and of wisdom to induce this
 number of Chinese men, women, and children to become cotton growiug
 labourers in Australia. In the States of America only about one quarter
 of the negro population is there engaged in cotton agriculture, the large
 majority being employed in producing tobacco, rice, sugar, Indian corn,
 and in handycraft and domestic pursuits or occupations. The Emperor
 of France has wisely offered great inducements for the growth of cotton
 in Algiers, whence very superior cotton is already supplied. That French
 colony is within a single week's sail of this country, and some eminent
 men of business here and in France are endeavouring to extend the
 cultivation of cotton in it, which, if judiciously carried out, cannot fail
     With these
 becoming             advantage
             of vastfacts the power
                                 to all
                                    abundantly
                                        the relations of both cotton,
                                                 to produce           not only
                                                              countries.
in British possessions, but in many foreign states, is beyond all doubt.
Cotton may also be profitably as well as abundantly grown, and free
labour might be more economically employed than has been the labour
of the slave. Great injury has been done in delaying efforts to grow
cotton in new fields of cultivation by the unwarrantable assumption that
slave labour was so amazingly cheap that free labour could not compete
with it. This has been a discouraging delusion, for the labour of the
slave has actually, in the cotton states of America, been more costly
than the free-skilled labour ofEurope, and cotton has not been cultivated
in countries capable of growing it, from a false conviction that those
American States possessed a monopoly of the means of producing it ;
but it is evident that Providence has not designed that this valuable
material should be only raised by the bondage of the negro, for, on the
contrary, proofs abound that cotton can be adequately and most profit
ably produced in the many countries now mentioned alike with advan
tage to the capitalist and to the free labourer.
                                                                  2n2

   524                        Mr. Tlitmas Bazley.                    [May 30,
       By the general neglect of cotton agriculture an aggregation of evils
   now exists which can only be contemplated with profound grief and ap
   prehension. Probably 100,000 labourers, who have usually shared the
   employment afforded in the cotton trade, are now totally idle and pen
   niless. 300,000 more are working short time, and in the sympathetic
   branches much deprivation prevails. The losses ofthe labouring classes
   are one million pounds sterling per month, or twelve millions per an
   num ; whilst the employing classes are, by loss of rents, interest of money
   on stagnant capital, and in suspended operations, without computing
   anything for loss of profit, sustaining a loss equal to eight millions per
   annum, thus making the certain loss, in labour and capital, into twenty
   millions sterling per annum ; but the great infliction of double price for
   cotton, which adds eighteen millions per annum to its normal market
  cost, subjects .the trade to a drain of nearly forty millions per annum,
  and to an exhaustion tending almost to extermination. Cotton-spinning
  and manufacturing in Great Britain are equal in extent to those pur
  suits carried on in America and upon the continent of Europe. Conse
  quently in the British and foreign cotton trades the losses and dis
  advantages will be double the extent stated for this country alone.
  A plea, then, for cotton and for industry becomes a duty and a
       Seeing, therefore, the extent of distress existing in the districts of
  necessity.
  the cotton manufacture, and that increased deprivations may inflict
  deeper misery upon the labouring classes, whilst many capitalists may
  be on the verge of total ruin, and seeing also that the people of the
  United Kingdom generally sympathize with the sufferings in the cotton
i trade, what
  industry       question that
            is a assistance canmany
                                 be rendered
                                     benevolent    this apparently
                                               to-individuals         decaying
                                                              will ask.   This
  great industry has been sanctioned by the legislature, and has been a
  large contributor to the public revenue; the great body of the people
  have viewed this industry almost with envy, but certainly with approval,
  though none of sufficient power have stood forth to obtain a supply for
  it of its requisite raw material from free labour and from sources so
  numerous that would have averted the existing calamity. Subscrip
  tions for relief have begun, but the wealth and predominant kindly
  spirit which yet prevail in the manufacturing districts will be unspar
  ingly expended and exercised to diminish the evils which threaten
  starvation to meritorious men, women, and children, who are able and
  willing to work if the accustomed material were forthcoming from which
  they hav« hitherto earned their daily bread, and whose labours have
  enriched their country. Shall pauperism be even contemplated for an
  energetic and labour-loving people, or rather shall not profitable em
  ployment be afforded as in days past, and without Timing recourse to
  that impoverishing alternative of banishing by emigration those sons of
  toil who have also contributed to the elevation of their order among the
  nations of the earth ? Will not the British Government and people
  best remove present and future evils by assisting to develope the
   resources of their colonies, which, by the introduction of cotton

1862.]            A lHea for Cotton and for Industry.                   525
cultivation upon a large scale, would be rendered productive and
    The colonies
prosperous  ?     would be enabled to trespass less upon the tax-paying
people at home, and colonial and British revenues would both obtain
beneficial relief. If the British public desires to assist the distressed
and suffering cotton trade it will be wise to attack the evil at its root,
and to promote the cultivation of cotton in new countries, and thereby
prevent the possibility of a repetition of similar disasters, and as cotton-
growing is profitable the advantage derived from it would be the recom
pense of the effort. Shall no attempts, commensurate with the wants
of this great industry, be made to obtain adequate supplies of cotton,
and at the same time to benefit the dependencies and colonies of Great
Britain ? No charity can compensate for the losses now sustained, and
effectual relief can only proceed from an abundant supply of good and
    A cotton.
cheap   moral truth has now been taught the world, that slavery and
tyranny shall not permanently yield prosperity, and the wrongs of the
oppressed, crying for justice, indicate that retribution is the corrective
of iniquity. Experience and the physical construction of the earth
both tell us that without adequate exertions there can be no beneficial
results ; and consequently, in this great country, when dangers are
threatening extinction to any portion of the community, efforts must be
called forth to sustain the social and industrial fabric, to contribute to
the means of labour, to promote commerce, to extend civilization,
and still to raise our national aims in the cause of humanity and of
universal justice, that should prosperity again shine upon our country,
there may be in our distant intercourse and relations, no leading into
captivity, and at home no complaining in our streets.
                                                                 [T. B.]

526                         General Monthly Meeting.                    [June 2,
wereThe
The    elected
      Rev.   John
           Managers
                 Members
                 GENERAL
                   Mrs.
                   Major
                   The
                    Bari.ow,
                       reported,
                           Henry
                            Roger
                             Monday,
                             of W.
                          Rev.   the
                                 M.A.
                                   Bischofsheim.
                                   That
                                   MONTHLY
                                    North.
                                     R.Royal
                                         June
                                         Tilson
                                         F.R.S.
                                          in pursuance
                                              Institution.
                                               2,Marsh,
                                                   1862.
                                                  Vice-President,
                                                     MEETING,
                                                         of
                                                          M.A.
                                                            the Deed  theEndow
                                                                andin of  Chair.
ment, they had appointed John Marshall, Esq. F.R.S. to be
    The cordial
Fullerian           thanks
            Professor         of the Members were returned to Sir Henry
                         of Physiology.
Holland, Bart., for a Present of Forty Pounds, being his fourth
Annual Gift to the Institution for the purchase of Philosophical Appa
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
ratus.
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.
  FromSociety of Bengal—Journal, No. 283. 8vo. 1862.
Asiatic
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, April 1S62. 8vo.
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 61. 8vo. 1862.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, May 1862. 8vo.
Editors—Artizan for May 1 862. 4to.
  Athenaeum for May 1862. 4to.
  Chemical News for May 1862. 4to.
  Engineer for May 1862. fol.
  Journal of Gas-Lighting for May 1862. 4to.
  Mechanics' Magazine for May 1862. 8vo.
  Medical Circular for May 1862. 8vo.
  Practical Mechanics' Journal for May 1862. 4to.
  St. James's Medley for May 1 862. 8vo.
  Technologist for May 1862. 8vo.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L. F.S.S. M.R.I. — Kais. Akademie der Wissenschaf-
     ten, Wien: Math. Nat. Classe : Denkschriften. Band XX. 4to. 1862. Sitzung-
     berichte. 1862. 8vo.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XLIV. No. 5. 8vo. 1862.
Geological Institute. Imperial,-Vienna— M. Hornes, Fossilen Mollusken des Tertiser-
     beckens von Wien. 4to. 1862.
Geological Society—Journal, No. 70. 8vo. 1862.
     Transaction^, Vol. VII. Nos. 1, 3, 4. 4to. 1845-56.
Guerin- Mdneville, M. F. (the Author)—Rapports, &c., sur les Vers a Soie de
     l-Ailante, &c. 8vo. 1860-2.

 1862.]                       Professor Tyndall on Force.                                527
 Horticultural
 Liharzik,
 Hill,  Sir Rowland,
            M. Society,
      Vienna.    F.
                 4to.P. K.C.B.—Eighth
                         (the
                         1862.
                          Royal—Proceedings,
                              Author)—TheReport   of the
                                            Law1862.  Increase
                                                          No.
                                                           Postmaster-General.
                                                               5.and8vo.
                                                                      the Structure8vo. Man.
                                                                                     of 1862.
 Linnean Society—Journal of Proceedings, No. 23. 8vo. 1862.
 Mackie, S. J. Esq. FG.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist for May 1862. 8vo.
 Moigno, Abbe (the Editor)—Annnaire du Cosmos. 4e Annee. 16to. 1862.
 Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series) for May 1862. 8vo.
 Perigal, II. Esq.—Ninth and Tenth Reports of the British Meteorogical Society,
      1859, 1860.
 Petermann,   A. Esq. 8vo.(the Editor)—Mittheilungen aus dem Gesammtgebiete der
      Geographic 1862. No. 4. 4to.
 PhotographicMr.
Richardson,     Society
                    J. (the
                         — Journal,
                            Author) —Studies   8vo. the1861.
                                    No. 121. from          Antique. (K 88) 8vo. 1862.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXV. Part 2. 8vo. 1862.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 20 ; and Proceedings of Annual
      Meeting
      Drawing
 Smily,  W. R. byEsq.
                  8vo.
                     Commissary
                           1862. Ibbotson,
                        M.R.I.—View          in 1823. Tomb at St. Helena, from a
                                        of Bonaparte's
                       M. F.—Specimens
 Guerin-Me"nevillc,WEEKLY       Friday,
                                     EVENING
                                          June
                                          of the A6,ilaute
                                                        MEETING,
                                                       1862.Silkworm and its Products.
       The Duke of Northumberland. K.G. F.R.S. President,
                                     in the Chair.
                            John Tyndall,         Esq. F.R.S.
                     FROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, ROYAL INSTITUTION.
                                        On Force,
The existence of the International Exhibition suggested to our Hono
rary Secretary the idea of devoting the Friday evenings after Easter of
the present year to discourses on the various agencies on which the
material strength of England is based. He wished to make iron, coal,
cotton, and kindred matters, the subjects of these discourses ; opening
the series by a discourse on the Great Exhibition itself ; and he
wished me to finish the series by a discourse on " Force " ia general.
For some months I thought over the subject at intervals, and had
devised a plan of dealing with it ; but three weeks ago I was induced
to swerve from this plan, for reasons which shall be made known
     We all
towards         conclusion
           the have            of theordiscourse.
                       ideas more        less distinct regarding force ; we know

528                            Professor Tyndull                         [June 6,
in a general way what muscular force means, and each of us would
less willingly accept a blow from a pugilist than have his ears boxed
by a lady. But these general ideas are not now sufficient for us ; we
must learn how to express numerically the exact mechanical value of
the A two  blowsof; lead
         sphere     this is
                         weighing
                            the first 1point
                                        lb. was  suspended
                                              to be         up.a height of 16 feet
                                                    cleared at
above the theatre floor. It was liberated, aud fell by gravity. That
weight required exactly a second to fall to the earth from that elevation ;
and the instant before it touched the earth, it had a velocity of 32 feet
a second. That is to say, if at that instant the earth were annihilated,
and its attraction annulled, the weight would proceed through space at
      uniform velocity
 the Suppose              of 32 of
                that instead           a second.
                                 feetbeing   pulled downward by gravity, the
 weight is cast upward in opposition to the force of gravity, with what
 velocity must it start from the earth's surface in order to reach a height
 of 16 feet ? With a velocity of 32 feet a second. This velocity im
 parted to the weight by the human arm, or by any other mechanical
 means, would carry the weight up to the precise height from which it
      fallen.the lifting of the weight may be regarded as so much me
 has Now
 chanical work. I might place a ladder against the wall, and carry the
 weight up a height of 16 feet; or I might draw it up to this height
 by means of a string and pulley, or I might suddenly jerk it up to a
 height of 16 feet. The amount of work done in all these cases, as far
 as the raising of the Weight is concerned, would be absolutely the
 same. The absolute amount of work done depends solely upon two
 things : first of all, on the quantity of matter that is lifted ; and secondly,
 on the height to which it is lifted. If you call the quantity or mass
 of matter m, and the height through which it is lifted h, then the pro
        of m into now,
 ductSupposing,            mh, instead
                    A, or that expressesofthe imparting
                                                 amount of  work done.
                                                         a velocity  of 32 feet a
 second to the weight we impart twice this speed, or 64 feet a second.
  To what height will the weight rise ? You might be disposed to
 answer, " To twice the height ; " but this would be quite incorrect.
 Both theory and experiment inform us that the weight would rise to
 four times the height : instead of twice 16, or 32 feet, it would reach
 four times 16, or 64 feet. So also, if we treble the starting velocity, the
  weight would reach nine times the height; if we quadruple the speed at
  starting, we attain sixteen times the height. Thus, with a velocity of
  128 feet a second at starting, the weight would attain an elevation of
  256 feet. Supposing we augment the velocity of starting seven times,
 we should raise the weight to 49 times the height, or to an elevation
      Nowfe%t.
  of 784     the work done—or, as it is sometimes called, the mechanical
  effect—as before explained, is proportional to the height, and as a
  double velocity gives four times the height, a treble velocity nine
  times the height, and so on, it is perfectly plain that the mechanical
  effect increases as the square of the velocity. If the mats of the body

  1862.]                                on For ce.                              529
 be represented by the letter m, and its velocity by v, then the mechani
  cal effect would be represented by m v%. In the case considered, I
  have supposed the weight to be cast upward, being opposed in its
  upward flight by the resistance of gravity ; but the same holds true if
  I send the projectile into water, mud, earth, timber, or other resisting
  material. If, for example, you double the velocity of a cannon-ball,
  you quadruple its mechanical effect. Hence the importance of aug
  menting the velocity of a projectile, and hence the philosophy of
  Sir William Armstrong in using a 501b. charge of powder in his
       Thestriking
  recent      measure    then of mechanical effect is the mass of the body
                     experiments.
        Now in by
  multiplied        the asquare
                 firing          of its velocity.
                           ball against  a target the projectile, after collision, is
  often found hissing hot. Mr. Fairbairn informs me that in the experi
  ments at Shoeburyness it is a common thing to see a flash of light, even
  in broad day, when the ball strikes the target. And if I examine my
   lead weight after it has fallen from a height I also find it heated. Now
   here experiment and reasoning lead us to the remarkable law that
   the amount of heat generated, like the mechanical effect, is pro
   portional to the product of the mass into the square of the velocity.
   Double your mass, other things being equal, and you double your
   amount of heat ; double your velocity, other things remaining equal,
   and you quadruple your amount of heat. Here then we have common
   mechanical motion destroyed and heat produced. I take this violin
   bow and draw it across this string. You hear the sound. That sound
   is due to motion imparted to the air, and to produce that motion a cer
   tain portion of the muscular force of my arm must be expended. We
   may here correctly say, that the mechanical force of my arm is converted
   into music. And in a similar way we say that the impeded motion of our
   descending weight, or of the arrested cannon-ball, is converted into heat..
   The mode of motion changes, but it still continues motion ; the motion
   of the mass is converted into a motion of the atoms of the mass ; and
   these small motions, communicated to the nerves, produce the sensation
   which we call heat. We, moreover, know the amount of heat which a
   given amount of mechanical force can develope. Our lead ball, for
   example, in falling to the earth generated a quantity of heat sufficient
   to raise the temperature of its own mass three-fifths of a Fahrenheit
   degree. It reached the earth with a velocity of 32 feet a second, and
   forty times this velocity would be a small one for a rifle bullet ; multi
   plying -Jths by the square of 40, we find that the amount of heat de
   veloped by collision with the target would, if wholly concentrated in
   the lead, raise its temperature 960 degrees. This would be more than
    sufficient to fuse the lead. In reality, however, the heat developed is
    divided between the lead and the body against which it strikes ; never
    theless, it would be worth while to pay attention to this point and to
   ascertain whether rifle bullets do not, under some circumstances, show
          of fusion.
. signsFrom     the motion of sensible masses, by gravity and other means,

530                          Professor Tyndall                   [June 6,
the speaker passed to the motion of atoms towards each other by chemical
affinity. A collodion balloon filled with a mixture of chlorine and
hydrogen was hung in the focus of a parabolic mirror, and in the focus
of a second mirror 20 ft. distant a strong electric light was suddenly
generated ; the instant the light fell upon the balloon, the atoms within
it fell together with explosion, and hydro-chloric acid was the result.
The burning of charcoal in oxygen was an old experiment, but it had
now a significance beyond what it used to have ; we now regard the act
of combination on the part of the atoms of oxygen and coal exactly as
we regard the clashing of a falling weight against the earth. And the
heat produced in both cases is referable to a common cause. This glow
ing diamond, which burns in oxygen as a star of white light, glows and
burns in consequence of the falling of the atoms of oxygen against it.
And could we measure the velocity of the atoms when they clash, and
could we find their number and weight, multiplying the mass of each
atom by the square of its velocity, and adding all together, we should
get a number representing the exact amount of heat developed by the
union   of the
     Thus       we have
            faroxygen      carbon. the heat developed by the clashing of
                      andregarded
sensible masses and of atoms. Work is expended in giving motion to
these atoms or masses, and heat is developed. But we reverse this
process daily, and by the expenditure of heat execute work. We can
raise a weight by heat ; and in this agent we possess an enormous store
of mechanical power. This pound of coal, which I hold in my hand,
produces by its combination with oxygen an amount of heat which,
if mechanically applied, would suffice to raise a weight of 100 lbs. to
a height of 20 miles above the earth's surface. Conversely, 100 lbs.
falling from a height of 20 miles, and striking against the earth, would
generate an amount of heat equal to that developed by the combustion
of a pound of coal. Wherever work is done by heat, heat disappears.
A gun which fires a ball is less heated than one which fires blank
cartridge. The quantity of heat communicated to the boiler of a
working steam-engine is greater than that which could be obtained from
the re-condensation of the steam after it had done its work ; and the
amount of work performed is the exact equivalent of the amount of
heat lost. Mr. Smyth informed us in his interesting discourse, that we
dig annually 84 millions of tons of coal from our pits. The amount of
mechanical force represented by this quantity of coal seems perfectly
fabulous. The combustion of a single pound of coal, supposing it to
take place in a minute, would be equivalent to the work of 300
horses ; and if we suppose 108 millions of horses working day and
night with unimpaired strength, for a year, their united energies would
enable them to perform an amount of work just equivalent to that
 which the annual produce of our coal-fields would be able to accom
     Comparing the energy of the force with which oxygen and carbon
plish.
unite together, with ordinary gravity the chemical affinity seems almost
infinite. But let us give gravity fair play; let us permit it to act

 1862.]                             on Force.                           531
throughout its entire range. Place a body at such a distance from the
earth that the attraction of the earth is barely sensible, and let it fall
to the earth from this distance. It would reach the earth with a final
velocity of 36,747 feet in a second ; and on collision with the earth the
body would generate about twice the amount of heat generated by the
combustion of an equal weight of coal. We have stated that by falling
through a space of 16 feet our lead bullet would be heated three-fifths
of a degree ; but a body falling from an infinite distance has already
used up 1,299,999 parts out of 1.300,000 of the earth's pulling power,
when it has arrived within 16 feet of the surface ; on this space only
      Let us now
 1-3-3^-(youths     turnwhole
                of tne        force is exerted.
                         our thoughts   for a moment from the earth towards
the sun. The researches of Sir John Herschel and M. Pouillet have
informed us of the annual expenditure of the sun as regards heat ; and
by an easy calculation we ascertain the precise amount of the expendi
ture which falls to the share of our planet. Out of 2300 million parts
of light and heat the earth receives one. The whole heat emitted by
the sun in a minute would be competent to boil 12,000 millions of cubic
miles of ice-cold water. How is this enormous loss made good ?
Whence is the sun's heat derived, and by what means is it maintained ?
No combustion, no chemical affinity with which we are acquainted
would be competent to produce the temperature of the sun's surface.
Besides, were the sun a burning body merely, its light and heat would
assuredly speedily come to an end. Supposing it to be a solid globe of
coal, its combustion would only cover 4600 years of expenditure. In
this short time it would burn itself out. What agency then can pro
duce the temperature and maintain the outlay ? We have already re
garded the case of a body falling from a great distance towards the
earth, and found that the heat generated by its collision would be twice
that produced by the combustion of an equal weight of coal. How much
greater must be the heat developed by a body falling towards the sun !
The maximum velocity with which a body can strike the earth is about
7 miles in a second ; the maximum velocity with which it can strike
the sun is 390 miles in a second. And as the heat developed by the
collision is proportional to the square of the velocity destroyed, an
asteroid falling into the sun with the above velocity would generate
about 10,000 times the quantity of heat generated by the combustion of
an asteroid of coal of the same weight. Have we any reason to believe
that such bodies exist in space, and that they may be raining down upon
the sun ? The meteorites flashing through the air are small planetary
bodies, drawn by the earth's attraction, and entering our atmosphere
with planetary velocity. By friction against the air they are raised
to incondescence and caused to emit light and heat. At certain seasons
of the year they shower down upon us in great numbers. In Boston
240,000 of them were observed in nine hours. There is no reason to
suppose that the planetary system is limited to " vast masses of
enormous weight ; " there is every reason to believe that space is
stocked with smaller masses, which obey the same laws as the large

  532                          Professor Tyndall                   [June 6,
  ones. That lenticular envelope which surrounds the sun, and which
  is known to astronomers as the Zodiacal light, is probably a crowd
  of meteors ; and moving as they do in a resisting medium they must
  continually approach the sun. Falling into it, they would be com
  petent to produce the heat observed, and this would constitute a
  source from which the annual loss of heat would be made good-.
  The sun, according to this hypothesis, would be continually growing
  larger ; but how much larger? Were our moon to fall into the sun it
  would develope an amount of heat sufficient to cover one or two years'
  loss; and were our earth to fall into the sun a century's loss would be
  made good. Still, our moon and our earth, if distributed over the sur
  face of the sun, would utterly vanish from perception. Indeed, the
  quantity of matter competent to produce the necessary effect would,
  during the range of history, produce no appreciable augmentation in
  the sun's magnitude. The augmentation of the sun's attractive force
  would be more appreciable. However this hypothesis may fare as a
  representant of what is going on in nature, it certainly shows how a
  sun might be formed and maintained by the application of known
       Our earth moves
  thermo-dynamic          in its orbit with a velocity of 68,040 miles an
                    principles.
  hour. Were this motion stopped, an amount of heat would be de
  veloped sufficient to raise the temperature of a globe of lead of the
  same size as the earth 384,000 degrees of the centigrade thermometer.
  It has been prophesied that " the elements shall melt with fervent
  heat." The earth's own motion embraces the conditions of fulfilment ;
  stop that motion, and the greater part, if not the whole, of her mass
  would be reduced to vapour. If the earth fell into the sun, the amount
  of heat developed by the shock would be equal to that developed by
       combustion
  theThere         of 6435consideration
            is one other                 connected
                            earths of solid coal. with the permanence of
  our present terrestrial conditions, which is well worthy of our attention.
  Standing upon one of the London bridges, we observe the current of
  the Thames reversed, and the water poured upward twice a-day. The
  water thus moved rubs against the river's bed and sides, and heat is the
  consequence of this friction. The heat thus generated is in part radi-
. ated into space, and then lost, as far as the earth is concerned. What
  is it that supplies this incessant loss? The earth's rotation. Let us
  look a little more closely at the matter. Imagine the moon fixed, and
  the earth turning like a wheel from west to east in its diurnal rotation.
  Suppose a high mountain on the earth's surface ; on approaching the
  moon's meridian, that mountain is, as it were, laid hold of by the moon,
  and forms a kind of handle by which the earth is pulled more quickly
  round. But when the meridian is passed the pull of the moon on the
  mountain would be in the opposite direction, it now tends to diminish
  the velocity of rotation as much as it previously augmented it ; and thus
  the action of all fixed bodies on the earth's surface is neutralized.
  But suppose the mountain to lie always to the east of the moon's
  meridian, the pull then would be always exerted against the earth's

 1862.]                          on Force.                              533
 rotation, the velocity of which would be diminished in a degree corre
 sponding to the strength of the pull. The tidal wave occupies this
position—it lies always to the east of the moon's meridian, and thus the
 waters of the ocean are in part dragged as a brake along the surface of
 the earth ; and as a brake they must diminish the velocity of the earth's
 rotation. The diminution, though inevitable, is, however, too small to
 make itself felt within the period over which observations on the subject
 extend. Supposing then that we turn a mill by the action of the tide,
and produce heat by the friction of the millstones; that heat has an
origin totally different from the heat produced by another mill which
 is turned by a mountain stream. The former is produced at the
expense of the earth's rotation, the latter at the expense of the sun's
     The sun, by the act of vaporization, lifts mechanically all the
radiation.
 moisture of our air. It condenses and falls in the form of rain,—it
freezes and falls as snow. In this solid form it is piled upon the
Alpine heights, and furnishes materials for the glaciers of the Alps.
 But the sun again interposes, liberates the solidified liquid, and permits
it to roll by gravity to the sea. The mechanical force of every river
in the world as it rolls towards the ocean, is drawn from the heat of
 the sun. No streamlet glides to a lower level without having been
first lifted to the elevation from which it springs by the mighty
 power of the sun. The energy of winds is also due entirely to the
 sun ; but there is still another work which he performs, and his
connection with which is not so obvious. Trees and vegetables grow
upon the earth, and when burned they give rise to heat, and hence to
mechanical energy. Whence is this power derived? You see this
oxide of iron, produced by the falling together of the atoms of iron
and oxygen ; here also is a transparent gas which you cannot now see—
carbonic acid gas—which is formed by the falling together of carbon
and oxygen. These atoms thus in close union resemble our lead weight
while resting on the earth ; but I can wind up the weight and prepare
it for another fall, and so these atoms can be wound up, separated
from each other, and thus enabled to repeat the process of combination.
In the building of plants carbonic acid is the material from which
the carbon of the plant is derived ; and the solar beam is the agent which
tears the atoms asunder, setting the oxygen free, and allowing the carbon
to aggregate in woody fibre. Let the solar rays fall upon a surface
of sand ; the sand is heated, and finally radiates away as much heat
as it receives ; let the same beams fall upon a forest, the quantity of
heat given back is less than the forest receives, for the energy of a
portion of the sunbeams is invested in building up the trees in the
manner indicated. Without the sun the reduction of the carbonic acid
cannot be effected, and an amount of sunlight is consumed exactly
equivalent to the molecular work done. Thus trees are formed ; thus
the cotton on which Mr. Bazley discoursed last Friday is formed. I
ignite this cotton, and it flames ; the oxygen again unites with its
beloved carbon ; but an amount of heat equal to that which you see

534                          Professor Tyndall                     [June 6,
produced by its combustion was sacrificed by the sun to form that
     Butcotton.
bit of     we cannot stop at vegetable life, for this is the source,
mediate or immediate, of all animal life. The sun severs the carbon
from its oxygen ; the animal consumes the vegetable thus formed, and
in its arteries a reunion of the severed elements take place, and produce
animal heat. Thus, strictly speaking, the process of building a vege
table is one of winding up ; the process of building an animal is one of
running down. The warmth of our bodies, and every mechanical
energy which we exert, trace their lineage directly to the sun. The
fight of a pair of pugilists, the motion of an army, or the lifting of his
own body up mountain slopes by an Alpine climber, are all cases of
mechanical energy drawn from the sun. Not, therefore, in a poetical,
but in a purely mechanical sense, are we children of the sun. With
out food we should soon oxidize our own bodies. A man weighing
 1 50 lbs. has 64 lbs. of muscle ; but these, when dried, reduce themselves
to 15 lbs. Doing an ordinary day's work, for 80 days, this mass of
muscle would be wholly oxidized. Special organs which do more work
would be more quickly oxidized : the heart, for example, if entirely
unsustained, would be oxidized in about a week. Take the amount of
heat due to the direct oxidation of a given amount of food ; a less
amount of heat is developed by this food in the working animal frame,
and the missing quantity is the exact equivalent of the mechanical work
which    the body
     I might       accomplishes.
               extend  these considerations ; the work, indeed, is done to
my hand—but I am warned that I have kept you already too long.
To whom then are we indebted for the striking generalizations of this
evening's discourse ? All that I have laid before you is the work of a
man of whom you have scarcely ever heard. All that I have brought
before you has been taken from the labours of a German physician,
named Mayer. Without external stimulus, and pursuing his profession
as town physician in Heilbronn, this man was the first to raise the
conception of the interaction of natural forces to clearness in his own
mind. And yet he is scarcely ever heard of in scientific lectures, and
even to scientific men his merits are but partially known. Led by his
own beautiful researches, and quite independent of Mayer, Mr. Joule
published his first Paper on the 'Mechanical Value of Heat,' in 1843 ;
but in 1842 Mayer had actually calculated the mechanical equivalent
of heat from data which a man of rare originality alone could turn to
account. From the velocity of sound in air Mayer determined the me
chanical equivalent of heat. In 1845 he published his Memoir on
' Organic Motion,' and applied the mechanical theory of heat in the
most fearless and precise manner to vital processes. He also embraced
the other natural agents in his chain of conservation. In 1853 Mr.
Waterston proposed, independently, the meteoric theory of the sun's
heat, and in 1854 Professor William Thomson applied his admirable
mathematical powers to the development of the theory ; but six years
previously the subject had been handled in a masterly manner by Mayer,

1862.]               Professor Tyndall on Force.                       535
and all that I have said on this subject has been derived from him.
When we consider the circumstances of Mayer's life, and the period at
which he wrote, we cannot fail to be struck with astonishment at what
he has accomplished. Here was a man of genius working in silence,
animated solely by a love of his subject, and arriving at the most im
portant results, some time in advance of those whose lives were entirely
devoted to Natural Philosophy. It was the accident of bleeding a
feverish patient at Java in 1840 that led Mayer to speculate on these
subjects. He noticed that the venous blood in the tropics was of a
much brighter red than in colder latitudes, and his reasoning on this
fact led him into the laboratory of natural forces, where he has worked
with such signal ability and success. Well, you will desire to know what
has become of this man. His mind gave way ; he became insane, and
he was sent to a lunatic asylum. In a biographical dictionary of his
country it is stated that he died there : but this is incorrect. He re
covered ; and, I believe, is at this moment a cultivator of vineyards in
    While preparing for publication my last courseJune
Heilbronn.                                                    20th, 1862.on
                                                          of lectures
Heat, I wished to make myself acquainted with all that Mayer had
done in connection with this subject. I accordingly wrote to two gen
tlemen who above all others seemed likely to give me the information
which I needed. Both of them are Germans, and both particularly
distinguished in connection with the Dynamical Theory of Heat. Each
of them kindly furnished me with the list of Mayer's publications, and
one of them was sd friendly as to order them from a bookseller, and to
send them to me. This friend, in his reply to my first letter regarding
Mayer, stated his belief that I should not find anything very important
in Mayer's writings ; but before forwarding the memoirs to me he read
them himself. His letter accompanying the first of these papers, con
tains the following words : — " I must here retract the statement in my
last letter, that you would not find much matter of importance in
Mayer's writings: I am astonished at the multitude of beautiful and
correct thoughts which they contain ;" and he goes on to point out
various important subjects, in the treatment of which Mayer had an
ticipated other eminent writers. My second friend, in whose own
publications the name of Mayer repeatedly occurs, and whose papers
containing these references were translated some years ago by myself,
was, on the 10th of last month, unacquainted with the thoughtful and
beautiful essay of Mayer's, entitled "Beitriige zur Dynamik des Him-
mels ;" and in 1854, when Professor William Thomson developed in
so striking a maimer the meteoric theory of the sun's heat, he was cer
tainly not aware of the existence of that essay, though from a recent
article in ' Macmillan's Magazine ' I infer that he is now aware of it.
Mayer's physiological writings have been referred to by physiologists
—by Dr. Carpenter, for example— in terms of honourable recognition.
We have hitherto, indeed, obtained fragmentary glimpses of the man,

536                         Professor Faraday                          [June, 20,
partly from physicists and partly from physiologists ; but his total
merit has never yet been recognized as it assuredly would have been
had he chosen a happier mode of publication. I do not think a greater
disservice could be done to a man of science, than to overstate his
claims : such overstatement is sure to recoil to the disadvantage of
him in whose interest it is made. But when Mayer's opportunities,
achievements, and fate are taken into account, I do not think that I
shall be deeply blamed for attempting to place him in that honourable
    Here, which
position,        I believe
          however,             be his
                    are thetotitles     Mayer's papers, the perusal of which
                                     of due.
will correct any error of judgment into which I may have fallen
regarding their author. " Bemerkungen fiber, die Kriifte der unbelebten
Natur," Liebig's Annalen, 1842, Vol. 42, p. 231 ; "Die Organische
Bewegung in ihrem Zusaiumenhange mit dem Stoff-wechsel ;" Heil-
bronn, 1845 ; " BeitriLge zur Dynamik des Himmels," Heilbronn, 1848 ;
" Bemerkungen iiber das Mechanische Equivalent der Warme," Heil
bronn, 1851. WEEKLY            EVENING
                          Friday,                MEETING, [J. T.]
                                     June 13, 1862.
     The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
 Major-Gen.     Sir Henry[Abstract
           On Cuneiform      Writing,
                               C. Rawlinson,
                                        Deferred.]
                                         and the WayK.C.B.      D.C.L.
                                                            to Head it. F.R.S.
                 of Northumberland,
    The DukeAVEEKLY           EVENING
                         Friday,               K.G.
                                                 MEETING,
                                    June 20, 1862.      F.R.S. President,
             M. Faraday, in        the DChair.
                                Esq.      C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
                     FULLERIAN PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY, R.I.
                          On Gas-Furnaces, &jc.
The subject of the evening was gas-glass furnaces, and having arisen
almost extemporaneously, it resolved itself chiefly into an account of the
manner in which Mr. Siemens has largely and practically applied gas,

   1862.]                   on Gas-Furnaces, 8ft:                       537
  combined with the use of his heat regenerator, to the ignition of all
  kinds of great furnaces. Gas has been used to supply heat, even upon
  a very large scale, in some of the iron blast furnaces, and heat which
  has done work once has been carried back in part to the place from
  whence it came to repeat its service ; but Mr. Siemens has combined
  these two points, and successfully applied them in a great variety of
  cases—as the potter's kiln—the enameller's furnace — the zinc-distilling
  furnace—the tube-welding furnace—the metal-melting furnace—the
  iron-puddling furnace—and the glass furnace, either for covered or open
 pots—so as to obtain the highest heat required over any extent of space,
 with great facility of management, and with great economy (one half)
 of fuel. The glass furnace described had an area of 28 feet long and
 14 feet wide, and contained eight open pots each holding nearly two
       of material.
 tonsThe   gaseous fuel is obtained by the mutual action of coal, air, and
 water at a moderate red heat. A brick chamber, perhaps 6 feet by 1 2
 and about 10 feet high, has one of its end walls converted into a fire
 grate, i.e. about halfway down it is a solid plate, -and for the rest of
 the distance consists of strong horizontal plate bars where air enters ;
 the whole being at an inclination such as that which the side of a heap
 of coals would naturally take. Coals are poured, through openings
 above, upon this combination of wall and grate, and being fired at the
 under-surface, they burn at the place where the air enters ; but as the
 layer of coal is from 2 to 3 feet thick, various operations go on in those
 parts of the fuel which cannot burn for want of air. Thus the upper
and cooler part of the coal produces a larger body of hydro-carbons ;
 the cinders or coke which are not volatilized, approach, in descending,
 towards the grate ; that part which is nearest the grate burns with the
entering air into carbonic acid, and the heat evolved ignites the mass
above it; the carbonic acid, passing slowly through the ignited carbon,
becomes converted into carbonic oxide, and mingles in the upper part
of the chamber (or gas-producer) with the former hydro-carbons. The
water, which is purposely introduced at the bottom of the arrangement,
is first vaporized by the heat, and then decomposed by the ignited fuel
and rearranged as hydrogen and carbonic oxide ; and only the ashes of
the coal are removed as solid matter from the chamber at the bottom of
     fire-bars.
the These    mixed gases form the gaseous fuel. The nitrogen which
entered with the air at the grate is mingled with them, constituting
about a third of the whole volume. The gas rises up a large vertical
tube for 12 or 15 feet, after which it proceeds horizontally for any re
quired distance, and then descends to the heat-regenerator, through
which it passes before it enters the furnaces. A regenerator is a
chamber packed with fire-bricks, separated so as to allow of the free
passage of air or gas between them. There are four placed under a
furnace. The gas ascends through one of these chambers, whilst air
ascends through the neighbouring chamber, and both are conducted
through passage outlets at one end of the furnace, where mingling they
    Vol. III. (No. 36.)                                        2o

538                             Professor Faraday                  [June 20,
burn, producing the heat due to their chemical action. Passing onwards
to the other end of the furnace, they (i.e. the combined gases) find
precisely similar outlets down which they pass ; and traversing the two
remaining regenerators from above downwards, heat them intensely,
especially the upper part, and so travel on in their cooled state to the
shaft or chimney. Now the passages between the four regenerators
and the gas and air are supplied with valves and deflecting plates, some
of which are like four way-cocks in their action ; so that by the use of
a lever these regenerators and air-ways, which were carrying off the
expended fuel, can in a moment be used for conducting air and gas into
the furnace ; and those which just before had served to carry air and gas
into the furnace now take the burnt fuel away to the stack. It is to be
observed, that the intensely heated flame which leaves the furnace for
the stack always proceeds downwards through the regenerators, so that
the upper part of them is most intensely ignited, keeping back, as it
does, the intense heat : and so effectual are they in this action, that the
gas which enters the stack to be cast into the air is not usually above
300°F. of heat. On the other hand, the entering gas and air always
passes upwards through the regenerator, so that they attain a tempera
ture equal to white heat before they meet in the furnace, and there add
to the carried heat that due to their mutual chemical action. It is con
sidered that when the furnace is in full order, the heat carried forward
to be evolved by the chemical action of combustion is about 4000°,
whilst that carried back by the regenerators is about 3000°, making an
intensity of power which, unless moderated on purpose, would fuze
     Thusandtheallregenerators
furnace                                alternately heated and cooled by the
                   exposed to itsareaction.
outgoing and entering gas and air, and the time for the alternation is
from half an hour to an hour, as observation may indicate. The
motive power on the gas is of two kinds—a slight excess of pressure
 within is kept up from the gas-producer to the bottom of the rege
nerator to prevent air entering and mingling with the fuel before it is
burnt ; but from the furnace, downwards through the regenerators,
the advance of the heated medium is governed mainly by the draught
     Great
in the       facilityor ischimney.
        tall stack,         afforded in the management of these furnaces.
If, whilst glass is in the course of manufacture, an intense heat is
required, an abundant supply of gas and air is given ; when the glass
is made, and the condition has to be reduced to working temperature,
 the quantity of fuel and air is reduced. If the combustion in the fur
 nace is required to be gradual from end to end, the inlets of air and
gas are placed more or less apart the one from the other. The gas is
lighter than the air ; and if a rapid evolution of heat is required as in a
short puddling furnace, the mouth of the gas inlet is placed below that
of the air inlet ; if the reverse is required, as in the long tube-welding
 furnace, the contrary arrangement is used. Sometimes, as in the
 enameller's furnace, which is a long muffle, it is requisite that the heat
 be greater at the door end of the muffle and furnace, because the

1862.]                        on Gas- Furnaces, tyc.                            539
goods, being put in and taken out at the same end, those which
enter last and are withdrawn first, remain, of course, for a shorter time
in the heat at that end ; and though the fuel and air enters first at one
end and then at the other, alternately, still the necessary difference oftem
     Not merely
perature            can the
           is preserved    by the
                               supply
                                   adjustment
                                         of gas of         to the furnace
                                                andtheairapertures           ends.
                                                                   at those be  go
verned by valves in the passages, but the very manufacture of the
gas fuel itself can be diminished, or even stopped, by cutting off the
supply of air to the grate of the gas-producer ; and this is important,
inasmuch as there is no gasometer to receive and preserve the aeriform
       for itofproceeds
fuel,Some                at once
                the furnaces   have   the furnaces.
                                   to their contents open to the fuel and com
bustion, as in the puddling and metal-melting arrangements; others are
enclosed, as in the muffle furnaces and the flint-glass furnaces. Because
of the great cleanliness of the fuel, some of the glass furnaces, which
before had closed pots, now have them open, with great advantage to
     working
the The         and noin detriment
          economy                        the colour.practically as one-half, even
                          the fuel isto esteemed
when the same kind of coal is used either directly for the furnace or
for the gas-producer ; but, as in the latter case, the most worthless
kind can be employed—such as slack, &c., which can be converted
into a clean gaseous fuel at a distance from the place of the furnace,
so, many advantages seem to present themselves in this part of the
    It will be seen that the system depends, in a great measure, upon
arrangement.
the intermediate production of carbonic oxide from coal, instead of the
direct production of carbonic acid. Now, carbonic oxide is poisonous,
and, indeed, both these gase3 are very deleterious. Carbonic acid
must at last go into the atmosphere ; but the carbonic oxide ceases to
exist at the furnace, its time is short, and whilst existing it is confined
on its way from the gas-producer to the furnace, where it becomes
carbonic acid. No signs of harm from it have occurred, although its
    The following
application    has been
                      aremade
                            someinnumbers
                                    thirty furnaces
                                             that were    used to convey general
                                                      or more.
impressions to the audience. Carbon burnt perfectly into carbonic
acid in a gas-producer would evolve about 4000° of heat ; but, if burnt
into carbonic oxide, it would evolve only 1200°. The carbonic oxide,
in its fuel form, carries on with it the 2800° in chemical force, which
it evolves when burning in the real furnace with a sufficient supply of
air. The remaining 1200° are employed in the gas-producer in dis
tilling hydro-carbons, decomposing water, &c. The whole mixed
gaseous fuel can evolve about 4000° in the furnace, to which the
regenerator can return about 3000' more.
                                                                    [M. F.]

540                             General Monthly Meeting.                                    [July 7,
  William Pole,     GENERAL   William
                           Esq.      M.A.
                                   Monday,MONTHLY
                                           inRadford,
                                                F.R.S.
                                                 the
                                                   July
                                                      Chair.7,
                                                            M.D. 1862.
                                                                   MEETING,
                                                            Treasurer and and Vice-President,
wereThe     Special
       elected          Thanks
                   Members    William
                                   ofofthethe  Royal
                                                  Members
                                             Ranger,       Esq. wereC.E. returned to Warren
                                                           Institution.
     also
     la toRue,
DeApparatus    for Pneumatic
              the   showing
                   Esq.    F.R.S.
                               theBell
                                     total
                                        Experiments.
                                       M.R.I,Eclipseforofthe     Sun with Clock-work
                                                            thefollowing      Presents: , adapted
  Apparatus used in Photographing the Sun.
  Mount for holding Photographs for the Electric Lantern.
  Apparatus for throwing Reflected Images on the Screen.
  A The
  The   same
     Screen   for
           Presents
               forthe
                    theElectric
                        Corona.
                           receivedLamp,since        the6ft.last
                                             12 ft. by               Meeting were laid on the
                                                               in size.
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same : viz.—
  From for War (through Sir H. James, the Editor)—Abstracts of the Meteoro
Secretary
     logical Observations taken at the Stations of the Royal Engineers, 1853-9.
     4to.Museum,
British     1862. Trustees—Description of Ancient Marbles. By S. Birch. With
     Engravings. Part XI. 4to. 1861.
  Select Papyri.
  Catalogue             BirdsII.of Plates
                of thePart                    1-19. Islands
                                     the Tropical                of the Pacific. By G. R. Gray.
                                                        fol. 1860.
     8vo. 1859.
  Catalogue     of Acanthopterygian Fishes. By A. Giinther.                      Vols. I.-III. 8vo.
  Catalogue
  Description
  Guide
  List
  Specimen
     1859-61.
       of to
           to
          Lepidoptera.
           British
              Exhibition-rooms
              of
               Drawings
               Printed
               Autograph
                ofof
                  aHalticidsse.
                   Bones
                     Catalogue
                     Reading-room.
                     Diatomaccae.
                           of
                           and
                             Letters,
                              Parts
                         Books.Mammalia.
                                 Prints.
                                  ofParti.
                                     8vo.
                                      (Natural
                                      Lycreuida?.
                                      19-24.
                                        &c.
                                        By16to.
                                              1862.
                                               8vo.
                                              W.By
                                                 8vo.
                                                  By
                                                   12mo.
                                                   History
                                                   Smith.
                                                     Hamlet
                                                     1860.
                                                      E.1862.
                                                         By
                                                          1862.
                                                           Gerrard.
                                                             W.
                                                             and
                                                             1859-62.
                                                              12mo.
                                                                Clark.
                                                                  C.Antiquities).
                                                                         8vo.
                                                                         1859.
                                                                           8vo. 1862.
                                                                      Hewitson.     4to.
                                                                                    8vo. 1862.
                                                                                  1860.    1862.
              Collection
Actuaries, Institute        of Minerals.Magazine,
                       of—Assurance             8vo. 1862. No. 48. 8vo. 1862.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 284. 8vo. 1862.

1862.]                            General Monthly Meeting.                                          541
   Memoirs, Vol.
Astronomical          XXX.
                Society,          4to. 1862. Notices, May, 1862. 8vo.
                             Royal—Monthly
     Publics
Baude,         (de l'EmpiresurFrancais).
         Baron—Notices                 les Modeles,          Paris,et 1862.
                                                    8vo.Cartes          Dessins relatifs aux Travaux
Bavarian Academy, Royal—Sitzungsberichte ; 1861. Band II. Heft 3. 8vo.
Beatan, H. J. C. Esq.' (the Author)—Six Weeks in Ireland. 16to. 1862.
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, Nos. 62, 63. 8vo. 1862.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. XIX. 8vo. 1859-60.
     of the
Clark,       Electric
         Latimer,    Esq.Current,
                             (the Author)—Experimental
                                       on Submarine Telegraph             Cables, fol.
                                                                      Investigation         Propagation
                                                                                     on the1861.
Editors—American
   Chemical
   Technologist
   Medical
   Practical
   Horological
   Athenaeum
   Artizan
   Journal
   Mechanics'
   Engineerfor
             of
             Circular
              Mechanics'
               for
               News
                 Gas-Lighting
                 for
                 June,
                 Magazine
                    for
                    June,
                      June,
                        for
                         June,
                  Journal,for
                          Journal
                           1862.
                              1862.
                              June,
                               1862.
                               No.
                               Journal
                                June,
                                for1S62.
                                      4to.
                                      46.
                                      for
                                      of1862.
                                         fol.
                                          1862.
                                          4to.
                                      June,Science,
                                            June,
                                            for
                                              8vo.
                                              8vo.
                                               1862.
                                                 June,
                                                   8vo.
                                                    1862.
                                                  4to.by
                                                      1862.
                                                        8vo.
                                                         1 B.
                                                           862.4to. 4to. &c. for May, 1862. 8vo.
                                                               Silliman,
Geneve, Societe~ de Geographic </e—Mémoires et Bulletins. Tome II. 8vo. 1861.
Gloesener, M. (the Author)—Traité des Applications de l-Electricité, Tome I. 8vo.
     Paris. 1861.
     Garcia.
     Czermak),
Hambleton,       (K89)
              Rev.   Joseph,
                     par    P. 8vo.
                                Richard
                                 M.E.I.—Notice
                                         1861.
                                             ; et Observations        sur la du
                                                          de l-lnvention         Laryngoscope
                                                                              Voix   Humaine, (du     M.
                                                                                                 par Dr.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Proceedings, 1862. No. 6. 8vo.
Machie, S. J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist for June, 1862. 8vo.
      London,
Manning,        1813-1862.
             Frederick,      Esq. 8vo.M.R.I.—G.1862. Hogarth : The Philharmonic Society of
   Notices concerning the Queen's Concert Rooms, Hanover Square. (L 13) 8vo.
      1862.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, Jan. 1862. 8vo.
     States.
Musson,         (K89)
           Eugene             8vo. 1862.
                      (the Author)—Letter            to Napoleon III. on Slavery in the Southern
Newton, Messrs. — London Journal (New Series) for June, 1861. 8vo.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Editor)—Mittheilungen aus dem Gesammtgebiete der
     Geographie. 1862. No. 5. 4to.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 122. 8vo. 1861.
   Greenwich
Royal             of Loudon—Proceedings,
        Society Observations         in 1860. 4to.No. 1862. 9. 8vo. 1862.
 Vereins zur Befbrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen —Verhandlungen, Jan. und
UnitedFeb.
Karsten,   M.
         Service
            1862.G.—Thermometer
                   Institution,
                      4to.                      Journal, by
                                    Royal—designed                  21, 22. 8vo.for 1862.
                                                            Nos.Schumacher,          the late Professor
     F. Daniell.
Smyth,   It"arington
      Oldbury,          W. Esq.
                  and other      placesF.R.S.—Coal Specimens from the Grace Mary Pit,
     Cable,
 Varley,      about F.
          Cromwell           be laid
                        to Esq.     M. R./.—Specimens
                                          between Lowestoftof and          Zandvoort,
                                                                       Submarine        on theTelegraph
                                                                                   Electric      coast of
      Holland.

542                          General Monthly Meeting.                          [Nov. 3,
The Rev. John          Barlow,
                         August
                   GENERAL  Monday,M.A.
                                    F.
                                     MONTHLY
                                       November
                                        Andresen,
                                           F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                                         MEETING,
                                                          1862.
                                                      3,Esq.             in the Chair.
                          Thomas R. Williams, Esq. and
                         The Hon. William Warren Vernon.
wereThe      decease
             » Members
         elected       of SirofB.the    Brodie,Institution.
                                    C. Royal        Bart., Manager of the Royal
      The following
Institution,              Lecture from
                 was announced             the Chair. have been made for the
                                     Arrangements
Ensuing Season :—
                               Christmas Lectures, 1863.
                              F.R.S.—Six
       Prof. Frankland, (Adapted Before
                                      to aEaster,
                                           Juvenile
                                              Lectures,
                                                     Auditory.)
                                                    1863.  ' On Air and Water.'
   Prof. J. Marshall, F.R.S.—Twelve Lectures, ' On Physiology.'
   Prof. E. Frankland, F.R.S.—Ten Lectures, ' On Chemistry.'
   W. Savory, Esq. F.R.S.—Four Lectures, ' On Life and Death.'
   D.
   Prof.
   Prof,
     The
   Prof.-
        T. Wm.
           Tyndall,
           Max
            Ansted,
            Presents
                Thomson,
                  Muller.—Twelve
                      Esq.
                       F:R.S.—Seven
                         received
                            F.R.S.—Three
                            F.R.S.—Nine
                                     since
                                     After
                                         Lectures.
                                          Lectures.
                                             the
                                             Easter.
                                              Lectures,
                                               Lectures,
                                                  last Meeting   Geology.'
                                                                    were Telegraphy.'
                                                            ' On Electric laid on the
Her
  From
table,   and theGovernment
       Majesty's   thanks of(through
                                the Members
                                        Henry Cole,
                                                 returned     —Catalogue
                                                       C.B.)for               viz.—
                                                                 the sameof: the  Special
      Exhibition of Works of Art on Loan at the South Kensington Museum. 8vo.
      1862.
Commissioners    in Lunacy—Sixteenth Report. 8vo. 1862.
Governor-General of India—Memoirs of Geological Survey of India :—
   Palseontologiea Indica. No. 1. 4to. 1861.
Actuaries, Institute
Agricultural            Royal—Journal,
               Society,of—Assurance       Vol. XXIII.
                                      Magazine,                     1862. m
                                                  No. 49.8vo.8vo.1802.
Airi/, G. B. F.R.S. (the Astronomer Roi/al)—Errata in Hansen's Lunar Tables.
    ' 8vo. 1862.
Anonymous—Thoughts         on Natural Phenomena. 8vo. 1862.
Antiquaries, Society of—Archscologia. Vol. XXXVIII. Part 2. 4to. 1862.
   Proceedings. Vol. I. Nos. 2-7. 8vo. 1860-2.

1862.]                          General Monthly Meeting.                                      543
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journals, Vol. XIX. Part 4 ; and Vol. XX. Part 1 . 8vo.
Basel
Bavarian
Astronomical
Asiatic
  Sitzungsberichte,
      1862
        Natural
            Academy,
                Society,
          Society History
                   of Bengal—Journal,
                         1862.
                         Royal—Abhandluugen.
                           Royal—Monthly
                            Society—Verhaudlungen.
                                 Band I. Heft
                                           No.Notices,
                                               285.
                                                1, 2, BandJune,
                                                             8vo.
                                                             Theil
                                                       3.8vo."IX.1862.
                                                                  1862.
                                                                    Abth
                                                                     III. Heft    3. 8vo.
                                                                           2.Svo.4to.   1862.18C2.
   H. Roberts
British         : Essentials
         Architects,   Royal Institute
                               of a Healthy
                                         of—Papers
                                              Dwelling.
                                                      read in     89) 8vo.
                                                              (KSession   1861-2. 1862.4to.
     Meeting,
British   Association
                 held atforManchester
                             the Advancement
                                        in September,      1861. 8vo. 1862.
                                                 of Science—Report            of the Thirty-first
     (L 13) G.8vo.
Chambers,               1862.M.R.I.—Addresses of the Hungarian Diet of 1861, &c.
                  F. Esq.
Chemical Society—Quarterly Journal, Nos. 64, 65, 66. 8vo. 1862.
Cornwall Polytechnic Society Royal—Report for 1861. 8vo. 1862.
De la Rive, Professor (the Author)— Sur les Aurores Boréales et Australes. (Fiom
     Mém. de la Soc. de Phys. de Geneve.) Tome XVI. 4to. 1862.
Dresser, Christopher, Esq. (the Author) —The Art of Decorative Design. Svo. 1862.
Dublin Society, Royal—Journal,
Editors—American                       Nos. 24,
                        Journal of Science,      B. Silliman,
                                              by 25.              &c. for July and September,
                                                         8vo. 1862.
      1862. 8vo.
   Artizan for July to October, 1 862. 4to.
   Athenamm for July to October, 1862. 4to.
   Chemical News for July to October, 1862. 4to.
   Engineer for July to October, 1862. fol.
   Horological Journal, Nos. 47-51. 8vo. 1862.
  Journal of Gas-Lighting for July to October, 1862. 4to.
  Mechanics' Magazine for July to October, 1862. 8vo.
   Medical Circular for July to October, 1862. 8vo.
   Practical Mechanics' Journal for July to October, 1862. 4to.
  St. James's Medley, Nos. 31, 32. 8vo. 1862.
  Technologist for July to October, 1862. 8vo.
Faiaday, Prvfessor, D.C.L. F.R.S.—V. Regnault : Experiences pour determiner
     les Lois et les Donndes Physiques néeessaires au Calcul des Machines au Feu.
     Tome II. 4to. 1862.
  Vienna, Imperial Academy of Sciences: Sitzungsberichte. Jan.-April, 1862.
  Abhandlungen der Kon. Akademie der Wissenschaften. 1861. Berlin. 4to. 1S62.
Farrer, James W. Esq. M.R.I.—James Farrer, M.P. : Notice of Runic Inscriptions
     discovered recently during Excavations at Maes Howe, in the Orkneys.
     4to. 1862. (Privately printed.)
Franlilin Institute ofPennsylvania—Journal, Vol. XLIV. Nos. 1-4. 8vo. 1862.
  Journal, Vol.Society,
Geographical                   8vo. 1862.
                   XXXI.Royal—Proceedings,         Vol. VI. Nos. 3, 4. Svo. 1862.
Geological Institute, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1861-2. No. 2. 8vo. I8!"2.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 71. 8vo. 1862.
     applicable?
Griffith,   C. Darby,(KEsq.      8vo. M.R.I,
                           89) M.P.     1862. (the Author)—Colour to Sculpture: is it
Hood, W. C. M.D. (the Author)—Statistics of Insanity. 1846-60. Svo. 1862.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Proceedings, 1862. Nos. 7-11. 8vo.
Irish Academy, Royal—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. Part 2. 4to. 1862.
Kerr, Mrs. Louisa Hay, M.R.I. — Vocabulary of the English and Malay Lan
     guages. (K 89) Svo. Singapore, 1854.
Linnean Society— Journal of Proceedings, No. 24. 8vo. 1862.
Lubboch, John, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—On the Antiquity of Man, &c.
     8vo. S. 18C2.
Mackie,       J. Esq. F.G.S. (the Editor)—The Geologist for July, 1862. 8vo.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs. Third Series. Vol. I.
     1862.
   Proceedings.      Vol. I. No. 15 ; and Vol. II. 1860-62.

544                              General Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov. 3, 1862.
Marcet, W. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—On Chronic Alcholic Intoxication. 2nd
     ed. 16to. 1862.
Medinaland Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. IV. No. 2. 8vo. 1862.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, April, July. 8vo. 1862.
Melbourne, University of. Council, Victoria, Australia—Catalogue of the Melbourne
      Public Library. 8vo. 1861.
   Statistical Register of Victoria, and Calendar for 1855. By W. H. Archer.
      the
      8vo. Colony.
   Catalogue    of the8vo.
              1854.    Victoria     Exhibition, with Prefatory Essays on the Progress of
                                1861.
   The Victoria Government Prize Essays. 1860. 8vo. 1861.
   Statistical Notes of the Progress of Victoria. By W. H. Archer. 4to. 1861.
Milberg, J. H. (the Author)—The Worthlessness of Iron-cased Ships. (L 13) 8vo.
        Wahre Sonnensystem. (L 13) 8vo. 1862.
   Das1862.
Newton, Messrs.—London Journal (New Series) for July to October, 1862. 8vo.
Packe,    Edmund,
      Maps,           Esq. M.R.I.—Charles
              &c. 16to.      1862.                   Packe : Guide to the Pyrenees. With
     Geographie.
Petermann,                           8, 9. 4to. 1862.
               A. Esq.Nos.(the6, 7,Editor)—Mittheilungen      aus dem Gesammtgebiete der
Photographic
Pratt,           F. M.D. (the Author)—
         Henry Society—Journal,                 On the Eccentric
                                         Nos. 123-126.            and Centric Force : a New-
                                                          Svo. 1862.
     Theory of Projection. 8vo. 1862.
Reddie, James, Esq. (the Author)—The Mechanics of the Heavens. (K 89) 8vo.
      1862.
Roma., Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei—Atti : Anno XIII. Sessioni 5, 6, 7.
        Society
Royal4to.        of London— Proceedings, Nos. 49, 50. Svo. 1862.
             1860.
Savory, IV. S. Esq. F.R.S.—Descriptive Catalogue of the Anatomical Museum of
     St. Bartholomew's Hospital, 3 vols. 8vo. 1846-62.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Leipsic—Abhandlungen und Beiichte. 4to and Svo.
      1862.
Sedgwick, J. Bell, Esq. M.R.I.—E. Schwarz : Anthropometrical Investigations.
     4to. 1862.
Statistical  Society—Journal, Vol. XXV. Part 3. Svo. 1862.
     the Use
Thrupp,    Joseph
                andW.Study
                        Esq.ofM.theR.Psalms.
                                       I.—Kev. 2Joseph     8vo. 1860.
                                                    vols. Francis  Thrupp : Introduction to
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 23. 8vo. 1862.
 Vereuts
      Juni,
          zurProfessor
Volpicelli,  1862.
               Befbrderung
                      4to.
                         P. (the
                               desAuthor)   —Sulla Electricita
                                    Gewerbfieisses             dell' Atmosfera. 2" e Marz
                                                     in Preussen—Verhandlungcn,            zu
                                                                                     3" Note.
     4to. J.1861.
 Watson,       Forbes, M.D.—Catalogue of the Contributions from India to the Ex
        James,ofEsq.
Yates,hibition      1862.
                       F.R.S.
                            4to. M.R.I,
                                     Calcutta.     1862.
                                             (the Author)—On   the Excess of Water in the
      Region of the Earth about New Zealand : its Causes and its Effects. (From
      Edin. Philos. Journ. Oct. 1862.) 8vo. 1862.

                                INDEX TO VOL. III.
Abel, F. A., on Science applied to Mili           CESIUM, 325.
—tary
    on Purposes,
          Explosions243.   and their Military     Calcium, 83.
                                                  Calico-Priuting, its Processes and Im
Air,
   Applications,
Albert,
Alison,
Acids
   404,   418.
           S.
           Address
        ;andPrince
   163Estimation   onofOrganic
               Salts,
               S.,      respecting
                       438.
                       Consort,
                        certain     Ms Decease,
                                          in,
                                           from,
                                              89.
                                            Phe
                        234. Auditory
                                  Present
                                   Matter           provements,
                                                  Calvert,  F. C, on   201.
                                                                          the Influence of Science
                                                  Carpenter,
                                                    on Calico-Printing,
                                                  Cannon,       W. B., on201.
                                                            Construction        of,the244.Relation of
                                                  Chinese
                                                  Chemical
                                                  Cerebral
                                                  Chameleon,
                                                  —   Library
                                                    the  Vital
                                                            Lists
                                                              System
                                                               Action
                                                                to
                                                                presented,
                                                                 Mineral,
                                                                   oftheMeteors,
                                                                          ofPhysical
                                                                              Solar
                                                                               Classification,
                                                                               89.219.Rays,
                                                                                       143.
                                                                                         Forces,   174.
                                                                                              210.206.
   nomena,
Allen,    Ralph,63. improves Postal System,
   459. Minerals of, 190.
Andes,
Aniline, History of, 475.                         Clark,
                                                  Chorley,
                                                    reference
                                                          Latimer,
                                                  Chronometry           on
                                                             H. toF.,ofMusic,
                                                                         onEnglish
                                                                         Life,   117. Poetry
                                                                                 317.
                                                                              Electrical          with
                                                                                             Quantity
Animal
— in theLife,
Animals,      Deep
              Earliest
                   Persistent
                      Sea,Stages
                            299.Types  of, 151.
                                   of their  De
   velopment,
Annual     Meeting 315.in 1859, 132 ; in 1860,    Coal-tar
                                                  Coal,
                                                    andWarington
                                                          Intensity,
                                                             Colours,337.  Historyon,of,510.
                                                                          Smyth             468 ; Spe
Antozone,
   252 various,
Apes,           1861,described,
         ; in 70.                1862,See
                        361 ; in 16.    484.Man.
                                                    cimens T.,
                                                  Cobbold,         Lectures on Natural His
                                                              of, 483.
   its Powers,Gun,
Armstrong           500.its Construction, 246 ;     tory Sciences (no abstract), 243.
                                                  Colours,
                                                  Coles's Shield-vessel,
                                                  Colloids,   424.
                                                             on  the Three509.   Primary, 370.
Armstrong's Time-fuzes, 443.
Atlantis, on the Theory of an, 431.
Atmospheric Electricity, 277.                     Combustion in Rarefied Air, 331.
Auditory Phenomena, S. S. Alison on, 63.            ture, 347. of Force and Organic N a-
                                                  Conservation
Aurora Borealis, 9.
                                                  Cotton, T. Bazley's Plea for, 514.
Bablow, Rev. J., Secretary R.I., his              Coulvier-Gravier on Meteors, 145, 146.
   Portrait painted and presented by H.           Crystal Molecule, N. S. Maskelyne on,
   W. Pickersgill, 1 ; resigns the Secre             95.
   taryship, 291 ; Resolution of General          Crystallographic Models, 86, 88.
   Meeting thereon, 313 ; Letter from,            Cuneiform        424.
                                                  Crystalloids,Inscriptions,        Sir H. C. Raw-
Becquerel,
Bell,
   329.Jacob,
Bazley,    T., E.,
                 Plea
                  presents
                    on for
                         Phosphorescence,
                             Gould's514.
                            Cotton,   Works160.on    linson on (no abstract), 536.
                                                     195, 226.Origin of Species considered,
                                                  Darwin-s
   Birds,discovered
Benzol       154.         by Faraday, 482 ; its
                                                  Deep-sea Bed, its Nature, 299.
Bonelli's
Bunsen
Blakeley's
Brain
Brodie,
Bread-making,
Brixham
  relation
        ofandElectric
              Hill
           B.ManC,
                Gun,
                to
                 Kirchhoffs
                   Mauve,
                   and
                    Cavern,
                    on253.
                        246.
                         Ozone,
                         Silk-Loom,
                         Apes, 149.
                               Spectrum
                                407.
                             477.71. 272.Obser    De
                                                  —Eclipse
                                                      presents
                                                        la Rue, Electric
                                                               Results,      362.
                                                                              Lamp,Photographic
                                                                        Warren,         &c. 418, 540.
                                                  Denison, E. B., on Modern Gothic Ar
                                                     chitecture, 32.
                                                  Development        of Animals, 315.
                                                  Devonshire Caverns and Fossil Mam
                                                     malia, 149, 150.
   vations, 323, 396.
Burdett-Coutts's       Geological Scholarship,    Dialysis, Graham's, 422.
                                                  Diamonds, Nature of, 229.
                                                  Diffusion, Chemical, 423.
    Vol. III. (No. 36.)
   264.                                                                                  2p

  546                                                INDEX.
   France," 241,
  Doncaster        new 290.
                         churches, 40.                      Fullerian Professor of Physiology—
     Language,
  D'Orsey,        Rev.307.A. J., on the English             Gas-fuel,
                                                            Gases,
                                                                John Transmission
                                                                      Marshall
                                                                           537. elected,        526. through,
                                                                                           of Heat
     Health,R.,133.
  Druitt,            on Houses in relation to
     (noChaillu,
  Duhis   abstract),
          Travels    F.,in335.
                           Western
                            delivers Central    Africa
                                       a Narrative   of
                                                                155, 295. Professor Faraday on, 536.
                                                            Gas-furnaces,
                                                               Experiments
                                                            Gassiot,              with his Vacuum-tubes,
                                                                      J. P., Experiments         on Vacua, 7 ;
  Durham, A , on Sleeping and Dreaming
     (ho abstract),
 Earth's                   430. &c., 139.
                Temperature,                                   &c., 172.
                                                            Geological Succession in Time, 109.
                                                            Glaciers,
                                                               411.
                                                               HopkinsJ.J.143.
                                                               Meteors,
                                                            Gladstone,      onTyndall
                                                                               H.,theonMotion
                                                                                         Shooting
                                                                                           on, 72,   269; and
                                                                                                     Glaciers,
                                                                                                 of Stars    W.
     la Rue,on362.
  Eclipse,          Photographs of, by W. De
 Electric
 —             Quantity
       Discharge,      Action        Magnetic337.
                               andofIntensity,  Force
 —
 Electricity,
     on  it,; Atmospheric,
     249
       Silk-loom,
       Light   169.
                employed
                     Military
                       271. in 277.Lighthouses,     of,
                                    Applications 221.       Glass-furnaces, 538.
                                                           Gorilla, Professor Owen on, 10.
                                                            Gothic Architecture, E. B. Denison on,
                                                               32.
                                                        .. Glen-Roy, Parallel Roads of, 341.
 Emmett,
     Books, 275.  Gen. A., presents Military Graham, T., Researches on Dialysis, 422.
                                                           Grailich-s Researches in Crystallo
    307. Poetry
 English       Language, withRev.reference
                                      A. D'Orsey
                                            to Music,
                                                   on, Grant,        Capt.98.J., his Cooking Apparatus,
                                                               graphy,
                                                           Gratiolet's
                                                               251. W. Researches
                                                           Grove,                             the Brain, Dis
                                                                           R., on theonElectrical          408.
 Etna,
    317.Structure
 Exhibition         of of,1862, 129. Mr. Monckton
                                                              charge and its Stratified Appearance
    Milnes-s Discourse on, 485.                               in Rarefied Media, 5.
 Explosions, Causes of, &c., 438.
                                                           Health
                                                           Heat inconnected
                                                           Halicarnassus,
                                                                        relationDiscoveries
                                                                                     with
                                                                                      to Crystallography,
                                                                                                  at, 133.
                                                                                            Houses,   385.
 Fairbairn, W , on Iron and its Resist
    ance to M.,
 Faraday,            on Schonbeiu's
                 Projectiles,      491. Ozone and
                                                              99 ; its Transmission through Gases,
— Antozone,
      on Phosphorescence,
                    70.                Fluorescence,           155, 295 ; of the Sun, Theory respect
                                                           Heliograph
                                                              ing, 531. H.,
                                                           Helmholtz,            on the Law
                                                                           described,      363. of the Con
    &c., 159.
— on Lighthouse Illumination — the
— Electric
      on De        Rue's
          Electric
          Platinum,
                laLight,
                       Silk-Loom,
                           321.
                              220.      271. Eclipse
                              Photographic                    servation of Force applied to Organic
                                                              Nature,
                                                           Hill,  M. D.,347.on the Post-office, 457.
                                                          —; Rowland, his Penny Postal System,
     on Gas-Furnaces,
— Results,       362.            536.
                                                              461.
                                                          Hofmann,       A. W., on Mauve and Ma
   SepulchreJ.,at on
Fergusson,                    the Site 426.
                        Jerusalem,      of the Holy           genta, 468.
                                                          Holland,     Sir H., Letter and Donations
Field, F., on the Minerals of the Andes,                      from, 107, 382, 526.
                                                          Holmes-s
                                                          Hopkins,
                                                          Holy         Electric
                                                                        W., on
                                                                  Sepulchre     atJerusalem,
                                                                                    Light
                                                                                     the Earth's SiteInternal
                                                                                            Apparatus,     222.
                                                                                                       of, 426.
    190. R., on Meteorological Tele
Fitz-Roy,
   graphy, 444.
Fluorescence, 160.                                              on the Motion&c.,
                                                          — Temperature,                 139.
                                                                                    of Glaciers,    410.
Force,
Frankland,
—    Magnetic,
     Conservation
          J. Tyndall
                  E.,98,onof,169.
                             on,
                              Combustion
                                347.
                                  527.      in Rare
                                                          Horizontal Shell-Firing, 504.
                                                          Houses in relation to Health, 133.
                                                          Huxley,
                                                          —    on Species
                                                             AnimaltheT.Life,
                                                                         Earliest
                                                                          H.,and 151.Races,
                                                                                on     Stages195.
                                                                                      Persistent    the Deof
                                                                                                in Types
French
   fied Air,
Fraunhofer's      331.
                    Lines, 326.
              Government          presents " Docu
   ments Inedits sur l'Histoire de                             on Fossil Remains
                                                          —velopment        of Animals,       315. 420.
                                                                                          of Man,

                                                    INDEX.                                           547
Metamorphoses
' Merrimac
Metals,
Meteorological
   India-Rubber,
   Insects,
      250.
      491,and
   Iron     500.       of Military
                       Telegraphy,
                          Insects,
           Precipitation
                'itsdescribed,
              Metamorphoses    of,508.
                                   81.
                                     375.
                       Resistance   of,  444.
                                          375.
                                      toApplications,
                                          Projectiles,   Milnes,
                                                         Military
                                                         Meteors,   R.
                                                             Exhibition
                                                                     143,Monckton,
                                                                     Books     presented,
                                                                                1862, 485.
                                                                            of531.          International
                                                                                        on 275.
                                                         Minerals of the Andes, 190.
   Iron WallsLoom,
   Jacquard                 271. 503.
                  of England,                                86.
                                                         Mitchell,    Rev. W., on Crystallography,
                                                         ' Monitor ' described, 509.
  Jones, H. Bence, elected Secretary,                    Motion in Plants and Animals com
      293.                                                   pared, 433.
                                                         Murray, R., sets up Penny-Post, 458.
   KirchhoiFs Spectrum Observations, 233,                Music and
                                                         Nerves,    their
                                                                       English
                                                                            Nutrition   and317.
                                                                                   Poetry,   Reparation,
   Koh-i-nur
      395.
  Lankester,         E., on Bread-making,
                  Diamond,                       253.
                                 its History, 231.
                                                             Halicarnassus,
                                                             378. C. T., 384.
                                                         Newton,                 on the Mausoleum at
   Lava, Consolidation of, 125.
  Lectures, Courses in 1859, 4, 107 ; in                 Northern Plants, Distribution of, 431.
      1862, 399.
      1860,  168,217; in 1861,294,329; in
                                                         Odling, W., on Magnesium, &c., 80.
  Life, Chronometry of, 117.                                      Graham's
                                                         — on Acids             Salts, 234. on Dialysis,
                                                                          and Researches
  Light in relation to Crystals, 100.
  Lighthouse Illumination, 220.
  Lithium, 84.
  Lochaber,      Parallel Roads of, 341.                     422. D., Plants,
                                                             Northern
                                                         Oliver,           on the   431.Distribution of
  Lyell, Sir C, on Conical Form of Vol                      of Tracts,'Lord,
                                                         Overstone,        218.presents a ' Collection ,
     canoes, &c., 125.
                                                         — on Succession
                                                         Owen,    R., on the in     Time and
                                                                                 Gorilla,  10. the Geo
     478 ; Specimens
  Magenta       and Mauve,        History of, 468,
                              of, 483.
                                                            graphical Distribution of Mammalia,
  Magnetic
  Magnesium,        82. its Influence on the
               Force,
                                                              on Cerebral Classification of Mam
                                                         — 109.
     Electric Discharge, 169 ; Relations                      on National
                                                        —malia,      174.        Museum of Natural
     of Crystals, 98. applied to Light
  Magneto-Electricity
                                                            History
                                                        Ozone               abstract);M.360.
                                                                  and(noAntozone,          Faraday on,
     houses, 222.
  Mammalia,        Geographical Distribution
                                                            70.
     of, 109; Cerebral System of Classifi
 Man,cation,
          as distinguished
              174.                 from Apes by         Paget, James, on the Chronometry of
                                                            Life, 117.
                                                        Palmer,    John, improves Postal System,
 —his    Structure,
       Fossil  Remains             his Brain, 407 ;
                         15;of,by420.
     of Physiology,
 Marshall,    J., elected 526.Fullerian Professor           459. Roads of Ixjchaber, 341.
                                                        Parallel
                                                           the Prince
                                                        Paris,   Comte de,     Letter430a.
                                                                          Consort,     from, respecting
 Maskelyne, N. S., on the Crystal Mole
 Masters,
 — cule,
      on Diamonds,
           95.
            M. T., on229.   Abnormal and Nor            Pectous State of Bodies, 425.
                                                           of Devonshire.
                                                        Pengelly,   W., on the  149.Ossiferous Caverns
Mausoleum
    mal Formations
Maxwell,      J. at
                  C,Halicarnassus,
                       on in
                           thePlants,
                                Theory223.  of Three
                                           384.        — on Devonian Fossils and the Burdelt-
                                                           Coutts's Geological Scholarships, &c.,
    Primary
Mayer's         Colours, on
            Researches       370.Heat, Force, &c.,         263.
                                                        Penny-Post     set up, 458, 461.
                                                        Peptous State of Bodies, 425.
                                                       Perkin, W., isolates the Mauve Colour,
    534. T., on the Relations of the Public
Mayo,
    to the Science and Practice of Medi                    478.
                                                       Phosphorescence,         159.
    cine, 258.                                         Phosphoroscope, 161.
                                                       Photographic Eclipse Results, 362.
                                                           Portrait ofH.Rev.
                                                       Pickersgill,                  Barlow,
                                                                             W.,J.paints  and1.presents
                                                       Pigeons, on various Breeds of, 197.

   548                                        INDEX.
   Plants, their Abnormal and Normal              Stethophone, 63.
      Formations, 223.                            Stevens's Battery, 508.
   Platinum, 321 ; Deville's Process for          Stokes, G. G., Researches on Fluo
      obtaining it, 322.                             rescence, 160.
   Poey's Researches on Meteors, 144.             Sun, Physical Character of, 327, 387 ;
   Post-office, History of, 457.                     Total Eclipse of, 362 ; Theory of the
   Powell, Rev. B., on Shooting Stars, 144.          Origin of its Heat, 533.
   Professors elected in 1859, 137 ; in
      I860,
      526. 256 ; in 1861, 366 ; in 1862, 489,     Thomson, W., on Atmospheric Elec
                                                     tricity, 277.
                                                  Tree Twigs, J. Ruskin on, 358.
   Rarefied Air, Combustion in, 331.              Trilobites, Theory respecting, 268.
   Rawlinson, Sir H. C, on Cuneiform Twining, Miss Eliz., presents her Works
      Inscriptions (no abstract), 536.               on Plants, 107.
   Rijke's Experiments on the Magnetic Tyndall, J., on the Veined Structure of
      Force and Electric Discharge, 171.             Glaciers, 72.
   Rogers, H. D., on the Parallel Roads of — on Transmission of Heat through
      Glen Roy, 341.                                 Gases, 155.
   Rolleston, G., on the Brain of Man and — on the Influence of the Magnetic
      certain Animals, 407.                          Force oa the Electric Discharge, 169.
   Roscoe, H. E., on the Measurement of — on some Alpine Phenomena, 269.
       the Chemical Action of the Solar            —   on the Action of Gases and Vapours
       Rays, 210.                                    on Radiant Heat, 295.
   — on Bunsen and Kirchhoff's Spectrum — on the Physical Basis of Solar Che
       Observations, 323.                            mistry, 387
 . Rubidium discovered, 326.                       — on the Absorption and Radiation of
. Ruskin, J., on Tree Twigs, 358.                     Heat by Gaseous Matter, 404.
    Russell, J. Scott, pn Iron Walls of — on Force, 527.
       England, 503.
                                                   Vacua, peculiar, how prepared, 9 ;
    Salmon, W., Botanical Works presented             Electric Discharge in, 6, 7.
       by, 193                                     Vegetable, Animal, and Inorganic King
    Salts and Acids, 234.                             doms, their Relations, 368.
    Savory, W. S., on the Relation of the Vital and Physical Forces, their Rela
       Vegetable and Animal to the In                 tions, 206.
       organic Kingdom, 368                        Volcanoes, Conical Form of, 125.
   — on Motion in Plants and Animals, 433. Von Lang-s Researches in Crystallogra
    Schcinbein on Ozone and Antozone, 70.             phy, 98.
    Science applied to Calico Printing, 201 ; Vrolik on Apes, 16.
       to Military Purposes, 243.
    Secretary—Rev. J. Barlow resigns, 291 ; Walker, A. De Noi), presents a Chinese
       Dr. H. Bence Jones elected, 293.               Library, 219.
    Shooting Stars, &c., 143.                      Waller, A , on the Nutrition and Repar
    Siemens-, C W., Gas-Furnaces, &c. 536.            ation of Nerves, 378.
    Smith, E., Researches on Animal Work, Wallich, G. C., on the Nature of the
                                                      Deep-sea Bed, and the Presence of
        Robt. Angus, on Organic Matter in
    — ,555.                                           Animal Life at vast Depths jn the
    Sotheby,
    Solar
       the Rays,
    Symth,  Air,
              W.S.89.
                   W.
                   Chemical
                    . L.,
                       ,on presents
                               Action
                           Coal,        Principia
                                  510.'of, 210.       Ocean, 299.
                                                   ' Warrior ' described, 508.
                                                   Wellington, Duke of, Cast of his Fea
                                                      tures after Death presented, 274.
       Typographica,' 167.                         Westwood, J. O., on Metamorphoses of
    Species and Races, their Origin, 125.             Insects, 375.
    Spectrum Observations, 323.                    Whitworth Gun, 248.
                                          END OP VOL. III.







