This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com


L <Xc /fro/. Jo
      HARVARD COLLEGE
           LIBRARY
         FROM THE FUND OF
       CHARLES MINOT
           CLASS OF 1828





                               69J
                 . NOTICES
            PROCEEDINGS
                      AT THSj
        MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS,
                      OF THB
fco^al institution of #reat Britain^
      ABSTRACTS OF THE DISCOURSES
                    DHITIID AT
           THE EVENING MEETINGS.
                    VOL.vyiy/
                  .1870—1872.,
               ^LONDON:
 PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS,
       STAMFOBD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.
                       1872.

                               1
                                               89 2      J ^bonjfcjots>db:
LSwclSKW-                             Patron.
                            HER MOST GRACIOUS MAJESTY
                              QUEEN VICTOBIA.
            -fcTice^atron anfi ?t}onorarg Jftcmbrr,
                                 HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS
                THE PKINCE OF WALES, KG. F.R.8.
    President—Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S.
     Treasurer—Willum Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. M.A. Treas. R.S.—
    Secretary—Henry Benoe Jones, M.A. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S.
          Managers. 1872-73.                           Visitoes. 1872-73.
 George Berkley, Esq. C.E.                     John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
 William Bowman, Esq. F.K.C.S. F.B.S.          George Frederick Chambers, Esq.
 George Busk, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.B.S.                F.R.A.S.
 John Peter Gassiot, Esq. D.C.L. F.B.S.        Erasmus Darwin, Esq.
 Sir John Lubbock, Bart. M.P. V.P.B.S.
 George Macilwain, Esq. F.R.C.S.               Edward Fraukland, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S-
 John Carrick Moore, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.             Pres. Chem. Soc.
   F.G.S.                                      Themas Williams Helps, Esq. M.A.
 William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.                Themas Hyde Hills, Esq.
 Six W. Frederick Pollock. Bart. M.A.          Themas Lee, Esq.
 The Earl of Bosse, B.A. D.C.L. V.P.R.S.       Robt. Pilkington Linton, Esq. F.R.C.S.
    V.P.                                       William Millar, Esq.
 Robert P. RoupelL Esq. M.A. Q.C.              St. George Mivart, Esq. F.R.S. F.L.S.
 Gen. Sir Edward Sabine, R.A. K.C.B.           Major-General Richard Corawallis
   D.C.L. V.P.R.S.— V.P.
 The Marquis of Salisbury, M.A. F.R.S.            Moore, R.A. C.B.
   Chanc. Univ. Ox.— V.P.                      Edward Henry Moscrop, Esq.
 Chns. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L.            The Lord Josceline W. Percy.
    F.R.S.                                     B..sil Woodd Smith, Esq.
 Sir Charles Wheatstor.c, D.C.L. F.R.S.        Michael Wills, Esq.
                                  13 ro f essorg.
 Professor of Natural Philosophy—Jobs Tyndall, Esq. LL.D. F.R.8. &c
 Professor of Chemistry—William Odlino, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
 Professor of Physiology—William Rutherford, M.D. F.R.S.E.
         Assistant Secretary and Keeper of the Library—Mr. Benjamin Vincent.
         Clerk of Accounts and Collector—Mr. Henry C. Hughes.
         Assistant in the Physical Laboratory—Mr. John Cottrell.
         Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory—Mr. Themas Wills, F.C.S.

                         CONTENTS.
                                                              Togo
Count Bumford's Proposals for forming a Public Institution      ix
                               1870.
Jan. 21.—Professor Tyndall—On Dust and Disease             ..    1
  „ 28.—Professor Odlikg—On Professor Graham's Scien
             tific Work                                         15
Feb. 4.—Professor Rcskin—On Verona and its Rivcrs ..            55
  „     7.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..    ..    ..   Gl
  „ 11.—Dr. Carpenter—On the Temperature and Animal
             Life of the Deep Sea       ..           ..         63
  „    18.—Mr. W. K. Clifford—On Theories of the Physical
             Forces (no Abstract)       ..     ..    .,    ..   83
   „ 25.—Capt. Wilson—On the Ordnance Survey of Sinai ..        83
Mar. 4.—Mr. E. J. Reed—On Iron-clad Ships            ..    ..   95
   „    7.—General Monthly Meeting ..                          100
   „ 11.—Mr. Westmacott—On Art ..              ..    ..    .. 102
   „ [ 18.—Mr. J. F. Bateman—On the Subway to Franco .. 110
   „ 25.—Professor Rolleston—On the Character and In
             fluence of the Anglo-Saxon Conquest of England,
             as illustrated by Archaeological Research     .. 116
 April 1.—Professor Roscoe—On the Artificial Production
             of Alizarine, the Colouring Principle of Madder 120
   „    4.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..    ..    .. 120

iv                             CONTENTS.
   1870.                                                          Page
April 8.—Professor Huxley—On the Pedigree of the Horse
               (no Abstract)                                       129
   „ 29.—Professor Blackie—On the Scientific Interpreta
               tion of Popular Myths                               129
May 2.—Annual Meeting             ..     ..     ..    ..      ..   142
   „      6.—Mr. E. A. Proctor—On Star Grouping, &c.          ..   143
   „      9.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..            ..   153
   „     13.—Canon Moseley—On the Descont of Glaciers         ..   155
   „     20.—Professor Williamson—On Atoms (no Abstract) ..        164
   „ 27.—Principal Dawson—On the Primitive Vegetation
               of the Earth                                        165
June 3.—Professor Max Muller—On the Migration of
               Fables                                              173
  „       6.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..    ..      ..   174
  „ 10.—Professor Odling—On the Ammonia Compounds
               of Platinum                                         176
July 4.—General Monthly Meeting ..                    ..      ..   183
Nov. 7.—General Monthly Mooting ..              ..    ..      ..   185
Dec. 6.—General Monthly Meeting ..               ..    ..     ..   187
                                 1871.
Jan. 20.—Professor Tyndall—On the Colour of Water, and
               on the Scattering of Light in Water and in Air ..   189
   „ 27.— Professor Odling—On Improvements in the Manu
               facture of Chlorine        ..     ..    ..     ..   199
Feb. 3.—Mr. W. Spottiswoode—On Successive Polarization
               of Light                                            205
  „       6.—General Monthly Meeting                               209
   „     10.—Mr. E. J. Heed—On some Fallacies connected with
               Ships and Guns ..          ..      ..   ..      ..  211
  „      17.—Mr. James N. Douglass—On the Wolf Rock Light-
               heuso              ..     ..      ..    ..      ..  214

                              CONTENTS.                       V
   1871.                                                   Page
Feb. 24.—Mr. M. Mattietl Williams—On Rumford's Scientific
              Discoveries..      ..     ..  ..  ..     ..   227
Mar. 3.—Capt. Norle—On the Pressure of Fired Gunpowder      273
  „      6.—Genoral Monthly Meeting ..      ..  ..     ..   234
  „ 10.—Dr. W. B. Carpenter—On the latest Scientific Re
              searches in the Mediterranean ..  ..     ..   236
  „ 17.—Mr. J. Norman Lockyer—On the recent Solar
              Eclipse                                       284
  „ 24.—Professor J. Clerk Maxwell—On Colour Vision         260
  „ 31.—Professor Max Muller—On Mythelogy (no Abs
              tract)                                       300
April 3.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..  ..     ..   300
  „ 21.—Professor Blackie—On the Pro-Socratic Philosophy    302
  „ 28.—Professor Odling—On the Revived Theory of
              Phlogiston                                    315
May 1.—Annual Meeting            ..     ..  ..              325
         5.—Mr. W. R. S.—On Russian Folk-lore          ..   326
  „ 12.—Col. Jervois—On the Defence of the United
              Kingdom ..                ..  ..  ..     ..   335 .
  „ 19.—Professor Huxley—On Bishep Berkeley and the
              Metaphysics of Sensation . .  ..  ..     ..  341
  „ 26.—Professor Rankine—On Sea Waves                 ..   355
June 2.—Professor Andrews—On the Gaseous and Liquid
              States of Matter                              356
  „      5.—General Monthly Meeting ..      ..   ..    ..   364
   „     9.—Professor Tyndall—On Dust and Smoke        ..   365
   „ 16.—Mr. Wm. Bradford—On the Esquimaux and Ice
              of Greenland       ..     ..  ..  ..     ..   377
 July 3.—General Monthly Meeting                            379
 Nov. 6.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ..         ..   381
 Dec. 4.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..  ..     ..  384

 <U+25BC>1                            CONTENTS.
                                1872.
                                                                Page
 Jan. 19.—Professor Odlinq—On the last Now Metal Indium          38G
   „ 26.—The Aeohrishop of Westminster—On the Daemon
               of Socrates..      ..      ..      ..   ..    ..  402-
Feb. 2.—Professor Tyndall—On the Identity of Light and
               Eadiant Heat               ..           ..    ..  417
   „    5.—General Monthly Meeting ..             ..             422
   „    9.— Professor Humphry—On Sleep ..              ..    ..  424
   „   1G.—Dr. Gladstone—On the Crystallization of Silver,
              Gold, and other Metals ..          ..   ..    ..  425
   „ 23.—Mr. Henry Leslie—On the Social Influence of Music      432
Mar. 1.—Me. C. W. Siemens—On Measuring Temperatures by
              Electricity ..     ..      ..      ..   ..    ..  438
  „     4.—General Monthly Meeting ..            ..   ..    ..  449
  „     8.—Mr. R. Liereeich—Turner and Mulready : On the
              Effect of certain Faults of Vision on Painting,
              with especial reference to their Works ..    ..   450
  „   15.—Mr. J. Evans—On the Alphabet and its Origin ..        464
  „ 22.—Mr. J. Norman Loceyer—On the Results of the
              latest Eclipse Expedition         ..   ..    ..   477
April 1.—General Monthly Meeting ..             ..   ..    ..   474
  „   12.—Mr. J. Mouley—On the Influence of Rousseau . .        475
  „ 19.—Mr. A. Vernon Harcourt—On the Sulphurous Im
              purity in Coal Gas and the means of Rcmoving it   489
  „ 26.—Professor Blaokie—On the Genius and Character
              of the Modern Greek Language ..        ..    ..   493
May     1.—Annual Meeting        ..     ..      ..   ..    ..   505
  „    3.—Mr. Wm. Spottiswoode—On Optical Phalnomena
              produced by Crystals when submitted to Circu
              larly Polarized Light                             506

                                CONTENTS.                   vil
  1872.                                                    P«ge
May       6.—General Monthly Meeting ..      ..    ..  .. 511
  „     10.—Mr. Neyil Story-Maskelynk—On Meteoric Stones 513
  „     17.—Professor Arel—On the more important Substi
                 tutes for Gunpowder         ..    ..  ..517
 „      24.—Professor Clifford — On Babbage's Calculating
                 Machines (no Abstract) ..   ..    ..  .. 533
 „      31.—Mr. Edw. J. Poynter—On Old and New Art     .. 534
June 3.—General Monthly Meeting ..                 ..  .. 544
  „       7.—Professor Odling—On the History of Ozone  .. 54G
July       1.—General Monthly Meeting ..      ..    ..  .. 656
Nov.       4.—General Monthly Meeting ..      ..    ..  ..  557
Dec.       2.— General Monthly Meeting ..           ..      559
Index         ..      ..                  ..        ..      503


Xo Copy of this Prospectus, printed in 1799, exists in the Library of
     the Royal Institution. Happily two copies have been preserved,
     the one at AUhorp and the other at the British Museum.
Through the kindness of Earl Spencer the Managers have been able
     to order this very early Record of the Institution to be reprinted.
       May 9, 1870.
                    PROPOSALS
                        FOR FORMING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
     m THE METROPOLIS OF THE BRITISH EMPIRE,
                A PUBLIC            INSTITUTION
FOR DIFFUSING THE KNOWLEDGE AND FACILITATING THE GENERAL
      INTRODUCTION OF USEFUL MECHANICAL INVENTIONS AND IM
      PROVEMENTS, AND FOR TEACHING, BY COURSES OF PHILOSOPHICAL
      LECTURES AND EXPERIMENTS, THE APPLICATION OF SCIENCE TO
      THE COMMON PURPOSES OF LIFE.
                                (Presented)
to
by the Managers of the Institution.
                           INTRODUCTION.
The slowness with which improvements of all kinds make their way
into common use, and especially such improvements as are the most
calculated to be of general utility, is very remarkable, and forms a
striking contrast to the extreme avidity with which those unmeaning
changes are adopted which folly and caprice are continually bringing
 forth and sending into the world under the auspices of fashion. This
 evil has often been lamented, but few attempts have been made to
 investigate its causes, or to remove them.
     On the first view of the matter it appears very extraordinary
 indeed that any person should ever, in any instance, neglect to avail
himself of an invention or contrivance within his power to obtain, that
 is evidently calculated to increase his comforts, or to facilitate his
 labour, or to increase the profits of it ; but when we reflect on the
    Vol. VI.                                                     b

x              Proposals for Forming a Public Institution.
subject with attention, and consider the power of habit, and then
recollect hew difficult it is for a person even to perceive the imperfec
tions of instruments with which he has been accustomed from his early
youth, our surprise that improvements do not make a more rapid
progress will be greatly lessened.
     But there is a great variety of circumstances that are unfavourable
to the introduction of improvements. The very proposal of anything
new commonly carries with it something that is offensive ;—something
that soems to imply a superiority ; and even that kind of superiority
precisely to which mankind are least disposed to submit.
     There are few, very few indeed, whe do not feel ashamed and
mortified at being obliged to learn anything new after they have for a
long time been considered, and been accustomed to consider them
selves, as proficients in the business in which they are engaged ; and
their awkwardness in their new apprenticeship, and especially when
they are obliged to work with tools with which they are not acquainted,
tends much to increase their dislike to their teacher and to his
doctrines.
     To theso obstacles to the introduction of new improvements, we may
add the innumerable mistakes, voluntary and involuntary, that are
committed by workmen whe are employed in any business that is new
to them, and that perhaps they neither understand nor like ; and (what
is still more to be feared) these alterations which workmen in general,
 and more especially such of them as pride themselves on their inge
 nuity, have such an irresistible propensity to introduce when they are
employed in executing anything that is new. How many useful
inventions have been totally spoiled and brought into disrepute by
 what has been pompously announced to the public as improvements
 of them ! And hence we may see of what infinite importance it would
 be to the progress of real improvements, to have some general collec
 tion of useful mechanical contrivances, constructed on the most
 approved principles, and kept constantly in actual use, to which
application could be made as to a standard, in order to determine
whether experiments which fail are owing to errors in principle, or
 to blunders of the workmen employed in the construction, or to those
 of the servants employed in the management of the machinery.
     And hew very useful would such a repository be for furnishing
models ;—and for giving instruction to artificers whe may be employed
 in imitating them ! Workmen must see the thing they are to imitate ;     j
 —bare descriptions of it will not answer to give them such precise
 ideas of what is to be done as to prevent their being liable to mistakes
 in the execution of their work.
     But this is also the case with mankind in general, and even with
 the best-informed ; for hew great must that effort of the imagination
 be, that is necessary to form any adequate idea of what we have not
seen ! Descriptions, theugh they be illustrated by the best drawings,
 can give but very imperfect ideas of things ; and the impressions they
 leave behind them are faint and transitory, and seldom excite that

                                Introduction.                           xi
 degree of ardour that ought to accompany the pursuit of interesting
 improvements.
     Few indeed have an imagination so extremely vivid and susceptible
as to become enamoured of a description, or of a picture. Something
visible and tangible is necessary to fix the attention, and determine the
cheice.
    But to return to the investigation of the causes that impede the
progress of useful improvement. Besides theso already mentioned
there are several others which, theugh less obvious, tend nevertheless
very powerfully to obstruct and retard that progress.
    These who propose improvements are commonly suspected of being
influonced by interested motives; and this (suspicion (which is often
but too well founded) occasions little attention to be paid to such
proposals by the public.
     As tho tacit recommendation of a respectable Public Institution,
where the things judged to be worthy of the public notice would be
merely exposed to view, would not be liable to this suspicion, it would
certainly have more weight.
     Not only suspicion, but jealousy and envy have often their share in
obstructing the progress of improvement, and in preventing the
adoption of plans calculated to promote the public good.
     The most meritorious exertions in promoting the public prosperity
are often viewed with suspicion ; and the fair fame that is derived
from those exertions, with jealousy and envy ; and many whe have too
much good sense not to perceive the merit of an undertaking evidently
 useful, and too much regard for their reputation not to appear to
 approve of it, are often very far nevertheless from wishing it success.
     This melanchely truth is, most unfortunately, known to every
 body, and does more, I am persuaded, to deter sensible and well-dis
 posed persons from coming forward into the public view with plans
 for useful improvements than all the trouble and difficulty that would
 attend the execution of them.
      The managers of a public institution would be less exposed than
 an individual to the effects of these jealousies, and would no doubt
 have the courage to despise them.
      In regard to these most important improvements that might in
 many cases bo derived from the scientific discoveries of experimental
 philosophers, there are, unfortunately, many very powerful obstacles,
 which prevent their being as usoful to mankind as they might be
 made, and as they would most certainly becomo, were these obstacles
 removed.
      There are no two classes of men in society that are more distinct,
  or that are separated from each other by a more marked line, than
  philosophers and these whe are engaged in arts and manufactures.
      The distance of their stations—the difference of their education,
 and of their habits—the marked difforenco of the objects of their
  pursuits in life—all tend to keop them at a distance from each other,
  and to prevent all connection and intercourse between them.
                                                                b 2

xii             Proposals for Forming a Public Institution.
      The philosopher, who devotes his time to the investigation of the
laws of Nature, must necessarily be independent in his circumstances,
for he can expect no profit or pecuniary advantage from his labours ;
consequently he must be excited to engage in these pursuits either by
curiosity or by a desire of fame, or by both these motives ; and the
nature of his occupations, as well as the intense meditation they
require, naturally tend to detach his mind from all the common
affairs and pursuits of life.
      Anxious only to make new discoveries, and to establish his repu
tation among philosophers, whom he considers as the only competent
judges of his merit, and whose suffrages alone can bestow that fame
which he is ambitious to acquire, he has seldom either leisure or
inclination to interest himself in those busy scenes in which the great
mass of mankind are employed, and which he is perhaps but too apt
to consider as being unworthy of his attention.
      On the other hand, those who are engaged in arts and manufactures
are seldom disposed to ask, or even to receive, the advice of men of
science, with whom they have no connection, and of whose knowledge
they seldom entertain any very high respect. Intent only on acquir
ing wealth, all their views are confined to that single object ; and as
their success depends much on their reputation for ingenuity in their
different lines of business—as all proposals for introducing improve
ment presuppose some imperfection, such proposals are commonly not
only considered by them as offensive, and rejected with disdain, but
they frequently maintain that no farther improvement in their line of
business is possible ; except it be perhaps something they pretend to
have found out, and of which, in order to enhance the reputation of
their goods, they make a great mystery.
     Ingenuity ought certainly to be rewarded. It is what every liberal-
minded person would wish ; but it is greatly to be lamented that the
progress of real improvements should ever be obstructed by the effects
of professional jealousies, or by any other of those selfish passions
that are but too apt to influence men engaged in the busy scenes of
life.
     In making this observation, I would by no means be understood
to call in question the wisdom of granting patents for securing certain
privileges and advantages to the authors of new and useful inventions.
So far from thinking this system of rewarding ingenuity disadvan
tageous to society, I am convinced that the present flourishing state of
our manufactures, and consequently of our commerce, has been in a
great measure owing to its operation.
      I am only desirous that science and art should once be brought
cordially to embrace each other, and to direct their united efforts to
the improvement of agriculture, manufactures, and commerce, and to
the increase of domestic comfort.
     That the proposed Institution would facilitate and consolidate that
union is too obvious to require any particular proof or illustration.
     I shall mention only one circumstance more that may be assigned

                               Introduction.                          xiii
 as a cause for the slowness of the progress of new and useful improve
 ments, and that is, the erroneous opinion that is but too generally
 entertained with regard to the real importance of what are called
 improvement*, or their tendency to promote the happiness and pros
perity of mankind. It is imagined by some that theugh a new inven
tion may have some degree of utility, yet as our forefathers, whe were
not acquainted with it, contrived to do very well witheut it, so it
cannot be a matter of any very great importance to us or to our pos
terity, whether it be brought forward into general use or not. But
those whe reason in this manner sheuld be requested to recollect that
all the successive improvements in the condition of man, from a state
of ignorance and barbarism to that of the highest cultivation and
refinement, are brought about by the use of machinery in procuring the
necessaries, comforts, and elegancies of life, and that the pre-eminence
of any people is, and ought ever to be, estimated by the state of taste,
industry, and mechanical improvement among them.
     These among the inhabitants of this happy island, whe have medi
tated profoundly on this interesting subject, will be very far indeed
from being indifferent to the progress of improvement, and will cer
tainly wish well to the success of the plan that is now laid before them ;
for they well know hew powerfully the vivifying rays of Science, when
properly directed, tend to excite the activity, and increase the energy,
of an enlightened nation.
     With regard to the relative importance of the different objects of
improvements that are held up to view in these Proposals, nothing
absolutely decisive can be determined. They are all very important,
and there are, doubtless, many others perhaps equally so, that are not
enumerated, that will, of course, in their turns, engage the attention
of the Managers of the Institution.
     It will not escape observation that I have placed the management of
fire among the very first subjects of useful improvement, and it is
possible that I may be accused of partiality in placing the object of
my favourite pursuits in that conspicuous situation. But hew could
 I have done otherwise ? I have always considered it as being a
subject very interesting to mankind ; and it was on that account prin
cipally, that, at a very early period of my life, I engaged in its inves
tigation ; and the more I have examined it and meditated upon it, the
more I have been impressed with its importance.
     When we consider that arts and manufactures of every kind
depend, directly or indirectly, on operations in which fire is employed,
and that almost every comfort and convenience which man by his
ingenuity procures for himself, is obtained by its assistance, we cannot
doubt of its utility ; and when we recollect that the fuel consumed in
these kingdoms costs annually more than ten millions sterling, the
great importance of every improvement that can be made in the
 management of fire must be quite evident.
     To me, whe am perfectly persuaded that much more than half the
 fuel that is consumed might very easily be saved, the subject must of

                   Proposals for Forming a Public Institution.
  necessity appear very interesting, and on that ground I hepe to be
  excused if I have dwelt upon it too long.
       It may perhaps bo not altogether uninteresting to these to whem
 I now more particularly address myself, to be mado acquainted with
 the history of these Proposals, and of the causes which gave rise to
 them.
       Having long been in a habit of considering all useful improvements
 as being purely mechanical, or as depending on the perfection of
 machinery, and address in the management of it, and of considering
 profit (which depends much on the perfection of machinery) as the
 only incitement to industry, I was naturally led to meditate on the
 means that might be employed with advantage to diffuse the know
 ledge, and facilitate the general introduction, of such improvements ;
 and the plan which is now submitted to the public was the result of
 these investigations.
      In the beginning of the year 1796 I gave a faint sketch of this
 plan in my second Essay ; but being under a necessity of returning
 soon to Germany, I had not leisure to pursue it farther at that time,
 and I was obliged to content myself with having merely thrown out a
 loose idea, as it were by accident, which I theught might possibly
attract attention.
      After my return to Munich, I opened myself more fully on the
subject in my correspondence with my friends in this country, and
particularly in my letters to Themas Bernard, Esq.,* whe, as is well
     * Extracts of Letters written by Count Rumford to Thomas Bernard, Esq.,
from Germany:—
                                                      "Munich, 28th April, 1797.
     " I feci myself very highly honoured by the distinguished mark of esteem and
regaril which the Society for Bettering the Condition of the Poor has conferred on
me, and I beg leave through you to return the Society my respectful and grateful
acknowledgments.
    " This flattering proof of the approbation of those most respectable persons who
compose the Society will tend very powerfully to encourage me to persevere in
these endeavours to promote the important objects they have in view by which I
first obtained their notice and esteem.
     " I am very sanguine in my expectations of the good which will be done by this
Society ; they will, hewever, be uble to do much more by examples—by models that
can be seen and felt, than by anything that can be said or written."
                                                        "Munich, 13th May, 1798.
    " The rapid progress you arc making in your most interesting and laudable
undertakings affords me a high degree of satisfaction. It proves that I was not
mistaken when I concluded that, notwithstanding the alarming progress of luxury
and corruption of taste and of morals in England, there is still good sense and
energy to be found, even in the highest classes of society, where the influx of
wealth has operated most powerfully. Go on, my dear sir, and be assured that
when you sliall have put doing good in fashion, you will have done all that human
wisdom can do to re-turd and prolong the decline of a great and powerful nation
that has arrived at, or passed, the zenith of human glory."
                                                        " Munich, 8M June, 1798.
    " I have received your letter from Brighton of the 12th ult. You can hardly
imagine the high degree of pleasure and satisfaction which I feel at your success

                                     Introduction.                                   Xv
   known, is one of the founders and most active members of the Society
   for Bettering the Condition and Increasing the Comforts of the Poor.
       This gentleman I found, on my return to England in September
  last, not only agreeing with me in opinion in regard to the utility and
 importance of the plan I had proposed, but very solicitous that some
 attempts should be made to carry it into immediate execution in this
 capital.
      After several consultations that were held at Mr. Bernard's apart
ments in the Foundling Hospital, and at the heuse of the Lord Bishep
of Durham, at which several gentlemen assisted, whe aro well known
as zealous promoters of useful improvement, it was agreed that Mr.
Bernard sheuld report to the Committee of tho Society for Bettering
the Condition of the Poor the general result of these consultations,
and the unanimous desire of the gentlemen who assisted at them, that
means might be devised for making an attempt to carry the scheme
proposed into execution.
      The gentlemen of the Committee agreed with me entirely in the
opinion I had taken the liberty to express, that the Institution which
it was proposed to form would be too conspicuous, and too interesting
and important, to be made an appendix to any other existing establish
ment, and, consequently, that it must stand alone, and on its own
proper basis; but as these gentlemen had no direct communication
in your most laudable undertakings. Go on, my dear sir, and be assured that you
mil contribute more essentially to the revival of taste and morals, of energy,
industry, benevolence, and prosperity in your favoured country than all the specu
lators and reformers in the three kingdoms.
      " When society is arrived at a certain degree of torpid indifference and enerva
tion of mind and body, which are the unavoidable effects of wealth, luxury, and
inordinate indulgence, mankind must either be allured or shamed into action.
Precepts and admonitions have no effect on them.
      " As they are too indolent to take the trouble cither to investigate or to choose,
 they must be led to acts of useful benevolence as they are led in everything else
—by fashion ; when you shall have rendered it perfectly ridiculous for a man of
fashion and fortune to have the appearance of being insensible to the most noble and
most delightful of human enjoyments—that which results from doing good—you
 will have done more for the relief of the poor than all that the Poor Laws can
ever effect. Deeply impressed with the necessity of rendering it fashionable to caro
 for the poor and indigent, and contribute to their relief and comfort, in order to
 diffuse in England that spirit of active benevolence you are kindling, I am apt
to insist, perhaps with too much prolixity, on that important point.
      " I am anxious to hear of the execution of your plan with regard to Bridewell.
 A well arranged House of Industry is much wanted in London. It is indeed
 absolutely necessary to the success of your undertaking, for there must bo some
 thing to see and to touch, if I may use the expression, otherwise people in general
 will have but very faint, imperfect, and transitory ideas of those important and
 highly interesting objects with which you must make them acquainted in order to
 their becoming zealous converts to our new philosophy, and useful members of our
 community. Pray read once more the ' Proposals,' published in my second Essay.
 I really think that a public establishment like that there described, might easily
 be formed in London, and that it would produce infinite good. I will como to
 London to assist you in its execution whenever you will in good earnest undertake
 it."

xvi              Proposals for Forming a Public Institution.
 with any persons, except with the memhers of their own Society, they
 appointed a Committee, consisting of eight persons, from their own
 body, to confer with me on the subject of my plan.*
      I had the honour to meet this Committee on this business on the
 31st of January, at the house of Eichard Sulivan, Esq., where a plan I
 had previously drawn up, for forming the Institution in question, was
 read and examined, and its principles unanimously approved ; but as
 some of the gentlemen present were of opinion that the plan entered
 too much into detail to be submitted to the public in the beginning of
 the business, I undertook to revise it, and to endeavour to accommo
date it to the wishes of the Committee.
     Having made such alterations in it as I thought might satisfy the
 Committee, I sent a corrected copy of it to them, accompanied by
 the following letter :—
 " Gentlemen,
         " Inclosed I have the honour to send you a corrected copy of
the Proposals I took the liberty of laying before you on Thursday
last, for forming in this capital, by private subscription, a Public
Institution for diffusing the knowledge and facilitating the general
and speedy introduction of new and useful mechanical inventions and
improvements ; and also for teaching, by regular courses of Philoso
phical Lectures and Experiments, the application of the new disco
veries in science to the improvement of arts and manufactures, and in
facilitating the means of procuring the comforts and conveniencies of
life.
     " The tendency of the proposed Institution to excite a spirit of
inquiry and of improvement amongst all ranks of society, and to afford
the most effectual assistance to those who are engaged in the various
pursuits of useful industry, did not escape your observation; and it
is, I am persuaded, from a conviction of the utility of the plan, or its
tendency to increase the comforts and enjoyments of individuals, and
at the same time to promote the public prosperity, that you have been
induced to take it into your serious consideration. I shall be much
flattered if it should meet with your approbation and with your support.
     " Though I am perfectly ready to take any share in the business
of carrying the scheme into execution, in caBe it should be adopted,
that can be required, yet there is one preliminary request which I am
desirous may be granted me, and that is, that the Government may be
previously made acquainted with the scheme before any steps are
taken towards carrying it into execution ; and also that His Majesty's
Ministers may be informed that it is in the contemplation of the
founders of the Institution to accept of my services in the arrange
ment and management of it.
    * The gentlemen chosen were. The Earl of Winchelsea, Mr. Wilberforce, The
Rev. Dr. Olnsee, Mr. Sullivan, Mr. Riohard Sulivan, Mr. Colquhoun, Mr. Tarry,
and Mr. Bernard.

                                Introduction.                       xvii
     "The peculiar situation in which I stand in this country, as a
 subject of His Majesty, and being at the same time, by His Majesty's
 special permission, granted under his royal sign manual, engaged in
 the service of a foreign prince, this circumstance renders it improper
for me to engage myself in this important business, notwithstanding
that it might perhaps be considered merely as a private concern,
witheut the knowledge and the approbation of the Government.
    "I am quite certain that my engaging in this, or in any other
business in which there is any prospect of my being of any public use in
this country, will meet with the most cordial approbation of His Most
Serene Highness the Elector Palatine, in whese service I am ; for I
know his sentiments on that subject ; and altheugh I do not imagine
that His Majesty, or His Majesty's Ministers, would disapprove of my
giving my assistance in carrying this scheme into execution, yet I
feel it to be necessary that their approbation sheuld bo asked, and
obtained ; and, if I might be allowed to express my sentiments on
another matter, which, no doubt, has already occurred to every one of
the gentlemen to whem I now address myself, I sheuld say that, in
my opinion, it would not only be proper, but even necessary, to inform
Government of the nature of the scheme that is proposed, and of every
circumstance relative to it, and at the same time to ask their counte
nance and support in carrying it into execution ; for altheugh it may
be allowable, in this free country, for individuals to unite in forming
and executing extensive plans for diffusing useful knowledge, and pro
moting the public good, yet, it appears to me, that no such establish
ment should ever be formed in any country witheut the knowledge and
approbation of the Executive Government.
     " Trusting that you will be so good as to excuse the liberty I take
in making this observation, and that you will consider my doing it as
being intended rather to justify myself, by explaining my principles,
than from any idea of its being necessary, on any other account, I
have the henour to be, with much respect,
                             " Gentlemen,
                                   " Your most obedient and
                                           " Most humble Servant,
                                             (Signed)      " Eumford.
   " Bromptos Bow,* 1th February, 1799."
         (Addressed)
     " To the Gentlemen named by the Committee of the Society for
 Bettering the Condition of the Poor to confer with Count Eumford
on his scheme for forming a new Establishment in London for diffusing
the Knowledge of useful Mechanical Improvements, Ac."
     The Committee above-mentioned having, in the mean time, made
                                  (Thursday.)

xviii                     Proposals for Forming
their Report to the Society for Bettering the Condition and Increasing
 the Comforts of the Poor, that Society came to the following Resolu-
 tion :—
     " At a meeting of the Society for Bettering the Condition and
 Increasing the Comforts of the Poor, on Friday, the 1st of February,
 1799
                               " PRESENT,
                  The Bishop of Durham, in the Chair,
                  Patrick Colquhoun, Esq.,
                  Thomas Bernard, Esq.,
                  William Manning, Esq.,
                  John Sullivan, Esq.,
                  The Rev. Dr. Glasse,
                  John J. Angerstein, Esq.,
                  William Wilrerforce, Esq.,
                  Richard Joseph Sulivan, Esq.,
                  Matthew Martin, Esq., Secretary,
 the Committee appointed to confer with Count Rumford reported,
 that they had had a conference with the Count, and that they were
 satisfied that the Institution proposed by him would be extremely
 beneficial and interesting to the community ; that in order to provide
 the pecuniary funds of the Society at its commencement, it was pro
posed that subscribers of fifty guineas each sheuld be the perpetual
 Proprietors of the Institution, and be entitled each to perpetual trans
ferable tickets for the Lectures, and for admission to the apartments of
 the Institution ; and that as soon as thirty such subscribers offered, it
was proposed to call a meeting of these thirty subscribers, in order
to lay the plan before them, and elect Managers for the Institution.
         " Resolved,
     " That the said Report be approved of, and that it be referred to
the gentlemen of the Select Committee to communicate the outlines
of the plan to the members of the Committee of the Society, and to
 such other persons as they shall think fit, desiring that these whe wish
to have their names inserted among the original subscribers to the
Institution would communicate their wish to the Special Committee.
                             " Extracted from the Minutes,
                                              " M. Martin, Secretary."
     In consequence of this Resolution, a paper was printed by the
gentlemen of the Select Committee, containing the outlines of the
plan, and sent round privately among their friends, and others whem
they theught likely to countenance the scheme, accompanied by a
printed copy of the foregoing Resolution, with a request that these
whe were willing to allow their names to be put down among the
original subscribers and Proprietors of the Institution would be so

                          a Public Institution.
 pood as to communicate their intentions by a letter addressed to
 Thomas Bernard, Esq., at the Foundling.
    The Proposals that were circulated in this manner met with so
much approbation that fifty-eight of the most respectable names * were
sent in before measures could be taken for helding a meeting, and
these successful beginnings encouraged these whe were principally
concerned in forming and bringing forward this plan to make some
alterations in it, and particularly in respect to the time and manner
of cheosing the first set of managers, and in regard to an application
for a charter for the Institution which it has been determined to make
in order to place the establishment on a more solid and more respect
able foundation, and to give full security to the subscribers against all
future claims upon them.
    In this stage of the rusiness, and especially as a meeting of the
subscribers is to be held in a few days for the purpose of determining
what other steps shall be taken for carrying the proposed plan into
execution, I have theught it to be my duty to lay all these particulars
before the subscribers, and at the same time to state to them at length
the general outline of the plan I have taken the liberty to propose,
and in the execution of which, if it sheuld be adopted, 1 am ready to
take any part that the subscribers may wish me to take.
                                                             Rumford.
  Bbompton Row, 4th March, 1799.
                            PROPOSALS, &o.
     The two great objects of the Institution being the speedy and
general diffusion of the knowledge of all new and useful improvements,
in whatever quarter of the world they may originate, and teaching the
application of scientific discoveries to the improvement of arts and
manufactures in this country, and to the increase of domestic comfort
and convenience, these objects will constantly be had in view, not only
in the arrangement and execution of the plan, but also in the future
management of the Institution.
     As much care will be taken to confine the establishment within its
proper limits as to placo it on a solid foundation, and to render it an
ornament to the Capital and an henour to the British nation.
     In the execution of the plan it is proposed to proceed in the
 following manner :—
     A place having been fixed on by the Managers for forming the
 Institution,
     Spacious and airy rooms will be prepared for the reception and
 public exhibition of all such new and mechanical inventions and im-
                     * See a list of these names, p. xxviii.

                            Proposals for Forming
 provements as shall be theught worthy of the public notice, and more
 especially of all such contrivances as shall tend to increase the conve
 niences and comforts of life, to promote domestic economy, to improve
 taste, or to promote useful industry.
      The most perfect models of the full size will be provided and
 exhibited in different parts of this public repository of all such new
 mechanical inventions and improvements as are applicable to the
 common purposes of life. Under this head will be included :—
      Cottage Fire-places, and Kitchen Utensils for Cottagers.
      A complete Kitchen for a Farm-heuse, with all the necessary
          Utensils.
      A complete Kitchen, with Kitchen Utensils, for the family of a
          gentleman of fortune.
      A complete Laundry for a gentleman's family, or for a public
          hespital, including Boilers, Washing - room, Ironing - room,
          Drying-room, &c.
      Several of the most approved German, Swedish, and Russian
          Stoves, for heating rooms and passages.
     In order that these whe visit this establishment may be enabled to
 acquire more just ideas of these various mechanical contrivances, and
 of the circumstances on which their peculiar merit principally depends,
 the machinery exhibited will, as far as it shall be possible, be shown in
 action, or in actual use, and with regard to many of the articles it is
 evident that this can be done witheut any difficulty, and with very
 little additional expense.
      Open Chimney Fire-places on the most approved principles will
          be fitted up as models in the different rooms, and fires will be
          kept constantly burning in them during the cold season.
      Ornamental, as well as economical Grates, for Open Chimney Fire
          places, will also be exhibited ; as also,
      Ornamental Stoves, in the form of elegant Chimney-pieces, for
          halls, drawing-rooms, eating-rooms, &c.
     It is likewise proposed to exhibit working models, on a reduced
scale, of that most curious and most useful machine, the Steam
Engine.
     Of Brewer's Boilers, with improved Fire-places.
     Of Distiller's Coppers, with improved Fire-places and improved
          Condensers.
     Of large Boilers for the kitchens of hespitals, and of Ships'
         Coppers, with improved Fire-places.
     Farther, it is proposed to exhibit, in the repository of the Institu
tion :—
     Models of Ventilators for supplying rooms and ships with fresh
         air.

                            a Public Institution.
    Models of Hot-heuses, with such improvements as can be made in
        their construction.
    Models of Lime-kilns, on various constructions.
    Models of Boilers, Steam-boilers, &c., for preparing food for cattle
        that are stall-fed.
    Models of Cottages on various constructions.
    Spinning-wheels and Looms, on various constructions, for the use
        of the poor, and adapted to their circumstances, together with
        such other machinery as may be useful in giving them employ
        ment at heme.
    Models of all such new-invented Machines and Implements as bid
        fair to be of use in Husbandry.
    Models of Bridges, on various constructions ; together with models
        of all such other machines and useful instruments as the Managers
        of the Institution shall deem worthy of the public notice, and
        proper to be publicly exhibited in the repository of the Insti
         tution.
    It is proposed that each article exhibited sheuld be accompanied
with a detailed account or description of it, properly illustrated by
correct drawings. The name of the maker and the place of his abode
will also be mentioned in this account, together with the price at which
he is willing to furnish the article to buyers.
    In order to carry into effect the second object of the Institution,
namely, teaching the application op science to the useful purposes
or LIFE,
    A lecture-room will be fitted up for philosophical lectures and
experiments, and a complete Laroratory and Philosophical Appa
ratus, with the necessary instruments, will be provided for making
chemical and other philosophical experiment*.
    In fitting up this lecture-room (which will never be used for any
other purpose than for giving lectures in Natural Philosophy and
Philosophical Chemistry) convenient places will be provided and re
served for the subscribers, and care will be taken to warm and light
the room properly, and provide for a sufficient supply of fresh air, so
as to render it comfortable and salubrious.
    In engaging Lecturers for the Institution, care will be taken by
the Managers to invite none but men of the first eminence in science
to officiate in that most important and most distinguished situation ;
and no subjects will ever be permitted to be discussed at these lectures
but such as are strictly scientifical, and immediately connected with
that particular branch of science publicly announced as the subject of
the lecture. The Managers to be responsible for the strict observance
of this regulation.
    In case there sheuld be places to spare in the lecture-room, persons
not subscribers will, on the recommendation of a subscriber, and on
paying a certain small sum to be determined by the Managers, be
permitted to attend the public lectures, or any one or more of them.

 xxii                        Proposals for Forming
     Among the various branches of science that will occasionally be
made the subjects of theso public lectures may be reckened the
 following, viz. These lectures will treat :—
     Of Heat, and its application to the various purposes of life.
     Of the Combustion of Inflammable Bodies, and the relative quan
         tities of Ileat producible by the different substances used as
         fuel.
     Of the Management of Fire and the Economy of Fuel.
     Of the Principles of the Warmth of Clothing.
     Of the Effects of Heat, and of Cold, and of het, and of cold winds,
          on the human body, in sickness and in health.
     Of the Effects of breathing vitiated and confined air.
     Of the Means that may be used to render Dwelling-heuses comfort
         able and salubrious.
     Of the Metheds of procuring and preserving Ice in Summer ; and
         of the best principles for constructing Ice-heuses.
     Of the Means of preserving Food in different seasons and in
         different climates.
     Of the Means of cooling Liquors in het weather, witheut the
          assistance of ice.
     Of Vegetation, and of the specific nature of these effects that are
         produced by Manures ; and of the Art of composing Manures,
         and adapting them to the different kinds of soil.
     Of the nature of these changes that are produced on substances
         used as food in the various processes of cookery.
     Of the nature of these changes which take place in the Digestion
         of Food.
     Of the Chemical Principles of the process of Tanning Leather ;
         and of the objects that must particularly be had in view in
         attempts to improve that most useful art.
     Of the Chemical Principles of the art of making Soap ; of the art
         of Bleaching ; of the art of Dyeing ; and in general of all the
         Mechanical Arts, as they apply to the various branches of
         manufacture.
                   Of the Funds of the Institution.
     It is proposed to raise the money necessary for defraying the
expense of forming this Institution, and also for the future expense
of keeping it up, in the following manner :—
     1st. By the sums subscribed by the original founders, and sole
Proprietors of the Institution, at fifty guineas each person, to be but
once paid.
     2dly. By the sums contributed by these whe shall subscribe for
life, at ten guineas each person, to be but once paid.
     3dly. By the sums contributed by the Annual Subscribers, at two
guineas per annum for each person.

                               a Public Institution.                      xxiii
          4&ly. By the particular donations and legacies that may be
i     expected to be made for the purpose of extending and improving so
      interesting and so useful an Institution ; and,
         Lastly. By the sums that shall be received at the door from
     strangers who shall visit the repository of the Institution, or whe
     shall obtain leave to frequent the philosophical lectures.
      Pbivileges of the Original Surscrirers or Proprietors op the
                                    Institution.
         lmo. These subscribers, whe will never be called upon for any
    further contributions after the sum subscribed (fifty guineas) shall have
    been once paid, will be effectually secured against all future legal
    claims and demands upon them, on account of any debts the Managers
    of the Institution may contract, as a charter for the Institution will
    be applied for and obtained, for the express purpose of providing for
    that security, before any other step shall be taken for carrying this
    plan into execution, and before any part of the money subscribed will
    be demanded.
         2do. Proprietors will not be deemed liable to serve, either as
    Managers or as Visitors, against their consent ; and none will be con
   sidered as candidates for either of these offices, or will be entered on
   the lists as candidates, or be proposed as such, except it be these whe
    shall have previously signified their willingness to serve in one of
   those offices in case of their being elected.
         Stio. For the still greater security of the proprietors, as well as to
   found the Institution on a more solid basis, one-half of the sums sub
   scribed by the original Subscribers and Proprietors of the Institution
   will he permanently vested in the public funds, or in the purchase of
   freehold property, and the annual produce thereof employed in
   defraying the expense of keeping up the Institution.
         4to. Each original Subscriber and Proprietor of the Institution to
   be an hereditary Governor of the Institution—to have a perpetual
   transferable share in all the property belonging to it—to have a voice
   in the election of the Managers of the Institution ; as also in the
   election of the Committee of Visitors—to have moreover two trans
   ferable tickets of perpetual admission into the establishment, and into
   every part of it ; and two transferable tickets of admission to all the
   public philosophical lectures and experiments.
         5to. Altheugh the shares of Proprietors and all the privileges
   annexed to them are hereditary, and are also transferable by sale or by
   donation, yet these to whem such shares are conveyed by sale or
   by donation must, in order to their being rendered capable of helding
   them, have obtained the approbation and consent of the majority of
   the Managers for the time being. These whe shall become possessed
  of these shares by inheritance will not stand in need of the consent of
  the Managers to be qualified to held them, and to enjoy the rights and
  privileges annexed to them.

xxiv                        Proposals for Forming
     6/0. Proprietors' tickets will admit any persons who shall be tho
bearers of them.
     7mo. Proprietors will have the privilege of recommending persons
for admittance to the philosophical lectures and experiments, and the
persons so recommended will be admitted in all cases where there
shall be room for their accommodation, provided that the persons so
admitted conform to the roles and regulations which will be esta
blished by the Managers for the preservation of order and decorum
within the walls of the Institution.
     8vo. No moro than forty per cent, of the sum subscribed by each
Proprietor will be wanted immediately, and the remainder may be
furnished in three equal payments at the expiration of the three next
succeeding half-years ; but it will be in the option of Proprietors to
pay the whole sum of fifty guineas at once if they should prefer doing
it
               Privileges of the Subscribers fob Life.
     Each subscriber of this class will receive one ticket for life, but not
transferable, of free admission into tho Institution, and into every part
of it, together with one other ticket for life, but not transferable, of free
admission to all public philosophical lectures and experiments.
                   Privileges of Annual Subscribers.
     Each Annual Subscriber will receive one ticket for one year, but
not transferable, of admission into the Institution, and into every part
of it ; as also one ticket for one year, but not transferable, of admission
to all the public philosophical lectures and experiments. Subscribers
of this class will moreover have a right of becoming subscribers for
life, on paying at any time within the year for which they subscribe
on additional sum of eight guineas.
         Privileges that are common to Subscribers of all
                              Denominations.
     lmo. Subscribers for life, and Annual Subscribers, as well as the
Proprietors of the Institution, will be entitled to have copies or draw
ings (mado at their own expense however) of any of the models in the
repository, and this even when such copies are designed for the use of
their friends, as well as when they are wanted for their own private
use ; and for their better and more speedy accommodation, workshops
will be prepared, and workmen provided under the direction of the
Managers, for executing such work properly, and at reasonable prices.
And to prevent mistakes, all copies or drawings that shall be made of
the machines, models, and plans lodged in the repository of the Insti
tution, will be examined by persons appointed for that purpose, and
marked with the seal or stamp of the Institution.

                               a Public Institution.                           xxv
     2do. Tradesmen and artificers employed in executing any work
after any of the models lodged in the repository, will, on the recom
mendation of a Proprietor, or of a Subscriber for life, or for one year,
be allowed free access to such model as often as shall be necessary ;
and any workman or artificer so recommended, whe shall be willing to
furnish to buyers any article exhibited in the repository that is in
his line of business, will be allowed to place a specimen of such
article of his manufacture in the repository, with his name and place
of abode attached to it, together with the price at which he can furnish
it, such specimen having been examined and approved by the Managers.
      Of tee Government and Management of the Institution.
       lmo. All the affairs of the Institution will be directed and governed
by nine Managers chesen by and from among the Proprietors of the
Institution.
       2do. For the greater convenience of the Proprietors, and to spare
them the trouble of a General Meeting, all the elections of Managers,
after the first, will be made by ballot, by means of sealed lists of names
 sent in by the Proprietors individually to the Institution, which lists
 will be opened, and the result of the election ascertained and published
 by the united Committees of the Managers and of the Visitors for the
 time being.
       3tio. The first set of Managers will be chesen by the first fifty or
 more original subscribers, at a General Meeting of them to be held for
 that purpose ; and of this first set of Managers three will be chesen to
 serve three years, throe to serve two years, and three to serve one year,
 reckened from the 25th day of March, 1799.
       Ato. All Managers, as well these of the first set as others, will be
 capable of being re-elected witheut limitation.
       5to. The elections of Managers to be made annually on the 25th
 day of the month of March,* and fourteen days previous to each elec
 tion the Managers for the time being will send to each Proprietor
  individually a printed list containing the names of all such of the
  Proprietors as shall have offered or consented to be candidates for
  the places among the Managers that are to be filled up. On this printed
  list which each Proprietor will receive he will indicate the persons to
  whem he gives his suffrage by making a mark with a pen and ink in
  the form of a small cross just before the names of these persons ; and
  this being done, he will seal up the list witheut signing it, and send it to
  the Institution, directed " To the United Committees of the Managers
  and of the Visitors." In order that these lists may be recognized on
  their being returned to the Institution, they will all be marked with
 the stamp of the Institution, previous to their being issued or sent to
 the Proprietors. And for still further security, each Proprietor will
     * If any other season should be theught more convenient for these elections, it
 will of coulee be chesen instead of that here proposed.

                           Proposals for Forming
be requested to send in his or her sealed list of names under an addi
tional cover, signed with his or her own name, which additional cover
will be taken off, and all the sealed lists mixed together in an urn,
previous to any of them being opened—an arrangement that will effec
tually prevent the vote of any individual subscriber being known.
    6to. The Managers aro to serve in that office witheut any pay
or emolument, or pecuniary advantage whatever; and by their
acceptance of their office they shall bo deemed solemnly to pledge
themselves to the Proprietors of the Institution and to the public for
the faithful discharge of their duty as Managers, and also for their
strict adherence to the fundamental principles of the government of
the Institution as established at its formation.
    7mo. The Managers aro to take care that the property of the
Institution, as far as it shall be practicable, be insured against acci-
donts by fire.
    8w. The Managers will cause exact and detailed accounts to be
kept of all the property belonging to the Institution, as also of all
receipts and expenditures. They will also keep regular minutes of
all their proceedings, and will take care to prescrvo the most exact
order and the strictest economy in the management of all the affairs
and concerns of the Institution.
    9mo. The Managers are never, on any pretext, or in any manner
whatever, to dispose of any money or property of any kind belonging
to the Institution in premiums, as the design or object of the Institu
tion is not to give rewards to the authers of ingenious inventions,
but to diffuse the knowledge of such improvements as bid fair to be of
general use, and to facilitate the general introduction of them ; and to
excite and assist the ingenious and the enterprising by the diffusion of
science, and by awakening a spirit of inquiry.
    lOmo. The ordinary meetings of the Managers for the dispatch of
the current business of the Institution will be held weekly, namely, on
every                 , at the heur of               ; and extraordinary
meetings will be held as often as shall be found necessary.
    llroo. Any three or more of the Managers being present at any
ordinary or at an extraordinary meeting, the others having been duly
summoned, to be a quorum.
    12mo. The Managers will be autherized to make all such standing
orders and regulations as they shall deem necessary to the preserva
tion of order and decorum in the Institution, as also such regulations
respecting the manner of transacting the business of the Institution as
they shall think proper and convenient, or that may be necessary in
order to regulate the responsibility of the Managers for their acts and
deeds ; all such standing orders and regulations must, hewever, in
order to their being valid, be approved by six at least of the Managers,
and they must all be published and made known to all the Pro
prietors.

                            a Public Institution.                    xxvii
                     Of the Committee of Visitors.
     lmo. The Committee of Visitors will be composed of nine persons,
 the first set to be elected three months after the opening of the
 Institution.
    2do. Three persons of the nine of which this Committee will
consist will be chesen for three years, three of them to serve two years,
»nd three of them to serve one year, reckened from the 25th of March,
1799.
    3<to. Any three or more of the members of this Committee being
present at any meeting of the Committee, the others having been duly
summoned, to make a quorum.
    4to. It will be the business of this Committee formally to inspect
and examine the Institution, and every part and detail of it, once
every year, namely, on the 25th day of the month of March, and to
give a printed account or report to the Proprietors, and to the sub
scribers of all denominations, of its state and condition, and of the
degree and manner in which it is found to answer the important ends
for which it was designed. This Committee will also once every
year, namely, on the 25th of the month of March, examine and audit
the accounts of the receipts and expenditures of the Institution kept
by the Managers or by their orders ; and the report of the Committee
of Visitors on this audit will always make the first article in their
public annual reports.
     5to. A person actually serving as a Visitor will not be eligible as a
Manager, nor can his name be put on the list of candidates for that
office till ono whele year shall have elapsed after he shall have ceased
to belong to the Committee of Visitors. These, hewever, whe serve
as Visitors will be capable of being re-elected on that Committee with
 out limitation.
                        Miscellaneous Articles.
      lmo. The Managers will take care to procure, and to exhibit in
 the repository, as early as possible, models of all such new and useful
 mechanical inventions and improvements as shall, from time to time,
 be made in this or in any other country.
      Ido. All presents to the Institution, and all new purchases and
 acquisitions of every kind, will be and remain the joint property of
 the Proprietors of the Institution, and of their heirs and assigns, and
 all the surplus of the income of the Institution, over and above what
 shall be found necessary for maintaining it and keeping it up, will be
 employed by the Managers in making additions to the local accommo
 dations of the Institution, or in augmenting the collection of models,
 or in making additions to the philosophical apparatus, accordingly
 as the Managers of the Institution for the time being shall deem most
 useful.
     3tio. In order that the Proprietors of the Institution, and the sub
 scribers, may have the earliest notice of all new discoveries and useful

 xxviii          Proposals for Forming a Public Institution.
 improvements that shall be made, from time to time, not only in this
 country, but also in all the different parts of the world, the Managers
 will employ the proper means for obtaining, as early as possible, from
 every part of the British Empire, and from all foreign countries,
 authentic accounts of all such new and interesting discoveries in the
 various branches of science, and in arts and manufactures, and also of
 all such new and useful mechanical improvements as shall be made ;
 and a room will be set apart in the Institution where all such informa
 tion will be lodged, and where it will be kept for the solo and exclu
 sive use and inspection of the Proprietors and subscribers, and where
 no stranger will ever be admitted.
                              SUPPLEMENT.
     Sinco the foregoing sheets were printed off and distributed among
 the original subscribers, a meeting of the subscribers has been held,
 when the following Resolutions were unanimously taken: —
                             " INSTITUTION
for diffusing the Knowledge, and facilitating the general Introduction of
 useful Mechanical Inventions and Improvements ; and for teaching, by
 Courses of Philosophical Lectures and Experiments, the Application of
 Science to the common Purposes of Life.
     " At a General Meeting of the Proprietors, held at the heuse of
the Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., K.B., in Sohe Square,
on the 7th day of March, 1799,
        " The Right Hon. SIB JOSEPH BANKS in the Chair,
" the following list of the Proprietors, and original subscribers of fifty
guineas each, was read :—
Sir Rorert Ainslie, Bart.              George Ellis, Esq., M.P.
J. J. Angerstein, Esq.                 Joseph Grote, Esq.
Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, K.B.      Sir Rorert Bateson Harvey, BarL
Thomas Bernard, Esq.                   Sir John Cox Hippesley, Bart.
Scropk Bernard, Esq., M.P.             Henry Hoarf., Esq.
The Earl op Besrorough.                Lord Horart.
Rowland Burdon, Esq., M.P.             Lord Holland.
James Burton, Esq.                     Henry Hope, Esq.
Timothy Brent, Esq.                    Thomas HorE, Esq.
Henry Cavendish, Esq.                  Lord Keith, K.B.
Rich. Clark, Esq., Chamb. of London.   William LusmNGTON, Esq., M.P.
Sir John Colpoys, K.B.                 Sir John Macpherson, Bart., M.P.
John Craufurdj Esq.                    William Manning, Esq., M.P.
The Duke of Devonshire, E.G.           The Earl of Mansfield.
Andrew Douglas, Esq.                   The Earl of Morton, K.T.
The Lord Bishop of Durham.             Lord Ossulston.
Tho Earl of Egremont.                  Thomas Palmer, Esq.

                                 Supplement.                           xxix
  The Lord Viscount Palmerston, M.P.    Sir George Staunton, Bart.
  Eowird Parry, Est].                   John Sullivan, Esq.
  Bight Hon. Thomas Peuiak, M.P.        Richard Joseph Suliyan, Esq.
 Jpkx Pknn, Esq.                        Lord Teignmouth.
 William Morton Pitt, Esq., M.P.        John Thomson, Esq.
 Sir James Pulteney, Bart., MP.         Samuel Thornton, Esq., M.P.
 Sik John Buchanan Biddell, Bnrt.       Henry Thornton, Esq., M.P.
 Count Rumford.                         George Vansittart, Esq., M.P.
Sir John Sinclair, Bart., M.P.          SVlLLIaM WlLBERFORCE, Esq., M.P.
LOBD SoMEBYILLR.                        The Earl op Winchei.sea.
John Spalding, Eeq.. M.P.               Hon. James Stuart Wortley, M.P.
The Earl Spencer, K.G.                  Sir William Young, Bart., M.P.
         " The following Resolutions were agreed to unanimously :—
     " L—That before any measures aro taken for carrying the plan
into execution, a petition be presented to His Majesty, praying that
he would be graciously pleased to grant a Charter to the Institu
tion.
     " H.—That an outline of the plan be laid before the Right Honour
able Mr. Pitt and His Grace the Duke of Portland,
     " HI.—That, for these purposes, it is expedient to elect the Com
mittee of Managers.
     " IV.—That the following Proprietors (who have agreed to serve in
case (hey shall be elected) be now elected as the first Managers of the
Institution :—
                              For three years.
                      The Earl Spencer.
                      Count Rumford.
                      Richard Clare, Esq.
                               For two years.
                      The Earl of Eoremont.
                      Rt. Hon. 8m Joseph Banks.
                      Rich. Joseph Sulivan, Esq.
                                For one year.
                      The Earl of Morton.
                      The Rt. Hon. Thomas Pelham.
                      Thomas Bernard, Esq.                          ,
      " V.—That the said Managers be desired to solicit a Charter for
the Institution, upon principles conformable to the Proposals which
have been printed and distributed, and (as soon as the Charter is
obtained) to publish the plan for the benefit of the public, in such
manner as they shall deem most expedient ; and also to take prepara
tory measures for opening the Institution.
      " That these Resolutions be inserted in the public papers.
                                               "Jos. Banks, Chairman."

xxx             Proposals for Forming a Public Institution.
     Sir Joseph Banks having quitted the Chair,
         " Resolved,
     " That the thanks of the Meeting be given to him for his conduct
 in the Chair."
     " N.B.—Count Rumford's original Proposals for forming the Insti
 tution may be had of Messrs. Cadell and Davies, in the Strand."
     Sinco this Mooting of the Proprietors, a Mooting of the Managers
 has been held, and the following Resolutions taken :—
     " At the first meeting of the Managers of the Institution, held at
 the house of the Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks, in Sohe Square,
 the 9th of March, 1799 :
     " Ou a motion made by Count Rumford,
     " I.—Resolved, That Sir Josepii Banks be requested to take the
 Chair ; and that he do continue to preside at all future Meetings of
 the Managers, until a Charter shall have been obtained from His
Majesty for the Institution.
     " II.—Resolved, That all Acts and Deeds of the Managers, in
carrying on the business of the Institution, be transacted and done in
the name of ' Tlie Managers of the Institution.'
     " HI.—Resolved, That at each Meeting of the Managers, one of
the Managers present be elected by a majority of these present, to act
as Secretary to the Managers at that Meeting.
     " IV.—Resolved, That the Minutes of the Proceedings of each
Meeting of the Managers for the dispatch of the business of tho Insti
tution, as well as all Orders, Resolutions, and other Acts and Deeds of
the Managers, be signed by the person whe acts as President, and also
by the person whe acts as Secretary at the Meeting at which such
business is transacted.
    " V.—-Resolved, That the persons present at this Meeting do now
proceed to make cheice of one of their number to act as Secretary at
the present Meeting.
    " VI.—Resolved, That Thomas Bernard, Esq., is duly elected to
act as Secretary at the present Meeting.
    " VII.—Resolved, That the Proposals for forming the Institution,
as published by Count Rumford, be approved and adopted by the
Managers, subject, hewever, to such partial modifications as shall bo
by them found to be necessary or useful.
    " VIn.—Resolved, That the Earl of Morton, the Earl Spencer,
Sir Joseph Banks, and Mr. Pelham, or any one or more of them, be

                                  Supplement.                          xxxi
requested to lay the Proposals for forming the Institution before HIS
MAJESTY and the ROYAL FAMILY, and before His Majesty's
Ministers and the Great Officers of State.
     u IX.—Resolved, That the Proposals for forming the Institution
be laid before the Memrers of roth Houses of Parliament, and also
before the members of His Majesty's Most Honourarle Privy
Council, and the twelve Judges.
      " Messrs. Cadell and Davies, booksellers in the Strand, having
generously offered to make a donation to the Institution of 500 copies
of the original Proposals for forming the Institution, published by
Count Rumford :
      " X.—Resolved, That the thanks of the Managers be given to
Messrs. Cadell and Davies for this donation ; that it be accepted ; and
that these 500 copies of the Proposals be distributed among such
persons as the Managers may think most likely to give their assistance
in forming the Institution."
       Altheugh the auther of the foregoing Proposals is anxious to avoid
every appearance of taking a liberty with his readers which he is very
sensible he has no right to take, and which would be improper on
many accounts, —that of soliciting as a favour their countenance and
support in carrying into execution the plan he has had the henour to
lay before them, yet as it is possible that some of these whe may read
 these Proposals may be disposed to give that assistance in some one or
 more of the various ways in which it can bo given and received, to save
 trouble to these whe may be so disposed, the two following leaves, which,
 when taken out of this pamphlet, will form an open letter, are annexed
 to this publication, which paper being divided into separate columns,
 distinguished according to the different heads under which the sub
 scriptions can be regularly entered, these whe are disposed to contri
 bute to the execution of the plan are requested to put down their
 names and places of abode in the column they may cheose, and after
 sealing up the paper with a wafer, send it according to its address.
        These whe are desirous of becoming Proprietors of the Institution
  are requested to consider themselves as candidates for Proprietors'
  places until they shall have been elected as such by a majority of the
  Managers.
       These whe put down their names in the lists as Subscribers for life,
  or as Annual Subscribers, will not be called upon for the sums subscribed
  till after the Institution shall have been opened
       These whe make donations to the Institution are requested to fix
 the time or periods when the sums proposed to be given may be called
 for by the Managers.

   To
             The Bight Honourable Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., K.B.
                                                                      Soho Squarp.
Names and Places of Abode op Persons who are willing to contribute
     towards forming and maintaining a public institution fob
     diffusing the knowledge and facilitating the general introduction
     of useful Mechanical Inventions and Improvements, &c.
   Candidates for Proprietors'  Subscribers for Life at 10 Annual Subscribers at 2 Guineas
   Shares at 50 Guineas each.         Guineas each.                    each.
    Those who are desirous of making DONATIONS to the Institution are
requested to put down their Names and Places of Abode, together with the sums
they are willing to give, on the opposite side of this leaf.

             Eopal Institution of <£reat ISritain.
                                         1870.
                      WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, January 21, 1870.
       Sis He.vby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                                     in the Chair.
                       John Tyndall, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S.
                PROFFJv<iK OF NATCKAL PHILOSOPHY IS THR 1IOTAL INSTITUTION,
                                 On Dust and Disease.
Solar light in passing through a dark room reveals its track by
iUnniiriating the dust floating in the air. " The sun," says Daniel
Culverwell, " discovers atomes, though they be invisible by candle
light, and makes thorn dance naked in his beams." *
     In my researches on the decomposition of vapours by light I was
compelled to remove these " atomes " and this dust. It was essential
that the space containing the vapours should embrace no visible thing ;
that no substance capable of scattering the light in the slightest sen
sible degree should, at the outset of an experiment, be found in the
" experimental tube " traversed by the luminous beam.
     For a long time I was troubled by the appearance there of floating
dust, which though invisible in diffuse daylight was at once revealed
by a powerfully condensed beam. Two tubes were placed in succession
in the path of the dust : the one containing fragments of glass wetted
with concentrated sulphuric acid ; the other, fragments of marble
wetted with a strong solution of caustic potash. To my astonishment
it passed through both. The air of the Royal Institution sent through
 these tubes at a rate sufficiently slow to dry it, and to remove its
 carbonic acid, carried into the experimental tube a considerable amount
 of mechanically suspended matter, which was illuminated when the
 beam passed through the tube. The effect was substantially the same
 when the air was permitted to bubble through the liquid acid and
 through the solution of potash. The core of the bubble does not
 touch the acid, and even the dust particles which come into contact with
 the acid require time to be wetted by it. When left sufficiently long
 in contact with the acid, the particles are destroyed.
      Thus, on the 5th of October, 1868, successive charges of air were
 admitted through the potash and sulphuric acid into the exhausted
     * On a day of transient shadows there is something almost magical in the rise
 and dissolution of the luminous beams among the sonffnlding poles of the Royal
  Albert Hall.
      Vol. VI. (No. 52.)                                                    b

2                                 Professor Tyndall                            [Jan. 21,
experimental tube. Prior to the admission of the air the tube was
optically empty ; it contained nothing competent to scatter the light.
After the air had entered the tube, the conical track of the electric
beam was in all cases clearly revealed. This indeed was a daily
observation at the time to which I now refer.
     I tried to intercept this floating matter in various ways ; and on the
day just mentioned, prior to sending the air through the drying
apparatus, I carefully permitted it to pass over the tip of a spirit-lamp
flame. The floating matter no longer appeared, having been burnt up
by the flame. It was therefore of organic origin. I was by no means
prepared for this result ; for I had theught that the dust of our air
was, in great part, inorganic and non-combustible.
     Mr. Valentin had the kindness to procure for me a small gas-
furnace containing a platinum tube, which could be heated to vivid
redness.* The tube also contained a roll of platinum gauze, which,
while it permitted the air to pass through it, ensured the practical
contact of the dust with the incandescent metal. The air of the
laboratory was permitted to enter the experimental tube, sometimes
through the cold, and sometimes through the heated, tube of platinum.
The rapidity of admission was also varied. In the first column of the
following Table the quantity of air operated on is expressed by the
number of inches which the mercury gauge of the air-pump sank when
the air entered. In the second column the condition of the platinum
tube is mentioned, and in the third the state of the air which entered
the experimental tube.
      Quantity of Air.      State of Platinum Tube.       State of Experimental Tube.
         15 inches                  Cold                       Full of particles.
         15 „                       Red-het                    Optically empty.
     The phrase " optically empty " shews that when the conditions of
perfect combustion were present, the floating matter totally disappeared.
It was whelly burnt up, leaving no sensible residue. The experiment
was repeated many times with the samo invariable result.
     The particles floating in the air of London being thus proved to
be of organic origin,^ I sought to burn them up at the focus of a concave
reflector. One of the powerfully convergent mirrors employed in my
experiments on combustion by dark rays was here made use of, but I
failed in the attempt. Doubtless the floating particles are in part
    * Pasteur was, I believe, the first to employ such a tube.
    t According to an analysis kindly furnished to me by Dr. Percy, the dust
collected from the walls of the British Museum contains fully 50 per cent, of
inorganic matter. I have every confidence in the results of this distinguished
chemist ; they shew that the /hating dust of our rooms is. as it were, winnowed
from the heavier matter. As bearing directly upon this point I may quote the
following passage from Pasteur :—" Mais ici se presente une remarque : la
poussiere que Ton trouve a la surface de tous les corps est soumise constamment a
des courants d'air, qui doivent soulever ses particules les plus le'gtres, au nombre
desquelles so trouvent, sans doute, de pre'fe'rencc les corpuscules organises, oeufs ou
spores, moins lourds ge'ne'ralement que les particules mine'rales."

                            on Dust and Disease.
 transparent to radiant heat, and are so far incombustible by such beat
Their rapid motion through the focus also aids their escape. They do
aot linger there sufficiently long to be consumed. A flame it was
evident would burn them up, but I thought the presence of the flame
would mask its own action among the particles.
     In a cylindrical beam, which powerfully illuminated the dust of
the laboratory, was placed an ignited spirit-lamp. Mingling with the
flame, and round its rim, were seen wreaths of darkness resembling
an intensely black smoke. On lowering the flame below the beam
the same dark masses stormed upwards. They were at times blacker
than the blackest smoke that I have ever seen issuing from the funnel of
a steamer ; and their resemblance to smoke was so perfect as to lead the
most practised observer to conclude that the apparently pure flame of
the alcohol lamp required but a beam of sufficient intensity to reveal
its clouds of liberated carbon.
     But is the blackness smoke ? This question presented itself in a
moment. A red-hot poker was placed underneath the beam, and from
it the black wreaths also ascended. A large hydrogen flame was next
employed, and it produced those whirling masses of darkness far more
copiously than either the spirit-flame or poker. Smoke was therefore
out of the question.
     What then was the blackness ? It was simply that of stellar space ;
that is to say, blackness resulting from the absence from the track of
the beam of all matter competent to scatter its light. When the flame
was placed below the beam the floating matter was destroyed in situ ;
and the air, freed from this matter, rose into- the beam, jostled aside
 the illuminated particles, and substituted for their light the darkness
 due to its own perfect transparency. Nothing could more forcibly
 illustrate the invisibility of the agent which renders all things visible.
 The beam crossed, unseen, the black chasm formed by the transparent
 air, while at both sides of the gap the thick-strewn particles shone
 oat like a luminous solid under the powerful illumination.
      But here a difficulty meets us. It is not necessary to burn the
  particles to produce a stream of darkness. Without actual combustion,
  currents may be generated which shall exclude the floating matter,
 and therefore appear dark amid the surrounding brightness. I noticed
  this effect first on placing a red-hot copper ball below the beam, and
  permitting it to remain there until its temperature had fallen below
  that of boiling water. The dark currents, though much enfeebled,
  were still produced. They may also be produced by a flask tilled
  with hot water.
      To study this effect a platinum wire was stretched across the beam,
  the two ends of the wire being connected with the two poles of a
  voltaic battery. To regulate the strength of the current a rheostat
  was placed in the circuit. Beginning with a feeble current the
   temperature of the wire was gradually augmented ; but before it
  reached the heat of ignition, a flat stream of air rose from it, which
   when looked at edgeways appeared darker and sharper than one of

-i                          Professor TyndaU                      [Jan. 21,
 the blackest lines of Fraunhefer in the solar spectrum. Right and
left of this dark vertical band the floating matter rose upwards,
 bounding definitely the non-luminous stream of air. What is the
explanation ? Simply this. The het wire rarefied the air in contact
with it, but it did not equally lighten the floating matter. The con
vection current of pure air therefore passed upwards among the inert
particles, dragging them after it right and left, but forming between
 them an impassable black partition. This elementary experiment
enables us to render an account of the dark curronts produced by
bodies at a temporature below that of combustion.
     When the wire is whito het, it sends up a band of intense darkness.
 This, I say, is due to the destruction of the floating matter. But even
 when its temperature does not exceed that of boiling water the wire
produces a dark ascending current. This, I say, is duo to the distri
 bution of the floating matter. Imagine the wire clasped by the mote-
 filled air. My idea is that it heats the air and lightens it, witheut
 in the same degree lightening the floating matter. The tendency,
 therefore, is to start a current of clean air through the mote-filled air.
 Figure the motion of the air all round the wire. Looking at its
transverse section we sheuld see the air at the bottom of the wire
bending round it right and left in two branch currents, ascending its
sides and turning to fill the partial vacuum created above the wire.
Now as each new supply of air filled with its motes comes in contact
with the het wire, the clean air, as just stated, is first started through
the inert motes. They are dragged after it, but there is a fringe of
cleansed air in advance of the motes. The two purified fringes of the
two branch currents unite above the wire, and, keeping the motes that
once belonged to them right and left, they form by their union the
dark band observed in the experiment. This process is incessant.
Always the moment the mote-filled air touches the wire this dis
tribution is effected, a permanent dark band being thus produced.
Could the air and the particles under the wire pass through its
mass we sheuld have a vertical current of particles, but no dark
band. For here, theugh the motes would be left behind at starting,
they would hetly follow the ascending current and thus abolish the
darkness.
     It has been said that when the platinum wire is intensely heated,
the floating matter is not only distributed, but destroyed. Let this
be proved. I stretched a wire about 4 inches long through the air of
an ordinary glass shade resting on its stand. Its lower rim rested on
cotton wool, which also surrounded the rim. The wire was raised to
a white heat by an eloctric current. The air expanded, and some of
it was forced through the cotton wool, while when the current was
interrupted and the air within the shade cooled, the expelled air in its
return did not carry motes along with it. At the beginning of this
experiment the shade was charged with floating matter ; at the end of
half an heur it was optically empty.
     On the wooden base of a cubical glass shade measuring 11^ inches

  1870.]                     on Dust and Disease.                         5
 a side, upright supports were fixed, and from one support to the other
 38 inches of platinum wire were stretched in four parallel lines. The
 ends of the platinum wire were soldered to two stout copper wires
which passed through the base of the shade and could be connected
with a battery. As in the last experiment the shade rested upon
cotton wool. A beam sent through the shade revealed the suspended
matter. The platinum wire was then raised to whiteness. In five
minutes there was a sensible diminution of the matter, and in ten
minutes it was totally consumed. This proves that when the platinum
wire is sufficiently heated, the floating matter, instead of being distri
buted, is destroyed.
     But is not the matter really of a character which permits of its
destruction by the moderately heated platinum wire also ? Here is
the reply :—
     1. A platinum tube with its plug of platinum gauze was connected
with an experimental tube, through which a powerful beam could be
sent from an electric lamp placed at its end. The platinum tube was
heated till it glowed feebly but distinctly in the dark. The experi
mental tube was exhausted and then filled with air which had passed
through the red-het tube. A considerable amount of floating matter
which had escaped combustion was revealed by the electric beam.
     2. The tube was raised to brighter redness and the air permitted
to pass slowly through it. Theugh diminished in quantity, a certain
amount of floating matter passed into the exhausted experimental tube.
      3. The platinum tube was rendered still hetter ; a barely percep
 tible trace of the floating matter now passed through it.
      4. The experiment was repeated, with the difference that the air
 was sent more slowly through the red-het tube. The floating matter
 was totally destroyed.
      5. The platinum tube was now lowered until it bordered upon a
 visible red heat. The air sent through it still more slowly than in the
 last experiment carried with it a cloud of floating matter.
      If then the suspended matter is destroyed by a bright red heat,
  much more is it destroyed by a flame whese temperature is vastly
  higher than any here employed. So that the blackness introduced
  into a luminous beam where a flame is placed beneath it is due, as
  stated, to the destruction of the suspended matter. At a dull red heat,
  hewever, and still more when only on the vergo of redness, the plati
  num tube permitted the motes to pass freely. In the latter case the
  temperature was 800° or 900° Fahr. This was unable to destroy the
  suspended matter ; much loss, therefore, would a platinum wire heated
  to 212~ be competent to do so. Such a wire can only distribute the
  matter, not destroy it.
       The floating dust is revealed by intense local illumination. It is
  seen by contrast with the adjacent illuminated space ; the brighter the
  illumination the more sensible is the difference. Now the beam em
  ployed in the foregoing experiments is not of the same brightness
  througheut its entire transverse section. Pass a white switch, or an

G                          Professor Tyndall                   [Jan. 21,
ivory paper-cutter, rapidly across the beam, the impression of its
section will linger on the retina. The section seems to float for a
moment in the air as a luminous circle with a rim much brighter than
its central portion. The core of the beam is thus seen to be enclosed
by an intensely luminous sheath. An effect complementary to this is
observed when the beam is intersected by the dark band from the pla
tinum wire. The brighter the illumination, the greater must be the
relative darkness consequent on the withdrawal of the light. Hence the
cross section of the sheath surrounds the dark band as a darker ring.
     Oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbonic acid, so prepared as to ex
clude all floating particles, produce the darkness when poured or
blown into the beam. Coal-gas does the same. An ordinary glass
shade placed in the air with its mouth downwards permits tho track of
the beam to be seen crossing it. Let coal-gas or hydrogen enter the
shade by a tube reaching to its top, the gas gradually fills the shade
from the top downwards. As soon as it occupies the space crossed by
the beam, the luminous track is instantly abolished. Lifting the shade
so as to bring the common boundary of gas and air above the beam, the
track flashes forth. After tho shade is full, if it be inverted, the gas
passes upwards like a black smoke among the illuminated particles.
     The air of our London rooms is loaded with this organic dust, nor
is the country air free from its pollution. However ordinary daylight
may permit it to disguise itself, a sufficiently powerful beam causes
tho air in which the dust is suspended to appear as a semi-solid rather
than as a gas. Nobody could, in the first instance, witheut repugnance
place the mouth at the illuminated focus of the electric beam and
inhale the dirt revealed there. Nor is the disgust abolished by the
reflection that, although we do not see the nastiness, we are churning
it in our lungs every heur and minute of our lives. There is no
respite to this contact with dirt ; and the wonder is, not that we
should from time to time suffer from its presence, but that so small a
portion of it would appear to bo deadly to man.
    And what is this portion? It was some time ago the current
belief that epidemic diseases generally were propagated by a kind of
malaria, which consisted of organic matter in a state of motor-decay ;
that when such matter was taken into the body through the lungs or
skin, it had the power of spreading there the destroying process which
had attacked itself. Such a spreading power was visibly exerted in
the case of yeast. A little leaven was seen to leaven the wholo
lump, a mere speck of matter in this supposed state of decomposition
being apparently competent to propagate indefinitely its own decay.
Why sheuld not a bit of rotten malaria work in a similar manner
within the human frame? In 1836 a very wonderful reply was
given to this question. In that year Cagniard de la Tour discovered
the yeast plant, a living organism, which when placed in a proper
medium feeds, grows, and reproduces itself, and in this way carries on
the process which we name fermentation. Fermentation was thug
proved to be a product of life instend of a process of decay.

  1870.]                          on Dust and Disease.                               7
      Schwann, of Berlin, discovered the yeast plant independently ; and
 in February, 1837, he also announced the important result, that when
a decoction of meat is effectually screened from ordinary air, and
supplied solely with calcined air, putrefaction never sets in. Putre
faction, therefore, he affirmed to be caused by something derived from
the air, which something could be destroyed by a sufficiently high
temperature. The experiments of Schwann were repeated and con
firmed by Helmholtz, lire, and Pasteur. But as regards fermentation,
the minds of chemists, influenced probably by the great autherity of
Gay-Lussac, whe ascribed putrefaction to the action of oxygen, fell
back upon the old notion of matter in a state of decay. It was not the
living yeast plant, but the dead or dying parts of it, which, assailed by
oxygen, produced the fermentation. This notion was finally exploded
by Pasteur. He proved that the so-called " ferments " are not such ;
that the true ferments are organized beings which find in the reputed
ferments their necessary food.
      Side by side with these researches and discoveries, and fortified by
them and others, has run the germ theory of epidemic disease.* The
notion was expressed by Kircher, and favoured by Linnaeus, that
epidemic diseases are due to germs which float in the atmosphere,
enter the body, and produce disturbance by the development within
the body of parasitic life. While it was still struggling against
great odds, this theory found an expounder and a defender in the
 President of this Institution. At a time when most of his medical
 brethren considered it a wild dream, Sir Henry Holland contended
 that some form of the germ theory was probably true. The strength
 of this theory consists in the perfect parallelism of the phenomena of
 contagious disease with these of life. As a planted acorn gives birth to
 an oak competent to produce a whele crop of acorns, each gifted with
 the power of reproducing its parent tree ; and as thus from a single
 seedling a whele forest may spring : so, it is urged, these epidemic
  diseases literally plant their seeds, grow, and shake abroad new germs,
  which, meeting in the human body their proper food and temperature,
  finally take possession of whele populations. Thus Asiatic chelera,
  beginning in a small way in the Delta of the Ganges, contrived in
  seventeen years to spread itself over nearly the whele habitablo
  world. The development from an infinitesimal speck of the virus of
  small-pox of a crop of pustules, each charged with the original poison,
  is another illustration. The reappearance of the scourge, as in the
  case of the 'Dreadnought' at Greenwich, reported on so ably by
  Dr. Budd and Mr. Busk, receives a satisfactory explanation from the
  theory which ascribes it to the lingering of germs about the infected
  place.
        Surgeons have long known the danger of permitting air to enter
  an opened abscess. To prevent its entrance they employ a tubo
       * Nobody is likely to infer from this language that tlie speaker lays any claim
   to the authership of the germ theory.

s                            Professor Tyndedl                  | Jan. 21,
called a cannula, to which is attached a sharp steel point called a
trocar. They puncture with the steel point, and by gentle pressure
they force the pus through the cannula. It is necessary to be very
careful in cleansing the instrument ; and it is difficult to see hew it
can be cleansed by ordinary metheds in air loaded with organic im
purities, as we have proved onr air to be. The instrument ought, in
fact, to be made as het as its temper will bear. But this is not done ;
and hence, notwithstanding all the surgeon's care, inflammation often
sets in after the first operation, rendering necessary a second and a
third. Rapid putrefaction is found to accompany this new inflamma
tion. The pus, moreover, which was sweet at first, and shewed no trace
of animal life, is now fetid, and swarming with active little organisms
called vibrios. Professor Lister, from whese recent able lecture this
fact is derived, contends, with the strongest show of reason, that this
rapid putrefaction and this astounding development of animal life
 are due to the entry of germs into the abscess during the first opera
tion, and their subsequent nurture and development under favourable
conditions of food and temperature. The celebrated physiologist and
physicist Helmheltz is attacked annually by hay-fever. From the
 20th of May to the end of Juno he suffers from a catarrh of the upper
air-passages ; and he has found during this period, and at no other,
that his nasal secretions are peopled by these vibrios. They appear
to nestle by preference in the cavities and recesses of the nose, for a
 strong sneeze is necessary to dislodge them.
     These statements sound uncomfortable ; but by disclosing our
enemy they enable us to fight him. When he clearly eyes his quarry
the eagle's strength is doubled, and his swoop is rendered sure. If
the germ theory be proved true, it will give a definiteness to our
efforts to stamp out disease which they could not previously possess.
And it is only by definite effort under its guidance that its truth or
falseheod can be established. It is difficult for an outsider like
myself to read witheut sympathetic emotion such papers as these of
Dr. Budd, of Bristol, on Chelera, Scarlet-fever, and Small-pox. He
is a man of strong imagination, and may occasionally take a flight
beyond his facts ; but witheut this dynamic heat of heart the stolid
inertia of the free-born Briton cannot be overcome. And as long as
the heat is employed to warm up the truth witheut singeing it over
much ; as long as this enthusiasm can overmatch its mistakes by
unequivocal examples of success, so long am I disposed to give it
a fair field to work in, and to wish it God speed.
     But let us return to our dust. It is needless to remark that it
cannot be blown away by an ordinary bellows ; or, more correctly,
the place of the particles blown away is in this case supplied by
others ejected from the bellows, so that the track of the beam re
mains unimpaired. But if the nozzle of a good bellows be filled with
cotton wool not too tightly packed, the air urged through the wool is
filtered of its floating matter, and it then forms a clean band of dark
ness in the illuminated dust. This was the filter used by Schroeder

 1870.]                      on Dust and Disease.                         9
 in his experiments on spontaneous generation, and turned subsequently
to account in the excellent researches of Pasteur. Since 1868 I have
constantly employed it myself.
     But by far the most interesting and important illustration of this
filtering process is furnished by the humun breath. I fill my lungs
with ordinary air and breathe through a glass tube across the elec
tric beam. The condensation of the aqueous vapour of the breath
is shewn by the formation of a luminous white cloud of delicate
texture. It is necessary to abolish this cloud, and this may be done
by drying the breath previous to its entering into the beam ; or, still
more simply, by warming the glass tube. When this is done the
luminous track of the beam is for a time uninterrupted. The breath
impresses upon the floating matter a transverse motion, the dust from
the lungs making good the particles displaced. But after some time
an obscure disc appears upon the beam, the darkness of which increases,
until finally, towards the end of the expiration, the beam is, as it
were, pierced by an intensely black hele, in which no particles what
ever can be discerned. The air, in fact, has so lodged its dirt within
the passage to the lungs as to render the last portions of the expired
breath absolutely free from suspended matter. This experiment may
be repeated any number of times with the same result. It renders
the distribution of the dirt within the air-passages as manifest as if
the chest were transparent.
      I now empty my lungs as perfectly as possible, and placing a
handful of cotton wool against my mouth and nostrils, inhale through
it. There is no difficulty in thus filling the lungs with air. On ex
 piring this air through the glass tube, its freedom from floating matter
 is at once manifest. From the very beginning of the act of expiration
 the beam is pierced by a black aperture. The first puff from the
 lungs abolishes the illuminated dust and puts a patch of darkness in its
 place ; and the darkness continues througheut the entire course of the
 expiration. When the tube is placed below the beam and moved to
 and fro, the same smoke-like appearance as that obtained with a flame
 is observed. In shert, the cotton wool, when used in sufficient
 quantity, completely intercepts the floating matter on its way to the
lungs.
      The application of these experiments is obvious. If a physician
 wishes to hold back from the lungs of his patient, or from his own, the
 germs by which contagious disease is said to be propagated, he will
 employ a cotton wool respirator. After the revelations of this evening
 such respirators must, I think, come into general use as a defence against
 contagion. In the crowded dwellings of the London poor, where the
  isolation of the sick is difficult, if not impossible, the noxious air
  around the patient may, by this simple means, be restored to practical
  purity. Thus filtered, attendants may breathe the air unharmed. In
  all probability the protection of the lungs will be the protection of the
  entire system. For it is exceedingly probable that the germs which
  lodge in the air-passages, and which, at their leisure, can work their

  10                         Professor Tyndall                     [Jan. 21,
 way across the mucous membrane, are these which sow in the body
 epidemic disease. If this be so, then disease can certainly be warded
 off by filters of cotton wool. I sheuld be most willing to test their
 efficacy in my own person. And timo will decide whether in lung
 diseases also the woollon respirator cannot abate irritation, if not arrest
 decay. M. Pasteur, for whese work in connection with this subject I
 entertain a very high admiration, has shewn that the germs diminish
 as we ascend a mountain. By means of a cotton-wool respirator, so far
 as the germs are concerned, the air of the highest Alps may be brought
 into the chamber of the invalid. Fifty different occupations might be
 named in which irritation of the lungs and injured health arise from
 the inhalation of dust. A properly constructed air-filter of cotton
 wool would entirely abolish the evil. Such a filter, properly con
 structed, would also be found effectual in wanning the air. Provision
 ought to be made for the frequent removal of the cotton, the cost of
 which is practically nil.
     The question of " Spontaneous generation " is intimately con
 nected with our present subject. On this point a kind of polar
 antagonism has long existed between different classes of investiga
 tors. Van Helmont gave a receipt for the manufacture of mice, and it
 was for ages firmly believed that the maggots in putrefying flesh
 were spontaneously produced. Redi, a member of the famous
 Academy del Cimento, destroyed this notion by proving that it was
 only necessary to protect the meat by a covering of gauze to prevent
 the reputed generation. In 1745 two very able mon, Needham and
 Spallanzani, took opposite sides in the discussion, the former affirming
 and the latter denying the fact of spontaneous generation. At the
beginning of our own century, we find on the affirmative side Lamarck,
Oken, and J. Miiller ; and on the negativo Schwann, Schultze, and
Ehrenberg. The chief representatives of the two opposing parties in
our day are Pouchet and Pasteur.
     The methed of inquiry pursued in this discourse will, I think,
help to clear the field of discussion. The experimenters do not seem
to have been by any means fully aware of the character of the atmo
sphere in which they worked ; for if this had been the case, some of
the experiments recorded would never have been made. For example,
to make the destruction of atmospheric germs doubly sure, M.
Pouchet, the distinguished supporter of the doctrine of spontaneous
generation, burnt hydrogen in air and collected the water produced by
the combustion. Even in this water he afterwards found organisms.
But supposing he had seen, as you have, the manner in which the air
is clouded with floating matter, would he have concluded that the
deportment of water which had been permitted to trickle through
such air could have the least influence in deciding this great question ?
I think not. Here is a quantity of water produced and collected
exactly as M. Pouchet produced and collected his. This water is
perfectly clear in the common light ; but in the condensed electric
beam it is seen to be laden with particles, so thick-strewn and minute,

                               on Dust and Disease.                               11
 st to produce a continuous cone of light. In passing throngh the air
 ;oe water loaded itself with this matter, and hence became charged
 with incipient life.*
     Let me now draw your attention to an experiment of Pasteur,
which I believe perplexes some of the readers and admirers of that
excellent investigator. Pasteur prepared twenty-one flasks, each con
taining a decoction of yeast, filtered and clear. He boiled the de
coction, so as to destroy whatever germs it might contain, and while
the space above the liquid was filled with pure steam ho sealed his
flasks with a blow-pipe. He opened ten of them in the deep, damp
caves of the Paris Observatory, and eleven of them in the courtyard
of the establishment. Of the former, one only showed signs of life
subsequently. In nine out of the ten flasks no organisms of any kind
were developed. In all the others organisms speedily appeared.
     Now here is an experiment conducted in Paris, which shows that
the air of one locality can develop life when the air of another locality
cannot. Let us see whether we cannot here in .London justify and
throw light upon this experiment. I place this large flask in the
beam, and you see the luminous track crossing it from side to side.
The flask is filled with the air of this room, charged with its germs
and its dust, and hence capable of illumination. But here is another
similar flask, which cuts a clear gap out of the beam. It is filled
with unfiltered air, and still no trace of the beam is visible. Why ?
By pure accident I stumbled on this flask in our apparatus room, and
on inquiry learnt that it had been a short time previously taken out of
one of the cellars below stairs. Other flasks were in the same cellar.
 I had three of them brought up to me ; they were optically empty.
 The still air had deposited its dust, germs and all, and was itself
 practically free from suspended matter. You can now understand the
 impotence of the air of the Paris caves. The observation illustrates
 at once the influence of the germs and the accuracy of Pasteur.
      The air of the cellar was afterwards examined by the electric lamp.
 Though less heavily charged than the air outside, it was by no means
 free from particles. This was to be expected, because the door of the
  cellar was frequently opened. The flasks themselves were the true
  tranquil chambers ; on their sides the dust had been deposited, and to
  them it firmly clung. To prove this several flasks about ten inches in
  diameter were filled with common air, corked, and laid upon a table in
  the laboratory. After two days' quiet they were optically empty.
       Nor is it necessary even to cork the flasks ; for with their mouths
  open the air within them is scarcely disturbed, certainly not displaced.
  Two days' rest on one of the laboratory tables suffices to deposit the
  organic dust and to render the open flasks optically empty.
       I have had a chamber erected with a view to experiments on this
      * In this case a polished silver basin was soldered to one end of a wide brass
   tube ; the tube was filled with ice, the hydrogen flame was permitted to play
   upon the basin, and the water of condensation was then collected. Dr. Child
   bUo objects to Pouchet's experiment.

12                               Professor Tyndall                       [Jan. 21,
subject. The lower half is of wood, its upper half being enclosed by
four glazed window-frames. The chamber tapers to a truncated cone
at the top. It measures in plan 3 ft. by 2 ft. 6 in., and its height is
5 ft. 10 in. On the 6th of February this chamber was closed, and every
crevice that could admit dust or cause displacement of the air was
carefully pasted over with paper. The electric beam at first revealed
the floating dust within the chamber as it did the air of the laboratory.
The chamber was examined almost daily ; a perceptible diminution of
the floating matter being noticed on each occasion. At the end of a
week the chamber was optically empty, exhibiting no trace of matter
competent to scatter the light. But where the beam entered, and
where it quitted the chamber, the white circles stamped upon the
interior surfaces of the glass showed what had become of the dust. It
clung to these surfaces, and from them instead of from the air, the
light was scattered. If the electric beam were sent through the air of
the Paris caves, the cause of its impotence as a generator of life would,
I venture to predict, be revealed.
     It cannot, I think, be doubted that the methed of observation here
pursued is destined to furnish useful control and guidance in researches
of this nature.
     In a letter published subsequently in the ' Pall Mall Gazette,' one
of the peculiarities of the methed pursued in the foregoing lecture is
pointed out. Reference is made to the blue colour of the sky, which
is, or may be, " produced by particles suspended in the air, and not
only invisible to the naked eye, but irreducible by the highest powers
of the microscope. Hence, witheut seeing the individual particles, we
may have indubitable evidence of their existence.
     " This, indeed, is the point wherein the methed pursued in the
lecture differs from preceding ones, and is destined powerfully to
supplement them.* The microscope seeks for single particles; but
 they are here taken en masse, and their existence demonstrated by the
 light which they scatter after they have passed utterly beyond the
range of the microscope."
     Attention was drawn at the same time to the important report of
 Dr. Angus Smith, published in 1869, which was sent to Professor
Tyndall subsequently to his lecture. Pasteur had previously counted
the germs of Paris air, but the exceedingly ingenious methed employed
 by Dr. Smith enabled him to concentrate the germs of a very large
volume of air in a small quantity of water, and thus to enormously
multiply their numbers in relation to the space which contained
them :
     " I have been favoured," says Mr. Tyndall, " by Dr. Angus Smith
with a copy of his fifth annual report, from which I glean some inter-
    * It is competent, for example, to give ocular evidence of the absence of germs
in still air ; and thus to prove the correctness of Pasteur's experiments on the air
of the caves under the Paris Observatory.

 1870.]                     on Dust and Disease.                         ln
 esting facts regarding the air of Manchester. To catch in water the
floating matter of the air, Dr. Smith places a small quantity of the liquid
in a bottle and shakes it up with successive charges of air. In one
instance lie did this 500 times, and then handed over his bottle to an
able microscopist, Mr. J. B. Dancer, for examination. The bottle had
been shaken in the open air, through which, hewever, Dr. Smith could
not see any dust blowing ; at all events, if there were dust, it was only
such as people are called upon to breathe. Hero are some of the
revelations of Mr. Dancer :—
    " ' Fungoid Matter.—Spores or sporidiae appeared in numbers, and,
to ascertain as nearly as possible the numerical proportion of these
bodies in a single drop of the liquid, the contents of the bottle were
well shaken, and then one drop was taken up with a pipette. This
was spread out by compression to a circle half an inch in diameter.
A magnifying power was then employed, which gave a field of view
of an area exactly -rJ^th of an inch in diameter, and it was found
that more than 100 spores were contained in this space. Consequently
the average number of spores in a single drop would bo 250,000.
These spores varied from r;rjinytk to Tscrowth of an 1ncn in diameter.
     " ' For the purpose of obtaining a rough approximation to the
number of spores or germs of organic matter contained in the entire
fluid received from Dr. Smith, I measured a quantity by the pipette,
and found it contained 150 drops of the size used in each examination.
Now I have previously stated that in each drop there were about
250,000 of these spores, and as there were 150 drops, the sum total
 reaches the startling number of 37£ millions ; and these, exclusive of
 other substances, were collected from 2495 litres of the air of this
 city—a quantity which would be respired in about ten heurs by a man
 of ordinary size when actively employed. I may add that there was
 a marked absence of particles of carbon among the collected matter.'
      " Apart from their other effects, the mere mechanical irritation
 produced by the deposition of these particles in tender lungs must go
 for something. They may bo entirely withheld by a cotton wool
 respirator. In various dusty trades and occupations the respirator
 will also be found a comfort and protection."
      The employment of cotton wool on scalds and burns ; its healing
 effect on wounds generally ; the use of flour in erysipelas ; even the
 binding up of wounds by sticking-plaster, and the covering of them by
 gold-beaters' skin, may all have their rational ground in the fact that
 they withheld, not the air, but the organic matter of the air.
     The reader will bear in mind that as this subject is not one with
 which my own studies would have rendered mo familiar, I may bo
 uttering that which has been already expressed by others. A similar
 remark applies to the history of the subject, which, as might be
 expected, is by no means meagre. Nyander held that small-pox,
 measles, the plague, dysentery, and heoping-cough, are all caused by
 minute animals. Reaumur theught that the small clouds which some
 times seem to hug the earth in summer weather may be insect swarms.

11              Professor Tyndall on Dust and Disease.           [Jan. 21,
Cuvier speaks of the richesse effrayante of insect life. Sir H. Holland
thinks that the outhreak of carbuncular boils which occurred some
years ago in England, may have had its origin witheut the system, as
a virus or some form of organic life. Ehrenberg, whese wonderful
investigations have been heard of everywhere, speaks of the " milky
way of smallest organization." The electric beam renders the figure
admirably just. Henle maintained that the material of all contagious
diseases is not merely organic, but matter possessing all the characters
of parasitic life. Eiselt found pus corpuscles in a foundling hespital
where the children were suffering from conjunctival blennorrhea, and
proved conclusively that such corpuscles spread the epidemic witheut
contact with the infected persons. Pouchet, the able and ardent
advocate of the doctrine of heterogenesis, has devised an instrument,
called an aeroscope, to catch the microscopic particles of the air. This
instrument was employed by Eiselt in the foregoing inquiry. Every
Alpine man can testify to the correctness of De Saussure's remark
that a deep blue heaven portends rain, while the air is rendered turbid
by a succession of fine days. De la Rive ascribes this turbidity to
organic germs which swathe the earth as a light haze. He has devised
a phetometer for determining the transparency of such air, and of
connecting this with the other elements of meteorology. He also
refers to the bearing of the subject on epidemic diseases.
    The papers of Dr. Budd, in relation to contagious diseases, are
full of interesting facts, and marked by rare logical force. Professor
Lister has brought to my notice an observation of his own, the sagacity
of which is so strikingly demonstrated by the experiments on the
breath recorded in the foregoing lecture, that I propose to give it
special attention at a future time. In a pamphlet published in 1850
Mr. Jeffreys reveals some exceedingly unpleasant facts regarding the
air of London. He had then ventilated a heuse with filtered air, and
examined the strained matter. I refer to page 16 of his pamphlet for
a statement of what that matter is. Dr. Angus Smith's researches on
the air of Manchester have been already mentioned. Dr. Smith also
experimented on the air of cow-heuses and stables, and concluded that
such air contains more particles than the air of the street. Mr. Crookes
has sought to entrap the germs in infected places. Dr. Greenhew
has examined the lungs of stone-workers, colliers, and potters, and
found imbedded in them mill-stone dust, silica, alumina, and iron.
The important researches of Dr. Stenheuse on the action of charcoal,
theugh not strictly belonging to the present subject, may be mentioned
here ; and also the experiments of Dr. Marcet.
    As may be seen from the foregoing imperfect summary, the history
of this subject is voluminous. I shall probably return to it, and give
it further expansion.
                                                                [J. T.]

1870.]   Professor Odling on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.      15
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, January 28, 1870.
       Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                    William Odling, M.B. F.R.S.
                       FULLRRIAN rROFRSSOR OF aiRHISTRY, R.L
                 On Professor Graham's Scientific Work.
 The simple story of Mr. Graham's life, theugh not witheut its
 measure of interest, and certainly not witheut its lessons, is referred
 to in the following pages only in illustration of the grander story of
 his work. Themas Graham was horn in Glasgow, on the 21st Dec.,
 1805. He entered as a student at the University of Glasgow, in 1819,
 with a view to becoming ultimately a Minister of the Established
 Church of Scotland. At that time, the University chair of Chemistry
 was filled by Dr. Themas Themson, a man of very considerable mark,
 and one of the most erudite and theughtful chemists of his day. The
 chair of Natural Philosophy was also filled by a man of much learning,
 Dr. Meikleham, whe appears to have taken a warm personal interest
 in the progress of his since distinguished pupil. Under these masters,
 Mr. Graham acquired a strong liking for experimental science, and
 a dislike to the profession chesen for him by his father ; whe, for a
 time at least, seems to have exerted the autherity of a parent some
 what harshly, but quite unavailingly, to effect the fulfilment of his
 own earnest wishes in the matter.
     After taking his degree of Master of Arts at Glasgow, in 1826,
 Mr. Graham worked for nearly two years in the laboratory of the
 University of Edinburgh, under Dr. Hope. He then returned to
 Glasgow ; and, while supporting himself by teaching, at first mathe
 matics and afterwards chemistry, yet found time to follow up the path
 of experimental inquiry, on which he had already entered.
     His first original paper appeared in the ' Annals of Philosophy '
 for 1826, its auther being at that time in his twenty-first year. It is
 interesting to note that the subject of this communication, " On the
 Absorption of Gases by Liquids," forms part and parcel of that large
 subject of spontaneous gas-movement with which Mr. Graham's name
 is now so inseparably associated ; and that, in a paper communicated
 to the Royal Society just forty years later, he speaks of the lique

 1G                          Professor Odliwj                 [Jan. 28,
liability of gases by chemical means, in language almost identical with
that used in this earliest of his published memoirs.
     Having, in the interval, contributed several other papers to the
scientific journals, in the year 1829 he published in the ' Quarterly
Journal of Science'—the journal, that is to say, of the Royal Institu
tion—the first of his papers relating specifically to the subject of
gas-diffusion. It was entitled " A shert Account of Experimental
 Researches on the Diffusion of Gases through each other, and their
 Separation by Mechanical Means." In the same year, he became
 Lecturer on Chemistry at the Mechanics' Institute, Glasgow ; and in
the next year, 1830, achieved the yet more decisive step of being
appointed Professor of Chemistry at the Andersonian University. By
 this appointment he was relieved from anxiety on the score of living ;
 and afforded, in a modest way, the means of carrying out his experi
 mental work.
     In 1831, he read, before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a paper
" On the Law of the Diffusion of Gases," for which the Keith prize of
the Society was shertly afterwards awarded him. Altheugh several
of his earlier papers, and especially that on the Diffusion of Gases,
published in the ' Quarterly Journal of Science,' had given evidence
of considerable power, it was this paper—in which he established the
now woll-recognizcd law that the velocities of diffusion of different
gases are inversely as the square roots of their specific gravities—
that constituted the first of what may properly be considered his great
contributions to the progress of chemical science.
     In 1833, he communicated a paper, of scarcely less importance,
 to the Royal Society of London, entitled " Researches on the Arse-
niatcs, Phesphates, and Modifications of Phespheric Acid." It afforded
further evidence of Mr. Graham's quiet steady power of investi
gating phenomena, and of his skill in interpreting results ; or rather
of his skill in setting forth the results in all their simplicity, un-
distorted by the gloss of preconceived notions, so as to make them
render up their own interpretation. It is difficult now-a-days to
realize the independence of mind involved in Mr. Graham's simple
interpretation of the facts, presented to him in this research, by the
light of the facts themselves, irrespective of all traditional modes
of viewing them. Their investigation let in a flood of light upon the
chemistry of that day ; and formed a starting-point from which many
of our most recent advances may be directly traced. In this paper,
Mr. Graham established the existence of two new, and, at that time,
whelly unanticipated classes of bodies, namely, the class of poly-
basic acids and salts, and the class of so-called anhydro-acids and
salts. The views of Graham on the polybasicity of phespheric
acid were soon afterwards applied by Liebig to tartaric acid, and by
Gerhardt to polybasic acids in general, as wo now recognize them.
After a long interval, the idea of polybasicity was next extended to
radicals and to metals by Williamson and myself successively ; after
wards to alcohels by Wurtz, and to ammonias by Hofmann. The

                    on Profenor Graham't Scientific Work.                17
  nation of anhydio-salts was extended by myself to the different classes
  nf silicates ; by Wtrrtz to the compounds intermediate between oxide
  i/f ethylene and glycol ; and by other chemists to many different aeries
 of organic bodies.
       The next most important of the researches, completed by Mr.
 Gr&h&m while at Glasgow, was the subject of a paper communicated
 to the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh, in 1835, "On Water as a Consti
 tuent of Salts," and of a second paper communicated to the Royal
 Society of London, in 1836, entitled " Inquiries respecting the Consti
 tution of Salts, &c," for which latter, a Royal medal of the Society
 was afterwards awarded. The 6ubject of hydration had yielded him
such a harvest of results in the case of phosphoric acid, that it was only
natural he should wish to pursue the inquiry farther. Indeed, it is a
curious illustration of the persistency of the man, that he never
seems to have left out of sight the subjects of his early labours.
Almost all bis subsequent original work is but a development, in
•ihTferent directions, of his youthful researches on gas-diffusion and
water of hydration ; and so completely did he bridge over the space
intervening between these widely remote subjects, that, with regard
to several of his later investigations, it is difficult to say whether
they are most directly traceable to his primitive work on the one
subject or on the other.
      In 1837, on the death of Dr. Edward Turner, Mr. Graham was
appointed Professor of Chemistry at University College, London, then
called the University of London. On his acceptance of this ap-
pTintment, he began the publication of his well-known ' Elements of
Chemistry,' which appeared in parts, at irregular intervals, between
1837 and 1841. Elementary works, written for the use of students,
have necessarily much in common ; but the treatise of Mr. Graham,
while giving an admirably digested account of the most important
individual substances, was specially distinguished by the character of
the introductory chapters, devoted to Chemical Physics ; wherein was
set forth one of the most original and masterly statements of the first
principles of chemistry that has ever been placed before the English
student. " The Theory of the Voltaic Circle " had formed the subject
 of a paper communicated by Mr. Graham to the British Association
 in 1839 ; and the account of the working of the battery, given in his
 Elements of Chemistry, and based on the above paper, will long be
regarded as a model of lucid scientific exposition.
       In 1841, the now flourishing Chemical Society of London was
 founded ; and though Mr. Graham had been, at that time, but four years
 in London, such was the estimation in which he was held by his brother
 chemists, that he was unanimously chosen as the first President of the
 Society. The year 1844 is noticeable in another way. Wollaston and
 Davy had been dead for some years. Faraday's attention had been
 diverted from chemistry to those other branches of experimental
 inquiry in which his highest distinctions were achieved ; and, by the
 death of Dalton in this year, Mr. Graham was left as the acknowledged
       Vol. VI. (No. 52.)                                         o

 18                           Professor Odling                   [Jan. 28,
 first of English chemists, as the not unworthy successor to the position
 of Black, Priestley, Cavendish, Wollaston, Davy, and Dalton.
      From the period of his appointment at University College, in 1837,
 Mr. Graham's time was fully occupied in teaching, in writing, in
 advising on chemical manufactures, in investigating fiscal and other
 questions for the Government, and in the publication of various
 scientific memoirs, several of them possessing a high degree of interest ;
 but it was not till 1846 that he produced a research of any consider
 able magnitude. In that year he presented to the Royal Society
 the first part of a paper "On the Motion of Gases," the second part
 of which he supplied in 1849. For this research, Mr. Graham was
 awarded a second Royal Medal of the Society in 1850. The pre
liminary portion of the first part of the paper related to an experi
mental demonstration of the law of the effusion of gases, deduced from
 Torricelli's theorem on the efflux of liquids,—a demonstration that was
achieved by Mr. Graham with much ingenuity, and witheut his en
countering any formidable difficulty. But the greater portion of the
first part, and whele of the second part, of this most laborious paper,
were devoted to an investigation of the velocities of transpiration of
different gases through capillary tubes ; with a view to discover some
general law by which tlieir observed transpiration ' rates might bo
associated with one another. Again and again, with characteristic
pertinacity, Mr. Graham returned to the investigation ; but, altheugh
much valuable information of an entirely novel character was acquired
 —information having an important bearing on his subsequent work—
 the problem itself remained, and yet remains, unsolved. Why, for
 example, under an equal pressure, oxygen gas sheuld pass through a
 capillary tube at a slower rate than any other gas is a matter that still
awaits interpretation.
     Near the end of the same year, 1849, Mr. Graham communicated,
also to the Royal Society, a second less laborious, but in the novelty
and interest of its results more successful, paper " On the Diffusion of
Liquids." It was made the Bakerian lecture for 1850; and was
supplemented by further observations communicated to the Society in
1850 and 1851. In his investigation of this subject, Mr. Graham
applied to liquids the exact methed of inquiry which he bad applied
to gases just twenty years before, in that earliest of his papers on the
subject of gas-diffusion published in the 4 Quarterly Journal of
Science ; ' and he succeeded in placing the subject of liquid-diffusion
on about the same footing as that to which he had raised the subject
of gas-diffusion prior to the discovery of his numerical law.
     In 1854, Mr. Graham communicated another paper to the Royal
Society, " On Osmotic Force," a subject intimately connected with
that of his last previous communication. This paper was also made
the Bakerian lecture for the year ; but, altogether, the conclusions
arrived at were hardly in proportion to the very great labour expended
on the inquiry. In the next year, 1855, just five-and-twenty years
after his appointment at the Andersonian University, Mr. Graham was

1870.]            on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.               19
made Master of the Mint ; and, as a consequence, resigned his Pro
fessorship at University College. During the next five yoars he
published no original work.
      Thus, at the beginning of the year 1861, Mr. Graham, then fifty-
six years of ago, had produced, in addition to many less important
communications, five principal memoirs ; three of them in the highest
degree successful ; the other two less successful in proportion to the
expenditure of time and labour on them, but, nevertheless, of great
originality and value. The most brilliant period, hewever, of his
scientific career was to come. In the year 1861, and between then
and his death in 1869, Mr. Graham communicated four elaborate
papers to the Royal Society ; three of them far exceeding in novelty,
interest, and philosophic power anything that he had before pro
duced ; and the other j>£ them, relating to a certain physical effect of
that hydration of compounds, from the consideration of which his
attention could never whelly be withdrawn. This least important
paper, " On Liquid Transpiration in relation to Chemical Compo
sition," was communicated to the Royal Society in 1861. Of the
three greater papers, that " On Liquid Diffusion applied to Ana
lysis " was communicated also in 1861. For this paper more espe
cially, as well as for his Bakerian lectures " On the Diffusion of
 Liquids " and " On Osmotic Force," Mr. Graham received, in 1862,
 the Copley Medal of the Royal Society ; and, in the same year, was
also awarded the Jecker Prize of the Institute of France. Following
 in quick succession, his paper " On the Molecular Mobility of Gases
 was presented to the Royal Society in 1863 ; and that " On the
 Absorption and Dialytic Separation of Gases by Colloid Septa," in
 1866. With regard to these three great papers, two of them were each
 supplemented by a communication to the Chemical Society ; while the
 third was supplemented by four successive notes to the Royal Society,
 containing an account of further discoveries on the same subject, hardly
  1, ss remarkable than these recorded in the original paper. The last
 of these supplementary notes was communicated on June 10th, 1869,
 but a few months before the death, on September 13th, of the inde
 fatigable but physically broken-down man.
       In considering Mr. Graham as a chemical philosopher and law
 giver we find him characterized by a pertinacity of purpose pecu
 liarly his own. Wanting the more striking qualities by which his
 immediate predecessors, Davy, Dalton, and Faraday, were severally
 distinguished, he displayed a positive zeal for tedious quantitative
 work, and a wonderful keen-sightedness in seizing the points which
 his innumerable determinations of various kinds, conducted almost
 incessantly for a period of forty years, successively unfolded. His
 work itself was essentially that of detail, original in conception,
 simple in execution, laborious by its quantity, and brilliant in the
 marvellous results to which it led. As regards its simplicity of execu
 tion, scarcely any investigator of recent times has been less a friend
 to the instrument-maker than Mr. Graham. While availing himself,
                                                              c 2

20                           Professor Odling                   | Jan. 28,
with much advantage, of appliances dovised by Bunsen, Poiseuille,
Sprengel, and others, all the apparatus introduced by himself was of
the simplest character, and for the most part of laboratory construction.
    Essentially inductive in his mode of theught, Mr. Graham deve
loped his leading ideas, one after another, directly from experiment,
scarcely, if at all, from the prevailing ideas of the time. As well ob
served by Dr. Angus Smith, " he seemed to feel his way by his work."
His records of work are usually, in a manner almost characteristic,
preceded each by a statement of the interpretation or conclusion which
he formed ; but the records themselves are expressed in the most
unbiassed matter-of-fact language. Singularly cautious in drawing his
conclusions, he announces them from the first with boldness, making
no attempt to convince, but leaving the reader to adopt them or not as
he pleases. Accordingly, in giving an account of his various researches,
Mr. Graham rarely, if ever, deals with argument ; but he states suc
cinctly the experiments he has made, the conclusions he has himself
drawn, and not unfrequently the almost daring speculations and
generalizations on which he has ventured. Some of these specu
lations, on the constitution of matter, are reproduced in his own words
farther on.
    Mr. Graham was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1837 ;
Corresponding Member of the Institute of France in 1847 ; and Doc
tor of Civil Law of Oxford in 1855.
    The remaining pages of tlns abstract are devoted to an account of
his principal discoveries,—the generalizations they suggested to him,
and the relations in which they stood to precedent knowledge.
                                     I.
    Modifications of Phosphoric Acid.—At the date of Mr. Graham's
investigation of this subject, when oxy-salts were usually repre
sented as compounds of anhydrous base with anhydrous acid, the
point of greatest importance, with regard to each class of salts, was
held to be the ratio borne by the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of
the acid. Thus, in the carbonates, this ratio was as 1 to 2 ; in the
sulphates, as 1 to 3 ; and in the nitrates, as 1 to 5. But with regard
to the phesphates, taking common phesphate of soda as a type of
phesphates in general, there was a difficulty. Dr. Themson maintained
that, in this salt, the ratio of the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of
the acid was as 1 to 2 ; and his view was substantially supported by
Sir Humphry Davy. Berzelius contended, hewever, that the ratio
was as 1 to 2J, or, to avoid the use of fractions, as 2 to 5 ; but, not
withstanding the excellence of the Swedish chemist's proof, and its
corroboration by the researches of others, the simpler and, as it seemed,
more harmonious view of Dr. Themson prevailed very generally iu
this country. Anyhew, these phesphates in which the oxygen ratio
was the same as that in phesphate of soda were taken as the neutral

                   on Professor Graliam's Scientific Work.               21
 salts. Bnt phosphate of soda was found to have the peculiar and quite
 inexplicable property of reacting with nitrate of silver to throw down,
 as a yellow precipitate, a phosphate of silver, in which the proportion
of metallic base exceeded that in the original phosphate of soda,—the
precipitation of the basic salt being accompanied correlatively by the
formation of a strongly acid liquid. According to Berzelius, the ratio
of the oxygen of the base to that of the acid, in this yellow precipitate,
was as 3 to 5.
     In 1821, Mitscherlich, then working in Berzelius's laboratory,
obtained, by treating ordinary phosphate of soda with aqueous phos
phoric acid, a new crystallizable phosphate of soda, in which the
ratio of acid to base was twice as great as that in the ordinary phos
phate. This new salt, which had a strongly acid reaction to test
paper, he called the bi-phosphate of soda. He observed that it was a
hydrated salt ; and that while the ratio, in it, of the oxygen of the base
to the oxygen of the acid was as 1 to 5, the ratio of the oxygen of the
base to the oxygen of the water was as 1 to 2.
     In 1827, Mr. Graham's fellow-townsman, and predecessor at the
Mechanics' Institute, Dr. Clark, discovered another new phosphate
of soda, in which the ratio of the oxygen of the base to the oxygen of
the acid was identical with that in the ordinary phosphate, namely, as
2 to 5. But whereas the ordinary phosphate crystallized with 25
proportions of water, the new phosphate crystallized with only 10 ;
and whereas the ordinary phosphate gave a yellow precipitate with
nitrate of silver and a strongly acid supernatant liquid, the new
phosphate gave a chalk-white precipitate with nitrate of silver and a
perfectly neutral supernatant liquid. This new phosphate, being
funned by heating the common phosphate to redness, was accordingly
designated the pyrophosphate. By dissolution in water and evapo
ration of the liquid, it could be obtained in the 10-hydrated crystalline
state ; and by desiccation at a sand-bath heat, the crystalline salt could
l>e again rendered anhydrous. With regard to the 25 proportions of
water belonging to the ordinary salt. Dr. Clark noticed that 24 pro
portions could be driven off by a sand-bath heat, and that this moderate
heat did not alter the nature of the salt. He found that the 25th pro
portion of water, however, could only be driven off by a full rod heat ;
and that, simultaneously with its expulsion, the change in the nature
of the salt was effected. But he carefully guarded himself against
being supposed to think that the change in properties of the salt
was consequent upon an elimination of its water. The driving off
of water from salts being, as ho justly remarked, a common effect of
heat, he regarded this effect as a concomitant only of the peculiar
effect of heat in altering the nature of the phosphate.
     Other anomalies with regard to phosphoric acid and the phosphates
were also known to chemists ; and, on referring now to standard che
mical works written before the year 1833, the whole subject of the
phosphates will be seen to be in the greatest confusion. It was in this
year that Mr. Graham communicated his paper, entitled " Researches

22                             Professor Odling                            [Jan. 28,
on the Arseniates, Phesphates, and Modifications of Phespheric Acid,"
to the Royal Society.*
    In the course of theso researches he established the existence of a
class of soluble sub-phesphates analogous to the yellow insoluble
phesphate of silver ; and he shewed, with great clearness, that in the
three classes of phesphates, namely, the sub-phesphates, the common
phesphates, and the bi-phesphates, the ratio borne to the oxygen of the
acid by the other oxygen of the salt is the same, namely, as 3 to 5 ;
only that, in the three classes of salts, the non-acid oxygen is divided
 between different proportions of metallic base and water, thus :
           Sub-phesphate of soda                            3NaO.POj.
           Common phosphate of soda          ..       H 0 . 2 Na O . P Oj.
           Bi-phesphate of soda                       2 H O . Na O . P Os.
     Ho further pointed out that, to theso three series of salts, thero
corresponded a definite phesphate of water, or,
           Hydrated phespheric acid                          8 H O . P Ov
     Compounds of one and the same anhydrous acid with one and the
 same anhydrous base, in different proportions, had long been known ;
 but it was thus that Mr. Graham first established the notion of poly-
basic compounds, —the notion of a class of hydrated acids having
more than one proportion of water replaceable by metallic oxide,
and that successively, so as to furnish more and more basic salts, all
preserving, as we sheuld now say, the same type.
     Mr. Graham further shewed that Dr. Clark's pyrophesphate of
soda, like the common phesphate, yielded an acid-salt or bi-phes
phate; and that these two compounds wore related to a hydrated
phespheric acid, differing in composition and properties from the
above-mentioned hydrate, and yielding, after neutralization with alkali,
a white instead of a yellow precipitate with nitrate of silver. This
series of compounds he expressed by the following formulae :
           Clark's pyrophesphate of soda        .. ..       2 Na O . P Os.
           Acid or bi-pyrophesphate of soda . . . . HO. Na O.PO,.
           Hydrated pyrophesphoric acid . . . .              2HO.PO,.
    Lastly, Mr. Graham shewed that when the bi-phesphate or bi-
pyrophesphate of soda was ignited, there was left a new variety of
phesphate, which he called the mctaphesphate, having the same pro
portions of soda and anhydrous phespheric acid as the original com
pound, but differing from it in several properties, more particularly
in its inability to furnish any acid salt. From this new phesphate
he obtained the corresponding hydrated acid, and found it to be iden
tical with that variety of phespheric acid then, and still, known as
glacial phespheric acid ; which had previously been noticed to possess
                         * ' Phil. Trans.,' 1833, p. 253.

 1870.]            on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.                    -23
the distinctive property of causing a precipitate in solutions of albumen.
This salt and acid he represented as follows :—
            Metaphesphate of soda                       Na O . F Oj.
            Metaphespkoric acid                          HO.PO,.
     Speaking of the acid obtainable from, and by its neutralization
reconverted, into, the phesphate, pyrophesphate, and metaphesphate
of soda respectively, Mr. Graham remarked :—" The acid, when sepa
rated from the base, will possess and retain for some time the cha
racters of its peculiar modification                     But I suspect that the
modifications of phespheric acid, when in what we would call a free
state, are still in combination with their usual proportion of base, and
that that base is water. Thus the three modifications of phespheric
evidence may be composed as follows :—
                    Phespheric acid                   3HO.P05
                    Pyrophesphoric acid . . . . 2HO.PO,
                    Metaphosphoric acid . . . .         HO.PO,;
 or they are respectively a triphesphate, a Diphesphate, and phesphate
 of water." These remarks he followed up by analytical evidence,
 showing the existence of the three hydrates, each in its isolated state.
      Just as in his demonstration of the relationship to one another
 of sub-phesphate of soda, phesphate of soda, bi-phesphate of soda,
  and common phespheric acid, Mr. Graham originated the notion of
  polybasic compounds, so, in his demonstration of the nature of the
  pyrophesphates and metaphesphates, as bodies differing from the
  normal compounds by an abstraction of water or metallic base, did
  he originate the notion of anhydro-compounds—so did he discover,
  for the first time, an instance of that relationship between bodies
  which is now known to prevail most extensively among products of
  organic as well as of mineral origin.
       The different properties manifested by phespheric acid, in its
   different reputedly isomeric states, having been shewn by Mr. Graham
   to be dependent on a difference of hydration, that is to say on a
   difference of chemical composition, he was inclined to view the differ
   ence of properties observed in the case of other reputedly isomeric
   bodies as being also dependent on a difference of composition, the
   difference occasionally consisting in the presence of some minute disre
   garded impurity. Accordingly, he communicated to the Royal Society
   of Edinburgh in 1834,* a paper " On Phesphuretted Hydrogen," in
   which he shewed that the spontaneously inflammable and non-spon-
   taneously inflammable varieties of the gas " are not isomeric bodies, but
   that the peculiarities of the spontaneously inflammable species depend
   upon the presence of adventitious matter," removable in various ways,
                    * ' Edin. Boy. Soc. Trans.,' xiii., 1836, p. 88.

24                                  Profeseor Odling               [Jan. 28,
and existing but in very minute proportion.* He further shewed that
the vapour of some acid of nitrogen, apparently "nitrous acid, is
capable of rendering phesphuretted hydrogen spontaneously inflam
mable when present to the extent of one ten-thousandth part of tlio
volume of the gas." In connection with this research, may be men
tioned Mr. Graham's earlier experiments on the influence of minute
impurities in modifying the chemical behaviour of different substances.
In some " Observations on the Oxidation of Phespherus," published in
the 'Quarterly Journal of Science,' f for 1829, he shewed that the
presence of          of oleflant gas, and even ^Vff, by volume, of turpen
tine vapour, in air under ordinary pressure, rendered it incapable of
effecting the slow oxidation of phespherus. He also observed and
recorded the influence upon the oxidation of phespherus of various
additions of gas and vapour to air, under different circumstances of
pressure and temperature.
                                             II.
    Hydration of Compounds.—In the earliest of Mr. Graham's pub
lished memoirs, that " On the Absorption of Gases by Liquids," \ he
contended that the dissolution of gases in water, at any rate -of the
more soluble gases, is a chemical phenomenon, depending on their
essential property of liquefiability being brought into play by their
reaction with the solvent, that is to say by their hydration. The -
results of some further work on the same subject he published under
the title of " Experiments on the Absorption of Vapours by Liquids." §
    In 1827, he gave to the Royal Society of Edinburgh " An Account
of the Formation of Alcohelates, definite Compounds of Salts and Alco
hel analogous to the Hydrates." || In this paper, aftor a description of
some experiments on the desiccation of alcohel, lie shewed that anhy
drous chloride of calcium, nitrate of lime, nitrate of magnesia, chloride
of zinc, and chloride of manganese have the property of uniting with
alcohel, as with water, to form definite compounds. The crystalline
compound with chloride of zinc, for instance, containing 15 per cent,
of alcohol, he represented by the formula ZnCl. 2 C^rTjO ; correspond
ing to the modern formula ZnClj. 2C4H,0.
   In 1835, Mr. Graham communicated a paper, also to the Royal
Society of Edinburgh, " On Water as a Constituent of Salts."1T In
this -paper he shewed more particularly that the so-called magncsian
sulphates, crystallizing usually with 7, 6, or 5 proportions of water,
gave up all but the last proportion of water at a moderate heat, but
retained this last proportion with great tenacity. The comparatively
stable mono-hydratcd salts, — monohydrated sulphate of zinc, for
                  *   It was afterwards isolated by P. Thenard.
                  t   ' Quart. Journ. Sci.,' ii., 1829, p. 83.
                  X   Thomson, ' Ann. Phil.,' xii.. 1826, p. 69.
                  §   ' Edin. Journ. Sci.,' viii., 1828, p. 326.
                   |  'Edin. Rov. Soc. Trans.,' xi., 1837, p. 175.
                 H    Ibid., xiii.,- 1836, p. 297.
              ¦

 1870.]             on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.                     25
 instance, ZnO.SOj.HO,—he regarded as the analogues of crystal-
lizable sulphuric acid H0.S0,.H0. He shewed further that the
firmly-retained, water of sulphate of zinc, for instance, differed from
the firmly-retained water of phesphate of soda, in not being basic,
or replaceable, that is to say, by metallic oxide. He conceived, hew
ever, that in the double sulphates, potassio-sulphate of zinc, for in
stance, ZnO.SO,, K0.S0a, the water of the compound, ZnO.SO^.HO,
was replaced by alkali-sulphate, and he accordingly designated the
water of this last, and of similar compounds, by the name of saline
or constitutional water.
    In the following year, 1836, Mr. Graham communicated to the
Eoyal Society of London an elaborato paper, entitled " Inquiries re
specting the Constitution of Salts, of Oxalates, Nitrates, Phesphates,
Sulphates, and Chlorides." * In it are recorded careful analyses of very
many salts, more particularly in respect to their water of hydration;
with remarks upon the greater or less tenacity with which the water
is retained in different instances. In this paper he put forward the
notion that truly basic salts are nevertheless neutral in constitution ;
and that the excess of metallic base does not stand in the relation of a
base to the anhydrous acid, but as a representative of the water of
hydration of the neutral salt. He illustrated this position by a com
parison of the definite hydrate of nitric acid with other hydratcd
nitrates, thus :
           Hydrated nitric acid, sp. gr. l-42          HO.NOs.3HO
           Hydrated nitrate of zinc                    ZnO.NO,.3HO
           Hydrated nitrate of copper ..               CuO.NOs.3HO
           Basic nitrate of copper                      HO.NO,.3CuO
 He contended that, in the last cupric salt, it is the water and not tho
 oxide of copper which acts as a base ; and, in support of this view, he
 remarked that if the water of the salt were water of hydration simply,
 it ought, in presence of so largo an excess of metallic base, to bo
 very readily expelled by heat ; whereas it is actually inexpulsablo by
  any heat whatever, shert of that effecting an entire decomposition of
  the salt. Again, he pointed out that when the strongest nitric acid
  HO.NOj, is added, in no matter what excess, to oxide of copper, the
  basic salt is alone produced, apparently by a direct addition of the
  oxide of copper to the nitrate of water.
      In 1841, Mr. Graham gave to the Chemical Society " An Account
  of Experiments on the Heat disengaged in Combination." -f These
  experiments included numerous determinations of the heat evolved
  in the hydration of salts, and more particularly of the sulphates,
  including sulphate of water, or hydratcd sulphuric acid. Starting
  from oil of vitriol HO.SOa, he found that each successive addition of
  a proportion of water HO, evolved an additional, but successively
      <U+2666> ' Phil. Traus.,' 1837, p. 17.         t 'Chem. Soc. Mem.,' i., p. 106.

26                          -Professor Oiling                  [Jan. 28,
smaller and smaller increment of heat ; and that, even after the
addition of fifty proportions of water to the acid, the further addition
of water was yet followed by a perceptible development of heat.
     The relation of ether to alcohel being regarded as that of an oxide
to its hydrate, and expressed by the formulae G,HsO, and C4HjO.HO,
the conversion of alcohel into ether became a matter of dehydration ;
 and, accordingly, could not escape the examination of Mr. Graham,
 whe, in 1850, presented to the Chemical Society some " Observations
 on Etherification." * The process of manufacture consisting in the
 distillation of a mixture of alcohel with sulphuric acid, and being
 attended by an intermediate production of sulphate of ether or
 sulphethylic acid, the substitution of ether for the basic water of
 sulphuric acid at one temperature, and the reverse substitution
 of water for the basic ether of sulphethylic acid at a higher tempera
 ture, had been represented as depending on the augmented elasticity
 of the ether vapour at the higher temperature. Mr. Graham shewed,
 hewever, that ether could be very readily formed by heating the mix
 ture of sulphuric acid and alcohel in sealed tubes—that is, under con
ditions in which the augmentation of volatility duo to heat was pari
passu counterbalanced by the diminution of volatility due to pressure.
Altogether, Mr. Graham supported the contact theory of ether forma
 tion, as opposed to the then received reaction theory ; but several of
his experiments afforded clear, theugh indeed supererogatory, support
 to the reaction theory soon afterwards introduced by Williamson.
     In addition to the memoirs cited above, the question of hydra
 tion formed an express or incidental subject of many other of Mr.
 Graham's investigations. It is noteworthy that, for him, osmosis
 became a mechanical effect of the hydration of the septum ; that the
interest attaching to liquid-transpiration was the alteration in rate
of passage consequent on an altered hydration of the liquid ; that the
dialytic difference between crystalloids and colloids depended on the
dehydration of the dialytic membrane by the former class of bodies
 only ; and similarly in many other instances.
                                    m.
     Movements of Liquids under Pressure. Transpiration.—That the
velocities with which different liquids, under the same pressure, issue
from a hele in the sido or bottom of a vessel sheuld be inversely
as the square roots of their respective specific gravities is a propo
sition deducible from well-known mechanical principles. As demon
strated, hewever, by Dr. Poiseuille, this law is not applicable to the
case of liquids issuing under pressure through capillary tubes. In
addition to determining experimentally the laws of the passage of the
same liquid—that the velocity is directly as the pressure, inversely
as the length of the capillary, and directly as the fourth power of
the diameter ; and that it is accelerated by elevation of temperature —
                       * 'Chcm. Soc. Journ.,' iii., p. 24.

 1870.]               on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.                 27
 Dr. Poiseuillo further shewed that the rate of passage of different
 liquids through, capillary tubes is for the most part a special property
of the particular liquids ; and that while the rate of passage of water,
for instance, is scarcely affected by the presence of certain salts in
solution, it is materially accelerated by the presence of chlorides and
nitrates of potassium and ammonium, and materially retarded by the
presence of alkalies. He also shewed that while the rate of passage
of absolute alcohel is much below that of water, the rate of passage of
alcohel diluted with water in such proportion as to form the hydrate,
IL.CjO.3Aq, is not only much below that of alcohel, but also below
that of any other mixture of alcohel and water.
     Some time after Dr. Poiseuille's death, Mr. Graham, starting from
this last observation, took up the inquiry. Giving to the phenomenon
itself the name of " transpiration," which he had previously applied to
the similar passage of gases through capillary tubes, he communicated
his results to the Royal Society in a paper " On Liquid Transpiration
in relation to Chemical Composition."* The methed he followed in his
experiments was precisely that of Dr. Poiseuille, and the principal
 results at which he arrived are the following :—
      1. That dilution with water does not effect a pari passu alteration
 in the transpiration velocity of certain liquids ; but that dilution up to
 a certain point, corresponding to the formation of a definite hydrate, not
 unfrequently retards the transpiration velocity (or increases the trans
  piration time) to a maximum, from which the retardation gradually
  diminishes with further dilution. This is well seen in the following
  Table, giving the transpiration times of certain liquids in their undi
  luted state, and also the maximum transpiration times observed with
  the same liquids when diluted with a regularly increasing quantity of
  water, the particular dilution causing the maximum retardation corre
  sponding in every case to the production of a definite hydrate.
                                          Transpiration Times.
                                         1-000            1000          x Aq.
   Sulphuric acid  ..  H,S04    ..     21-651            23-771  H,S04. Aq.
   Nitric acid . . ..  HN0j     ..         -990           2-103 2 HN0..3 Aq.
   Acetic acid . . ..  H4C,O,   ..       1-280            2-704 H4C,Oa -2 Aq.
   Alcohel         ..  H,,C,O   ..       1-195            2-787  H6C,0.3 Aq.
   Wood-spirit . . ..  H.CO     ..         -630           1-802   H^O.3 Aq.
   Acetone          .. H,Cj0    ..         -401           1-604  H60j0.6 Aq.
       2. That the transpiration times of hemologous liquids increase
   regularly with the complexity of the several molecules constituting
   terms of the same series—certain first terms of the different series,
                            * ' Phii. Trans.,' 1861, p. 373.

28                              Professor Odling                           [Jan. 28,
hewever, presenting some anomalies, as was indeed to be expected.
The transpiration times of the fatty ethers are given below in illustra
tion. Similar results were obtained with the series of fatty acids and
their corresponding alcohels.
                                                             Transpiration Times.
                        Water             .. HjO                   1-000
                        Formic           ..  H.0,0,                  -511
                        Acetic           ..  H,0,O,                  -553
       Ethers . .
                        Butyric          --  h.ao,                   -750
                      1 Valeric          ..  HuC,0,                  -827
    In this paper, Mr. Graham also recorded the results of two very
full series of determinations of the transpiration rates of water at
different temperatures between 0° and 70° ; and of two similar series
of experiments made with alcohel. The transpiration velocity of water
was found to increase uniformly from 0 - 559 at 0° to 1 - 000 at 20°, and
thence to 2 - 350 at 70° ; and correlatively the transpiration times were
found to decrease in the same proportion. The results obtained with
alcohel were precisely similar.
                                         IV.
     Diffusion of Liquids.—Mr. Graham's early study of the spontaneous
movements of gases, so as to mix with one another, naturally led him
to investigate the similarly occurring movements of liquids. His
results formed the subject of two papers communicated to the Royal
Society, one in 1849 " On the Diffusion of Liquids," * and the other in
1861 "On Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis." f In the scries of
experiments, described in the first of these papers and in two supple
mentary communications, an open wide-mouthed vial, filled with a
solution of some salt or other substance, was placed in a jar of water ;
when, in course of time, a portion of the dissolved salt, described as
the diffusatc, passed gradually from the vial into the external water.
By experimenting in this manner, the amounts of diffusatc yielded
by different substances were found to vary greatly. Thus, under
precisely the same conditions, common salt yielded twice as large a
diffusatc as Epsom salt, and this latter twice as large a diffusate as gum-
arabic. Every substance examined was in this way found to have its
own rate of diffusibility in the same liquid medium—the rate varying
with the nature of the medium—whether water or alcohel, for instance.
It is noticeable that the methed of vial-diffusion resorted to in these
experiments, is exactly similar to that employed by Mr. Graham in
                  * 'Phil. Trans.,' 1850, pp. 1, 805; 1851, p. 483.
                  t Ibid., 1861, p. 183.

1870.]             on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.              29
his earliest experiments on the diffusion of gases, published in the
' Quarterly Journal of Science' for 1829.
     In the series of experiments recorded in the paper " On Liquid
Diffusion applied to Analysis," the solution of the salt to be diffused,
instead of being placed in a vial, was conveyed by means of a pipette
to the bottom of a jar of water ; when, in course of time, the dissolved
salt gradually rose from the bottom, through the superincumbent
water, to a height or extent proportional to its diffusibility. The
results of this methed of jar-diffusion were found to bear out gene
rally those attained by the methed of vial-diffusion ; while they
further shewed the absolute rate or velocity of the diffusive movement.
 Thus, during a fourteen days' aqueous diffusion from ten per cent,
 solutions of gum-arabic, Epsom salt, and common salt respectively,
 the gum-arabic rose only through -l^ths of the superincumbent water,
or to a height of 55 - 5 millimetres ; the Epsom salt rose through the
whele |^ths of superincumbent water, or to a height of 111 milli
metres ; and the common salt not only rose to the top, but would have
risen much higher, seeing that the uppermost or fourteenth stratum
of water, into which it had diffused, contained about fifteen times as
much salt as was contained in the uppermost or fourteenth stratum of
water into which the Epsom salt had diffused.
     But of all the results obtained, the most interesting, from their
bearing on various natural phenomena, were these on the partial
separation of different compounds from one another, brought about
by their unequal diffusibility. Thus, with a solution of equal weights
of common salt and gum-arabic placed in the diffusion-vial, for every
 100 milligrammes of salt not more than 22 - 5 milligrammes of gum
were found to pass into the external water ; or a separation of the salt
from the gum, to this large extent, took place spontaneously by the
excess of its own proper diffusive movement. Again, when a solution,
 containing five per cent, of common salt and five per cent, of Glaubcr-s
 salt, was submitted for seven days to the process of jar-diffusion, the
 upper half, or ^ths, of superincumbent water was found to contain
 380 milligrammes of common salt and only 53 grammes of Glauber's
 salt ; or the ratio of common salt to Glauber's salt in the upper half
 of the liquid was as 100 to 14, the ratio in the original stratum of
 solution being as 100 to 100. And not only a partial separation
 of mixed salts, but even a partial decomposition of chemical com
 pounds was found to result from the process of liquid diffusion. Thus
 the double sulphate of potassium and hydrogen, when submitted to
 diffusion, underwent partial decomposition into the more diffusible
 sulphate of hydrogen and the less diffusible sulphate of potassium ;
 and, similarly, ordinary alum, a double sulphate of aluminum and
 potassium, underwent partial decomposition into the more diffusible
 sulphate of potassium, and the less diffusible sulphate of aluminum.
 Strictly speaking, perhaps, the decomposition of the original salts was
 not caused by, but only made evident by, the difference in diffusibility
of the products.

30                            Professor Odling                   [Jan. 28,
    As a general result of his experiments, Mr. Graham inferred that
liquid diffusibility is not associated in any definite way with chemical
composition or molecular weight. Thus he found the complox organic
bodies picric acid and sugar to have much the same diffusive rates as
common salt and Epsom salt respectively. Isomorpheus compounds,
hewover, proved for the most part to be equi-diffusive ; altheugh the
groups of equi-diffusive substances habitually comprehended other than
these which were isomorpheus.
    Observing further that, in many cases, the diffusion-rates of different
equi-diffusive groups stood to one another in some simple numerical
relation, Mr. Graham remarked that, " In liquid diffusion we no
longer deal with chemical equivalents or the Daltonian atoms ; but
with masses even more simply related to each other by weight." We
may suppose that the chemical atoms " group together in such numbers
as to form new and larger molecules of equal weights for different
substances, or             of weights which appear to have a simple rela
tion to each other ;" and he inferred that the relative weights of these
new molecules would be inversely as the square roots of the observed
diffusion rates of the substances—that is inversely as the squares of
their diffusion times. Thus the squares of the times of equal diffusion
of hydrate, nitrate, and sulphate of potassium being 3, 6, and 12, the
densities of their diffusion molecules would be as the reciprocals of
these numbers, or as 4, 2, and 1.
    Lastly, in comparing highly diffusive substances on the one hand,
with feebly diffusive substances on the other, one broad dissimilarity
became apparent, namely, that highly diffusible substances affected the
crystalline state, while feebly diffusive substances were amorpheus,
and characterized, in particular, by a capability of forming gelatinous
hydrates. Hence the distinction established by Mr. Graham between
highly diffusive bodies, or crystalloids, and feebly diffusive bodies, or
colloids. Compounds capable of existing both in the crystalline and
gelatinous states he found to be possessed of two distinct diffusive
rates corresponding respectively each to each.
                                      V.
    Dialysis and Osmose.—The subject of dialysis was included in tho
paper " On Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis," referred to in the
preceding section ; and somo further results were communicated, in
1864, to the Chemical Society, in a paper " On the Properties of Silicic
Acid, and other analogous Colloidal Substances." *
    In the course of his experiments on diffusion, Mr. Graham made
the curious discovery that highly diffusible crystalloid bodies were
able to diffuse readily, not only into free water, but also into water
that was already in a low form of combination, as in the substance of
a soft solid, such as jelly or membrane. Common salt, for instance, was
                      * ' Chem. Soc. Journ.,' xvii., p. 318.

1870.]           on Professor Chcaham's Scientific Work.               81
found to diffuse into a semi-solid mass of jelly, almost as easily and as
extensively as into a similar bulk of free water ; but the introduction of
a gelatinous substance, theugh not interfering in any appreciable degree
with the diffusion of a crystalloid, was found to arrest almost entirely
the diffusion of a colloid. The colloid, of but little tendency to diffuse
into free water, proved quite incapable of diffusing into water that was
already in a state of combination, hewever feeble. Hence, altheugh
the partial separation of a highly diffusible from a feebly diffusible
substance might be effected by the process of free diffusion into water,
a much better result was obtained by allowing the diffusion to take
place into, or through, the combined water of a soft solid such as a
piece of membrane or parchment-paper. In the process of dialysis, then,
crystalloid and colloid bodies, existing in solution together, are sepa
rated from one another by pouring the mixed solution into a shallow
tray of membrane or parchment-paper, and letting the tray rest on
the surface of a considerable excess of water, once or twice renewed.
By this means the crystalloid, in process of time, diffuses completely
away through the membranous septum into the free water; but the
colloid, being quite incapable of permeating the membrane, hewever
thin, is retained completely on the tray, unable to reach the free water
on the other side.
     By means of the process of dialysis, Mr. Graham succeeded in
obtaining various colloid organic substances, such as tannin, albumen,
gum, caramel, &c., in a very pure state ; some of them, indeed, in
a state of purity exceeding any in which they had before been met
with. But the most curious results were obtained with different
mineral substances, usually thrown down from their dissolved salts
in the state of gelatinous or colloid precipitates. Most of these preci
pitates being soluble in some or other crystalloid liquid, on submitting
the so-produced solutions to dialysis, the crystalloid constituents dif
fuse away, leaving the colloid substances in pure aqueous solution.
By proceeding in this manner, Mr. Graham was able to obtain certain
hydrated forms of silica, ferric oxide, alumina, chrome, prussian blue,
stannic acid, titanic acid, tungstic acid, molybdic acid, &c., &c., in
the state of aqueous solution,—these bodies having never before been
obtained in solution, save in presenco of strongly acid or alkaline com
pounds serving to dissolve them. Altogether, the production of these
colloid solutions of substances, such as silica and alumina—in their
crystalline state, as quartz and corundum, completely insoluble—threw
an entirely new light upon the conditions of aqueous solution.
     The colloidal solutions, obtained as above, of substances usually
crystalline, were found to be exceedingly unstable. Either sponta
neously, or on the addition of some or other crystalloid reagent, even
in very minute quantity, they pectized or became converted into solid
jellies. Hence Mr. Graham was led to speak of two colloidal states ;
the peptous, or dissolved, and the pectous, or gelatinized. In addition
to their power of gelatinizing, their mutability, their non-crystalline
habit, and their low diffusibility, substances in the colloid state were

 32                            Professor Odling                   [Jan. 28,
 found to be further characterized by their chemical inertness and by
 their high combining weights. Thus the saturating power of colloid
 silica was only about ^th of that of the ordinary acid.
      In his supplementary paper communicated to the Chemical Society,
 Mr. Graham shewed hew the peotous forms of different mineral col
 loids could, in many cases, be reconverted into their peptous forms.
 He further shewed hew the water of different peptous and pectous
 colloids could be mechanically displaced by other liquids, as alcohel,
 glycerine, sulphuric acid, &c. To the different classes of compounds,
 so formed, he gave distinctive names. Thus, the alcohelic solution
 and jelly, of silicic acid for instance, he designated as the alcosol and
 alcogol respectively.
      Closely associated with the passage of different liquids through
 membranes is the action, known as endosmose, discovered by Dutro-
  chet. Mr. Graham's principal results on this subject are recorded in
 a very elaborate paper " On Osmotic Force," communicated to the
  Royal Society in 1854 ; * but a few further results, and a statement of
 his final views, are contained in the paper, referred to immediately
 above, " On Liquid Diffusion applied to Analysis." When the solution
  of a saline or other compound is separated from an adjacent mass of
 water by a membranous septum, a greater or less quantity of the water
 very commonly passes through the septum into the solution ; and if
  the solution bo contained in a vessel of suitable construction, having a
 broad membranous base and a narrow upright stem, the water, in some
 cases, flows into the vessel through the membrane, with a force suffi
 cient to raise and sustain a column of 20 inches or more of liquid in
 the stem. The problem is to account for this flow ; which, with acid
 fluids more particularly, takes place in the reverse direction—I. e. from
 the solution into the water.
      In the course of his experiments, Mr. Graham examined the
  osmotic movement produced with liquids of most diverse character ;
  employing osmometers of animal membrane, albuminated calico, anil
  baked earthenwaro. His results were, moreover, observed and re
  corded in very great detail. As an illustration of these results, it
  may be mentioned that with 1 per cent, solutions in the membranous
  osmometer, the liquid rose in the stem 2 millimetres in the case of
  common salt, 20 millimetres with chloride of calcium, 88 millimetres
  with chloride of nickel, 121 millimetres with chloride of mercury,
  289 millimetres with proto-chloride of tin, 351 millimetres with chlo
  ride of copper, and 540 millimetres with chloride of aluminum. Mr.
  Graham shewed, further, in opposition to the views of Dutrochet,
' that the velocity of the osmotic flow was not proportional to the
  quantity of salt or other substance originally contained in the solu
  tion ; and that the flow did not depend on capillarity, as Dutrochet
  had inferred ; or yet on diffusion, as some of his own experiments
                          * ' Phil. Trans.,' 1854, p. 177.

 1870.J            on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.               33
 might be thought to indicate. Eventually he was led to the con
clusion that osmose was essentially dependent on a chemical action
 taking place between one or other cf the separated liquids and the
material of the septum. He appears to have held somewhat different
views of the nature of this chemical action at different times ; and
not to have considered it as being in all cases of the same character.
     The following extracts, expressing his latest views on the subject,
are taken from the conclusion of his paper, " On Liquid Diffusion
applied to Analysis."
     " It now appears to me that the water movement in osmose is an
affair of hydration and of do-hydration in the substance of the mem
brane, or other colloid septum, and that the diffusion of the saline solu
tion placed within the osmometer has little or nothing to do with the
osmotic result otherwise than as it affects the state of hydration of the
septum                 Placed in pure water, such colloids (as animal mem
brane) are hydrated to a higher degree than they are in neutral salino
solutions. Hence the equilibrium of hydration is different on the two
sides of tho membrane of an osmometer. The outer surface of the
membrane being in contact with pure water, tends to hydrate itself in
a higher degree than the inner surfaco does, the latter surface being
supposed to be in contact with a saline solution. When the full hydra
 tion of the outer surface extends through the thickness of the mem
brane, and reaches the inner surface, it there receives a check. The
 degree of hydration is lowered, and water must bo given up by the
 inner layer of the membrane, and it forms the osmose                  Far
 from promoting this separation of water, the diffusion of the salt
 throughout the substance of the membrane appears to impede osmoso
 by equalizing the condition as to saline matter of the membrane
 through its whele thickness. The advantage which colloidal solu
 tions have in inducing osmose, appears to depend in part upon the low
 diffusibility of such solutions, and their want of power to penetrate
 the colloidal septum."
                                     VI.
      Movements of Gases under Pressure. Effusion and Transpiration.—
  The mechanical law of the passage of different gases under the same
  pressure through a mere perforation, as of the passage of different
  liquids, being that the velocities are inversely as the square roots of
  the specific gravities, Mr. Graham subjected this law to an experimental
  verification, and made known his results in a paper communicated to the
  Royal Society in 1846. The mode of experimenting was as follows :—A
  jar standing on the plate of an air-pump was kopt vacuous by continued
  exhaustion, and a measured quantity of gas allowed to find its way into
  the jar through a minute aperture in a thin metallic plate. The admis
  sion of 60 cubic inches of dry air into the vacuous, or nearly vacuous
  jar, being arranged to take place in about 1000 seconds, the times of
   passage of the same volume of air were found not to vary from each
   other by more than two or three seconds in successive experiments.
       Vol. VI. (No. 52.)                                          d

  34                            Professor Odling                           [Jan. 28,
  Operating with different gases, the relative times of passage, or of
 "effusion," as it was denominated hy Mr. Graham, proved to he ap-
  proximatively identical with the square roots of the specific gravities
 of the several gases ; or, in other words, their velocities of effusion
 were shewn experimentally to be inversely as the square roots of
 their specific gravities. The rate of effusion of a mixed gas corre
 sponded in most cases with the calculated mean rate of its constituents ;
 but the rates of effusion of the light gases, marsh gas and hydrogen,
 were very disproportionately retarded by the admixture with them,
 even to a small extent, of tho heavier gases, oxygen and nitrogen.
     Passing from the study of the effusion of gases through a perforated
 plate, Mr. Graham next submitted their " transpiration " through a
 capillary tube to a similarly conducted experimental inquiry. His
 results wero communicated to the Royal Society in two very elaborate
 papers, " On the Motion of Gases," Parts I. and II.,* the first part con
 taining also his above-described results on the effusion of gases. With
 a very shert capillary, the relative rates of passage of different gases
 were found to approximate to their relative rates of effusion ; but with
 every elongation of the capillary, a constantly-increasing deviation from
 these rates was observed—the increase of the deviation, hewever,
 becoming less and less considerable with each successive increment
 of elongation, until, when the tube had acquired a certain length in
 proportion to its diameter, a maximum deviation of the relative rates
 of passage of the different gases from their relative rates of effusion
 was arrived at. These ultimate rates of passage, unaffected in relation
 to each other by further elongation of the capillary, constitute the
 true transpiration velocities of the different gases, as distinguished
 from their velocities of effusion. Of all the gases experimented on,
 oxygen was found to have the longest transpiration time, or slowest
 transpiration velocity. In the following Table its time of transpiration
                                 Specific    v/   Speciiic
                                              v Gravity.     Transpiration
                                Gravity.                      - Time.
         Hydrogen ..                069           -263            -437
         Marsh gas                 -559           -747            -551
         Nitrogen ..               -971           -985            -877
         Oxygen                  1105            1051           1-000
         Carbonic gas . .        1-529           1-286            -730
is taken as unity, and the times of a few other gases compared there
with. In other columns are given the specific gravities of the same
gases, referred to the specific gravity of air as unity ; and the square
roots of their specific gravities, which also express their relative times
of effusion.
                 * ' Phil. Trans.,' 1846, p. 573; 1849, p. 349.

  1870.J             on Professor Grahtm's Scientific Work.                35
      That gas transpiration has no direct relation to gas specific gravity
 is shewn by the transpiration times of oxygen and nitrogen exceeding
 the transpiration times both of the much lighter hydrogen and
marsh gas, and of the much heavier carbonic gas. Again, ammonia,
defiant gas, and cyanogen, with the different specific gravities -590,
-978, and 1-806 respectively, have the almost identical transpiration
times -oil, -505, and -506 ; or, approximative^, half the transpiration
time of oxygen, 1-000. Nevertheless the transpiration times of oxygen
and nitrogen are directly as their specific gravities ; and further, the
specific gravities of nitrogen, carbonic oxide, and nitric oxide being
-971, -968, and 1-039, their transpiration times are -877, -874, and
-876 respectively. But then defiant gas, with the same specific gravity
-978, has the much sherter transpiration time -505 ; and similarly in
other cases. Altogether the discordance between transpiration and
specific gravity is of greater frequency than the accordance ; but still
the circumstance of gases having the same, or about the same, specific
gravity, having also the same, or about the same, rate of transpiration,
is of too frequent occurrence to be merely accidental.
      As a rule, the observed transpiration rato of a mixture of gases
corresponded with the calculated mean rate of its constituents ; but
the transpiration rates of the light gases, hydrogen and marsh gas, were
 found to be disproportionately retarded to a greater extent even than
their effusion rates by the admixture with them of heavier gases.
 Further, by employing mixtures of gas and vapour, Mr. Graham ex
 tended his inquiry so as to include a determination of the transpiration
 times of several vapours ; the results being calculated on the assump
  tion that the observed transpiration time of the mixture was the
  mean of the transpiration times of the permanent gas and of the
  coercible vapour experimented on. In this way the transpiration time
  of ether vapour, sp. gr. 2-586, was shewn to bo identical with that of
  hydrogen gas, sp. gr. 0-069 ; and the transpiration time of carbonic
  sulphide vapour, sp. gr. 2-645, identical with that of sulphuretted
  hydrogen gas, sp. gr. 1-191.
       With respect to gas transpiration in general, the rates of transpira
  tion of different gases were found to be independent of the naturo of
   the material of the capillary ; apparently from the capillary, of what
  material soever, becoming lined with a film of gas, with which alono
   the current of gas could come in contact ; so that tho friction was
   purely intestine, and suggestive of a sort of viscosity in the gas
   itself. The rate of passage was further shewn to be inversely as the
   length of the capillary ; and directly, in some high but undetermined
   ratio, as its diameter. Lastly, the rate of " effusion " of a given volume
   of any particular gas being independent of pressure and temperature,
   the rate of transpiration of a given volume of any particular gas was
   observed to vary directly with its variation of density, whether the
   result of alteration of pressure or of temperature ; 100 cubic inches of
   dense air, for example, transpiring more rapidly than 100 cubic inches
   of tenuous air, in proportion to the excess of density.
                                                                   d 2

 mi;                           Professor Odling                  [Jan. 28,
     Speaking of the importance and fundamental nature of the physical
 properties manifested by bodies in the gaseous state, and of the extent
 of his own inquiries on gas-transpiration, Mr. Graham observed,—" It
was under this impression that I devoted an amount of time and at
tention to that class of constants (transpiration-velocities) which might
otherwise appear disproportionate to their value and the importance
of the subject. As the results, too, were entirely novel, and whelly
unprovided for in the received view of the gaseous constitution, of
which indeed they prove the incompleteness, it was the more necessary
to verify each fact with the greatest care."
                                    VII.
     Diffusion of Gases.—In 1801, Dalton, in an essay "On the Consti
tution of mixed Gases, and particularly of the Atmosphere," propounded
the now celebrated view that " where two elastic fluids denoted by
A and B are mixed together, there is no mutual repulsion amongst
their particles ; that is, the particles of A do not repel these of B, as
they do one another ; consequently the pressure or whele weight upon
any one particle arises solely from these of its own kind." During
the act of admixture, " the particles of A meeting with no repulsion
from these of B . . . . would instantaneously reccdo from each other
as far as possible under the circumstances, and consequently arrange
themselves just as in a void space." At the beginning of 1803, in a
supplementary paper " On the tendency of Elastic Fluids to Diffusion
through each other," he mado known the remarkable action of inter
mixture which takes place, even in opposition to the influenco of gravity,
when any two gases are allowed to communicate with each other.
Thus, in a particular experiment, he shewed that when a vial of
hydrogen is connected with a vial of carbonic gas by means of a
narrow piece of tubing, so that the vial of light hydrogen may be
inverted over the other vial of heavy carbonic gas, the heavy carbonic
gas actually ascends through the light hydrogen, and the light hydro
gen descends through the heavy carbonic gas until the uniform admix
ture of the two gases witli each other is effected. The subject was
afterwards investigated by Bcrthelot, whe, in a series of experiments
performed with great care, while opposing Dalton's theoretical conclu
sions, corroborated his results ; and indicated further the high diffu
siveness of hydrogen. Here it was that Mr. Graham took up the
inquiry. The first of his papers relating directly to the subject of
gas-diffusion appeared in the ' Quarterly Journal of Science ' for 1829,
under the title, "A short Account of Experimental Besearches on
the Diffusion of Gases through each other, and their Separation by
Mechanical Means."* The mode of proceeding adopted in these re
searches was as follows :— Each gas experimented on was allowed to
diffuse from a herizontally placed bottle through a narrow tube,
                     * ' Quart. Journ. Sci.,' ii., 1829, p. 83.

1870."              on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.                 37
directed either upwards or downwards according as the gas was
heavier or lighter than air, so that the diffusion always had to take
place in opposition to the influence of gravity. The result was that
equal volumes of different gases escaped in very unequal times, the
rapidity of the escape having an inverse relation to the specific
gravity of the gas. Thus hydrogen was found to escape four or five
tames more quickly than the twenty-two times heavier carbonic gas.
Again, with a mixture of two gases, the lightest or most diffusible
of the two was found to leave the bottle in largest proportion, so that
a sort of mechanical separation of gases could be effected by means of
their unequal diffusibility. Most of these last results were obtained
by allowing the gaseous mixture to diffuso into a limited atmosphere of
 feme other gas or vapour, capable of subsequent removal by absorption
 or condensation.
      But these methods of operating, by free or adiaphragmatic diffusion,
 were soon abandoned by Mr. Graham for the more practicable method
 of diffusion through porous septa. Once again, however, many years
 afterwards, in a paper "On the Molecular Mobility of Gases," to be
 more fully considered presently, Mr. Graham made some additional
 and very curious observations on the free diffusion of hydrogen and
 carbonic gas into surrounding air, showing the absolute velocities of
 the molecular movements in each of the two cases. A glass cylinder,
  ¦ 57 metre high, had the lowest tenth of its height filled with carbonic
  gas. Then, after different intervals of time, the uppermost tenth of
  air in the cylinder was drawn off and examined. In five minutes tho
  carbonic gas in this upper tenth of air amounted to -04, and in seven
  minutes to 1 '02 per cent. ; or 1 per cent, of carbonic gas had diffused to
  the distance of half-a-metre in seven minutes, being at the rate of 73 mil
  limetres per minute. Now, the conditions of this movement always
  prevail in the air of the atmosphere, and, using the words of Mr. Graham,
  u it is certainly most remarkable that in perfectly still air its molecules
   should spontaneously alter their position, and move to a distance of
   half-a-metre in any direction in the course of five or six minutes."
   By similar experiments made with an inverted cylinder, 1 per cent, of
   hydrogen was found to diffuse downwards at the rate of 350 millimetres
   per minute, or about five times as rapidly as the carbonic gas diffused
   upwards.
       With regard to Mr. Graham's experiments on the diffusion of gases
   through porous septa, his earliest results on this subject were com
   municated to the Koyal Society of Edinburgh, in a paper "On the Law
   of the Diffusion of Gases," already referred to as the first-born of what
   may be considered his great papers.* Prior even to Dalton's above-
   mentioned experiments on free diffusion, Dr. Priestley, when trans
   mitting different gases through stoneware tubes surrounded by burning
   fuel, perceived that the tubes were porous; and that not only was
                    * ' Ediii. Roy. Sue. Trans.,' xji., 1834, p. 222.

38                            Professor Odling                   [Jan. 28
there an escape of the gas, under pressure, from within the tube out
wards to the fire, but that there was also a penetration of the exterior
gases of the -fire into the tube, notwithstanding the superior pressure
of the current of gas passing through the tube.
     Mr. Graham, hewever, appears to have had his attention originally
 directed to the study of the transmission of gases through porous
diaphragms by the curious observation and experiments of Doboreiner,
whe, having occasion to collect and store some quantities of hydrogen
over water, accidentally mado use of a fissured jar, and was surprised
to find that the water of the pneumatic trough rose in this jar to the
height of an inch and a half in twelve heurs, and to not far shert of
 three inches in twenty-four heurs. Having assured himself of the
constancy of the phenomenon, Diibereiner attributed it to capillary
action, conceiving hydrogen to be alone attractable by, and, on account
of the assumed minuteness of its atoms, admissible through the fissure.
In repeating Dobereiner's experiments, hewever, Mr. Graham soon
observed that the escape of hydrogen outwards was always accompanied
by a penetration of air inwards, the volume of air finding an entrance
through the fissure amounting to about one-fourth of the volume of
hydrogen making its escape ; or the fissure proved permeable to the
grosser air as well as to the finer hydrogen. Having arrived at this
point, he replaced tho fissured jar by an instrument admitting of
much greater experimental precision. For the jar itself he substi
tuted a piece of glass tube about half-an-inch in diameter and from
eight to fourteen inches long, and for the fissure in the jar he
substituted a plate of stucco serving to close one end of the tube.
Operating with a diffusion-tube of this kind standing in a jar of water,
it was found, as in Dalton's experiments, that the two gases, say
external air and internal hydrogen, exhibited a powerful tendency to
intermix or change places with each other ; but more than this, it
was found that the air did not exchange with its own volume of
hydrogen, but instead with 3-8 times its volume. Using the word
diffusion-volume to express the bulks of different gases exchanging thus
with one another by the process of diffusion, the diffusion-volume of
hydrogen would be 3-8, that of air being taken as 1. Similarly, it
was ascertained that every gas has a diffusion-volume which is pecu
liar to itself, and is indeed inversely as the square root of its specific
gravity ; and since the unequal diffusion volumes of difforent gases
are consequences of their unequal diffusion velocities, it follows that
the relative velocities at which different gases diffuse into one another,
by virtue of their own inherent mobility, are identical with these at
which they effuse under pressure into a vacuum—a result quite in
accordance with, and indeed deduciblo from, Dalton's apherism. But
although the relative rates of effusion and diffusion aro alike, it is
important, wrote Mr. Graham, in the later paper already quoted from,
" to observe that the phenomena of effusion and diffusion are distinct
and essentially different in their nature. The effusion movement affects
masses of gas, the diffusion movement affects molecules ; and a gas is

                      on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.                      39
usually carried by the former kind of impulse with a velocity many
thousand times as great as is demonstrated by the latter." *
     Thus the result arrived at by Mr. Graham, in his original paper,
was tho enunciation of the now well-recognized law of the diffusion
of gases ; but, some thirty years afterwards, he again subjected the
phenomena of gas-diffusion to an elaborate experimental investigation,
— going over the old and penetrating into new ground with an activity
by no means impaired, and with intellectual powers largely expanded
by increase of years. His results wero communicated to the Royal
Society of London, in a paper " On the Molecular Mobility of Gases," f
and it is impossible to read this and his original paper " On the Law
of the Diffusion of Gases " together, witheut being struck by the
great advance in philosophic grasp and breadth of view which had
become developed in the long interval between the publication of the
two memoirs. These later experiments on gas-diffusion were made
principally with septa of compressed graphite ; and it will be well to
preface their consideration by Mr. Graham's own introductory remarks.
He observes :—
     " The pores of artificial graphite appear to bo really so minute,
that a gas in mass cannot penetrate the plate at all. It seems that
molecules only can pass ; and they may be supposed to pass whelly
unimpeded by friction, for the smallest pores that can be imagined
to exist in the graphite must be tunnels in magnitude to the ultimate
 atoms of a gaseous body. The sole motivo agency appears to bo that
 intestine movement of molecules which is now generally recognized
 as an essential property of the gaseous condition of matter.
      " According to the physical hypothesis now generally received, a
 gas is represented as consisting of solid and perfectly elastic spherical
 particles or atoms, which movo in all directions, and are animated
 with different degrees of velocity in different gases. Confined in a
 vessel, the moving particles are constantly impinging against its sides
 and occasionally against each other, and this contact takes place with
 out any loss of motion, owing to the perfect elasticity of the particles.
 If the containing vessel be porous, like a diffusiometer, then gas is
 projected through the open channels, by the atomic motion described,
  and escapes. Simultaneously the external air is carried inwards in
  the same manner, and takes the place of the gas which leaves the
  vessel. To this atomic or molecular movement is duo the elastic
  force, with the power to resist compression, possessed by gases. The
  molecular movement is accelerated by heat and retarded by cold, the
  tension of the gas boing increased in the first instance and diminished
  in the second. Even when the same gas is present both within and
  witheut the vessel, or is in contact with both sides of our porous
  plate, the movement is sustained witheut abatement—molecules con-
     * The motions of effusion under pressure, and of spontaneous diffusion, would
  appear to be alike traceable to the elasticity of the gas itself, exerted under the
  conditions to which it is exposed at the time.
     t ' Phil. Trans.,' 1863, p. 38o.

40                          Professor Odling                         [Jan. 23
tinuing to enter and leave the vessel in equal number, althougt
nothing of the kind is indicated by change of volume or otherwise .
If the gases in communication be different, but possess sensibly the
same specific gravity and molecular velocity, as nitrogen and carbonic
oxide do, an interchange of molecules also takes place without any
change in volume. With gases opposed of unequal density and
molecular velocity, the permeation ceases of course to be equal in
both directions."
     One set of novel experiments recorded in the later paper, from
which the above remarks are extracted, had reference to the diffu
sion of single gases through porous septa, into a vacuous or partially
vacuous space. The diffusion-tube was substantially the same as that
formerly employed, except in the circumstance of its being closed
by a plate of compressed graphite instead of by stucco, and in the
further circumstance of the tube itself being in some cases so far
lengthened and otherwise modified as to admit of the production
within it of a barometric vacuum of comparatively large dimensions.
The mode of experimenting was as follows: —The short tubes, when
employed, were filled with mercury, and inverted in a mercurial
trough. Then, by means of a very simple arrangement, the gas under
examination was allowed to sweep over the surface of, and diffuse
through, the graphite plate, so as to depress the mercury within
the tube until it stood at a height of 100 millimetres only,—that
is, until the external pressure exceeded the internal pressure by 10O
millimetres only. Matters being in this state, the experiment con
sisted in observing the number of seconds required for the admission
through the graphito septum, into the graduated tube, of a given volume
of gas— the mercury in the tube being kept throughout at the constant
height of 100 millimetres, by a gradual lifting up of the tube, effected
by a mechanical arrangement originally devised and employed by
Professor Bunsen. The long tubes were filled with mercury in a
different manner ; but the conduct of the experiments made with them
differed only from that of the experiments made with the short tubes,
in that the level of mercury in the long tubes was maintained through
out at or near to the barometric height, so that the external gas dif
fused into the tube under full atmospheric pressure. Experimenting
                                  Times of Equal  Square Roots of
                                     Diffusion.  Specific Gravities.
               Oxygen                 10              10
               Air                     ¦9501            •9507
               Carbonic gas           1-1800          1-176*0
               Hydrogen                •2505            ¦2502
in this way, the relative times of permeation of equal volumes of
different gases wero found to be almost identical with the square roots

                    on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.             11
 of the specific gravities of the respective gases, as shown in the
 preceding Table.
      These results are of great value from the simplicity and constancy
 of the conditions under which they were obtained, and from their
close accordance with the induced law. By allowing the diffusion
to take place into a complete or partial vacuum, instead of into an
atmosphere of other gas, the results were not complicated with those of
imterdrffusion ; and by employing a thin plate of highly-compressed
graphite, instead of a comparatively thick plug of more porous stucco,
the results were not complicated with those of transpiration, as hap
pened in some otherwise admirable experiments of Professor Bunsen,
which led that distinguished investigator to question at one time the
accuracy of Mr. Graham's law.
     The absence of any transpiration of gas through the graphite
wafer was made evident by the want of #ny approximation, in the
rates of passage, to the characteristic rates of transpiration ; and was
consequent on the impermeability of the exceedingly minute pores
of the graphite to any enforced bodily transmission of gas through
them. It may be as well to state this conclusion in Mr. Graham's
own words :—
     " The movement of gases through the graphite plate appears to
be solely due to their own proper molecular motion, quite unaided by
transpiration. It seems to be the simplest possible exhibition of the
molecular or diffusive movement of gases. This pure result is to be
ascribed to the wonderfully fine (minute) porosity of the graphite.
The interstitial spaces appear to be sufficiently small to extinguish
capillary transpiration entirely. The graphite plate is a pneumatic
 sieve which stops all gaseous matter in mass, and permits molecules
 only to pass."
      By similarly conducted experiments, a determination was also
 made of the difference of rate, if any, at which hydrogen diffuses
 through a graphite plate into a vacuum and into atmospheric air.
 Thus, in one minute of time, the following quantities of hydrogen passed
  through the graphite plate, in the two cases respectively :—
                  1 • 289 cubic centimetre into a vacuum.
                  1 • 243 cubic centimetre into air.
  These numbers indicate a close approach to equality in the velo
  cities of passage into a vacuum and into a space of other gas,—a yet
  closer equality being probably attainable by a modified form of experi
  menting.
       The diffusion of hydrogen into air, as in the above-referred-to
   experiment, is of course accompanied by a diffusion of air into
   hydrogen, which had to be allowed for in calculating out the above
   result. Moreover, Mr. Graham made a special repetition of his
   early experiments on interdiffusion, operating with dry instead of
   moist gas, substituting mercury for water in the diffusion-tube, main
   taining a constant pressure by Bunsen's mechanism instead of by

-12                           Professor Odling                 [Jan. 28,
a pitcher of water, and using a wafer of graphite instead of a plug
of stucco as the porous diaphragm. The theoretical exchange of
hydrogen for air being 3'8 volumes for 1, and that of hydrogen for
oxygen being 4'0 volumes for 1, the exchanging volumes actually
found were 3-876 and 4-124 respectively.
    Referring to the approximatively equally rapid passage of hydrogen
into a vacuous and an aerial space, Mr. Graham remarks as follows on
the subject of interdiffusion : —
     " In fine, there can bo little doubt left on the mind that the
permeation through the graphite plate into a vacuum, and the diffusion
into a gaseous atmosphere, through the same plate, are due to the
same inherent mobility of the gaseous molecule. They are the
exhibition of this movement in different circumstances. In inter-
diffusion we have two gases moved simultaneously through the pas
sages in opposite directions, each gas under the influence of its own
inherent force ; while with gas on one side of the plate, and a vacuum
on the other side, we have a single gas moving in one direction only.
The latter case may be assimilated to the former if the vacuum be
supposed to represent an infinitely light gas. It will not involve any
error, therefore, to speak of both movements as gaseous diffusion,—
the diffusion of gas into gas (double diffusion) in the one case, and
the diffusion of gas into a vacuum (single diffusion) in the other.
The inherent molecular mobility may also be justly spoken of as the
diffusibility or diffusive force of gases.
    " The diffusivo mobility of the gaseous molecule is a property
of matter, fundamental in its nature, and the source of many others.
The rate of diffusibility of any gas has been said to bo regulated by
its specific gravity, the velocity of diffusion having been observed to
vary inversely as the square root of the density of the gas. This is
true, but not in the sense of the diffusibility being determined or
caused by specific gravity. The physical basis is the molecular mo
bility. The degree of motion which the molecule possesses regulates
the volume which the gas assumes, and is obviously one, if not the
only, determining cause of the peculiar specific gravity which the gas
enjoys. If it were possible to increase in a permanent manner the
molecular motion of a gas, its specific gravity would be altered, and
it would become a lighter gas. With the density is also associated
tho equivalent weight of a gaseous element, according to the doctrine
of equal combining volumes."
    In addition to the above two sets of experiments, on the diffusion
of a single gas into a vacuum and on the diffusion of one gas into
another, a third set of experiments was made on the diffusion of one
gas away from another ; or on the partial separation of mixed gases
by the process of atmolysis. The experiments on this subject were
conducted in several different ways, but the most striking results were
obtained with what Mr. Graham named his tube atmolyser. This
instrument consists of one or more lengths of ordinary tobacco-pipo
(conveying the current of mixed gas), surrounded by a glass tube

                     on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.              43
 maintained in a more or less vacuous state by exhaustion with an
air-pump. The most diffusible constituent of the mixed gas passing
way in largest proportion through the porous material of the tobaceo-
pspe, the least diffusible constituent becomes concentrated in the
residue of gas passing along, and finally delivered by the pipe. By
mis simple contrivance, the proportion of oxygen in ordinary air,
transmitted by the tobacco-pipe, was increased from below 21 up to 24'5
per cent., as a result of the small superior diffusive velocity of nitrogen
11)1, over that of oxygen 095.
      In experiments made with the far more unequally diffusive gases
ijrrgen and hydrogen, mixed in equal volumes, the proportion of oxy
gen transmitted by the tobacco-pipe was increased from the original
50 per cent., to 90, and even in some cases to 95 per cent. Electrolytic
gas. consisting of 33-3 per cent, oxygen and 66-6 per cent, hydrogen,
was slowly transmitted through a single tobacco-pipe, in some experi
ments enclosed in a vacuum, in others exposed to the air. In the
Taeunm experiments the transmitted gas was found to consist of 90-7
per cent, oxygen and 9-3 per cent, hydrogen. In the air experiments,
the transmitted gas was found to consist of 40-4 per cent, oxygen,
5-5 per cent, hydrogen, and 54- 1 per cent. air. In both cases it had
 lost its explosive character, and acquired the property of re-inflaming
 a glowing splinter.
      This paper of Mr. Graham's " On the Molecular Mobility of
 Gases" vras supplemented by a communication made to the Chemical
 Society, in 1864, entitled " Speculative Ideas respecting the Con
 stitution of Matter," * from which the following extracts are taken :—
       " It is conceivable that the various kinds of matter, now recognized
 as different elementary substances, may possess one and the same
 ultimate or atomic molecule existing in different conditions of move
 ment. The essential unity of matter is an hypothesis in harmony
  with the equal action of gravity upon all bodies. We know the
  anxiety with which this point was investigated by Newton, and the
  care he took to ascertain that every kind of substance, ' metals, stones,
  woods, grain, salts, animal substances,' &c, are similarly accelerated
  in falling, and are therefore equally heavy.
       " In the condition of gas, matter is deprived of numerous and
  varying properties, with which it appears invested when in the form
   of a liquid or solid. The gas exhibits only a few grand and simple
   features. These again may all be dependent upon atomic or mole
   cular mobility. Let us imagine one kind of substance only to exist—
   ponderable matter ; and further, that matter is divisible into ultimate
   atoms, uniform in size and weight. We shall then have one substance
    and a common atom. With the atom at rest the uniformity of matter
   would be perfect. But the atom possesses always more or less motion,
    due, it must be assumed, to a primordial impulse. This motion gives
    rise to volume. The more rapid the movement the greater the space
                        * ' Chem. Soc. Journ.,' xvii., p. 368.

41                           Professor Odling                  [Jan. 28,
occupied by the atom, somewhat as the orbit of a planot widens with
the degree of projectile velocity. Matter is thus made to differ only
in being lighter or denser matter. The specific motion of an atom
being inalienable, light matter is no longer convertible into heavy
matter. In shert, matter of different density forms different sub
stances—different inconvertible elements, as they have been considered.
     "But further, these more and less mobile, or light and heavy
forms of matter, have a singular relation connected with equality of
volume. Equal volumes of two of them can coalesce together, unite
their movement, and form a new atomic group, retaining the whele,
 the half, or some simple proportion of the original movement and
consequent volume. This is chemical combination. It is directly an
affair of volume, and only indirectly connected with weight. Combin
ing woights are different, because the densities, atomic and molecular,
are different. The volume of combination is uniform, but the fluids
measured vary in density. This fixed combining measure—the metron
 of simple substances—weighs 1 for hydrogen, 16 for oxygen, and so on
 with the other ' elements.'
     " To the preceding statements respecting atomic and molecular
mobility, it remains to be added that the hypothesis admits of another
expression. As in the theory of light we have the alternative hypo
theses of emission and undulation, so in molecular mobility the motion
may be assumed to reside either in separate atoms and molecules, or
in a fluid medium caused to undulate. A special rate of vibration or
pulsation originally imparted to a portion of the fluid medium enlivens
that portion of matter with an individual existence, and constitutes it
a distinct substance or element.
     " Lastly, molecular or diffusive mobility has an obvious bearing
upon the communication of heat to gases by contact with liquid or
solid surfaces. The impact of the gaseous molecule, upon a surface
possessing a different temperature, appears to be the condition for
the transference of heat, or the heat movement, from one to the other.
The more rapid the molecular movement of the gas, the more frequent
the contact with consequent communication of heat. Hence, probably,
the great cooling power of hydrogen gas as compared with air or
oxygen. The gases named havo the same specific heat for equal
volumes, but a het object placed in hydrogen is really touched 3-8
times more frequently than it would be if placed in air, and 4 times
more frequently than it would be if placed in an atmosphere of oxygen
gas. Dalton had already ascribed this peculiarity of hydrogen to the
high ' mobility' of that gas. The same molecular property of hydrogen
recommends the application of that gas in the air-engine, where the
object is to alternately heat and cool a confined volume of gas with
rapidity."
                                   vnr.
     Passage of Gases through Colloid Septa.—In 1830, Dr. Mitchell, of
Philadelphia, discovered a power in gases to penetrate thin sheet

 1870.]            on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.                 45
india-rubber; and, noticing the comparatively rapid transmission of
carbonic gas through the rubber, associated this observation with the
further one that a solid piece of india-rubber is capable of absorbing its
own volume of carbonic gas, when left in contact with excess of the gas
for a sufficient length of time. By means of a suitable arrangement,
Dr. Mitchell found that various gases passed spontaneously through
a caoutchouc membrane into an atmosphere of ordinary air with different
degrees of velocity—that as much of ammonia gas was transmitted in
1 minute as of carbonic gas in                minutes, as of hydrogen in 37£
minutes, and as of oxygen in 113 minutes. Soon after their publica
tion, these results were ably commented on and extended by Dr.
Draper, of New York; and, altogether, they attracted considerable
attention in scientific circles. One of Mr. Graham's earliest observa
tions—having reference to the spontaneous passage of carbonic gas
into a moist bladder of air, so as ultimately to burst the bladder—had
obviously a very close connection with Dr. Mitchell's results, and
received from Mr. Graham in 1829 the same explanation that in 1866
he gave to his own india-rubber experiments, the account of which he
communicated to the Royal Society in a paper " On the Absorption and
Dialytic Separation of Gases by Colloid Septa." * In his experiments
on the penetration of different gases, through septa of india-rubber,
into a vacuum, Mr. Graham employed a tube considerably exceeding
in length the barometric column, open at one end and closed at the
other by a thin film of caoutcheuc stretched over a plate of highly
 porous stucco. On filling this tube with mercury, and inverting it
into a cup of mercury, a Torricellian vacuum was left at the top, into
 which the external air, or any external gas experimented on, gradually
found its way by passage through the caoutcheuc film, so as to cause a
 depression of the mercurial column. By experiments made in this
 manner, it was found that different gases penetrated the rubber, and
 entered the vacuous space with the following relative velocities, differ
 ing widely from the velocities of diffusion and transpiration of the
 same gases given in the other two columns of the Table :—
                                    Rates of                   Diffusion
                                Passage through Transpiration
                                                  Velocities. Velocities.
                                  Caoutchouc.
           Nitrogen                   100           1-11         101
           Marsh gas                  2'15          1-81         1-34
           Oxygen ..                  255           100            -95
           Hydrogen                   5-50          2-29         3-80
           Carbonic gas . .          13-58          1-37           -81
      Bearing in mind the partial separation of gases from one another
  attainable by reason of their unequal diffusive velocities, the pos-
                            * ' Phil. Trans.,' 1866, p. 399.

46                          Professor Odling                    [Jan. 28,
sibility of effecting a similar separation of gases by reason of their
unequal velocities of transmission through india-rubber was easily to
be foreseen. For example, atmospheric air consisting of 20'8 volumes
of oxygen and 79-2 volumes of nitrogen, and the transmission velocities
of these two gases being respectively 2-55 and 1-0, it follows that the
air transmitted through india-rubber into a vacuum sheuld consist of
40 per cent, oxygen and 60 per cent, nitrogen, thus :—
              Oxygen    .. 20-8 x 2-55 = 53-04 }        ,' 40
              Nitrogen .. 79-2 x 1-0 = 70 20 [ or ] 60
                                           132-24 '     ' 100
    In subjecting this conclusion to the test of experiment, Mr. Graham
availed himself of Dr. Sprengel's then newly-invented mercurial
pump or exhauster, an instrument which also stood him in good stead
in his subsequent work, and to which he freely acknowledged his
obligations. By a slight alteration in the pump, as originally con
structed, Mr. Graham made it serve not only for its original purpose
of creating and maintaining an almost perfect vacuum, but also for
delivering pari passu any gas penetrating into the vacuum through its
caoutcheuc or other walls.
     The caoutcheuc films employed in these experiments were of
various kinds ; but the most readily practicable and, on the whele,
successful results, were obtained with india-rubber varnished silk
made up into a flat bag, exposing on each side about 0-25 metre
squared of surface. The interior of such a bag being in communica
tion with the Sprengel pump, the constituents of the external air wcro
gradually sucked through the walls of the bag and delivered by tho
turned-up fall-tube of the pump. On examining the delivered gas, it
was found to contain on the average 41-6 per cent, of oxygen ; and ac
cordingly, to have the property of re-inflaming a glowing splinter.
Thus, by the simplo suction of atmospheric air through a caoutcheuc
film, the remarkable result was arrived at of nearly doubling the pro
portion of oxygen in the volume of air sucked through. Unfortunately
for the practical application of the process, the entire volume of air
sucked through proved to be very small, about 2-25 cubic centimetres
per minute, per square metro of surface, at 20° C. At 60° C., hewever,
the passage of air through the rubber was almost exactly three times
as rapid as at 20°.
    Instead of allowing the gases experimented on to pass through the
india-rubber into a vacuous space, they were in some cases allowed to
pass into a space already occupied with a different gas, somewhat as
in Dr. Mitchell's original experiments; but the conditions of the
action were then more complex. The constituent gases of atmospheric
air, for instance, pass through an india-rubber septum into a spaco
containing carbonic gas at the relative velocities with which they
enter a vacuous space ; but througheut the experiment, not only are
oxygen and nitrogen continually entering the spaco, but carbonic gas

 1870.]           on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.                47
 is continually, and very rapidly, escaping from it. Eventually, by the
 rapid escape of carbonic gas, the proportion or pressure of oxygen in
 the internal space comes to exceed that in the external air ; whereupon
 a reverse transmission, through the india-rubber, of the excess of
 oxygon into the external air, at once begins. But by stopping the
 operation at an early stage, and then absorbing the carbonic gas with
caustic alkali, a residue of hyperoxygcuized air was left, capable, in
 some cases, of re-inflaming a glowing splinter, and containing as much
as 37-1 volumes of oxygen to G2-9 volumes of nitrogen.
     The interpretation, given by their discoverer to the above results,
was in accordance with his slowly developed views on the relations of
 gases and liquids to each other and to soft solids. Having satisfied
himself that the merest film of india-rubber is quite devoid of porosity,
and that oxygen is at least twice as absorbable by india-rubber as by
water at ordinary temperature (the absorbability of its own volume of
carbonic gas by india-rubber, as by water, having been noticed by Dr.
Mitchell), Mr. Graham came to view the entire phenomenon as having
a very complex character,—as consisting in a dissolution of the gas hi
the soft india-rubber ; in a diffusion of the liquefied gas, as a liquid,
through the thickness of the india-rubber; in an evaporation of the
liquefied gas from the internal surfaco of the india-rubber ; and lastly
in a diffusion of the evaporated gas into the internal spaco. Thus, in
reference to the remarks of Drs. Mitchell and Draper, he writes —
" These early speculations lose much of their fitness from not taking
into account the two considerations already alluded to, which appear
to be essential to the full comprehension of the phenomenon—namely,
that gases undergo liquefaction when absorbed by liquids and such
colloid substances as india-rubber, and that their transmission through
liquid and colloid septa is then effected by the agency of liquid and
not gaseous diffusion. Indeed, the complete suspension of the gaseous
function during the transit through colloid membrane cannot be kept
too much in view." Mr. Graham seems thus to have recognized at
least three distinct modes of gas transmission through a solid or
semi-solid septum :—
     1st. By a sufficient degree of pressure gases might be forced bodily,
i. e. in masses, through the minute channels of a porous septum ;
or, in other words, might pass through such a septum by trans
piration, of course in the direction only of the preponderating total
pressure.
     2nd. As the channels of a porous septum became more and more
minute, their resistance to the bodily transmission of gas would be
come greater and greater, and the quantity of gas forced through them
less and less, until at length the septum would be absolutely im
permeable to transpiration under the particular pressure. But such
a septum, of which the individual capillary channels were so small
as to offer a frictional resistance to the passage of gas greater than
the available pressure could overcome, might nevertheless present a
considerable aggregate of interspace through which the diffusion proper

 IS                              Professor Odling                              | Jan. 28,
of gases, consequent on thoir innate molecular mobility, could take
 place freely in both directions.
    3rd. A septum might be quite free from pores, of any kind or degree
of minuteness, and so far be absolutely impermeable to the transmis
sion of gas in the form of gas ; but it might nevertheless permit a
considerable transmission of certain gases by reason of their prior
solution or liquefaction in the substance of the septum. And whereas
the mere passage of gas, by transpiration or diffusion through a porous
septum, would take place in therough independence of the nature of the
material of the septum, in this last considered action, the transmission
would take place by virtue of a sort of chemical affinity between the gas
and the material of the septum—the selective absorption of the gas by
the septum being a necessary antecedent of its transmission ; whence
it might be said the gas was transmitted because it was first absorbed.
Of course in certain transmissions two, or all three, modes of action
might come into play simultaneously,
                                          IX.
     Occlusion of Gases by Metals.—The experiments of Deville and
Troost having made known the curious fact of the permeability of
ignited hemogeneous platinum and ignited hemogeneous iron to
hydrogen gas, and given some indication also of the permeability of
ignited iron to carbonic oxide gas, Mr. Graham, in 1866, corroborated
the results of the French chemists in reference to platinum ; but,
modifying their methed by letting the hydrogen pass into a space
kept vacuous by the Sprengel pump, instead of into an atmosphere
of other gas, assimilated the process to that which he had em
ployed in his india-rubber experiments. The results he obtained
were communicated to the Royal Society, partly in the paper already
referred to " On the Absorption and Separation of Gases by Colloid
Septa," and partly in four supplementary notices published in the
Proceedings of the Society.* In carrying out the investigation form
ing the subject of these several communications, Mr. Graham had the
advantage of being admirably seconded by his assistant, Mr. W.
Chandler Roberts, wheso able and zealous co-operation he repeatedly
acknowledged in the warmest terms.
    In the course of experiments made on the transmission of gases
through ignited metallic septa, a particular platinum tube, being ren
dered vacuous, was found at all temperatures below redness to be quite
impermeable to hydrogen ; whereas at a red heat, it transmitted 100
cubic centimetres of hydrogen in half-an-heur—the quantities of oxygen,
nitrogen, marsh gas, and carbonic gas, transmitted under the same con
ditions, not amounting to -01 cubic centimetre each in half-an-
hour. It was ascertained further that, with an ignited vacuous tube
of platinum surrounded by a current of ordinary coal gas (a variable
        * ' Roy. Soc. Proc.,' xv., p. 502 ; xvi., p. 422 ; xvii., p. 212, p. 500.

 1870.J            on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.               49
nurture of gases containing on the average about 45 per cent, of
marsh gas, 40 per cent, of hydrogen, and 15 per cent, of other gases
and vapours), a transmission of pure hydrogen alone took place through
the heated metal. This property of selective transmission, manifested
by platinum, was so far analogous to the property of selective trans
mission manifested by india-rubber, that whereas a septum of india-
rubber transmitted the nitrogen of the air in a much smaller ratio
than the oxygen, the septum of ignited platinum transmitted the
other constituents of coal gas in an infinitely smaller ratio than the
hydrogen. Henco the knowledge, of the absorption by india-rubber of
the gases which it most freely transmitted, suggested to Mr. Graham an
inquiry as to the possible absorption of hydrogen gas by platinum.
Accordingly platinum, in different forms, was heated to redness, and
then allowed to cool slowly in a continuous current of hydrogen.
The metal so treated, and after its free exposure to the air, was placed
in a porcelain tube, which was next made vacuous by the Sprengel
pump. During the production and maintenance of the vacuum, no
hydrogen was extracted from the metal at ordinary temperatures ;
or even during an heur's exposure to the temperaturo of 220° ; or yet
at a beat falling just shert of redness. But at a dull red-heat and
upwards, a quantity of hydrogen gas was given off amounting in
volume, measured cold, to as much, in some cases, as 5 - 5 times the
volume of the platinum. Thus was opened out to Mr. Graham the
 subject of his last, and probably greatest discovery—the occlusion of
 gases by metals. Very many metals were examined in their relations
 to different gases, but the most interesting results were these obtained
 with platinum as above described ; and these obtained with silver,
 with iron, and above all, with palladium.
      The characteristic property of silver, heated and cooled in different
 atmospheres, proved to be its capability of absorbing and retaining, in
 some cases, as much as seven times its volume of oxygen—its absorp
 tion of hydrogen falling short of a single volume. Some silver leaf,
 heated and cooled in ordinary air, and subsequently heated in a
 vacuum, gave off a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen gases containing
 85 per cent, of oxygen, or more than four times the proportion con
 tained in the original air. This remarkable property of solid silver
  to effect the permanent occlusion of oxygen gas, must be distinguished
 from the not less remarkable and doubtless associated property of
  melted silver to effect the temporary absorption of a yet larger
  volume of the same gas ; which, on the solidification of the metal, is
  discharged with the well-known phenomenon of spitting.
       Iron, theugh tolerably absorptive of hydrogen, was found to he
  specially characterized by its absorption of carbonic oxide. What
  may be called the natural gas of wrought iron, or the gas derived
  from the forge in which it was heated, proved to consist chiefly of
  carbonic oxide, and, in different experiments, was found to range from
  7 to 12-5 times the volume of the metal ; so that, in the course of its
   preparation, iron would appear to occlude upwards of seven times its
       Vol. VI. (No. 52.)                                         e

 50                          Professor Odling                     [Jan. 28,
 volume of carbonic oxide, and to carry this gas about with it ever after.
 The absorbability of carbonic oxide by iron has an obviously impor
 tant bearing on the theory of steel production by cementation. This
 process would appear to consist in an absorption of carbonic oxide gas
 into the substance of the iron, and in a subsequent decomposition of
 the absorbed gas into carbon entering into combination with the metal,
 bo as to effect its acieration, and carbonic gas discharged from the
 surface of the metal, so as to produce the well-known appearance of
 blistering. Nor is this the only, or even the chief point of interest
 that was made out with regard to iron ; for the study of the behaviour of
 telluric manufactured iron naturally led Mr. Graham to the examination
 of sidereal native iron, that is to say, the iron of meteorites, and with
 the following result. A portion of meteoric iron, from the Lenarto fall,
 when heated in vacuo, gave off 2*85 times its volume of natural gas, of
 which the preponderating constituent, to the extent of 85-7 per cent,
 of the total quantity, consisted not of carbonic oxide, but of hydrogen,
 the carbonic oxide amounting to only 4-5 per cent., and the remaining
 9*8 per cent, consisting of nitrogen. The inference that the meteorite
 had been, at some time or other, ignited in an atmosphere having
 hydrogen as its prevailing constituent, seems irresistible ; and judging
 from the volume of gas yielded by the iron, the hydrogen atmosphere
 in which it was ignited must, in all probability, have been a highly
 condensed one ; the charge of hydrogen extracted being fully five times
 as great as it was found possible to impart to ordinary iron artificially.
     But it was with palladium that Mr. Graham obtained his most
 extraordinary results. This metal he found to have the property of
 transmitting hydrogen with extreme facility, even at temperatures very
 far short of redness. Coincidently, at temperatures even below those
 requisite for transmission, palladium was found capable of absorbing
 many hundred times its volume of hydrogen. Thus a piece of palla
 dium foil maintained at a temperature of 90°-97° for three hours, and
 then allowed to cool down during an hour and a half, while sur
 rounded by a continuous current of hydrogen gas, gave off, on being
 afterwards heated in vacuo, 643 times its volume of the gas, measured
cold; and even at ordinary temperatures, it absorbed 376 times its
 volume of the gas, provided it had first been recently ignited in
vacuo. In another experiment, palladium sponge, heated to 200°
in a current of hydrogen and allowed to cool slowly therein, after
wards yielded 686 times its volume of the gas; while a piece of
electrolytically deposited palladium heated only to 100° in hydro
gen, afterwards yielded, upon ignition in vacuo, no less than 982
times its volume of the gas. The lowness of the temperature at
which, under favourable circumstances, the absorption of hydrogen
by palladium could thus be effected, soon suggested other means of
bringing about the result. For example, a piece of palladium foil
was placed in contact with a quantity of zinc undergoing solution
in dilute sulphuric acid ; and, on subsequent examination, was found
to have absorbed 173 times its volume of hydrogen. Again, palla

 1870.]           on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.               51
 ilium, in the forms of wire and foil, was made to act as the negative
pole of a Bunsen's battery effecting the electrolysis of acidulated
water ; and in this manner was found to absorb from 800 to 950 times
its volume of hydrogen in different experiments.
     Palladium being thus chargeable with hydrogen in three different
ways, namely, by being heated and cooled in an atmosphere of the
gas ; by being placed in contact with zinc dissolving in acid, »'. e.
with hydrogen in the act of evolution ; and, lastly, by being made the
negative electrode of a battery,—correlatively, the charged metal could
be freed from its occluded hydrogen by exposing it to an increase of
temperature in air or vacuo ; by acting on it with different feebly
oxidizing mixtures ; and by making it the positive electrode of a
battery.
     The palladium, when charged to its maximum, was frequently
found to give off a small proportion of its hydrogen, theugh with
extreme slowness, at ordinary temperatures, both into the atmosphere
and into a vacuum. But not until the temperature approached 100°
was there any appreciable gas-evolution ; which, above that point, took
place with a facility increasing with the temperature, so as to be both
rapid and complete at about 300°. Since, hewever, the transmission of
hydrogen through heated palladium is a phenomenon of simultaneous
absorption and evolution, it follows that the property of palladium to
absorb hydrogen does not cease at 300°, or indeed at close upon the
melting-point of gold,—the highest temperature at which Mr. Gra
ham's experiments on transmission were conducted ; but whereas the
maximum absorption of hydrogen by palladium takes place at com
paratively low temperatures, the velocity of transmission was observed
to increase, in a rapid ratio, with the increase of temperature, inde
finitely.
     As regards the removal of hydrogen from palladium by oxygen-
ants, the gas of the charged metal was found to manifest all the che
mical activity of hydrogen in the nascent state. Thus it reduced cor
rosive sublimate to calomel, combined directly with free iodine, converted
fenid- into ferro-cyanides, destroyed the colour of permanganates, &c.
Moreover, the spongy metal, charged with hydrogen and exposed to the
air, was apt to become suddenly het, and so completely discharged,
by a spontaneous aerial oxidation of its absorbed gas into water ; while
the hydrogen of a piece of charged palladium wire was often capable
of being set fire to, and of burning continuously along the wire.
     Lastly, the reversal of the position of the palladium plate in the
decomposing cell of the battery afforded a most ready means of com
pletely extracting its hydrogen. Indeed, for some time after the
reversal, while hydrogen was being freely evolved from the negative
pole, no oxygen was observable on the surface of the palladium plate,
now made the positive pole, through its rapid oxygenation of the ab
sorbed hydrogen.
     As regards the extent of the absorption of hydrogen by palladium,
it was found, as already indicated, to vary considerably with the phy
                                                               e 2

r,2                          Professor Odling                    [Jan. 28,
sical state of the metal, whether fused, hammered, spongy, or electro
lytically deposited, for example. In one case, previously referred to, a
specimen of electrolytically deposited palladium, heated to 100°, and
then slowly cooled in a continuous current of hydrogen, was found to
occlude 982-14 times its volume of the gas, measured cold. In this
case, the actual weight of palladium experimented with, was 1-0020
gramme, and the weight of hydrogen absorbed -0073 gramme, being
iu the ratio of 99-277 per cent, of palladium and 0-723 per cent, of
hydrogen. The atomic weight of hydrogen being 1, and that of palla
dium 106-5, it is observable that the ratio of the weights of the con
stituents of the charged metal, hydrogen and palladium, approximates
to tho ratios of their atomic weights.
     In another experiment some palladium wire, drawn from a piece
of the fused metal, was charged electrolytically with 935-67 times its
volume of hydrogen. Some idea of these enormous absorptions of
hydrogen may be formed by remembering that water at mean tempe
rature absorbs only 782-7 times its volume of that most absorbable of
the common gases, ammonia.
     A point of interest with regard to the different quantities of hydro
gen absorbable by palladium in its different states, is the gradual
diminution in the absorptive power of any particular specimen of the
metal, with each successive charge and discharge of gas, in whatever
way effected—the absorptive power, hewever, being partially restor-
able by subjecting the metal to a welding heat.
     The density of palladium charged with eight or nine hundred
times its volume of hydrogen is perceptibly lowered. Owing, hewever,
to a continuous formation of bubbles of hydrogen on the surface of the
charged metal when immersed in water, there is a difficulty in taking
its exact density by comparing its respective weights in air and water
with one another. There is also a difficulty in determining the den
sity by direct measurement of the charged palladium when in the
form of wire ; owing to the curious property of the wire, on being dis
charged, of not merely returning to its original volume, but of under
going a considerable and permanent additional retraction. But in the
case of certain alloys of platinum, silver, and gold with excess of palla
dium, while the absorptive power of the constituent palladium is still
manifested, tho excess of retraction on discharge of the wires does not
occur ; and the specific gravities deducible from the mere increase in
length of wires of these alloys, are found to accord approximatively
with these deducible from the increase in length of the pure palladium .
wire, not above its original length, but above the length to which it
retracts on discharge of its absorbed gas. It would thus appear that,
simultaneously with its absorption of hydrogen, the pure palladium
wire, unstably stretched by the process of drawing, suffers two oppo
site actions ; that is to say, it undergoes a process of shertening by
assuming a more stable condition of cohesion, and a process of length
ening by the addition to it of other matter—the lengthening due to the
additional matter being the excess of the length of the charged above

1870.]            on Professor Graham's Scientific Work.                   53
that of the discharged wire. In a particular experi ment illustrative
of this peculiarity, a new platinum wire took up a full charge of
hydrogen electrolytieally, namely, 956 - 3 volumes, and increased in
length from 609 -585 to 619- 354 millimetres. With the expulsion of the
hydrogen afterwards, the wire was permanently shortened to 600 -115
millimetres. The sum of the two changes taken together amounts
to 19-239 millimetres, and represents the true increase in the length
of the wire due to the addition of hydrogen. It corresponds to a
linear expansion of 3 - 205 in 100, or to a cubical expansion of 9 - 827 in
100. The original volume of the wire being -126 cubic centimetre,
the volume of the condensed hydrogen would accordingly be -01238
cubic centimetre. Then as the charged wire, on being heated in vacuo,
evolved 120-5 cubic centimetres of hydrogon gas, weighing -0108
gramme, the density of the absorbed hydrogen would be
                                   ™=-872.
                                   -01238
Calculated from the mere increase in length of the charged wire above
that of the wire originally, the density of the absorbed hydrogen would
be 1 - 708. The following Table gives the densities of condensed hydro
gen in different experiments made with palladium wire, in which the
excess of retraction on discharge was allowed for as above ; and also
the densities observed in experiments made with palladium alloys in
which the contraction on discharge took place to the original lengths
of the wires only.
                  When united with          Density of Condensed Hydrogen.
          Palladium                             0 - 854   to   0 - 872
          Palladium and platinum . .     ..     0-7401     „   0-7545
          Palladium and gold                    0-711     „    0-715
          Palladium and silver       ..  ..     0-727     „   0 742
    Whether the absorption of hydrogen by palladium, alloyed or not
with another metal, was large or small, the density of the occluded
hydrogen was found to be substantially the same. That the excessive
retraction of the palladium wire on the discharge of its absorbed hydro
gen is not a mere effect of heat was shewn by the charged wire under
going a similar retraction when discharged electrolytieally instead of
by ignition in vacuo ; and also by the original wire not undergoing
any sensible retraction as a result of annealing. That the retraction is
merely in length was shewn by the absence of any difference in specific
gravity between the original and the discharged wire. Very curiously,
the shertening of the wire, by successive chargings and dischargings
of hydrogen, would seem to be interminable. Thus the following ex
pansions of a particular wire, caused by variable charges of hydrogen,
were followed, on expelling the hydrogen, by the contractions recorded
in the other column.

54 Professor Odling on Professor Graham's Scientific Work. [Jan. 28,
                                       Elongation In Retraction in
                                       Millimttros.   Millimetres.
             1st Experiment ..            9-77            9-70
             2nd                          5-765           6-20
             3rd      „     ..   ..       2- 36           314
             4th      „     ..   ..       3- 482          4-95
                                                         23-99
The palladium wire, which originally measured 609 - 144 millimetres,
thus suffered, by four successive chargings and dischargings of hydro
gen, an ultimate contraction of 23 - 99 millimetres, or a reduction of
its original length to the extent of nearly 4 per cent., each increment
of contraction below the original length usually exceeding the previous
increment of elongation above the original length of the wire. The
alternate expansion and contraction of palladium by its occlusion and
evolution of hydrogen is ingeniously shewn by a contrivance of Mr.
Roberts', in which a slip of palladium foil, varnished on one side, is
made to curl and uncurl itself, as it becomes alternately the negative
and positive electrode of a battery, or is alternately charged and dis
charged of hydrogen on its free surface.
    That hydrogen is the vapour of a highly volatile metal has fre
quently been maintained on chemical grounds ; and from a considera
tion of the physical properties of his hydrogenized palladium, Mr.
Graham was led to regard it as a true alloy of palladium with hydrogen,
or rather hydrogenium, in which the volatility of the latter metal was
restrained by the fixity of the former, and of which the metallic aspect
was equally due to both of its constituents. Altheugh, indeed, the occlu
sion of upwards of 900 times its volume of hydrogen was found to lower
the tenacity and electric conductivity of palladium appreciably, still the
hydrogenized palladium remained possessed of a most characteristically
metallic tenacity and conductivity. Thus, the tenacity of the original
wire being taken as 100, the tenacity of the fully charged wire was
found to be 81 - 29 ; and the electric conductivity of the original wire
being 8-10, that of the hydrogenized wiro was found to be 5 - 99. In
further support of the conclusion arrived at by Mr. Graham, as to the
metallic condition of the hydrogen occluded in palladium, he adduced
his singular discovery ofits being possessed ofmagnetic properties, more
decided than these of palladium itself, a metal which Mr. Faraday had
shewn to be " feebly but truly magnetic." Operating with an electro
magnet of very moderate strength, Mr. Graham found that while an ob
long fragment of electrolytically deposited palladium was deflected from
the equatorial by 10° only, the samo fragment of metal, charged with
604 - 6 times its volume of hydrogen, was deflected through 48°. Thus
did Mr. Graham supplement the idea of hydrogen as an invisible incon
densable gas, by the idea of hydrogen as an opaque, lustrous, white
metal, having a specific gravity between 0 - 7 and 0 - 8, a well-marked
tenacity and conductivity, and a very decided magnetism.
                                                                   [W.O.]

 1870.]         Professor Ruskin on Verona and its Rivers.              55
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 4, 1870.
       William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
                    John Ruskin, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                       sLADR PROFESSOR OF FINR ARTS, OXFORD,
                 A Talk respecting Verona and its Rivers.
Thr discourse began with a description of the scenery of the eastern
approach to Verona, with special remarks upon its magnificent fortifi
cations, consisting of a steep ditch, some thirty feet deep by sixty or
eighty wide, cut out of the solid rock, and the precipice-like wall
above, with towers crested with forked battlements set along it at due
intervals. The rock is a soft and crumbling limestone, containing
" fossil creatures still so like the creatures they were once, that there
it first occurred to the human brain to imagine that the buried shapes
were not mockeries of life, but had indeed once lived ; and, under these
white banks by the road-sido was born, like a poor Italian gipsy, the
modern science of geology— " . . . " The wall was chiefly built, the
moat entirely excavated, by Can Grande della Scala ; and it represents
typically the form of dofence which rendered it possible for the life
and the arts of citizens to be preserved and practised in an age of
habitual war. Not only so, but it is the wall of the actual city which
headed the great Lombard league, which was the beginner of personal
and independent power in the Italian nation, and the first banner-
bearer, therefore, of all that has been vitally independent in religion
and in art througheut the entire Christian world to this day." At the
 upper angle of the wall, looking down the northern descent, is seen a
 great round tower at the foot of it, not forked in battlements, but with
 embrasures for guns. " The battlemented wall was the cradle of civic
 life. That low circular tower is the cradle of modern war and of all
its desolation. It is the first European tower for artillery ; the
beginning of fortification against gunpowder—the beginning, that is
 to say, of the end of all fortification."
      After noticing the beautiful vegetation of the district, Mr. Ruskin
 described the view from the promontory or spur, about ten miles long,
 of which the last rock dies into the plain at the eastern gate of Verona.
 " This promontory," he said, " is one of the sides of the great gate out
 of Germany into Italy, through which the Goths always entered;
 cloven up to Innspruck by the Inn, and down to Verona by the

56                          Professor Buskin                      [Feb. 4,
 Adige. And by this gate not only the Gothic armies came, but after
 the Italian nation is formed the current of northern life enters still
 into its heart through the mountain artery, as constantly and strongly
 as the cold waves of the Adige itself." ..." The rock of this pro
 montory hardens as wo trace it back to the Alps, first into a limestone
 baving knots of splendid brown jasper in it as our chalk has flints, and
 in a few miles more into true marble, coloured by iron into a glowing
orange or pale warm red—the peach-blossom marble, of which Verona
is chiefly built—and then as you advance farther into the hills into
variegated marbles very rich and grotesque in their veinings."
     After dilating on the magnificent landscape viewed from the top of
this promontory, embracing the blue plain of Lombardy and its cities,
Mr. Ruskin said :—
     " I do not think that there is any other rock in all the world from
which the places and monuments of so complex and deep a fragment
of the history of its ages can be visible as from this piece of crag with
its blue and prickly weeds. For you have thus beneath you at once
the birthplaces of Virgil and of Livy — the hemes of Dante and
Petrarch, and the source of the most sweet and pathetic inspiration to
your own Shakspeare —the spot where the civilization of the Gothic
kingdoms was founded on the throne of Theodoric ; and there, what
ever was strongest in the Italian race redeemed itself into life by its
league against Barbarossa ; the beginning of the revival of natural
science and medicine in the scheols of Padua ; the centre of Italian
chivalry, in the power of the Scaligers ; of Italian cruelty, in that of
Ezzelin ; and, lastly, the birthplace of the highest art ; for among
these hills, or by this very Adige bank, were born Mantegna, Titian,
Corrcggio, and Veronese."
    Mr. Ruskin then referred to a series of drawings and phetographs
taken at Verona by himself and his assistants, Mr. Burgess and Mr.
Bunney, which he had divided into three series, and of which he had
furnished a number of printed catalogues illustrated with notes.
     1. "Lombard, extending to the end of the twelfth century, being
the expression of the introduction of Christianity into barbaric minds ;
Christianization.
    2. "The Gothic period. Dante's time, from 1200 to 1400 (Dante
beginning his poem exactly in the midst of it, in 1300) ; the period
of vital Christianity, and of the development of the laws of chivalry
and forms of imagination which are founded on Christianity.
     3. " The first period of the revival, in which the arts of Greece
and some of its religion return and join themselves to Christianity ;
not taking away its sincerity or earnestness, but making it poetical
instead of practical. In the following period even this poetical
Christianity expired ; the arts became devoted to the pursuit of
pleasure, and in that they persist except where they are saved by a
healthy naturalism or domesticity.

 1370.]                  on Verona and its Rivers.                      57
     1. " The Lombardic period is one of savage but noble life gradually
subjected to law. It is the forming of men, not out of clay but wild
beasts. And art of this period in all countries, including our own
Norman especially, is, in the inner heart of it, the subjection of savage
or terrible, or foolish and erring life, to a dominant law. It is govern
ment and conquest of fearful dreams. There is in it as yet no germ
of true hope—only the conquest of evil, and the waking from darkness
and terror. The literature of it is, as in Greece, far in advance of art,
and is already full of the most tender and impassioned beauty, while
the art is still grotesque and dreadful ; but, however wild, it is supreme
above all others by its expression of governing law, and here at Verona
is the very centre and utmost reach of that expression.
     ** I know nothing in architecture at once so exquisite and so wild
and so strange in the expression of self-conquest achieved almost in a
dream. For observe, these barbaric races, educated in violence—
chiefly in war and in hunting—cannot feel or see clearly as they are
gradually civilized whether this element in which they have been
brought up is evil or not. They must be good soldiers and hunters—
that is their life ; yet they know that killing is evil, and they do not
expect to find wild beasts in heaven. They have been trained by
pain, by violence, by hunger and cold. They know there is a good in
these things as well as evil : they are perpetually hesitating between
the one and the other thought of them. But one thing they see
clearly, that killing and hunting, and every form of misery, pleasure,
and of passion, must somehow at last be subdued by law, which shall
bring good out of it all, and which they feel more and more con
straining them every hour. Now, if with this sympathy you look at
their dragon and wild beast decoration, you will find that it now tells
 you about these Lombards far more than they could know of them
 selves. . . . All the actions, and much more the arts, of men tell to
 others, not only what the worker does not know, but what he never
 can know of himself—which you can only recognize by being in
 an element more advanced and wider than his. ... In deliberate
 symbolism, the question is always —not what a symbol meant first or
 meant elsewhere, but what it means now and means here. Now, this
 dragon symbol of the Lombard is used of course all over the world ;
 it means good here, and evil there ; sometimes means nothing ; some
 times everything. You have always to ask what the man who here
 uses it means by it. Whatever is in his mind, that he is sure partly
 to express by it ; nothing else than that can he express by it."
      2. In the second period Mr. Euskin said was to be found " the
 highest development of Italian character and chivalry, with an
 entirely believed Christian religion ; you get, therefore, joy and
 courtesy, and hope, and a lovely peace in death. And with these you
 have two fearful elements of evil. You have first such confidence in
 the virtue of the creed that men hate and persecute all who do not

58                          Professor Ruskin                    [Feb. 4,
accept it. And worse still, you find such confidence in the power of
the creed that men not only can do anything that is wrong, and be
themselves for a word of faith pardoned, but are even sure that after
the wrong is done God is sure to put it all right again for them, or
even make things better than they were before. Now, I need not
point out to you hew the spirit of persecution, as well as of vain hepe
founded on creed only, is mingled in every line with the lovely moral
teaching of the ' Divina Commedia '—nor need I point out to you
hew, between the persecution of other people's creeds and the absolu
tion of one's own crimes, all Christian error is concluded."
     In relation to this Mr. Ruskin referred to the history of the
founder of the power of the Scalas, Mastino, a simple citizen, chesen
first to be podesta and then captain of Verona, for his justice and
sagacity, whe, altheugh wise and peaceful in his policy, employed the
civil power in the persecution of heresy, burning above two hundred
persons ; and he also related how Can Signorio della Scala on his death
bed, after giving a pious charge to his children, ordered the murder of
his brother—examples of the boundless possibility of self-deception.
One of these children killed the other, and was himself driven from
the throne: so ending the dynasty of the Scalas. Referring to his
illustrations, Mr. Ruskin pointed out the expressions of hepe, in the
conquest of death, and the rewards of faith, apparent in the art of the
time. The Lombard architecture expresses the triumph of law over
passion, the Christian, that of hepe over sorrow.
     Mr. Ruskin concluded his remarks on this period by commenting
on the history and the tomb of Can Grande della Scala, a good
knight and true, as busy and bright a life as is found in the annals
of chivalry.
     3. " The period when classical literature and art were again known
in Italy, and the painters and sculptors, whe had been gaining steadily
in power for two hundred years—power not of practice merely, but of
race also—with every circumstance in their favour around them,
received their finally perfect instruction, both in geometrical science,
in that of materials, and in the anatomy and action of the human
body. Also the people about them—the models of their work—had
been perfected in personal beauty by a chivalric war ; in imagination
by a transcendental philosophy ; in practical intellect by stern
struggle for civic law ; and in commerce, not in falsely made or vile
or unclean things, but in lovely things, beautifully and henestly made.
And now, therefore, you get out of all the world's long history since
it was peopled by men till now—you get just fifty years of porfect
work. Perfect. It is a strong word—it is also a true one. The
doing of these fifty years is unaccusably Right, as art; what its
sentiment may be—whether too great or too little—whether super
ficial or sincere—is another question, but as artists' work it admits
no conception of anything better.

1870.]                     on Verona and its Rivers.                     59
     " It is trne that in the following age, founded on the absolutely
stern rectitude of this, there came a phase of gigantic power and of
exquisite ease and felicity which possess an awe and a charm of their
own. They are more inimitable than the work of the perfect schooL
But they are not perfect." ....
     This period Mr. Buskin named " the ' Time of the Masters,' Fifty
Years, including Luini, Leonardo, John Bellini, Vettor Carpaccio,
Andrea Mantegna, Andrea Verrocchio, Cima da Corregliano, Perugino,
and in date, though only in his earlier life, belonging to the school,
BaphaeL . . . The great fifty years was the prime of life of three men.
John Bellini, born 1430, died at 90, in 1516 ; Mantegna, born 1430,
died at 76, in 1506 ; and Vettor Carpaccio, who died in 1522."
      " The object of these masters is wholly different from that of the
former school. The central Gothic men always want chiefly to
impress you with the facts of their subject ; but the masters of this
 finished time desire only to make everything dainty and delightful.
 We have not many pictures of the class in England, but several have
 been of late added to the National Gallery, and the Perugino there,
 especially the compartment with Raphael and Tobit, and the
 little St. Jerome by John Bellini, will perfectly show you this main
 character—pictorial perfectness and deliciousness— sought before
 everything else. You will find, if you look into that St. Jerome, that
 everything in it is exquisite, complete, and pure ; there is not a particle
 of dust in tho cupboards, nor a cloud in the air ; the wooden shutters
 are dainty, the candlesticks are dainty, the saint's scarlet hat is dainty,
 and its violet tassel, and its ribbon, and his blue cloak and his spare
 pair of shoes, and his little brown partridge—it is all a perfect quint
 essence of innocent luxury—absolute delight, without one drawback
 in it, nor taint of the Devil anywhere." ....
      After dilating on several other pictures of this class, giving
 evidence of the entire devotion of the artists of the period to their
 art and work, Mr. Buskin adverted to the second part of his discourse,
 the rivers of Verona. " There is but one river at Verona, nevertheless
 Dante connects its name with that of the Po when he says of the
 whole of Lombardy,—
                      ' In gul pae8e, ch' Adice e Po riga,
                        Solea valore e cortesia trovarsi
                        Prima cho Federigo aveisso briga.'
 I want to speak for a minute or two about those great rivers ; because
 in the efforts that are now being made to restore some of its commerce
 to Venice precisely the same questions are in course of debate which
 again and again, ever since Venice was a city, have put her senato at
 pause—namely, how to hold in check the continually advancing
 morass formed by the silt brought down by the Alpine rivers. Is it
 not strange that for at least six hundred years the Venetians have
 been contending with those rivers at their mouths—that is to say,

GO             Professor Buskin on Verona and Us Rivers.         [Feb. 4,
where their strength has become whelly irresistible—and never once
theught of contending with them at their sources, where their in
finitely separated streamlets might be, and arc meant by Heaven to
be, ruled as easily as children ? And observe hew sternly, hew con
stantly the place where they are to be governed is marked by the
mischief done by their liberty. Consider what the advance of the
delta of the Po in the Adriatic signifies among the Alps. The evil
of the delta itself, hewever great, is as nothing in comparison of that
which is in its origin.
    " The gradual destruction of the harbourage of Venice, the endless
cost of delaying it, the malaria of the whele coast down to Ravenna,
nay, the raising of the bed of the Po, to the imperilling of all
Lombardy, are but secondary evils. Every acre of that increasing
delta means the devastation ofpart of an Alpine valley, and the loss of
so much fruitful soil and ministering rain. Some of you now present
must have passed last year through the valleys of the Toccia and
Ticino. You know therefore the devastation that was caused there,
as well as in the valley of the Rhene, by the great floods of 1868, and
that ten yoars of labour, even if the peasantry had still the heart for
labour, cannot redeem these districts into fertility. What you have
there seen on a vast scale takes place to a certain extent during every
summer thunderstorm, and from the ruin of some portion of fruitful
land the dust descends to increase the marshes of the Po. But
observe further—whether fed by sudden melting of snow or by storm
—every destructive rise of the Italian rivers signifies the loss of so
much power of irrigation on the south side of the Alps. You must
all well know the look of their chain—seen from Milan or Turin lato
in summer—hew little snow is left, except on Monte Rosa, hew vast
a territory of brown mountain-side heated and barren, witheut rocks,
yet witheut forest. There is in that brown-purple zone, and along
the flanks of every valley that divides it, another Lombardy of culti
vable land ; and every drift of rain that swells the mountain torrents
if it were caught where it falls is literally rain of gold. We seek
gold beneath the rocks ; and we will not so much as make a trench
along the hill-side to catch it where it falls from heaven, and where,
if not so caught, it changes into a frantic monster, first ravaging
hamlet, hill, and plain, then sinking along the sheres of Venice into
poisoned sleep. Think what that belt of the Alps might bo—up to
four theusand feet above the plain—if the system of terraced irrigation
which even half-savage nations discovered and practised long ago in
China and in Borneo, and by which our own engineers have subdued
vast districts of farthest India, were but in part also practised here—
here, in the oldest and proudest centre of European arts, where
Leonardo da Vinci—master among masters—first discerned the laws
of the coiling clouds and wandering streams, so that to this day his
engineering remains unbettered by modern science : and yet in this
centro of all human achievements of genius no theught has been

 1870.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                        r, 1
 taken to receive with sacred art these great gifts of quiet snow and
 flying rain. Think, I repeat, what that south slope of the Alps
might be ; one paradise of lovely pasture and avenned forest of
chestnut and blossomed trees, with cascades docile and innocent as
infants, laughing all summer long from crag to crag and pool to pool,
and the Adige and the Po, the Dora and the Ticino, no more denied,
no more alternating between tierce flood and venomous languor, but
in calm clear currents bearing ships to every city and health to every
field of all that azure plain of Lombard Italy
      " It has now become a most grave object with me to get some of
 the great pictures of the Italian schools into England ; and that I
 think at this time—with good help—it might be contrived. Further,
without in the least urging my plans impatiently on any one else, I
know thoroughly that this which I have said should be done, can be
done, for the Italian rivers, and that no method of employment of our
idle able-bodied labourers would be in the end more remunerative, or
in the beginnings of it more healthful and every way beneficial than,
with the concurrence of the Italian and Swiss governments, setting
them to redeem the valleys of the Ticino and the Rhone. And I pray
you to think of this ; for I tell you truly—you who care for Italy—
that both her passions and her mountain streams aro noble ; but that
her happiness depends not on the liberty, but the right government
of both."                                                           [J. E.]
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, February 7, 1870.
    John Peter Gassiot, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
Lord Brabazon.                             Mrs. J. H. Gladstone.
Robert Dudley Baxter, Esq.                 Rodolph Alexander Hankey, Esq.
Miss Mary Browne.                          Mark Henry Lackerstecn, M.D.
Michael Carteighe, Esq.                      M.R.C.P. F.L.S. F.C.S.
Charles Lukey Collard, Esq.                George Andrew Spottiswoodo,
Miss Anno Gassiot.                           Esq.
        elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The special thanks of the Members were returned for the following
addition to " tho Donation Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Researches":—
           W. D. Esq. (5th donation)                          £5 5 0
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
Antiquaries, Society of—Archaeologia, Vol. XLII. Part 1. 4to. 1809.
   Proceedings, Vol. IV. Nos. 3-6. 8vo. 1868-9. 8vo.

62                            General Monthly Meeting.                    [Feb. 7,
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 156. 8vo.
   Proceedings, 1869, Nos. 9, 10. 1869. No. 1. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XX. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1869-70.
Bavarian Academy of Science, Royal—Sitzungsbcrichte. 1869. I. Hefte 4. II.
      Hefte 1, 2, 3. 8vo.
Baxter, R. Dudley, Esq. M.R.I, (the Auther)—English Parties and Conservatism.
      (K97) 8vo. 1870.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogues of Dermaptera Saltatoria, Part 2. 1869. 8vo.
   Guide Books. 16mo. 1869.
   Hand-List of Birds. 8vo. 1869.
Chemical Society—Journal for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 8vo.
Churctt, Professor A. H. M.A. M.R.I.—Practice with Science : a Series of Agri
      cultural Papers, Vol. II. 8m 1869.
Dehndre, M. Aug.—Produits Vegetaux du Portugal. Par J. L. Souboiran et
      A. Delondre. (L 15) 8vo. 1867.
 Editors—Academy for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 4to.
   American Journal of Science for Nov. 1869. 8vo.
   Artizan for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 4to.
   Atheneum for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 4to.
   Chemical News for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 4to.
   Engineer for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. fol.
   Horological Journal for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 8vo.
   Nature for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 8vo.
   Photographic News for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 4to.
   Practical Mechanics' Journal for Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 4to.
   Revue des Cours Scientiflques et Litteraires. Dec. 1869, Jan. 1870. 4to.
   Scientific Opinion. Dec. 1869, Jau. 1870. 4to.
Gassiot, J. r. Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—London and St. Katharine's Dock
      Company. 8vo. 1869.
 Oyll, Gordon W. J. Esq. M.R.I, (the Translator)—The Voyage to Parnassus ;
      Numantia, a Tragedy ; and the Commerce of Algiers. By Cervantes. Trans
      lated from the Spanish. 16mo. 1870.
Harlem, SociCte' HolUmdaise des Sciences—Archives Ne'erlandaises des Sciences,
      Tome IV. 8vo. 1869.
Ironmongers' Company. London—John Nichel : Some Account of the Worshipful
      Company of Ironmongers. 4to. 1866.
   Catalogue of the Antiquities and Works of Art exhibited at Ironmongers' Hall,
      May, 1861. Edited by G. B. French. 4to. 1869.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 47, 52. 8vo. 1869-70.
   Proceedings. 1869. 8vo.
London, Corporation of—Catalogue of Library, 9th Supplement. 8vo. 1869.
Manning, Frederick, Esq. M.R.I.—Bev. F. Leigh Colvile : Tho Worthies of War
      wickshire. 1500-1800. 4to. 1869.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, Aug. 1869, Part 2. 8vo.
Meteorological Society—Proceedings, No. 45. 8vo. 1870.
New Zealand Government—Statistics of New Zealand, 1868. Fol. 1869.
Norwegian University, Christiania, Royal — Thomas Saga Erkibyskups. Ved
      C. B. Ungor. (Norwegian and Latin.) 8vo. 1869.
   Le Glacier de Boium en Juillet, 1868. Par S. A. Sexe. 4to. 1869.
   Norsk Meteorologisk Aarbog for 1868. 4to. 1869.
Photographic Society—Journal. Nos. 212, 213. 8vo. 1869-70.
Preussische Alcademie der Wissenschaften—Mouatsberichte, Sept. Oct. 8vo. 1869.
Roussillon, tlie Dulie of (the Author)—Origines, Migrations : Philologie et Monu
      ments Antiques. 8vo. 1867.
Royal Institute of British Architects—Sessional Papers, 1869-70. No. 3. 4to.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 115. 8vo. 1869.

1870.]       On the Temperature and Animd Life of the Deep Sea.              63
8cottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. XVIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1869.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXII. Part 4. 8vo. 1869.
8ymons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine, Dec.
     1869, Jan. 1870. 8vo.
TyndaU, Professor, LL.D. F.B.S. M.B.I, (the Auther)—Faraday as a Discoverer.
     New edition. 16mo. 1870.
Victoria Institule—Journal, Vol. DX No. 13. 8vo. 1869.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, February 11, 1870.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
                     William B. CarPenter, M.D. F.R.S.
            On the Temperature and Animal Life of the Deep Sea.
The present Discourse embodies the most important general results
obtained by the Exploration of the Deep Sea in the neighbourheod of
the British Isles, carried on during the summer of 1869 in H.M. Survey
ing vessel ' Porcupine,' with the view of completing and extending the
inquiries commenced in the ' Lightning ' expedition of 1868, of which
an account was given by the speaker at the Friday evening meeting
 of April 9, 1869 *
      The expedition of the ' Porcupine' was divided into three Cruises.
 The first of these, which was placed under the scientific charge of
 Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys, F.R.S., accompanied by Mr. William L. Carpenter
 as Chemical assistant, commenced from Galway near the end of May,
 and concluded at Belfast at the beginning of July. It was directed
 in the first instance to the South-west, then to the West, and finally
 to the North-west as far as the Rockall Bank. The greatest depth at
 which Temperature-sounding and Dredging were carried on in this
 cruise was 1476 fathems ; and these operations, through the excellent
 equipment of the ' Porcupine ' and the skill of her commander, Capt.
  Calver, were so successfully performed, that it was confidently antici
 pated that still greater depths might be reached with an equally
 satisfactory result.
      The second Cruise, which was under the scientific charge of Prof.
 Wyville Themson, F.R.S., with Mr. Hunter as Chemical assistant,
 was consequently directed to the nearest point at which a depth of
 2500 fathems was known to exist, viz. the northern extremity of the
 Bay of Biscay, about 250 miles to the west of Ushant. In this cruise
  Temperature-sounding and Dredging were carried down to the extra
  ordinary depth of 2345 fathems, or nearly three miles—a depth nearly
  equal to the height of Mont Blanc, and exceeding by more than
  500 fathems that from which the Atlantic Cable was recovered. This
  sea-bed, on which the pressure of the superincumbent water is nearly
                * Proceedings of the Royal Institution, vol. v., p. 503.

64                         Dr. W. B. Carpenter                   [Feb. 11,
three tons for every square inch, was found to support an abundance
of Animal life ; about li cwt. of " Atlantic mud," chiefly consisting of
 Globigcrince, having been brought up in the dredgo, together - with
various types of higher animals, Echinoderms, Annelids, Crustaceans,
and Mollusks ; among them a new Crinoid—referablo, like the Rhizo-
crinus, whese discovery by M. Sars, jun., had been the starting-point
of the present inquiry—to the Apiocrinite type which flourished during
the Oolitic period.
     The third Cruise was under the scientific charge of the speaker,
with Mr. P. H. Carpenter as Chemical assistant ; but he had the great
advantage of being accompanied by his colleague Prof. Wyville
Themson, whe, as in the ' Lightning ' expedition, took the entire
superintendence of the Dredging operations. The object of this cruise,
which commenced in the middle of August and terminated in the
middle of September, was a more therough exploration of the area
between the North of Scotland and the Faroo Islands, which had been
found in the 'Lightning' expedition to afford results of peculiar interest
in regard alike to the inequality of Temperature and to the distribution
of Animal life on the sea-bed, which here ranges between the compara
tively shallow depths of from 350 to 650 fathems—the last-named
being the greatest depth to which dredging had been carried in
1868.
     The weather, during nearly the whele of the 'Porcupine' expe
dition, was as favourable to its work, as during the greater part of the
' Lightning ' expedition it had been unfavourable ; and the results
obtained not only far exceeded the most sanguine expectations of these
whe had promoted it, but may bo said, witheut exaggeration, to be
such as no previous Scientific exploration of so limited an extent and
duration is known to have yielded.
     The results of the Temperature-soundings will be first stated, with
their bearing on the doctrines advanced in the former Discourse as
probable inferences from the observations made during the 'Lightning'
expedition. These observations indicated that two very different Sub
marine Climates exist in the deep Channel which lies E.N.E. and W.S.W.
between the North of Scotland and the Faroo Banks ; a minimum tem
perature of 32° having been registered in some parts of this channel,
whilst in other parts of it, at the like depths, and with the same surface
temperature (never varying much from 52°), the minimum temperature
registered was never lower than 46°,—thus shewing a difference of 14°.
It could not be positively asserted that these minima are the hottom-
temperatures of the Areas in which they respectively occur ; but it was
argued that they must almost necessarily be so :—first, because it is
highly improbable that Sea-water at 32° sheuld overlie water at any
higher temperature, which is specifically lighter than itself, unless
the two strata have a motion in opposite directions sufficiently rapid
to be recognizable ; and second, because the nature of the Animal life
found on the bottom of the Cold area, which consists of quartzose

1870.]          on the Temperature and Life of the Deep Sea.            65
sand including Volcanic particles, exhibited a marked correspondence
with its presumed reduction of temperature, whilst the sea-bed of
the Warm area is essentially composed of Globigerina-maA, and the
Animal life which it supports is characteristic of the warmer-temperate
seas.
     This conclusion, it is obvious, would not be invalidated by any
error arising from the effect of Pressure on the bulbs of the Thermo
meters ; since, although the actual minima might be, as was then sur
mised, from 2° to 4° below the recorded minima, the difference between
temperatures taken at the same or nearly the same depths would
remain unaffected.
     The existence in the Cold area of a minimum temperature of
32°, with a Fauna essentially Boreal, could not, it was argued, be
accounted for in any other way than by the supposition of an under
current of Polar water coming down from the North or North-east :
whilst, conversely, the existence in the Warm area of a minimum
temperature of 46°, extending to 500 or 600 fathoms' depth, in the
latitude of 60° (being at least 8~ above its isotherm), together with the
warmer-temperate character of its Fauna, seemed equally indicative of
a flow of Equatorial waters from the South or South-west.
     It was further urged that if the existence of two such different
Submarine Climates in close proximity can only be accounted for on
the hypothesis of an Arctic stream and an Equatorial stream running
side by side (the latter also spreading over the former in consequence
of its lower specific gravity), these streams are to be regarded (like the
Gulf Stream) as particular cases of a great general Oceanic Circulation,
which is continually bringing the water cooled-dowro in the Polar
regions into the deepest parts of the Equatorial ocean-basins, whilst
the water heated in the Equatorial regions moves towards the Poles
on or near the surface. Such a Circulation was long since pointed out
to be as much a Physical necessity, as that interchange of Air between
 the Equatorial and Polar regions which has so large a share in the
production of winds : but whilst Physical Geographers remained
 under the dominant idea that the Temperature of the Deep Sea is
 everywhere 39°, they could not fully recognize its importance.
     These doctrines have been fully tested by the very numerous and
 careful Temperature-soundings taken in the ' Porcupine ' expedition ;
  »nd the result has been not merely to confirm them in every particular
  —so that they may now take rank as established facts,—but also to
  show that a Temperature 2^~ below the freezing-point of fresh tcater
  may prevail over the sea-bed in a region far removed from the Polar,
  and that even this extreme reduction is by no moans antagonistic to
  the existence of Animal life in great variety and abundance.
      All the Temperature-soundings of the ' Porcupine' expedition were
  taken with Thermometers protected from the effects of pressure by the
  enclosure of the bulb of each instrument in an outer bulb, sealed round
  the neck of the tube ; about three-fourths of the intervening space
      You VT. (No. 52.)                                           r

66                           Dr. W. B. Carpenter                        [Feb. 11,
being filled with spirit, but a small vacuity being left, by which any
 reduction in the capacity of the outer bulb is prevented from com
 municating pressure to the inner. This plan of construction, which
 was suggested by Professor W. A. Miller, has been so successfully
 carried into practice by Mr. Casella, that Thermometers thus protected
 havo been subjected to a pressure of three tons on the square inch, in a
 testing-machine devised for the purpose, witheut undergoing more
 than a very slight elevation, of which a part (at least) is attributable
 to the heat given out by the compression of the water in which they
were immersed : whilst the very best Thermometers of the ordinary
construction were affected by the same pressure to the extent of 8° or
 10°, the elevation in some instruments reaching as much as 50° or
 60°.* Two of these protected Miller-Casella thermometers were used
in each observation ; and they always agreed within a fraction of a
degree. The same pair was used througheut the Expedition ; and
notwithstanding that they were used for 166 separate observations, in
 which they travelled up and down nearly 100 miles, they came back
in perfectly good order,—a result mainly due to the care with which
they were handled by Captain Calver. It may be affirmed with great
confidence that the Temperatures which they indicated were correct
within 1° (Fahr.) ; an approximation quite near enough for the scien
tific requirements of the case.
     In order to connect the work of the ' Porcupine ' with that of the
' Lightning ' expedition, it will be desirable to commence with
the third Cruise of the former, in which a detailed survey was made
of the area traversed in the preceding year by the latter. In this
Cruise 6oMom-soundings were taken at thirty-six different stations, at
depths varying from 100 to 767 fathems ; of these, seventeen were in
the Cold area and fourteen in the Warm, whilst five exhibited inter
mediate temperatures, in accordance with their border position between
the two. In order to ascertain whether the minimum Temperatures
thus obtained were really the temperatures of the bottom, Serial
soundings were taken at three stations, of which one was in the
Warm area and two in the Cold,—the temperature at different depths
between the surface and the bottom being ascertained by successive
 observations, at the same points, at intervals of 50 or 100 fathems.
All these results agreed extremely well with each other ; and they
closely accorded with the fifteen observations made in the ' Lightning '
expedition, when the requisite correction for pressure (from 2° to 3°,
according to the depth) was applied to the latter. (Table I., p. 81.)
    * See Professor W. A. Miller's 'Note upon a Self-Registering Thermometer,
adapted to Deep Sea Soundings,' in 'Proceedings of the Royal Society,' June 17,
1869.—The same principle had been previously applied in thermometers con
structed under the direction of Admiral Fitzroy ; the space between the two
bulbs, hewever, being occupied with mercury instead of spirit. Owing, hewever,
to some imperfection in their construction, their performance was not satisfactory,
and they were found very liable to fracture.

 1870.]         on the Temperature and Life of the Deep Sea.           67
     The following General Summary of these results brings into
marked contrast the conditions of the Warm and Cold areas, which
occupy respectively the W.8.W. and E.N.E. portions of the Channel
between the north of Scotland and the Faroe Islands, and lie side by
side in its midst.
     The »wr/-ace-temperature may be said to be everywhere nearly the
same, viz. 52° ; the variations above or below this being attributable
either to Atmospheric differences (as wind, sunshine, &c.) or to differ
ence of Latitude. Alike in the Warm and the Cold areas there was a
fall of from 3° to 4° in the first 50 fathems, bringing down the tempe
rature at that depth to 48°. A slow descent took place nearly at the
same rate in both areas through the next 150 fathems ; the tempera
ture in the Warm area at the depth of 200 fathems being 47°, whilst
in the Cold it was 45° - 7. It is below this depth that the marked
difference shews itself. For whilst in the Warm area there is a slow
and pretty uniform descent in the next 400 fathems, amounting
to less than four degrees in the whele, there is in the Cold area a
descent offifteen degrees in the next 100 fathems, bringing down the
temperature at 300 fathems to 30° - 8. Even this is not the lowest ; for
the Serial soundings taken at depths intermediate between 300 and
640 fathems (the latter being the greatest depth met with in the
Cold area, midway between the Faroe and the Shetland Islands)
shewed a further progressive descent ; the lowest bottom-temperature
met with being 29° - 6. Thus, while the temperature of the superficial
stratum of the water occupying the Cold area clearly indicates its
derivation from the same source as the general body of water occu
pying the Warm area, the temperature of the deeper stratum, which
may have a thickness of more than two thousand feet, ranges from the
freezing-point of fresh water to 2^° below it. Between the two is a
stratum of intermixture of about 100 fathems thickness, which marks
the transition between the warm superficial layer and the body of
frigid water which occupies the deeper part of the Channel.
     The shortest distance within which these two contrasted Submarine
 Climates were observed at corresponding depths, was about 20 miles ;
 but a much smaller distance was sufficient to produce it when the
 depth rapidly changed. Thus near the southern border of the deep
 channel, at a depth of 190 fathems, the bottom-temperature was
 48° - 7 ; while only six miles off, where the depth had increased to 445
 fathems, the bottom-temperature was 30° -1. In the first case, the
 bottom evidently lay in the warm superficial stratum ; whilst in the
 second it was overflowed by the deeper frigid stream.
     It seems impossible to account for these phenomena on any other
 hypothesis than that of the direct derivation of this frigid water from
 the Arctic basin. And this agrees very well with other facts observed
 in the course of the exploration. Thus :—(1) The rapid descent of
 temperature marking the "stratum of intermixture" began about 50
 fathems nearer the surface in the most northerly portion of the Cold
 area examined, than it did in the most southerly, as might be expected

 OS                          Dr. W. B. Carpenter                [Feb. 11,
  from the nearer proximity of the Cold stream to its source. (2) The
  sand covering the bottom contains particles of Volcanic minerals,
  probably brought down from Jan Mayen or Spitzbergen. (3) The
  Fauna of the Cold area has a decidedly Boreal type ; many of the
  animals which abound in it having been hitherto found only on
  the sheres of Greenland, Iceland, or Spitzbergen.
      Altheugh the Temperatures obtained in the Warm area do not
 afford the same striking evidence of the derivation of its whele body
 of water from a Southern source, yet a careful examination of its
 condition seems fully to justify such an inference. For the water
 at 400 fathems in Lat. 59£° was only 2°-4 colder than water at tho
 samo depth at the northern border of the Bay of Biscay, in a Latitude
 more than 10° to the south, where the surface-temperature was 62° - 7 ;
 and the approximation of the two temperatures is yet nearer at still
 greater depths, the bottom-temperaturo at 767 fathems at the former
 station being 41° -4, whilst the temperature at 750 fathems at the
 latter point was 42° - 5. Now, as it may be certainly affirmed that
 the lowest temperature observed in the Warm area is considerably
 above the isotherm of its latitude, and that this elevation could not
 be maintained against the cooling influence of the Arctic stream but
 for a continual supply of heat from a warmer region, the inference
 seems inevitable that the bulk of the water in the Warm area must
 have come thither from the South-west. The influence of the Gulf
 Stream proper (meaning by this the body of superheated water which
 issues through the ' Narrows ' from the Gulf of Mexico), if it reaches
 this locality at all—which is very doubtful—could only affect the
 most superficial stratum ; and the same may be said of the surface-drift
caused by the prevalence of south-wosterly winds, to which some have
 attributed the phenomena usually accountod-for by the extension of
 the Gulf Stream to these regions. And the presenco of the body of
 water which lies between 100 and 600 fathems' depth, and the range
 of whese temperature is from 48° to 42°, can scarcely be accounted
for on any other hypothesis than that of a great general movement of
Equatorial water towards the Polar area ; of which movement the Gulf
Stream constitutes a peculiar case modified by local conditions. In
like manner, the Arctic Stream which underlies the warm superficial
stratum in our Cold area, constitutes a peculiar case, modified by the
local conditions to be presently explained, of a great general movement
of Polar water towards the Equatorial area, which depresses the tem
perature of the deepest parts of the great Oceanic basins nearly to the
freezing-point.
     During ihe first and second Cruises of the 'Porcupine,' the Tem
perature of the eastern border of the great North Atlantic basin was
examined at various depths between from 54 to 2435 fathems, and
in widely different localities, ranging from Lat. 47° to Lat. 55°. The
6oWom-temporaturo was ascertained at thirty stations, and serial sound
ings were taken at seven stations ; making the total number of observa
tions eighty-four. (Table IL, p. 82.) Amongst all these the coincidence

   1870.]       on the Temperature and Life of (lie Beep Sea.          69
  of temperatures at corresponding depths is extraordinarily close ; the
  chief differences showing themselves in the temperature of the sur
 face and of the stratum immediately beneath it. A decided super-
 k<ating is observable in this superficial stratum, not extending to a
 depth of much more than 70 or 80 fathoms, and more considerable
 at the Southern than at the Northern stations. Whether this ' super
 heating ' is entirely due to the direct influence of solar heat, or de
 pends in any degree on an extension of the Gulf Stream as far as
 the southern part of the area examined, is a question which can only
 be resolved by the determination of its relative amount at different
 seasons. Between 100 and 500 fathoms, the rate of decrement is very
 slow, averaging only about 3° in the whole, or three-fourths of a
degree for every 100 fathoms ; and this body of water has a tempera
 ture so much above the isotherm of the northern stations at which
the observations were made, as decidedly to indicate that it must have
found its way thither from a Southern source. Between 500 and 750
fathoms, however, the rate of decrease becomes much more rapid, the
 reduction being 5°- 4, or above 2° per 100 fathoms ; while between 750
 and 1000 fathoms it amounts to 3°-l, bringing down the temperature
 at the latter depth to an average of 38° • 6. Beneath this there is
 still a slow progressive reduction with increase of depth, the tem
 perature falling a little more than 2° between 1000 and 2435 fathoms ;
so that at the last-named depth, the greatest at which it was ascer
tained, it was 36° "5.—Thus it is obvious either that the vast body of
water occupying the deeper half of the Atlantic basin has been itself
derived from a colder region, or that its temperature has been reduced
by the diffusion through it of frigid water from a Polar source. The
latter supposition best accords with the gradual depression of tempera
ture exhibited between 500 and 1000 fathoms, which corresponds with
the " stratum of intermixture " of the Cold area.
      The Temperature-soundings recently taken by Commander Chimmo,
R.N., and Lieutenant Johnson, K.N., at various points in the North
Atlantic basin, when the requisite corrections are applied for the
 influence of pressure on the bulbs of tho unprotected Thermometers
 employed by them, give results which are remarkably accordant with
 our own ; so that it may be stated with confidence that the tempera
 ture of the deeper parts of the North Atlantic sea-bed is but a very few
 degrees above the freezing-point.
      Now a glance at the North Polar region, as laid down either on a
 globe, or any projection of which the Pole is the centre, shows that
 the Polar basin is so much shut in by the northern shores of the
 European, Asiatic, and American continents, that its only communica
 tion with the North Atlantic basin—besides tho circuitous passages
 leading into Hudson's and Baffin's Bays—is the space which intervenes
 between the eastern coast of Greenland and the north-western portion
 of the Scandinavian peninsula. If, therefore, there be any such goneral
 interchange of Polar and Equatorial water as that for which we have
 argued, the Arctic current must flow through the deeper portions of

 70                           Dr. W. B. Carpenter                       [Feb. 11,
  this interspace, at the north of which lies Spitzbergen, whilst Iceland
  and the Faroes lie in the middle of its southerly expanse. Now in tho
  channel that lies between Greenland and Iceland, the depth is such as
  to give a free passage to such a frigid stream ; but between Iceland and
 the Faroe Islands there is no depth so great as 300 fathems at any part,
 except in a narrow channel at the south-east corner of Iceland ; so
 that an effectual barrier is thus interposed to any movement of frigid
 water at a depth exceeding this. A similar barrier is presented, not
 merely by the plateau on which the British Islands rest, but also by
 the bed of the North Sea ; the shallowness of which must give to such
 a movement a not less effectual check than would be afforded by an
 actual coast-line uniting the Shetland Islands and Norway. Conse
 quently, it is obvious that a flow of ice-cold water, at a depth exceeding
 300 fathems from the surface, down the north-eastern portion of this
 interspace, can only find its way southwards through the deeper portion
 of the channel between the Faroe and Shetland Islands; which will turn
 it into a W.S.W. direction between the Faroe Islands and the north of
 Scotland, and finally discharge such part of it as has not been neu
 tralized by the opposing stream coming up from the south-west, into
 the great North Atlantic basin, where it will meet the Icelandic and
 Greenland currents, and unite with them in diffusing frigid waters
 through its deeper portion. In thus spreading itself, hewever, the
 frigid water will necessarily mingle with the mass of warmer water
 with which it meets, and will thus have its own temperature raised,
 whilst lowering the general temperature of that mass ; and hence it
 is that we do not find the temperature of even the greatest depths of
 the Atlantic basin nearly so low as that of the comparatively shallow
 channel which feeds it with Arctic water.
     It may be questioned, hewever, whether the whele body of Arctic
water that finds its way through the channels just indicated, could
alone maintain so considerable a reduction in the temperature of the
enormous mass which lies below 1000 fathems in the Atlantic basin ;
subject as this must be to continual elevation by the surface-action of
the sun on its southern portion. And as the few reliable observations
 on Deep-sea Temperatures under the Equator indicate that even there a
 temperature not much above 32° prevails, it seems probable that part
 of the cooling effect is due to the extension of a flow of frigid water,
from the Antarctic Pole, even north of the Tropic of Cancer. Of such
 an extension there is evidence in the Temperature-soundings recently
 taken in H.M.S. 'Hydra' between Aden and Bombay, where the
 cooling influence could scarcely have been derived from any other
source than the Antarctic area.*
    * The lowest temperature actually observed in these soundings was 36J°. The
temperature of 33J° given in the previous Discourse, as existing below 1800
fathoms, proves to have been only an estimate formed by Captain Shertland under
the idea that the rate of reduction observed at smaller depths would continue
uniform to the bottom, which the Serial soundings of the ' Porcupine ' prove to be
by no means the case.

 1870.]        on the Temperature and Life of the Deep Sea.               71
    The unrestricted communication which exists between the Ant
arctic area and the great Southern Ocean-basins would involve, if the
doctrine of a general Oceanic circulation be admitted, a much more con
siderable interchange of waters between the Antarctic and Equatorial
areas, than is possible in the Northern hemisphere. And of such a free
interchange there seems adequate evidence ; for it is well known to
navigators that there iB a perceptible ' set ' of warm surface-water in
all the Southern oceans towards the Antarctic Pole; this ' set ' being so
decided in one part of the Southern Indian Ocean, as to bo compared by
Capt. Maury to the Gulf Stream of the North Atlantic* Conversely, it
would appear from the application of the necessary pressure-correction
to the temperatures taken in Sir James Boss's Antarctic expedition, tho
voyage of the ' Venus,' &c, at depths greater than 1000 fathoms, that
the bottom-temperature of the deepest parts of the Southern Oceanic
basin really approaches the freezing-point, or is even below it. And
if the temperature of the deeper portion of the North Pacific Ocean
should be found to exhibit a depression at all corresponding to that
of the North Atlantic, it must be attributed entirely to the extension*
of this Antarctic flow ; since the depth of Behring's Strait, as well as
its breadth, is so small as to permit no body of Arctic water to issue
through that channel.
     If further observations should substantiate the general diffusion of a
 Temperature not much above the freezing-point over the deepest portions of
the Ocean-bed, even in Intertropical regions, as a result of a general deep
movement of Polar waters towards the Equator, forming the complement
of the »ur/ace-movement of Equatorial water towards the Poles, it is
obvious that such diffusion must exert a very important influence on the
distribution of Animal life ; and, in particular, that we may expect to meet
with forms which have hitherto been reputed essentially Arctic, in the
deep seas of even the Intertropical region, and again in the shallower
waters of the Antarctic area. Such, there is strong reason to believe,
will prove to be the case. In his recent annual Address as President
of the Boyal Society, Sir Edward Sabine cites observations on this
point made by Sir James Boss in his Antarctic expedition, as confirma
 tory of the view entertained by that distinguished navigator, " that
 water of similar temperature to that of the Arctic and Antarctic
 seas exists in the depths of the intermediate ocean, and may have
formed a channel for the dissemination of species." The " similar
temperature " believed by Sir James Boss to have had this general
prevalence, seems to have been 39° ; whereas the observations made
 in the 1 Porcupine ' expedition distinctly prove that a temperature even
 below 30° may be conveyed by Polar streams far into the Temperate
 zone, and that the general temperature of the deepest part of the North
 Atlantic sea-bed has more of a Polar character than he supposed.
     Again, tho Deep-sea Dredgings of the ' Porcupine ' expedition have
                 * ' Physical Geography of the Sea,' §§ 748-750.

72                           Dr. W. B. Carpenter                     [Feb. 11,
shown that many species of Mollusks and Crustacea previously sup
posed to be purely Arctic, range southwards in deep water as far as
those dredgings extended—namely, to the northern extremity of the
Bay of Biscay ; and it becomes a question of high interest whether an
extension of the same mode of exploration would not bring them up
from the abysses of even Intertropical seas.
     Now, as there must have been deep seas at all Geological epochs,
and as the Physical forces which maintain the Oceanic circulation
must have been in operation throughout, though modified in their
local action by the particular distribution of land and water at each
period, it is obvious that the presence of Arctic types of animal life
in any Marine formation cannot be accepted as furnishing evidence
per se of the general extension of Glacial action into temperate or
tropical regions.—How far the doctrines now current on this point
may need to be modified by the new facts now brought to bear on
them, it will be for Geologists to determine ; the question may be left
in their hands with full assurance of a candid reception of the fresh
evidence now adduced.
     The general results of the Dredging operations carried on during
the ' Porcupine ' expedition will now be concisely stated.
     In the first place they show conclusively that there is no limit to
the depth at which Animal life may exist on the Ocean-bed; and that
the types found at even the greatest depths may be not less elevated in
character than those inhabiting shallower waters. It would even be
premature yet to affirm that the higher types occur in less abundance
and variety than at more moderate depths; for it is by no means
impossible that the use of the improved method of collection devised
by Capt. Calver,* which was employed with extraordinary success
in the third Cruise, may make as large an addition to our knowledge
of the Life of the sea-bottom explored by the Dredge in the first and
 second Cruises of the ' Porcupine,' as it has done in the case of the
 Cold area, where it revealed the astonishing richness of the bottom,
 which the 'Lightning' dredgings of the previous year had led us
to regard as comparatively barren.
     Secondly, they confirm our previous conclusion that Temperature
exerts a much greater influence than Pressure on the distribution of
Animal life. Not only have we found the same forms presenting
themselves through an enormous vertical range—no amount of fluid
Pressure being incompatible with their existence—but we have also, by
a more complete survey of the relations of the Warm and Cold areas,
established the very marked difference between the Faun» of two con
 tiguous portions of the sea-bed lying at the same depth, which was indi
 cated by the ' Lightning ' dredgings. It is remarkable, however, that
    * This consists in the attachment of " hempen tangles " to the dredging
 apparatus, by which the floor of tho ocean is swept as well as scraped. These
 tangles often came up loaded, when the dredge was nearly empty.

1870.]          on the Temperature and Life of the Deep Sea.            73
this difference showed itself more in the Crustaceans, Echinoderms,
Sponges, and Foraminifera, than it did in the Mollusca, of which a con
siderable proportion were common to both Areas. The abundance and
variety of Animal life on a bottom of which the Temperature is at
least 2° (Fahr.) below the freezing-point of fresh-water, is a fact which
has all the interest of surprise ; and it is scarcely less remarkable that
the forms of Mollusks, Echinoderms, and Sponges, which seem to be the
characteristic inhabitants of this Cold area, should attain a very con
siderable size. The precise limitation of the Globigerina-mud and of
the Vitreous Sponges to the Warm area, was a very striking manifesta
tion of the influence of Temperature, and has very important Geological
bearings.
     Thirdly, they have largely added to the number of cases in
 which types that had been regarded as characteristic of earlier
 Geological periods, and to have long since become extinct, prove to
 be still existing in the depths of the Ocean ; and greatly increase the
 probability that an extension of the like method of research to more
 distant localities would produce even more remarkable revelations of
 this character.
     The doctrine propounded by Prof. Wyville Thomson, in the
 Report of the ' Lightning ' expedition, as to the absolute continuity
 of the Cretaceous formation with the deposit of Olobigerina-muA at
 present in progress on the North Atlantic sea-bed, has received such
 striking confirmation from the discovery of the persistence of numerous
 Cretaceous types, not merely in our own explorations, but also in those
 carried on by the United States Coast Survey in the Gulf of Mexico,
 that it may be fairly affirmed that the onus probandi rests upon those
 who assert that the formation of true Chalk has ever been interrupted
 since the Cretaceous period. That period is usually considered to
 have terminated with the elevation of the Cretaceous deposits of tho
 European area into dry land. But according to the accepted doctrines
 of Geology, it is highly probable that, coincidently with the elevation
  of the European area, there was a gradual subsidence of what is now
  the Atlantic Sea-bed ; so that the Globigerina; of the former area, with
  many accompanying types of Animal life, would progressively spread
  themselves over the latter, as its conditions became favourable to their
  existence. And there seems no reason why they should not have
  maintained themselves in its deepest parts, through the comparatively
  small changes of level which took place in this portion of the earth's
  crust during the Tertiary epoch.
      Fourthly, the 'Porcupine' explorations have enormously extended
  our knowledge of the British Marine Fauna ; alike by the discovery
  of new types, and by the addition of types previously known only as
  inhabitants of other localities.'—The Mollusca alone have as yet been
  fully examined; and Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys, whose authority upon
  this part of the subject is not second to that of any other Naturalist,
  reports as follows :—The total number of species of Marine Mollusca
  enumerated in his recently completed ' British Conchology ' (exclud

74                          Br. W. B. Carpenter                  [Feb. 11,
ing the Nudibranclis) is 451 ; and to these the ' Porcupine ' expe
dition has added no fewer than 117, or more than one-fourth. Of
these as many as fifty-six are undescribed, whilst seven were sup
posed to be extinct as Tertiary Fossils. Sixteen genera, including
five which are undescribed, are new to the British seas. " All that I
could do," he says, "by continual dredgings in comparatively shallow
water during the last sixteen years was to add about eighty species to
the number described by Forbes and Hanley. I regard the present
(altheugh a large) addition as merely an earnest of future discoveries.
In fact the treasury of the deep is inexhaustible." The complete
examination of the Crustacea, which are in the hands of the Rev.
A. M. Norman, and of the Annelids which have been undertaken by
M. Claparede and Dr. Macintosh, will probably yield results scarcely
less striking. It is, hewever, in the Echinoderms and Sponges, which
are being examined by Prof. Wyville Themson ; in the Stony Corals,
which have been referred to Dr. P. M. Duncan ; and in the Fora-
minifera, which constitute the speaker's own speciality, that the most
interesting novelties present themselves.
    An enormous addition has been made to the list of British Eehino-
dermata by the discovery in our own seas of a number of species
which had been previously known only as Norwegian or Arctic ; and
these often occurred in extraordinary abundance. One of the most
interesting of these was the large and beautiful Feather-star, the
Antedon (Comatula) Eschrichtii, hitherto known only as inhabiting
the sheres of Greenland and Iceland, but now found over all parts of
our Cold area. On the other hand, the influence of Temperature was
marked not only by the absence of many of the characteristically
Southern types of this group, but by the dwarfing of others to such
an extent that the dwarfed specimens might be regarded as speci
fically distinct, if it were not for their precise conformity in structure
to these of the ordinary type. Thus the Solaster papposa was reduced
from a diameter of six inches to two, and had never more than ten
rays, instead of from twelve to fifteen ; and Asterocanthion violaceus
and Cribella oculata were reduced in like proportion. But, in addition,
several Echinoderms have been obtained which are altogether new to
science, most of them of very considerable interest. The discovery,
at the depth of 2435 fathems, of a living Crinoid of the Apiocrinite
type, closely allied to the little Rhizocrinus (the discovery of which
by the Norwegian naturalists was the starting-point of our own deep-
sea explorations), but generically differing from it, cannot but be
accounted a phenomenon of the greatest interest alike to the Zoologist
and the Palaeontologist. Another remarkable representative of a type
supposed to have become extinct, occurred at depths of 440 and 550
fathems in the Warm area ; being a large Echinidan of the Biadema kind,
the " test " of which is composed of plates separated from one another
by membrane, instead of being connected by suture, so as to resemble
an armour of flexible chain-mail, instead of the inflexible cuirass with
which the ordinary Echinida are invested. This type bears a strong

1870.]          on the Temperature and Life of the Deep Sea.                     75
resemblance to the very singular fossil from the White Chalk, de
scribed by the late Dr. S. P. Woodward, under the name of Echino-
thuria floris. Specimens were also obtained, both in the first and
third Cruises, of a most interesting Glypeastroid, which is closely
allied to the Infulaster—specially characteristic of the later Chalk.*
These constitute only a sample of the interesting novelties belonging
to this group, which our explorations brought to light.
     Besides further additions to the remarkable group of Vitreous
Sponges, which were made in the area over which the Globigerina-
mud extends, a peculiar and novel form of Sponge was found to be one
of the most generally diffused inhabitants of the Cold area. This
sponge is distinguished by the possession of a firm branching axis,
of a pale sea-green colour, rising from a spreading root, and extend
ing itself like a shrub or a large branching Gorgonia. The axis is
loaded with Siliceous spicules ; and spicules of the same form are con
tained in the soft flesh which clothes it.
     The Foraminifera collected in the ' Porcupine ' expedition present
features of no less interest, theugh their scale is so much smaller.
The enormous mass of Globigerina-mud (sometimes almost pure,
sometimes mixed with Sand) that everywhere covers the deep-sea
bottom in the region explored, save where its temperature is reduced
nearly to the freezing-point, may be judged of from the fact that in
one instance the dredge brought up half a ton of it from a depth of
767 fathems. The resemblance of this deposit to Chalk is greatly
strengthened by the recognition of several characteristically Creta
ceous types among the Foraminifera scattered through the mass of
Globigerince of which it is principally composed ; as also of the Xan-
thidia, frequently preserved in Flints. Not many absolute novelties pre
sented themselves among the Foraminifera that form true Calcareous
shells ; the chief point of interest being the occurrence of certain types
of high organization at great depths, and their attainment of a size
that is only paralleled in much warmer latitudes, or in the Tertiary or
yet older formations. This is especially the case with the Cristellarian
group, which has a long Geological range ; and also with the Milioline,
of which specimens of unprecedented size presented themselves. The
most interesting novelty was a beautiful Orbitolite, which, when com
plete, must have had the diameter of a sixpence, but which, from its
extreme tenuity, always broke in the process of collection.—Of Are
naceous Foraminifera, hewever, which construct tests by cementing
together Sand-grains, instead of producing shells, the number of new
types is such as seriously to task our power of inventing appropriate
generic names. Many of theso types have a remarkable resemblance
    * This was believed at the time to be an entirely new discovery; but since the
return of the ' Porcupine ' we have learned that a type generically, if not specifi
cally, the same, had been obtained by Count Pourlales during his most recent
dredgings in the Gulf of Mexico, and had been described by Mr. Alex. Agassiz
under the name Pourtalesia miranda.

76                         Dr. TP. B. Carpenter                 [Feb. 11,
to forms previously known in the Chalk, the nature of which had not
been recognized. Some of them throw an important light on tho
structure of two gigantic Arenaceous types from the Upper Green-sand,
recently described by the speaker and Mr. H. B. Brady, an account of
which will appear in the forthcoming part of the ' Philosophical Trans
actions;' and there is one which, can be certainly identified with a
form lately discovered by Mr. H. B. Brady in a clay-bed of the Car
boniferous Limestone.
    The question now arises, whether—as there must have been deep
seas in all Geological periods, and as the changes which modified tho
climate and depth of the sea-bottom were for the most part very
gradual—we may not carry back the continuity of the accumulation
of Globigerina-mud on some part or other of the ocean-bed into Geo
logical epochs still more remote ; and whether it has not had the same
large share in the production of the earlier Calcareous deposits, that
it has undoubtedly had in that of the later. The Foraminiferal origin
of certain beds of the Carboniferous Limestone, for example, appears
to be indicated by the presence of Globigerince, long since observed by
Professor Phillips in sections of them, as well as by the fact just
stated. The sub-crystalline character of these rocks cannot be re
garded as in any way antagonistic to such an idea of their origin,
since it is perfectly well known that all traces of the organic origin
of Calcareous rocks may be completely removed by subsequent meta-
morphism,—as in the Chalk of the Antrim coast.
    What is the source of Nutriment for the vast mass of Animal life
covering the abyssal Sea-bed, is a question of the greatest Biological
interest. That Animals have no power of themselves generating the
Organic Compounds which serve as the materials of their bodies—and
that the production of these materials from the carbonic acid, water, and
ammonia of the Inorganic world, under the influence of Light, is the
special attribute of Vegetation—is a doctrine so generally accepted,
that to call it in question would be esteemed a Physiological heresy.
There is no difficulty in accounting for the alimentation of the higher
Animal types, with such an unlimited supply of food as is afforded by
the Globigerince and the Sponges in the midst of which they live, and
on which many of them are known to feed. Given the Protozoa,
everything else is explicable. But the question returns, —On what do
these Protozoa live ?
    The hypothesis has been advanced that the food of the abyssal
Protozoa is derived from Diatoms and other forms of minute Plants,
which, ordinarily living at or near the surface, may, by subsiding to
the depths, carry down to the animals of the sea-bed the supplies they
require. Our examination of the surface-waters, hewever, has afforded
no evidence of the existence of such Microphytic vegetation in quantity
at all sufficient to supply the vast demand; and the most careful
search in the Globigerina-mud has failed to bring to light more than
a very small number of specimens of these siliceous envelopes of

1870.]          on the Temperature and Life of the Deep Sea.                77
Diatoms, which would most assuredly have revealed themselves in
abundance, had these Protophytes served as a principal component of
the food of the Protozoa that have their dwelling-place on the sea-bod.—
Another hypothesis has been suggested, that these Protozoa, which are
so near the border of the Vegetable kingdom, may be able, like Plants,
to generate Organic Compounds for themselves—manufacturing their
own food, so to speak, from Inorganic materials. But it is scarcely
conceivable that they could do this without the agency of Light ; and,
as it is obviously the want of that agency which excludes the pos
sibility of Vegetation in the abysses of tho ocean, the same deficiency
would prevent Animals from carrying on the like process.
    A possible solution of this difficulty, offered by Professor Wyville
Thomson in a Lecture delivered last spring, has received so remark
able a confirmation from the researches made in the 'Porcupine'
expedition, that it may now be put forth with considerable confidence.
It is, he remarked, the distinctive character of the Protozoa, that "they
have no special organs of nutrition, but that they absorb water
through the whole surface of their jelly-like bodies. Most of these
animals secrete exquisitely-formed skeletons, sometimes of Lime, some
times of Silica. There is no doubt that they extract both of these
substances from the Sea-water, although Silica often exists there in
quantity so small as to elude detection by chemical tests. All Sea-
water contains a certain amount of Organic matter in solution. Its
sources are obvious. All rivers contain a large quantity ; every shore
is surrounded by a fringe, which averages about a mile in width, of
olive and red Sea-weeds ; in the middle of the Atlantic there is a
marine meadow, the Sargasso Sea, extending over 3,000,000 of square
miles; the sea is full of Animals which are constantly dying and
decaying ; and the water of the Gulf Stream, especially, courses round
coasts where the supply of organic matter is enormous. It is, there
fore, quite intelligible that a world of animals should live in these
dark abysses : but it is a necessary condition that they should chiefly
belong to a class capable of being supported by absorption through
the surface, of matter in solution ; developing but little heat, and incur
ring a very small amount of waste by any manifestation of vital activity.
According to this view, it seems highly probable that at all periods of
the earth's history some form of the Protozoa—Rhizopods, Sponges, or
both—predominated over all other forms of animal life in the depths
of the Sea ; whether spreading, compact, and reef-like, as in the Lau-
rentian and Paleozoic Eozdon ; or in the form of myriads of separate
organisms, as in the Globigerinm and Ventriculites of the Chalk."*
    During each Cruise of the ' Porcupine,' samples of Sea-water
obtained from various depths, as well as from the surface, at stations
far removed from land, were submitted to the Permanganate test, after
the method of Prof. W. A. Miller, with an addition suggested by Dr.
   * " The Depths of the Sen," a Lecture delivered in the theatre of the Koyal
Dublin Society, April 10, 1869.

 78                         Dr. W. B. Carpenter                  [Feb. 11,
 Aligns Smith for the purpose of distinguishing the Organic matter tn
 a state of decomposition from that which is only decomposable; with the
 result of shewing the uniform presence of an appreciable quantity of
 matter of the latter kind, which, not having passed into a state of
 decomposition, may be assimilable as food by animals,—being, in fact,
 Protoplasm in a state of extreme dilution. And the careful analyses
 of larger quantities collected during the Third cruise, which have been
 since made by Dr. Frankland, have fully confirmed these results, by
 demonstrating the highly azotized character of this Organic matter,
 which presents itself in samples of Sea-water taken up at from 500
 to 750 fathems' depth, in such a proportion that its universal diffusion
 through the Oceanic waters may be safely predicated.
     Until, therefore, any other more probable hypothesis shall have
 been proposed, the sustenance of Animal life on the ocean-bottom at
 any depth may be fairly accounted for on the supposition of Prof.
 Wyville Themson, that the Protozoic portion of that Fauna is nou
 rished by direct absorption from the dilute Protoplasm diffused
 through the whele mass of Oceanic waters, just as it draws from the
 same mass the mineral ingredients of the skeletons it forms. This
diffused Protoplasm, hewever, must be continually undergoing decom
 position, and must be as continually renewed ; and the source of that
renewal must lie in the surface-life of Plants and Animals, by which
(as pointed out by Prof. Wyville Themson) fresh supplies of Organic
matter must be continually imparted to the Oceanic waters, being
carried down even to their greatest depths by that liquid diffusion
which was so admirably investigated by the late Professor Graham.
     Not only, hewever, has the Nutrition of the Abyssal Fauna to be
explained ; its Respiration also has to be accounted for ; and on this
process also the results of the analyses of the Gases of the Sea-water
made during the ' Porcupine ' expedition throw very important light.
Samples were collected not only at the surface, under a great variety
of circumstances, but also from great depths ; and the gases expelled
by boiling were subjected to analysis according to the methed of
Prof. W. A. Miller—the adaptation of his apparatus to the exigencies
of ship-board having been successfully accomplished during the First
cruise by Mr. W. L. Carpenter. The general average of thirty
analyses of surface-water gives the following as the percentage pro
portions :—25 - 1 Oxygen, 54-2 Nitrogen, 20-7 Carbonic Acid. This
proportion, hewever, was subject to great variations, as will be pre
sently shewn. As a general rule, the proportion of Oxygen was found
to diminish, and that of Carbonic Acid to increase, with the depth :
the results of analyses of intermediate waters giving a percentage of
22-0 Oxygen, 52 -8 Nitrogen, and 26-2 Carbonic Acid; whilst the
results of analyses of bottom-waters gave 19 - 5 Oxygen, 52 - 6 Nitrogen,
and 27 - 9 Carbonic Acid. But bottom-water at a comparatively small
depth often contained as much Carbonic Acid and as little Oxygen as
intermediate water at much greater depths; and the proportion of

 1870.]          on the Temperature and Life of the Deep Sea.                 79
Carbonic Acid to Oxygen in 6o/fom-water was found to bear a much
closer relation to the abundance of Animal life (especially of the
more elevated types), as shewn by the Dredge, than to its depth.
This was very strikingly shewn in an instance in which analyses
were made of the gases contained in samples of water collected at
every 50 fathems, from 400 fathems to the bottom at 862 fathems,
the percentage results being as follows :—
                              ISO fath.       800 fath.       Bottom, 862 fath.
        Oxygen                 18-8     .. ..  17-8     .. ..      172
        Nitrogen               49-3     .. ..  48-5     .. ..      34-5
        Carbonic Acid ..   .. 319       .. ..  33-7     .. ..      48 3
     The extraordinarily augmented percentage of Carbonic Acid in the
stratum of water here immediately overlying the Sea-bed was accompa
nied by a great abundance of Animal life. On the other hand, the lowest
percentage of Carbonic Acid found in bottom-water—viz. 7 - 9—was
accompanied by a "very bad haul." In several cases in which the
depths were nearly the same, the analyst ventured a prediction as to
the abundance, or otherwise, of Animal life, from the proportion of
Carbonic Acid in the bottom-water ; and his prediction proved in
every instance correct.
      It would appear, therefore, that the increase in the proportion of
Carbonic Acid, and the diminution in that of the Oxygen, in the abyssal
 waters of the Ocean, is due to the Respiratory process, which is no less
a necessary condition of the existence of Animal life on the sea-bed,
 than is the presence of food-material for its sustenance. And it is
 further obvious that the continued consumption of Oxygen and liber
 ation of Carbonic Acid would soon render the stratum of water imme
 diately above the bottom completely irrespirable—in the absence of
 any antagonistic process of Vegetation—were it not for the upward
 diffusion of the Carbonic Acid through the intermediate waters to the
 surface, and the downward diffusion of Oxygen from the surface to the
 depths below. A continual interchange will take place at the surface
 between the gases of the Sea-water and these of the Atmosphere ; and
 thus the Respiration of the Abyssal Fauna is provided for by a process
  of diffusion, which may have to operate through three miles or more of
  intervening water.
      The varying proportions of Carbonic Acid and Oxygen in the sur
 face-waters are doubtless to be accounted for in part by the differences
 in the amount and character of the Animal life existing beneath;
  but a comparison of the results of the analyses made during the agita
 tion of the surface by wind, with these made in calm weather, shewed
 so decided a reduction in the proportion of Carbonic Acid, with an
 increase in that of Oxygen, under the former condition, as almost
 unequivocally to indicate that superficial disturbance of the Sea by
 Atmospheric movement is absolutely necessary for its purification
 from the noxious effects of Animal decomposition. Of this view a

80                         Dr. W. B. Carpenter                    [Feb. II,
most unexpected and remarkable confirmation has been afforded by the
following circumstance :—In one of the analyses of surface-water made
during the Second cruise, the percentage of Carbonic Acid fell as low as
3 • 3, while that of Oxygen rose as high as 37 ¦ 1 ; and in a like analysis
made during the Third cruise, the percentage of Carbonic Acid was 5 • 6,
while that of Oxygen was 45 • 3. As the results of every other analysis
of surface-water were in marked contrast to these, it became a question
whether they should not be thrown out as erroneous ; until it was
recollected that, whilst the samples of surface-water had been generally
taken up from the bow of the vessel, they had been drawn in these two
instances from abaft the paddles, and had thus been subjected to such a
violent agitation in contact with the Atmosphere, as would pre-eminently
favour their thorough aeration.
     Hence, then, it may be affirmed that every disturbance of the Ocean-
surface by Atmospheric movement, from the gentlest ripple to the most
tremendous storm-wave, contributes, in proportion to its amount, to the
maintenance of Animal life in its Abyssal depths—doing, in fact, for
the aeration of the fluids of their inhabitants, just what is done by the
heaving and falling of the walls of our own chest for the aeration of
the blood which courses through our lungs. A perpetual calm would
be as fatal to their continued existence, as the forcible stoppage of
all Respiratory movement would be to our own. And thus universal
stagnation would become universal death.
     Thus it has been shown that the Bed of the Deep Sea, even in the
immediate neighbourhood of our own shores, is an area of which the
conditions have until lately been as completely unknown as those of
the ice-bound regions of the Poles, or of the densest forests, the most
arid deserts, the most inaccessible mountain-summits, that lie between
the Tropics ; and further, that by the systematic employment of the
Sounding-apparatus, the Thermometer, and the Dredge, almost as
complete a knowledge can be gained of those conditions, as if the
explorer could himself visit the abyssal depths he desires to examine.
Of the important discoveries in almost every department of Science,
but more particularly in what Mr. Kingsley has well termed Bio-
Geology, which may be anticipated from the continuation and extension
of an inquiry of which the mere commencement has yielded such an
abundant harvest, the speaker felt it scarcely possible to form too
high an expectation. And, in conclusion, he referred to the systematic
and energetic prosecution of Deep-sea explorations by the United States
Coast Survey and by the Swedish Government—the results of which
prove to be singularly accordant with those now briefly expounded,—
as showing that other Maritime powers are strongly interested in the
subject ; and expressed the earnest hope that the liberal assistance of
H.M. Government, which has already enabled British Naturalists to
obtain the lead in this inquiry, would be so continued as to enable
them to keep it in the future. In particular, he called attention
to the suggestion lately thrown out by M. Alex. Agassiz, that an

     1870.]              on the Temperature and Life of the Deep Sea.                             81
     arrangement might be made by our own Admiralty with the Naval
     authorities of the United States; by which a therough survey, Physical
     and Biological, of the North Atlantic sheuld be divided between
     the two countries ; so that British and American explorers, prose
     cuting in a spirit of generous rivalry labours most important to the
     Science of the Future, might meet and shake hands on the Mid-Ocean.
                                                                                    [W. B. C]
Tarle I.—Temperature of the Sea at different Depths in the Channel between
    the North of Scotland, the Shetland Isles, and the Faroe Islands; as ascer
    tained by Serial and by Bottom Soundings. (N.B. The Roman Numerals indicate
    the ' Lightning' Temperature-Soundings, corrected for pressure.)
                   Warm Area.                                            Cold Arka.
    Scries 87.                           Bottom Series U.         Ser. 52.
                 Station Depth. Surface
                                 1. -    Tempe                             Station        Surface Bottom
Depth. Tempe       No.           rature.  rature. Depth. Tempe    Tempe No. Dctph.        Tempe Tempe
                                                                                          rature. rature.
         rature.                                          rature.  rature.
 (albs      o             filths. o          o    faths. o            o            futbs.    o       o
     0 526                                            0 -lit- 7    52-1
   so 481 73                84 52-7       48-8      50 45-5        48-5 70           66    534     45-2
                  T80       92 532        49-4                               69      67    53-5    43-8
  100 473                                          100 45-0        473 68            75    52-5    440
                    71 103 53-0           48-6                               61 114        50- 1   450
                    81 142 53-3           49-1                               62 125        49-6    446
 150 470 84 155 54-3                      49-2 150 433             46-5 60 167             49-5    44-3
                    85 190 53-9           48-7                               IX. 170       52-0    410
 200 46-8                                          200 39-6        45-6
                    74 208 52-5           47-7
                                                   250 343 38-4
 300      46-6                                     300 32 4 30-8
                                                                             63     317    490     303
                                                                             65     345    520     299
                                                                             76     344    50-3    29-7
                    50     355 526 46-2            350 314                   54     363    52-5    314
                    46     374 53-9 46-0           384              30-6
  400 46- 1                                        400 31 -o                 86     445 536 30- 1
                    89     445 531 456             450 306
                    90     458 53-1 45-2                                     56     480    52-6    307
                    49     475 536 45-4                                      53     490    52-1    30-0
  500 45 1                                         500 301                    X.    500    510     30-8
                   n 530 52-5 44-8                                           58     540    51-5    308
                    47 542 540 438                                          Tin,    550    53 0    298
                   XV. 570 52-0 435                550 301                   77     560    50-9    29-8
                                                                             59     580    52-7    29-7
  600 430                                          mo 299
                  xvn. 620 520 435                                           55     605 526 29-8
                   xrv. 650 530 425                                          57     632 520 30-5
                                                   640 296
  700
                    88     705 535 427
  767 414
                 VI. (No. 52.)

   82                    On the Temperature of the Deep Sea.                           [Feb. 11,
Table n.—Temperature of the Sea at different Depths nenr the Western
    margin of tho North Atlantic Basin, as ascertained by Serial and by Bottom
    Soundings.
                         Serial Soukdings.                                  Boitoh Soundihcs.
       Tempo ,Tempe       Tempe    Tempe    Tempe    Tempe    Tempe Station         Surface  Bottom
Depth. rature, rature.    rature.  rature.   rature. rature.  rature.        Depth. Tempe    Tempe
       Ser. 23. Ser. 42.  Ser. 22. Ser. 19. Ser. 20. Ser. 21. Ser. 38. No.           rature. rature.
 tula. o           o         D        o         o       0        o           fathe.     o       o
    0 573 62-6             56-9     54-8     55-5     562      04-0
   SO            53 2                                                   27      54 55-6      48-3
                                                                        34      75 66-0       49-7
                                                                         6      90 54-0       50-0
                                                                        35      96 63-4       51 3
  100 48-5 51-1                                                          8     106 54 2       51-2
                                                                        24     109 57-7       46-5
  150            509                                                     7     159 53-2       50-4
                                                                        14     173 53-2       49 -6
                                                                        18     183 53-2       49-4
  200 48-0 50-5                                                         13     208 53-6       496
  250            50-2 48-5 480 48-5 483 50-5                             4     251 53-5       49-5
  300 47-8 49-6
  350            49- 1                                                   1     370 540        490
  400 47-5 48-5
  450            47-6                                                   15     422 52-2       47-0
                                                                        45     458 60-7       48-1
  500 45-8 47-4 46-7 467 469 475 47-8
                                                                        40     517 634        47-7
  550            46-4
  600 44-5 45-5                                                         41     584 63-4       46-5
  630 434                                                             1
  650            44-3
  700            436                                                    12     670 52-2       426
                                                                         3     723 54-5       430
                                                                        36     725 63-9       439
  750            425 42-0 41-2 41-6 424 41-3
  800            420
                                                                         2     808 541        41-4
  862            39-7                                                   16     816 53-0       39-5
  900                                                                   44     865 01-2       394
1000                       38-8     385       38-8    385      38-3
1200                                                                    43 1207 61-7          37-7
1263                       37-3
                                                                        28 1215 57-7          371
1250                                         37-7 379 37-7 17 1230 53-2                       378
1300                                                                    29 1204 56-9          369
1360                                37-4
1400
1443                                         370                        32 1320 55-9          37-4
1450                                                                    30 1380 56-0          371
1476                                                  3G-9
1500                                                           372
1750                                                           36-7
2090                                            ••             363      37 2435 65-6          36-5

 1870.]     Captain C. W. Wilton on the Ordnance Survey of Sinai.      83
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 18, 1870.
        Sib Henby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
                 William Kingdon Clifford, Esq. B.A.
                    On Theories of the Physical Forces.
                             [Abstract deferred.]
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 25, 1870.
        Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
                   Captain Charles W. Wilson, R.E.
                     On the Ordnance Survey of Sinai.
The project of a systematic Survey of the Peninsula of Mount Sinai,
with special reference to tho Mosaic record of the Exodus, owes its
origin to the Rev. Pierce Butler, late Eector of Ulcombe, Kent, who,
unfortunately, was not spared to assist in carrying out a work for
which he was so eminently qualified. After Mr. Butler's death it was
felt by his friends and others whom he had interested in the scheme,
that the best tribute to his memory would be the prosecution of tho
work which he had so much at heart, and for this purpose a fund was
raised, of which Sir Roderick Murchison, Bart., Sir John Herschel,
Bart., and Col. Sir Henry James, B.E., kindly consented to become
Trustees. The sanction of the Bight Honourable the Secretary of
State for War was obtained, and the Survey was carried out under the
direction of Col. Sir H. James, R.E., Director-General of the Ordnance
Survey.
    The Expedition consisted of Captains Wilson and Palmer, of the
Royal Engineers ; the Rev. F. W. Holland, who had already paid three
visits to the Peninsula, and spent many months wandering over it on
foot ; Mr. E. H. Palmer, Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge, a gen
tleman well known for his extensive knowledge of Eastern languages ;
Mr. Wyatt, who, at his own expense, accompanied the party as Na
turalist ; and four non-commissioned officers of the Royal Engineers
from the Ordnance Survey,—one, Sergt.-Major McDonald, an expe
rienced Photographer, who had previously been employed on the
Ordnance Survey of Jerusalem.

84                        Captain C. W. Wilson                 [Feb. 25,
    The party were instructed to make special plans, on a scale of six
inches to the mile, of Jebel Musa and Jebel Serbal, the two mountains
which have been most often identified with Mount Sinai, and to make
maps, on a scale of two inches to a mile, of as large a portion of the
country as the funds would allow. Unfortunately they were only
sufficient to cover the expense of surveying the western half of the
Peninsula, embracing all possible routes by which the Israelites could
have travelled on their march from Egypt to Sinai, but leaving the
equally interesting question of the route which they took after leaving
Mount Sinai unexamined.
    The party were directed in addition to examine the numerous
monastic and other remains in the Peninsula, to collect all possible
information on the water supply, Meteorology, Geology, and Natural
History, and Mr. Palmer was to pay special attention to the nomen
clature of the country, the Bedawin traditions, and above all to the
celebrated Sinaitic inscriptions and Egyptian monuments.
    The Expedition was absent from England seven months, of which
five were spent at work in the Peninsula with the following results.
    Special surveys were made, on a scale of six inches to the mile, of
Jebels Musa and Serbal, and the plans drawn.
    In the execution of these surveys, which together embraced an area
of 30i square miles, the relative positions and altitudes of 68 trigono
metrical stations were determined by triangulation from two base lines.
    Some idea of the labour and difficulty of the work may be gathered
from the fact that of the fifty-five stations actually observed from, a
large number ranged from 1800 to 4800 feet above the camp of the
surveying party, and that several of the peaks were very tough pieces
of climbing, so much so that the instruments had in some cases to be
pulled up over the ledges by a rope. Since our return to England two
models have been constructed from the surveys and the rough models
made on the ground, and these shew more clearly than any description
could do the different features of the rival mountains.
    During the survey, on a smaller scale, of the western portion of
tho Peninsula, the direction of the true meridian was determined at
six different places, and observations for time and latitude wero made
at thirty-six encampments, including eighty-three sots for time and
201 for latitude. Observations for longitude were also made at Jebel
Musa. In this section the relative positions and altitudes of fifty-six
mountain peaks, ranging to 8500 feet in height, were determined by
triangulation, and referred to the level of the Rcd Soa by a series of
Barometrical and Hypsometrical Observations. Seven hundred miles
of route survey were made, laying down accurately the course of the
principal valleys, and giving with the reconnaissance a survey of
about 4000 square miles of country : a map of the entire Peninsula is
now in course of preparation, which, in addition to the work of the
Expedition, will show the latest discoveries of other travellers.
    Before entering on the question of the Exodus and the route fol
lowed by the children of Israel, I propose giving a slight sketch of

 1870.]               on the Ordnance Survey of Sinai.                   85
the ruins in the Peninsula, the climate, the present resources of the
Peninsula for supporting life, and the result of Mr. Palmer's labours
amongst the Inscriptions and Bedawin.
     Perhaps the most interesting remains are the stone houses and
circles which are found in nearly every part of the Peninsula, and
show that it must have been inhabited by a large settled population at
a very early period. The houses are often found in clusters of from
twenty to thirty, and in form are identical with those known as
" bothan," or Beehive Houses, in Scotland. They are slightly ellip
tical in shape and from 40 to 50 feet in circumference. The walls
rise perpendicularly for about 2 feet, after which the roof commences
to close in and assume its peculiar "bee-hive" form, obtained by
making each successive course of stone project slightly inwards be
yond the one below it. The doors are 1' 9" wide and 1' 8" high.
There is no trace of any tool having been used ; and so primitive are
the buildings, that no attempt has been made to round off the corners,
which often project in an unpleasant manner. The houses are called
by the Bedawin " nawamis," from a belief that they were built by the
children of Israel to protect themselves from the mosquitos.
     The stone circles are similar to those which in England and Scot
land are called " Druids' circles," and are decidedly of a sepulchral
character. In the centre of each circle is a cist about 4 feet long,
2 feet 5 inches broad, and 2 feet 6 inches deep, composed of four large
stones, with their upper edges inclined slightly inwards, and covered
 by a heavy slab. Immediately round the cist is a circle of standing
stones enclosing a cairn of small stones, and beyond this there is an
 outer circle, the stones of which are larger, and set in the ground so
 close that they touch each other.
     The bodies were buried in the cists on their left sides, in that pecu
 liar contracted or bent position which is usually considered one of the
oldest forms of burial.
     We were unfortunate in not finding any ornaments but a few
 marine shells and a shell bracelet ; but Mr. Lord, who visited the
 country in the early summer of 1868, found "a small bracelet of
 copper associated with lance- and arrow-heads of flint, and a necklace
 of beads formed of spiral marine shells bored through for stringing."
 The arrow-head which Mr. Lord found is almost equal in finish to
 the best of those which are found in the ancient sepulchral chambers
 of England and Scotland. The stone circles range from 10 to 45 feet
 in diameter.
     Besides the stone houses and circles there are a few places in which
 " cup-markings" are found, and foot or sole marks are cut on the face
 of the rock in several localities. One stone, with " cup markings,"
 has a curious legend attached to it.
     It is now perhaps impossible to discover who were the builders
 of these houses, &c, but it is suggested that they may possibly
 be the work of those Amalekites who fought against Israel in
 Bephidim.

 HO                        Captain C. W. Wilson                 [Feb. 25,
     The next remains which deserve attention are these of what may
be called the monastic period, and these are far more numerous than
 has been generally supposed, fully bearing out what Burckhardt was
 the first to advance, that there wero at one time as many as 700 or 800
monks resident in the Peninsula. The activity displayed by the old
 monks is quite surprising, and a great contrast to the indolence of the
present inmates of St. Katherine's ; wherever there is water, traces of
cultivation and building are to be found, and in the vicinity of Musa
and Feiran every available patch of ground on the mountains was for
merly a garden.
     The principal monastic establishments were at Musa, Feiran, and
Tur.
     At the former place a number of smaller monasteries, now in ruin,
were built in the neighbourheod, probably in connection with Justinian's
great Convent of the Transfiguration or St. Katherine, the only ono
which has been inhabited for many years.
     The solid granite walls of the convent have been so much shaken
by earthquakes and undermined by winter torrents that it was found
necessary at the end of last century to support them by heavy but
tresses, and even to rebuild the eastern face.
     The ancient entrance to the convent, a fine old doorway which looks
even older than the time of Justinian, is now closed, and all visitors
have to enter by a postern. The old door was protected by a machia-
conlis, on which thero is an illegible Greek inscription of the samo
dato as the erection of the convent. The interior of the convent, from
the number and different ages of the buildings, is very puzzling ; and
 thero is a perfect labyrinth of passages turning and twisting in every
direction, ascending and descending, exposed to the full glare of the
sun or passing through dark tunnels. The church is a grand old
building, and especially striking from the position in which it stands
in the heart of the wilderness. The details of the capitals, &c., are
highly interesting, as shewing the early use of Christian symbols or
emblems in church architecture, and the extensivo use made of them
in the reign of Justinian.
    No two capitals are the same. Ono represents two sheep at the foot
of the cross, from the arms of which hang an a and to ; above the cross
is a vino-tendril with grapes, on either side a dato palm, and beneath,
as overcome by the cross, two snakes. Another has two sheep stand
ing at an altar which supports a cross ; a third, two birds at the cross ;
a fourth, two ibex butting at the cross ; and others have the emblems
of the Passion, shirt, nails, box with dice, &c., mixed with clusters of
grapes, foliage, &c. The great Mosaic of the Transfiguration has
boon often described, but I am inclined to think that it is of later date
than Justinian ; at any rate, the medallions, of which good copies were
brought heme, bear no resemblance to the known portraits of Justi
nian and Theodora. Before leaving the convent it must bo men
tioned that on many of the arches and walls, notably on the face of
the refectory, knightly pilgrims have been in the habit of cutting their

1870.]                on the Ordnance Survey of Sinai.                 87
arms, and, in some cases, their names, and that some of these, dating
back to the fourteenth century, are very interesting.
     At Peiran there are the ruins of a convent and church on the
small mound at the mouth of Wady Aloyat, a convent higher up tho
valley, and a series of tombs, cells, and chapels on Jebel Tahuneh, which
have not hitherto received much attention. This mountain appears
in old times to have been considered the sacred mountain of the place,
and to have been of far more importance than Serbal itself ; it is lite
rally covered with tombs and chapels, and a well-constructed road, or
rather series of steps, led to the summit which was crowned by a
church, and from which there is the finest view of Serbal in the neigh
bourhood ; the flight of steps, of which large portions remain, passed
close to the numerous little chapels which appear to have been built
over the cells of hermits, and may have been so many stations at which
pilgrims offered their prayers. The church at the summit was at one
period turned into a mosque.
     The most remarkable feature connected with Feiran is the number
of tombs which are found there. They are rectangular in shape, built
of loose stones, and contain two or more interments according to their
siza The tombs are built east and west, and the bodies are laid on
their backs at full length with their feet to the east ; they are without
any doubt connected with the Monastery of Peiran, and it is curious
to find that such different modes of burial were followed at places so
near each other as Musa and Feiran ; for at the former there is no trace
of any stone tombs, all the interments appear to have been made in
the ground, and the bones afterwards collected and placed in the crypt
now in use. At the back of Serbal there are the remains of several
monastic establishments in a valley (Wady Sigillyeh) which in
scenery and perfect seclusion might rival the " Happy Valley of Kas-
selas ;" shut in on each side by lofty precipices, it breaks through the
mountains by an almost inaccessible gorge, and the approach to its
head is by a tremendous descent over loose stones from the shoulder
of Serbal. Nowhere is the energy of the monks seen more fully than
in the wonderful road which they made over this pass, and the great
staircase to the foot of the valley ; and though now in ruin they are
specimens of engineering skill which must strike every one with admi
ration.
     The convents at Tur are not so interesting, but there are numbers
 of cells and chapels in the rocks along the sea coast which well repaid
 the time given to their investigation.
     The climate of the mountain district of Sinai is perhaps the most
 agreeable in the world ; the air is perfectly dry, and though the nights
 are cold in winter the day is always warm and pleasant ; in summer
 some portions of the day are extremely hot, but the nights are
always cool, and the Khamsin, or hot wind, which is so trying when
met with on the plains, at that altitude, merely produces a feeling of
great lassitude. The heat in summer on the plains, especially in the
limestone districts, is very great ; and when tho Khamsin blows, tho

83                         Captain C. W. Wilson                 [Feb. 25,
mero act of existence becomes a labour, the air is filled with fine par
ticles of sand, and there is a terrible feeling of depression and oppres
siveness as if one were being weighed down to the ground and could
scarcely breathe.
     The rainfall appears to vary greatly in different years ; the winter
spent in the Peninsula by the Expedition was a remarkably dry one,
whilst the preceding one had been very wet.
     Snow falls every year in the higher mountains ; but it never lies
for any length of time, and rarely reaches lower down than 5500 feet
above the sea. The country is subject to violent rain storms, which fill
the dry beds of the valleys with roaring torrents, and are sometimes
attended with loss of life. The storms are very partial, and the first
symptom of a storm in the mountains may be a stream rushing down
the valley. Mr. Holland was fortunate enough, though not without
great personal risk to himself, to see one of these floods, or " seils," in
the Wady Feiran.
    The storm commenced at 4.30, and a few minutes after six the dry
bed of the Wady, over 300 yards wide, was turned into a foaming
torrent, 8 to 10 feet deep. Next morning a gently-flowing stream, a
few yards wide, was all that remained ; but the whole bed of the Wady
was changed, nearly 1000 palm trees were swept away, and about
thirty Bedawin were lost and buried in the debris. While at Tur
we found traces of the flood from this storm that had come down
Wady Sigillyeh, and which, after passing over 16 or 17 miles of dry
desert, the plain of El Gaah, had a body of water between 4 and 5 feet
deep and about 150 yards wide. Wellsted mentions a similar flood in
1832, which left an alluvial deposit one foot thick in the neighbourhood
of Tur.
    Small whirlwinds are very frequent, and rise up in the dry valleys
as if by magic ; on two occasions catching up instruments before they
could be saved.
    The colouring, especially at sunrise and sunset, is extremely bril
liant, and in the evening there is often a most lovely atmospheric effect.
About half an hour after the last trace of after-glow has died away,
and when the stars are shining brightly, the whole sky to 45° above the
horizon is suffused with a delicate blush pink, the true auroral flush,
" celestial rosy red ;" the effect of the dark mountain peaks against this
background can hardly be described by words. Before leaving the
subject of climate, it may be remarked as strange that no mention is
made in the Bible of cold or frost in connection with the sojourn at
Sinai, though the Israelites, coming from the low country of Egypt,
must at first have suffered severely.
    The present capabilities of the Peninsula for supporting life may
be divided into three—water, food for man, and food for animals.
    The water supply is far larger in the granitic mountain districts
than has been generally supposed. In the neighbourhood of Jebel
Musiv there are at least three perennial streams, besides a large number
of springs. In Wady Feiran there is the well-known stream, and at

 1870.]                on the Ordnance Survey of Sinai.                   89
Jebel Bcnat and Wady Sigillyeh there are streams which swell out
into large pools in which ono can swim about with comfort. The water
is pure and limpid, very different from the springs in the limestone
districts, which must always have been brackish. There is thus no
difficulty in supposing a fair supply for the children of Israel even if
the rainfall were not much greater than at present. In immediate con
nection with this is the question whether some of the lakes of which
we have evidence in the alluviums of Wady Feiran, Wady Igne, and
other places were in existence at the time of the Exodus, strong evi
dence has been brought to show that one at least existed where the
Egyptian mines of Maghara were worked. There is not time to
discuss this ; but I may remark that the word " Horeb," which means
a " place made dry by the running off of water," would have a strange
significance if we supposed that the water of tbe lakes had run off not
very long before Moses led the Israelites into the desert.
     Of food for man there is little ; but the resources might be largely
increased, and during early Christian times there is no doubt that a
considerable extent of ground was highly cultivated, and even now in
the old gardens, which receive no attention, olive, plum, cherry, and
other fruit trees flourish in the greatest luxuriance. There are also
several large groves of palm trees, and we have reason to believe that
the people who built the stone houses were agricultural, so that the
country may have been well cultivated at the time of the Exodus.
There is a feir supply of game, including ibex, hare, and four or five
species of partridge ; but of course very insufficient for a large host like
that of the Israelites. The tamarisk, or tarfa, from which the manna
distils, is generally distributed over the Peninsula, often in dense
thickets ; but it is impossible to believe that this, which is caused by
insects during a few months of summer and is really a mild aperient
 medicine, can have any connection with the manna of the Bible ; be
sides, the manna supply continued during their whole journey through
country where the tamarisk is rarely if ever found.
     The food for goats, sheep, oxen is now scant except after rain,
 when grass shoots up very rapidly and in comparative abundance.
 Whether the supply was formerly greater and more constant throughout
 the year depends on the rainfall, and this was probably greater than at
 present ; at any rate, if we may judge from the figures of horses on the
rocks, and the numerous Bedawi legends relating to them, there must
 have been within the present era vegetation sufficient for horses to have
 lived in the Peninsula.
     Those who have visited Palestine, and know what it was, even as
 bite as the Crusades, can understand how soon a Paradise may become
a desert.
     It is at first rather disappointing to find that few, if any, traces of
 the ancient Scriptural names remain in the Peninsula, even the name
 Sinai not being known in the native nomenclature. Still, if nothing
 has been discovered, Mr. Palmer has done good service in upsetting
 several theories which have been based' on the apparent similarity of

90                        Captain C. W. Wilson                  [Feb. 25,
names. This is specially the caso with Jcbal Sona and Jcbel Serbal.
In the first a trace of the word Sinai is supposed to have been found,
bat it is really the Mount of the Artisan. Serbal has been connected
with Baal, and so considered to have been a sacred mountain, whereas
it expresses the manner in which heavy rain ' shirts ' or covers the
summit.
    It is the same with the Bedawi traditions, which have undoubtedly
boon influenced to a very great extent by monkish legend, so much so
that it is not an easy matter to separate those which are of purely
native origin. Some of these latter which Mr. Palmer has succeeded
in bringing to light are highly interesting, especially one which places
the rock from which Moses brought water, in Wady Foiran, not far
below the position assigned by the earliest Christian tradition to
Bephidim, and another which would seem to identify some peculiar
remains with the camp of Kibroth Hattaavah.
    The Bedawin of Sinai number about 4000 males. They are a quiet
inoffensive race, and their poverty is such that their whole life is one
long struggle for existence.
    The Towara are not the aboriginal inhabitants of the Peninsula,
but settled in it at the time of the Mohammedan Conquest. Their
predecessors were a branch of the Aramaean race, of whom traces may
possibly remain in the Jibaliyeh tribe, as names peculiar to them are
found in the Aramaean (Sinaitic) inscriptions. The Jibaliyeh are
looked down upon by the other Bedawin as not being of pure descent
They are supposed to owe their origin to the 400 Wallachian and
other prisoners sent by Justinian for the service of the convent, and
this is supported by their own tradition, a peculiar cast of countenance,
and their names, indicating intermarriage with the Aramaeans.
    The Bedawin have frequently been termed irreligious by those who
have not watched them closely ; but this is far from being the case. It
is true they do not go through the outward forms of Moslem devotion ;
but the following prayers, which every Bedawi offers up at sunrise and
sunset, walking by his camel or lounging at home, will show that
there is a strong religious feeling amongst them. Every Bedawi be
lieves firmly that he wakes up with the power of Evil on one shoulder
and the power of Good on the other, and that if he does not say his
morning prayer the Evil One clings to him for the day.
    Sunrise—Morning Prayer. " I seek refuge with the Great God from
Satan accursed with stones. Deliver me from evil, provide for me,
and for my brethren the faithful. O Lord ! be gracious unto us, for
our forefathers' sake. Lord, be gracious unto us ; for a people that
prospers is better than a people that strives. O Lord ! uncover not
our inmost faults ; protect our children and our weaker friends. O
Lord ! provide for me, thou who providest for the blind hyaena ! "
    Sunset Prayer.—" O Lord ! be gracious unto us. In all that wo
hear or sec, in all that we say or do, be gracious unto us ! Have
mercy on our friends, who have passed away before us. I ask pardon

1870.]                on the Ordnance Survey of Sinai.                 91
of the Great God ; I ask pardon at the sunset, when every sinner turns
to Him. Now and for ever I ask pardon of God. 0 Lord ! cover us
from our sins, guard our children, and protect our weaker friends."
    Night Prayer.—" I lay down my head to rest, and the Lord is my
security against remote evil and present harm."
     With regard to the Sinaitie Inscriptions, Mr. Palmer determined
on visiting the country to form his own opinion on the subject before
criticizing the theories of others : for this purpose he devoted himself
to copying and studying the inscriptions on the rocks, and after some
time succeeded in deciphering them by a perfectly independent and
self-interpreting process. A cast in plaster was taken of a bilingual
tablet in Greek and Sinaitie, several photographs and paper impres
 sions were taken of others, and Mr. Palmer and Mr. Holland brought
 home in addition copies of nearly 3000 inscriptions, which were taken
 under very trying circumstances. I may add that many of Mr.
 Palmer's conclusions are corroborated by the results obtained by the
 Count de Vogue, and published in his work on the inscriptions in
 Central Syria. The inscriptions consist of detached sentences in an
 Aramaean dialect ; for the most part proper names, with introductory
 formulas ; but as Mr. Palmer has not yet written his report, I am unable
 to give any translations.
     The following extract relating to the character of the inscriptions
 is made from an entry in my journal after an examination of those in
 Wady Mukatteb :—
     " The number of inscriptions in Wady Mukatteb may be esti
 mated at about 2000. The height of the cliffs in the valley has been
 much exaggerated. The inscriptions are mostly on the lower hard
 bed of sandstone, or on blocks which have fallen from it ; not a dozen
 occur on the upper beds. There is only one inscription which cannot
 easily be reached by climbing, and in this case the softer sandstone
 below has evidently been broken away since it was made ; except in a
 few isolated cases inscriptions are never found more than a few yards
 from the road through the valley. In several places unmistakcable
 bilingual inscriptions, Sinaitie and Greek, by the same hand, are
 found. There are also many distinct Greek inscriptions of the same
 age as the Sinaitie, some of which contain Christian symbols, such
 as the % and -J* ; the latter, from the absence of Bible names, appear
 to be of early Christian date. The writers of the inscriptions possessed
 a very imperfect knowledge of Greek : names are frequently written
 backwards, as in the Sinaitie inscriptions, and letters such as P are
 often turned the wrong way. Egyptian names, as Horus, occur, but
 the prevailing names are those which end in Baal and Omm. The
 inscriptions are probably the work of a trading community settled in
 the Peninsula, and they are often accompanied by rude drawings of
 camels, horses, &c, and in one case, of a man leading a cow. Amongst
 the drawings are several of an obscene character, but the larger number
 are rude representations of the ibex or bedan, with enormously oxagge

92                       Captain 0. W. Wilson                   [Feb. 25,
rated horns ; there are also figures of warriors, with sword and shield,
or mounted on horseback with lances; and in one place there is a
spirited representation of an ibex hunt, the hunter being on foot and
accompanied by dogs. The inscriptions have been cut with flints, or
roughly dotted on to the face of the rock with any hard stone."
    The inscriptions are far more generally distributed over the Penin
sula than has been supposed. There is a collection near Ain Hudhera
almost as largo as that in Wady Mukatteb, on the road from Feiran
to Benat, and from Jebel Musa to Sherm there are numbers, and
Mr. Palmer has lately found them at the head of Wady Gharundel
and on the outskirts of the Tih. Inscriptions are also found in the
valleys near Jebel Musa and Jebel Serbal. At the latter place they
are found on three occasions under peculiar circumstances : 1st. On
the monastic road to Sigillyeh in such positions that they must have
been written after the road was made, and consequently after the
introduction of Christianity ; 2nd. In a cave near the summit of Serbal,
where they are made with whitewash, evidently by the same men who
built the signal tower, of which there are the remains close by ; and
3rd. On Jebel Moneija, a hill overlooking Wady Aleyat : this is one
of the places in which God is supposed to have spoken to Moses, and
the Bedawin sacrifice there every year at the time of date harvest.
    An examination was made of the Egyptian mines at Maghara and
Sarabit el Khadem ; a plan was made of the temple at the latter place,
and photographs and paper impressions were taken of the tablets and
inscriptions. These mines are well known, and have been described
and figured by Lepsius, Laborde, Laval, and others ; but Dr. Birch,
the distinguished Egyptologist, who has kindly consented to contribute
a description of them to the work which is now in course of prepara
tion, has informed me that he is able to decipher many parts of the
inscriptions from our photographs, which were illegible in the copies
of previous travellers.
    Several new inscriptions and tablets were found ; one indicating
that the miners were accompanied by their wives and families whilst
working at Maghara. The oldest monument appears to be that of
Cheops, the builder of the Great Pyramid, and from his reign down to
a time posterior to the Exodus there is a pretty constant succession of
tablets recording the working of the mines.
    At Maghara may still be seen the ruins of the village in which the
miners lived on an almost isolated hill opposite the mines, and con
nected with them by a causeway, of which there are still traces. The
mines were worked for copper and turquoiso, the latter possibly on
account of its colouring matter, as no turquoises have yet been found
in the ancient jewellery of the Egyptians.
    A question has been raised as to whether the Mountain of the
Law was really in what we call the Peninsula of Sinai : time will not
permit me to enter upon this at present, but there seems to be no suffi
cient reason for believing that the present tradition, which is certainly
as old as Josephus, is wrong, and I am able to announce that the

1870.]              on the Ordnance Survey of Sinai.                      93
members of the Expedition have unanimously come to the conclusion
that the mountain mass of Jebel Musa is the true Mount Sinai. No
where else in the Peninsula is there the same conjunction of mountain,
plain, and water, and even when we come to minute details they
agree in a most marked manner with the requirements of the Bible
narrative.
    In comparing the rival claims of Musa and Serbal, it will be as
well to consider what are the topographical features which the Bible
narrative appears to require in connection with Mount Sinai, and to
examine how far each of them fulfils the requisite conditions.
    They may be stated thus :—
    1st. A mountain summit overlooking a place upon which the chil
dren of Israel could be assembled. It does not seem necessary to
suppose that there must have been space in front of the Mount suffi
cient for their permanent encampment; indeed it would rather appear
that the tents were scattered about in the neighbouring valleys, whence
they could be easily summoned to take part in any solemn act, such as
the delivery of the ten commandments.
     At Musa there is the great cliff of the Bas Sufsafeh overlooking
the plain of Er Bahah, which slopes gently down to its base, a remark
able geographical feature which would attract the attention of a tra
veller if there were no other circumstances connected with it.
     At Serbal there is no such plain, but there is sufficient space for
the host to have assembled in Wady Aleyat and Er Bimm in sight of
the summit of Serbal, which, by the way, is invisible from Wady Ajeleh.
     This arrangement would necessitate the assembly of the Israelites
in two valleys separated from each other by a high ridge of granite,
and the beds of the valleys are now and must always have been of the
roughest description, and a direct contrast to the even plain of Er
Bahah.
     2nd. The place on which the Israelites assembled must have such
 a relation to the mountain, that the people could stand " at the nether
 part of the Mount" and yet " remove and stand afar off," and also that
 they could hear the voice of the Lord when ho spake " out of the midst
 of the fire " and answered Moses " by a voice."
     This condition is perfectly fulfilled at Musa, hardly at all at Serbal :
 in the former place the people could gather together at the foot of the
 Bas Sufsafeh, and retire up the slope of the Er Bahah ; in the latter,
 those in Wady Er Bimm could not approach the foot of Serbal, and if
 they moved backwards would lose sight of the summit ; which is
 moreover so situated that the sound of a voice from it would lose
 much of its force before reaching either Wady Aleyat or Wady Er
 Bimm.
     3rd. The summit of the Mount of the Law should be a well-
 defined peak, visible from the nether part of the Mount as well as
 from afar off, and easily distinguished as the " top of the Mount" on
 which the Lord came down. This is eminently the case with the
 grand peak of the Bas Sufsafeh ; but it would puzzle any one to select

  94        Captain Wilson on the Ordnance Survey of Sinai.       [Feb. 25,
  any particular peak in the ridgo of Serbal as that on which the Law-
  was given.
      There are in truth some ten or twelve peaks varying little in alti
  tude, so little that from a distance the highest peak which stands a
 little back cannot be distinguished by the eye. The summit also
 cannot be seen from the foot of the mountain.
      4th. The mountain sheuld rise precipitously from the place of
 assembly : in Deut. iv. 11, the people are said to have stood " under it,"
 and apparently at the same time to have been able to see the summit ;
 it was also a mountain that could be touched. This again applies in
 a remarkable manner to the Cliff of Sufsafeh, not at all to Serbal,
 where, as we have seen, the real summit stands back from the face of
 the mountain.
      5th. The Mount sheuld be sufficiently isolated to allow of tho
 possibility of setting bounds round it. The mass of Jebel Musa is
 isolated in a very peculiar manner from the mountains round by the
 two valleys, Wady Leja and Wady Ed Deir ; so that there would bo
no difficulty in marking out a limit beyond which the people sheuld
 not advance.
     Serbal, on the contrary, is the culminating point of a great moun
tain mass, the whele of which would have to be enclosed by the bounds,
as it would be almost impossible to isolate the summit itself.
     6th. In Deut. ix. 21, it is said that the brook into which the dust of
 the golden calf was cast " descended out of the Mount," and it is evi
 dent, from many passages, that the supply of water at Sinai must have
 been ample.
     Now at Serbal there is no such stream, but at Musa we find a
stream to the present day coming down Wady Shreich, close to Ras
 Sufsafeh, and as it were out of the very heart of the mountain. It is
curious to note that an earlier tradition than that of the present day
made this Wady Shreich the route taken by Moses in ascending Sinai,
and placed the scene of the worship of the golden calf on a hill near
its mouth, close to the place at which the mould is now shewn. The
modern Aaron's mound was at that time the site of Moses' tent. In
water supply, as mentioned before, the Musa district far surpasses that
of Serbal, and of any other part of the Peninsula.
     The arguments in favour of Serbal derived from its name and the
occurrence of inscriptions there, have been already disposed of, and
there only remain these derived from the accounts of Jerome and Euse-
bius, which are rather confused, and can, I think, be easily answered.
     Another question still remains, that of whether the Ras Sufsafeh
or the summit of Jebel Musa is the actual peak on which the Law was
given. The actual summit of Musa is not visiblo from the plain of
Er Rahah, and theugh the peak is precipitous towards the south and
overlooks the Wady Sebaiyeh, the valley is at some distance from the
mountain, is narrow, and the summit can only be seen from a small
portion of it. It seems to me that this question is best met by sup
posing the delivery of the Law to have been from the summit of the

  1870.]            Mr. E. J. Reed on Iron-clad Ships.                   95
 Ras Sufsafeh, and the instructions for the Tabernaclo, &c., received by
 Moses during bis forty days' retirement, to havo boon given on Jebel
 Mosa, both peaks being really part of tho same mountain. No ono
 can help being struck by the seclusion of the Er Rahah plain in tho
 inmost recesses of the mountains, and the grandeur of the surrounding
 scenery ; indeed it might almost seem, bike the romarkable place near
Shechem where the Law was ratified, to have been specially mado for
 tho use which was afterwards made of it.
                                                           [C. W. W.]
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 4, 1870.
       Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. Presidont,
                                 in the Chair.
                        E. J. Rzkd, Esq. C.B.
                          CHIKF CONSTRUCTOR OF THR NAVT,
                             On Iron-clad Ships.
Only eighty- throe years ago the first iron vessel of which we have any
record—a canal boat —was built ; it is but fifty years since the first iron
ship, which was also a steamship, was constructed ; and but thirty years
since iron sea-going ships came into extensive use. Only sixteen
years ago the first armour-clad vessels—floating batteries—were built
for service during the Crimean war ; and it is but twelve years ago
that the first iron-clad ship, ' La Gloire,' was commenced. Now, every
ocean is traversed and every important port visited by iron vessels ;
the largest and finest merchant ships afloat arc built of iron ; a very
large proportion of our mercantile marine is constructed of that
material ; and the three great naval powers—England, France, and
America—possess together over a hundred and fifty iron-clad ships of
all classes, while Russia, Prussia, Austria, Italy, and other powers
probably have altogether as many more.
     When the question of protecting ships against shet and shell first
came to be discussed, there was naturally great diversity of opinion
as to the best means to be employed. All classes of the public—
including numerous clergymen—put forward schemes for the purpose,
many of which were extremely singular. Iron armour was mostly in
favour, but the metheds proposed for its application were very various.
" Arched," " angulated," " corrugated," " fluted," " articulated," and
" hellowed " armour plating, faced and backed with all kinds of
materials— such as wood, steel, sand, hides, india-rubber, wool, cotton,
cocoa-nut fibre, cork, spiral springs, &c., &c.—was strongly recom
mended by one class of inventors. Another class preferred some other

96                               Mr. E. J. Beed                  [March 4,
protecting materials—wood, vulcanized india-rubber, cotton, &c.
instead of iron, and put forward schemes for using them. Others
devoted attention to, what they thought, improved plans of fastening
armour to the sides ; and one inventor—a Frenchman—went so far as
to propose to protect ships by movable plates, carried along on rails,
and fixed temporarily where the attack of an enemy had to be resisted,
" a sharp look-out being kept on the enemy's guns, to discover tho
point at which the plates would be required."
     The simple plan of bolting slabs of iron to the sides of ships
found favour with professional shipbuilders from the first, and has
continued in use ever since. The question to which they devoted most
attention was, What kind of ship would be best adapted to carrying
armour ? The floating batteries first built were not ship-shape in form
or equipment, and were specially intended for attacking forts. 4 La
Gloire ' was the first armoured sea-going ship. She was comparatively-
short and full, her ports were not high above water, and her rig was very-
light. Her construction was undoubtedly due to the proposals which
the Emperor of the French had previously made to convert line-of-
battle ships into iron-clad block-ships ; and she proved moderately
efficient in her sea-going capabilities, although the whole of her
exposed broadside was covered with armour.
     Our first iron-clad, the ' Warrior,' was designed on entirely different
principles. She was mode extremely long and fine ; only a little more
than half the exposed broadsido was armoured, the extremities being
quite unprotected ; her ports were high out of water ; and her rig was
much heavier than ' La Gloire's,' so that sho was capable of proceeding
under sail alone. Her safety, therefore, depended largely upon the
water-tight subdivision of the hold space at the extremities ; and on
this account many persons preferred ' La Gloire's ' " complete " pro
tection to the ' Warrior's ' " partial " protection. In fact, after one or
two modifications of the ' Warrior ' plan, our designers actually adopted
tho system of complete protection in the converted ships of the
 ' Caledonia ' class, and in the large ships of the ' Minotaur ' class. In
the latter all the other main features of tho ' Warrior's ' design were
retained, and tho strength of the armoured side was made about equal
to the ' Warrior's,' but to do this a length of 400 feet, and a burden of
more than 6600 tons were considered nocessary. These were the last
of the so-called " long " iron-clads built, and we are not likely to build
any more ; if we had kept on in tho same course wo should by this
time have been building iron-clad ' Great Easterns,' costing a million
or a million and a half each, to carry the thickness of armour some of
our recent ships bear on their sides.
     Tho contrast between these early vessels and our recent iron-clads,
built during the last seven years, is very great. The ' Warrior,' for ex
ample, carries only 4i-inch armour on a burden of 6100 tons, while tho
' Bellerophon ' carries 6-inch armour on 4270 tons. . The ' Minotaur,'
with a burden of more than 6600 tons, carries 5^-inch armour; the 'Her
cules,' of about 5200 tons, has 9, 8, and 6-inch plating, in addition to

 1S70.J                      on Iron-clad Ships.                          97
 special arrangements of backing at the water-line belt. Our latest vessels,
 the ' Thunderer ' class of monitors, compare still more favourably with
the ' Minotaur,' as they carry 12-inch armour on a burden of 4400 tons,'
and are impenetrable by the heaviest guns afloat. This superiority in
the recent ships is due to various changes that will be referred to almost
immediately ; and the incentive to theso rapid advances in thickness of
armour is to be found in the increased weight and power of naval guns.
In 1859 the 68-pounder cast-iron gun, weighing 4J tons, was our most
powerful weapon : at present wo have 600-pounder 25-ton guns, besides
18-ton, 12-ton, 9-ton, and 6J-ton guns. The lightest of these is more
powerful than the 68-pounder, and could pierce the ' Warrior's' side at
500 yards, while the old gun could not at 200 yards ; and our 25-ton gun
would probably pierce most iron-clads at a range of 2 miles. Heavier
guns are talked of, and will probably be made soon ; 30-ton guns are
actually ordered ; but so far as we are able to judge, our present guns
are superior to any possessed by the French and Americans, and in
strength of armour we certainly have a long lead. In fact, our iron
clad fleet now compares very favourably with the fleets of other nations.
     The remarkable progress made in our iron-clad construction during
the last seven years is mainly due to three causes :—Changes in forms
and proportions ; altered arrangements of armour ; and structural
changes. Recent ships are shorter and fuller than the ' Warrior' and
' Minotaur,' but they are quite as fast, or faster, notwithstanding. Our
two fastest iron-clads, the 'Monarch' and 'Hercules,' are, in fact,
examples of the short type. This question of speed was much debated
at first; but, if experience can settle it, no further debate will tako
place. The reduction in dimensions in recent vessels has also given
them wonderful handiness under steam as compared with their prede
cessors, and this has been still further increased by adoping the balanced
or differential rudder. For example, on the official trials the 1 Mino
taur ' took 7 minutes 38 seconds to traverse a circle 939 yards in dia
meter; while tho 'Hercules' turned completely round in 4 minutes
and traversed a circle only 562 yards in diameter.
     The changes in the dispositions of armour on our iron-clads aro
also important. They chiefly consist in the adoption of tho " belt-and-
battery" system for broadside ships, and of the "breastwork" system
for monitors. By means of these improvements tho vital parts of iron
clads—such as the region of the water-line, tho batteries or turrets in
which the guns are fought, and the steering apparatus—are well pro
tected ; and the horizontal range of the guns carried behind armour is
increased so as to give them an "all-round fire" instead of the very
limited range possessed by the guns of tho ' Warrior ' and other early
ships. These changes have been facilitated by the tendency of lato
years to reduce the number of tho guns carried, and to considerably in
crease the power of each gun..
     Not less important are the changes made in the structure of our
recent iron-clads, for by these changes the ships have been made
stronger and safer than their predecessors, while they have propor-
     Vol. VI. (No. 52.)                                           n

 98                            Mr. E. J. Beed                   [March 4,
tionately lighter hulls. As an example, the cases of the early iron
clad 'Defence* and the recent iron-clad 'Invincible' maybe taken.
They are of nearly equal size ; but while in the ' Defence' the hull
weighs 3500 tons and carries something under 2500 tons, in the ' In
vincible' ahull weighing less than 2700 tons carries more than 3200
tons. What is saved on hull can obviously be put into armour, and
had the ' Defence' been built on the improved "bracket" system, she
would have been able to carry twice as much armour as she actually
does. Structural changes of this kind, combined with the changes pre
viously referred to, have given us a fleet of powerful and handy ships,
such as could not otherwise have been obtained ; and have effected
savings in expenditure that may be roundly stated at 100,000i. per
ship for first-class iron-clads.
     The changes recently made have had another important effect,
which as yet has not been brought into prominence, although it de
serves careful attention—viz. the much smaller straining forces short
ships have to resist on account of their shortness and the concentration
of their weights. Careful calculations show, for example, that for
some positions afloat the ' Minotaur ' may be strained three times as
much as the ' Bollerophon' ; and yet, to say the least, the shorter ship is
as strong to resist these strains as the larger one. Taking the greater
margin of strength of the short ship into account, and remembering
the rapidity and violence of the changes of strain in ships pitching and
tossing at sea—which, as it were, send waves of strain through the
structure—it will be evident that the shorter type is likely to prove
more durable than the longer, in addition to being superior in other
respects.
     A consideration which has justly had much weight in the recon
struction of our Navy, has been the necessity for giving most of our
iron-clads sail-power, in addition to steam-power, so that they can
keep the sea and cruise for considerable periods. This has also had
much to do with the large adoption of the broadside principle in our
ships as it is better adapted to full-rigged ships than the turret prin
ciple, on account of the fact that the horizontal range of the guns is
not interfered with by the rigging, while the fire of turret-guns must
be to some extent. In addition, the general requirements of a sea
going ship can be far better met in broadside ships. The turret prin
ciple may, of course, be carried out in rigged vessels, and has been
applied to the ' Captain' and 'Monarch' with much success; but it is,
in our opinion, much better suited to ships without masts or sails—
such as our recent monitors—where the turret-guns have an all-round
fire. These monitors are not cruising ships ; but they have extremely
large coal supplies, and, on an emergency, can proceed to the Mediter
ranean or cross the Atlantic. Wherever they go they will be free to
fight without the encumbrance of masts or spars, and without the many
risks in battle which rigging entails. Proposals to equip monitors of
the American pattern—which is entirely different from our breast
work system—as sailing vessels have been made more than once ; but

  1870.]                    on Iron-clad Ships.                        99
 they have not been adopted because sufficient provisions for stores,
 equipment, accommodation, &c, have not been made, and (which is far
 more serious) because such vessels would run a great risk of upsetting
 when under canvas, on account of their deficient stability in inclined
 positions. Careful calculations have shown this to be the fact.
     Iron-clad ships are very generally believed to be heavier rollers
 than unarmoured ships, because of the loads they carry on their top
 sides. Facts, however, prove them to be steadier than wood line-of-
battle ships, and show that raising the weights on board tends to make
ships roll less. The iron-clad two-deckers, 1 Magenta ' and ' Solferino,'
are the steadiest French iron-clads. In designing some recent ships
at the Admiralty, special care has actually been taken to raise weights
in order to make the vessels steadier; modifications in the form may
also be made to conduce to this result.
     The burdens of armour carried by our ships are, of course, large ;
and though our iron-clads are called frigates, they are really heavier
and larger than our largest three-deckers were. As experience has
been gained and improvements have been made, we have gradually
advanced in the proportion borne by the weight of armour to the total
weight of the vessel. In the ' Warrior ' the armour weighs less than
one-ninth the total weight; in the 'Bellerophon' it slightly exceeds
one-seventh ; in the ' Hercules ' it exceeds one-sixth ; and in the
monitor ' Thunderer ' it considerably exceeds one-fourth. In fact, the
' Warrior,' with a total weight of about 9100 tons, carries only 975
tons of armour ; while the ' Thunderer,' on a rather less displacement,
carries 2370 tons of armour on sides, turrets, and decks. The monitor,
as was said above, has no masts or sails, and is of only moderate
speed as compared with the ' Warrior,' both of which causes help to
increase the proportionate weight of armour.
     The limit of thickness in armour has not yet been reached.
Beginning with 4^-inch plates, we have in ten years reached 14-inch,
and may go on to 20-inch, or even 24^inch plates—by means of
improved arrangements not yet divulged —without making iron-clads
 of extravagant sizes. In fact the dimensions required for ships to
 carry the maximum thickness mentioned, need not exceed those of
 ships we actually possess. At present our strongest ships are im
pregnable to the heaviest guns, and as we can, when necessary, about
double the thickness of their armour, it becomes very doubtful whether
guns will soon be produced capable of beating the armour out of the
field. It is much more probable that ramming and other modes of
 attack will take the place of artillery.
                                                           [E. J. E.J
                                                            h 2

100                         General Monthly Meeting.                  [March 7 ,
                   GENEEAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, March 7, 1870.
               Colonel Philip J. Yorke, F.B.S. in the Chair.
    H.R.H. The Prince Frederick Christian of Schleswig-Holstein,
was elected an Honorary Member.
Wm. Henry Barlow, Esq. F.R.S.             Frank McClean, Esq. M.A.
Arthur John Booth, Esq.                   Hervey Pechell, Esq.
Francis W. Buxton, Esq.                   Frederick Pennington, Esq.
Joseph T. Clover, Esq. F.R.C.S.           George Phillips, Esq.
Rev. John Congreve, M.A.                  Marlborough Robert Pryor, Esq.
George Howard Darwin, Esq.                John Rao, M.D.
Francis Galton, Esq. F.R.S. F.G.S.        Rev. David Mode Salter, M.A.
The Lord Bonald Sutherland                Albert George Sandeman, Esq.
   Leveson Gower, M.P.                    George Stone, Esq.
Robert Grubb, Esq.                        Algernon A. De Lille Strickland,
John Gurney, Esq.                            Esq.
John 0. Halloran, Esq.                    Charles Bosworth Thurston, Esq.
Henry Hoare, Esq.                            F.S.A.
James Houldsworth, Esq.                   The Hon. John Gage Prendergast
Lieut. -Colonel Gordon Ives.                 Vereker.
Thomas Jacomb, Esq.                       Mrs. Michael Wills.
Edmund C. Johnson, Esq.                   Henry Woods, Esq. M.P.
Sir John J. Trevor Lawrence£Bt.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The special thanks of the Members were returned for the foUowing
additions to " the Donation Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Researches":—
       Arthur Giles Puller, Esq. (Uh Donation)                   £21 0 0
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
       FROM
Actuaries, Inttitute of—Journal, No. 78. 8vo. 1870.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Second Series, No. 11. 8vo. 1870.
Atiatic Society, Boyol—Journal, New Series, Vol. IV. Part 2. 8vo. 1870.

 1870.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         101
 Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 157. 8vo.
Agronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XX. No. 3. 8vo. 1870.
Britith Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1869-70, No. 6. 4<b.
Brilith Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Diurnal Lepidoptera described by Fabri-
     cius. 8vo. 1869.
Chemical Society—Journal for Feb. 1870. 8vo.
Editors—Academy for Feb. 1870. 4to.
   American Journal of Science for Jan. 1870. 8vo.
   Artizan for Feb. 1870. 4to.
   Athemeum for Feb 1870. 4to.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1870. 4to.
   Eugineer for Feb. 1870. foL
   Horological Journal for Feb. 1870. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Feb. 1870. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for Feb. 1870. 8vo.
   Nature for Feb. 1870. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb 1870. 8vo.
   Phetographic News for Feb. 1870. 4to.
   Practical Mechanics' Journal for Feb. 1870. 4to.
   Kevue des Cours Scientifiques et Litteraires. Feb. 1870. 4to.
   Scientific Opinion. Feb. 1870. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 527, 528. 8vo. 1869.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1869. No. 3. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 101. 8vo. 1869.
Gladstone, John Hall, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.(the Author)—Papers on Phespherus
      Compounds. 8vo.
Huddersfield Archaeological Association—Yorkshire Archaeological and Topogra
      phical Journal. Parts I. II. 8vo. 1869.
Meteorological Society— Proceedings, No. 46. 8vo. 1870.
Payne, J. Bertrand, Esq. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Haydn's Universal Index of Bio
      graphy. 8vo. 1870.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 214. 8vo. 1870.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenchaften—Monatsberichte, Dec. 1869. 8vo.
Radtliffe Trustees, Oxford—Second Radeliffe Catalogue of Stars. 8vo. 1870.
lloyul Society of Edinburgh—Transactions. Vol. XXV. Part 2. 4to. 1868-9.
   Proceedings. Nos. 77, 78. 79. 8vo. 1868-9.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 116. 8vo. 1870.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      Feb. 1870. svo.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 56. 8vo. 1869.
 Vignoles, Charles B. Estf. F.IC.S. (the Author)—Address as President of the Insti
       tution of Civil Engineers. 8vo. 1870.
 Wechniakof, Theodore, Esq. (the Atithor)—Introduction uux Reclierches sur
       rEconomie des Travaux Scientifiques et Esthe'tiques. (K 97) 8vo. 1870.

102                          Mr. Westmacott.                  [March 11,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 11, 1870.
        George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 Biohard Westmacott, Esq. R.A. F.R.S.
                            A Chapter on Art.
Though selecting Art as the subject for consideration this evening,
our remarks will not be directed to any special branch of practice.
The purpose is to inquire, generally, into the condition and prospects
of art among us at the present time. First, as to the interest felt in
art by the public ; secondly, on the capacity of the people to appre
ciate it ; thirdly, on the opportunities for the people seeing works of
art ; and fourthly, whether these are of a kind to act beneficially, in
an educational point of view, in elevating and improving the public
taste. The term may also legitimately include the drama, as an art
whese purpose is to address the intelligence and feelings through the
sense.
     The wide-spread exhibitions of paintings, not only in London, but
all over the country, season after season, and the crowding of the
public to visit them, afford sufficient evidence of the general interest
felt in fine art. So, in another class of public entertainment. It is
said that the same success attends the theatres, especially of the
smaller class, which are nightly filled—the advertisements tell us—to
overflowing. The capacity of the public to appreciate what is good,
the character of the art provided, and its influence on public education,
become then questions of some importance.
    The art produced by any nation will be the expression or reflexion
of the feeling of the people and of the age. The producers, or artists,
being of the people, and living by the people, will, of course, supply
the kind of art likely to be generally understood and patronized.
Any even slight superiority in feeling may give rise to insulated ex
amples of a higher class, but the exceptional genius or talent that
produces this and the rare refinement able to appreciate it do not
affect the main proposition. In like manner where the general national
tone of art-feeling may be very low, there may be the imitation of
better things. Sculpture may copy ancient statues, and illustrate
obsolete Greek subjects, with which no one sympathizes ; architecture
may reproduce, to satiety, Grecian or Roman, or Italian, or Byzantine,
or Gothic buildings ; and painting supply imitations of mediaeval, or
what is called, not very intelligibly, pre-Raffaelite, art. But all this
is quite distinct from a truthful national expression. Indeed, it rather
proves the poverty of national or original art-feeling.
     Any real value art may have must depend on its quality. This,
in fine art, will be shewn in its sentiment and intention, the character

 1870.]                      A Chapter on Art.                       103
 of its subjects, and its making beauty a ruling condition. In its out
 ward expression it will bo exhibited in form, correct drawing, colour,
harmonious effect, and all those qualities which constitute good art,
in contradistinction to the merely mechanical.
     The general tone or quality of art among us may be tested by a
very simple process. At exhibitions of painting and sculpture take the
trouble to mark on your catalogues the works which show the impress
of high aim, deep thought, a marked feeling for beauty, correct draw
ing, and well-studied drapery ; and compare with these the general
staple of the productions exhibited. This will show what is the
general feeling of the age, if only on the principle of supply answer
ing to demand. In the drama, again. What is the ordinary'quality
of that produced to meet the public taste ? We have been told by an
experienced and accomplished writer and actor, that Shakespeare and
the higher class of drama will not " draw," or pay, now-a-days. That
the theatre is no longer sought for the intellectual enjoyment of wit
nessing a good play well performed, but that what is required and run
after by the public is the highly-seasoned sensational drama, extrava
ganzas, burlesques, and especially showy spectacle. Consequently the
entertainment provided at many of these establishments is of a kind to
preclude many families with daughters and children from attending
them. The subjects, in too many instances, ore the elaborate illustra
tion of various phases of vice and crime; and even where a moral
purpose is professed, the picture of immorality is so seductively
painted that the positive representation alone fixes itself in the mind
of the spectator. It cannot be said, in excuse for this preference,
there is no good standard upon which a true judgment may bo formed
of what is right in these matters. We possess in England the finest
examples of art, of the best time, and of the most accomplished masters
of antiquity. There are also the productions of the great Italian and
other schools in painting ; and, putting aside the ancient writers, we
have the works of Shakespeare and a long list of modern dramatists,
from which ample examples of excellence may be drawn.
     It has been said, most unjustly, that the blame of our inferior art
rests with the artists. It is not the case. Artists, naturally, are
influenced by the prevailing tone of their age, and having to live by
their exertions, they must work to the public taste. But there are
many who yearn for better things, and do, at great pecuniary sacrifice,
produce better things ; showing an ambition to raise the tone of art,
which none, even of the educated classes, the noble, or the rich, ever
appear to recognize, or dream of encouraging ; and thus artists have
to produce below their own standard or feeling in order to live. So in
the drama. Is it not fair to believe that both authors and actors would
prefer to make a reputation in a high rather than a low walk of their
art ? But the public will not have it. And why ? Because there is
no teaching or assistance afforded them to acquire a knowledge of, or
feeling for, better things.
    With respect to the opportunities for seeing art. There are in

104                          Mr. Weslmacotl.                  [March 11,
London three great public institutions where works of art are collected.
The South Kensington Museum, the National Gallery of paintings,
and the British Museum, to all of which the public has, for the most
part, free access. The first contains a vast collection of objects in
fine art and in other branches of vortii, most admirably arranged for
public inspection and enjoyment. The National Gallery contains a
most valuable exhibition of pictures by the old and some modern
masters ; and here the public has a guarantee for the value of the
collection, in the fact that the practical administration is under a
highly accomplished professional artist, assisted by a secretary well
known for his therough acquaintance with the history and the master
pieces of art.
     The British Museum is rich in its treasures of all kinds. Here,
hewever, it is only to be considered with reference to our subject, Art.
It possesses examples of the finest sories of works in sculpture that
exists, namely, these from the Parthenon at Athens, the production of
Phidias and his schelars, and executed betwoen 500 and 400 B.C. It
would be impossible to describe adequately, at this time, the claims of
these works to our admiration. Altheugh mutilated, and stained with
the dirt and rust of ages, and with the surface in many respects
injured, they stand forth, by the verdict of all whe are competent to
judge of what is excellent in art, as the finest examples known of the
true rendering of the most perfect forms in nature. Yet this seems to
be very imperfectly felt by these in autherity in our National Museum.
The more important portions, the groups of the pediments, are so ill
placed—their old and better arrangement, by a late eminent sculptor,
having been entirely altered—that they cannot be properly seen ; and
scarcely ever is an artist found studying from them ; and the unin
formed public cannot in the least realize that there can be anything
deserving attention in broken statues so distributed. Like all fine-art
productions in the British Museum they seem to bo simply included
in the comprehensive category of Greek and Roman antiquities, and
arc, for the most part, heused as such. The Museum contains, in this
department, a large collection of monuments. Among these, the re
markable sculptures from Assyria ; the curious series of archaic seated
statues from Miletus ; sculptures of various dates from Lycia ; some
rilievi from Phigaleia, in Arcadia; and other examples of great
interest in an antiquarian point of view especially deserve mention.
Of a very important series of figures from the Temple of Jupiter Pan-
hcllenius, in yEgina, there are only casts, when wo ought to have had
the original marbles. This was owing to the commission to purchase
them having been entrusted, not to a person conversant with art, but
to the then superintendent of the department of Greek and Roman
antiquities, whe, theugh, possibly, an accomplished schelar, was, cer
tainly, an exceedingly incompetent judge of even archaic art. He was
sent abroad to secure them for this country ; but, after the most cursory
examination, decided against taking them. The entire collection was
immediately purchased for Bavaria, for a much less sum of money -

1870.]                       A Chapter on Art.                       105
than England was ready to give for them. The originals are now in
Munich.
     A large collection of sculpture, rather lately acquired, deserves
especial notice. It consists of fragments, almost innumerable, of
statues, rilievi, herses, and other animals, and architectural remains
from Halicarnassus ; and their great interest is derived from their
having formed part of the decoration of the far-famed monument
erected by Artemisia, about 355 r.c., in memory of her husband,
Mausolus. Some portions of the rilievi of this collection, presents
from the Sultan to our ambassador, Sir Stratford Canning, had reached
this country as far back as 1846. The real site of the Mausoleum
was not, hewever, ascertained till many years later, and here was
found the immense accumulation of fragments we now possess. The
greatest expectations were indulged when this discovery was announced,
and as Vitruvius mentions that Praxiteles, and Pliny that Scopas, were
among the sculptors employed in its decoration, it was reasonably
hoped that some works of transcendent merit would be brought to
light. It is mortifying that, in no respect, have any of these anticipa
tions been realized. It would be an insult to the fame of Praxiteles
to attribute any of the sculpture now recovered to his master-hand.
The various works may be said generally to bear the traditional
character of a good scheol, as might be expected from the date of their
production, when sculpture had attained its supreme perfection ; but
they vary in merit ; they are very incomplete and unfinished in their
execution, and seldom exhibit any really fine detail. Indeed it may
be said that there is not among them a single example of such excel
lence that any competent judge of art could conscientiously recommend
a pupil or young student to take it as his model ; nor indeed is any
 artist over seen making studies from them. The objects arrived in
 this country in a state of dreadful dilapidation. Many of them havo
 been repaired, as far as possible, to make them intelligible. Of these
 sculptures the most remarkable is a colossal draped male figure. In
 putting this together no fewer than from sixty to seventy fragments
 were found and fitted; and yet it is still very far from complete. The
 head is not an integral part of the statue. There is a hellow, or
 worked socket in the statue made to receive a plug, and a head was
 found among the fragments with this appendage to it. It did not,
 hewever, quite fit into the space, when, curiously enough, a layer of
 ancient lead, About half-an-inch thick, was found, which had evidently
 been run in to make up the joint ; and thus the appropriation of the
 head was established. This figure, theugh somewhat clumsy and
 heavy in its form, and shert in its proportions, is simply composed,
 and of a grand and commanding character. There is no nude or
 naked portion exhibited, nor any extremities, with the exception of one
 sandalled foot, from which to form a conjecture of the action, nor any
 accessory to suggest its subject. It is entirely covered, from the
 throat, with its drapery, which is ample and well composed. The exe
 cution, especially at the back of the figure, is very incomplete. The

106                          Mr. Wcstmacott.                  [March 11,
head is striking for its expression of calm dignity ; but the features,
though not wanting in beauty, are out of drawing, and the hair and
beard are left in a most rough and unfinished state. The statue is
now exhibited as a supposed portrait of Mausolus. This is purely
conjectural. There is not the slightest authority for it. There is no
portrait known of Mausolus ; and at the date of these sculptures
portraiture was not practised ; nor at all, it is believed, before the
later time of Alexander the Great. Besides, as has been shown, the
head was an applique head, and under no circumstances can it be
fully accepted as an integral part of the original statue, whoever it
may have been intended to represent.
    The rilievi are of various degrees of merit ; many of them are
well composed, and the movement of the groups spirited; but in
richness and variety of action they are very inferior to those of a
similar subject from Phigalcia. The portions of colossal horses are of
a very coarse and clumsy type, and have the character rather of some
of the heavy Roman sculpture than of the finer Greek school. In all
respects they contrast very unfavourably with the noble examples of
the class in the Elgin sculptures. Of other animals, some are sketched
with spirit and with truth of expression, but all are very unfinished.
    The Mausoleum was overthrown by an earthquake, which will
account in a great measure for the sculpture being so utterly broken
up; but all these works bear unmistakable evidence of haste and
incompleteness. The history of the Mausoleum suggests sufficient
reasons for this. As we do not find that there was a school of art at
Halicarnassus, Artemisia probably sent her emissaries to procure works
and workmen for this monument wherever they could be found ; and,
chiefly intent on a sort of barbaric magnificence, collected materials
for its enrichment with but little regard to fitness. This seems cer
tainly to be the case, from the great mixture of objects and their varied
design. Among other reasons for holding this opinion, open of course
to correction, the subjects of the rilievi— the contest of Athenians
and Amazons—do not, as far as is known, appear to have any con
nection with the history of Mausolus. The sculptures throughout
bear the evidence of being by several different hands, as the traditional
history of the work declares ; and it is probable many of them were
only prepared, and intended to be finished after they were placed—not
an uncommon practice with the ancients. But Artemisia is said to
have died in the year after her husband, and if this were the case, no
doubt the works were never wholly finished in the manner originally
contemplated. The names of the different sculptors employed are
recorded by Vitruvius and by Pliny, though one of these omits
Praxiteles, and the other Scopas, from his list. Those recorded by
both are not artists of any great reputation, and the respective works
lead to this conclusion. It must, however, be remembered that the
above authors lived between 300 and 400 years after the date of this
work, and the authenticity of the traditions respecting the Mausoleum
must, by that time, have been greatly impaired.

1870.]                        A Chapter on Art.                        107
    Shiploads of these mutilated—and, taken collectively, indifferent—
sculptures, and even large stones or blocks which formed the building,
were sent to England, at, of course, an enormous cost, not yet ended ;
for accommodation has to be found for them. Unfortunately they
add nothing in value to our objects of high art, nor much to our
character as judicious collectors. They are interesting for their
historical associations, but not as examples of good sculpture. A well-
chosen selection from the mass of debris would have answered every
purpose ; but no competent adviser seems to have been sent out by the
British Museum to examine and report upon the artistic merits of
the works, and even the respected superintendent of the department
of Greek and Roman antiquities at that time (Mr. Hawkins) knew
little or nothing about them till they reached England and were
placed in his charge.
     It is to be lamented that a division of the public art possessions
so important as Greek sculpture, should be so inadequately provided
for—but so it is. The Board of Trustees is composed of noblemen
and gentlemen of high position and character, many of literary emi
nence, some of scientific attainments, and all doubtless desirous to act
for the benefit of the institution ; but, unhappily, none among them
have, or profess to have, such a knowledge of art as will give confi
dence in their unassisted judgment on such subjects ; and thus, from
never having made them their study, they have never been in a
position to act independently of official pretension and dictation. The
officers in the different departments of the Museum, as in that of
antiquities generally, in coins and medals, in the library and print-
room, and in science, are gentlemen of accomplishment in their own
special walks; but, while a superintendent of antiquities may be a
valuable officer within the range and limits of his special duties, he is
not, necessarily, a safe judge of fine art. There is no one of recog
nized competency to whom professional artists and the public can
confidently refer ; and no tribunal or jury, as there was in the case
of purchasing the Elgin sculptures, to advise the Trustees in such
questions. From the first establishment of the Museum, the officer
who has the care of the antiquities, has been supposed, from his
having the charge of the sculpture, to be, also, intuitively a judge of
sculpture, when, from the want of any practical education in art, he
may only be competent to estimate it as an antiquary. Hence some of
the mistakes that might easily be exposed of injudicious selections,
of extravagant sums paid for very indifferent works, or the loss, like
 that already referred to, of desirable acquisitions.
     No doubt it is essential that the officers in this department should
be men of some learning. Professional artists, not usually being so,
would be quite unfitted for such situations ; besides, no artist of any
position, or fond of his pursuit, would care to give up his time to
become a custode in a museum. Still the importance of practical
acquaintance with art, a knowledge of anatomy, human and compara
tive, of characteristic, or beautiful and select form, and the refinements

 108                         Mr. Westmacott.                   [March 11,
of execution, are essential where sculpture is to be judged as an exer
cise of fine art, and not merely from an antiquary's contracted point
 of view. The proper exhibition of such works, their position, eleva
tion, the light they are to receive, are all matters for artistic consi
 deration, and, without disparagement, they are beyond the competency
 of anyone who has not been properly trained to deal with such
 subjects.
     There can be no doubt that a very large amount of sculptured
monuments have been admitted into our national collection that ought
never to have had a place there ; and which never would have had a
place there had there been anything like a competent tribunal to decide
upon their value. Specimens would, in many instances, have answered
every purpose, where space has now been sacrificed to accommodate
piled up accumulations of what is little better, harshly as it may
sound, than antiquarian rubbish. It is not too late while changes,
involving great expense, are being made for arranging some of these
objects, to have the whole collection surveyed by a competent jury of
artists and antiquaries. The usefulness of the Museum would be
increased, and the character of the country, in its judgment of fino
art, would be greatly advanced if the sculpture galleries of the British
Museum were subjected to a careful and judicious weeding.
     It is but justice to say that, in the importance of its possessions
in archaeological monuments, the British Museum may challenge com
parison with any collection in the world. The previous observations
are not intended to convey any reflection on the acquisition, within
reasonable limits, of such illustrations of the history, religion, poetry,
customs of ancient nations, nor on the value of the services of those
whose province it is to elucidate the difficult and interesting problems
offered by these relics of the past. The strictures, if they may be so
termed, are addressed to the mistaken system of confusing two entirely
distinct objects, and thus including fine sculpture, essentially and
perhaps solely valuable for its qualities as fine art, and to be studied
as a means of education and admired for its objective excellence, in
the same category as sculpture which may be of the most rude and
archaic kind, and without the most remote pretension to rank as art.
The effect of the former, and the advantage to be derived from it, in
an educational sense, are greatly impaired by the juxtaposition of
often unsightly and grotesque objects, which may only be worth pre
serving for their possible antiquarian value. Our possessions in really
fine works of sculpture are not very considerable ; but we have some
of very fair pretensions, and, with these, a few examples of the highest
class. None of theso are made the most of ; or it may be more truly
said they are almost lost sight of, and as it were overlaid by the
accumulation around them of works of no artistic merit. Where
the antiquarian element is allowed to prevail so extensively as it now
does in the British Museum, the present objectionable system is likely
to continue. It may be hoped, however, that the time may arrive
when tho two objects of fino art and arohmology may bo better under

1870.]                     A Chapter on Art.                         109
stood and more distinctly defined, and that, without ignoring the im
portance of the latter, the exhibition of the finest productions of the
taste, the knowledge, and the skill of the great masters of sculpture
may be allowed to take their proper position. But there can be no
doubt a more judicious arrangement than the existing one would give
much greater effect to the better class of works, and would add to
their usefulness. It is in this spirit that the fine-art portion of the
national collections should always be treated, if, as is contended, the
purpose of making such collections is to endeavour to attract public
attention to the beauty and value of art, and, through such works, to
study and appreciate the true source of their excellence.
    But galleries and museums can, after all, do but little in the way
of educating the people in art if they have not some assistance to help
them how to see whether and why the objects so presented to them
are worthy or unworthy. For this roason it is to be regretted that
some sort of lectures cannot occasionally be given, by competent
persons, to point out in what the excellence of certain works, whether
in painting or sculpture, consists ; to explain the peculiarities of the
different schools of painting ; to illustrate, by reference to the par
ticular objects, the leading characteristics of the great masters in all
branches of art ; and so to teach the public how to look at and appre
ciate Nature, as the only perfect guide and standard the real artist
aspires to follow.
     It is not proposed, even if it were possible, to make all people
artists ; but all may be taught how to judge of the leading principles
of art, and thus to increase their means of enjoyment. Such power
may be said to impart to its possessor a new faculty; for it is in
the experience of every one, more or less, that even a slight acquaint
ance with the principles of any science or art is a great aid in enabling
us to appreciate it. Looking at art is not always seeing it, so to speak.
An uneducated eye would not distinguish, as a cultivated sense would,
between a mere commonplace view of fields, trees, and sky, and tho
exquisite and varied rendering of the subject by a Claude, a Hobbima,
or our own poetical Turner ; precisely as the uncultivated and un
practised ear would fail to appreciate the difference between a common
tune played on a dismal street-organ and the sweet fancy or the grand
combinations of a composition by a Beethoven or a Mendelssohn.
                                                               [E. W.]

110                        Mr. J. F. Bateman                 [March 18,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 18, 1870.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
          John Frederio Bateman, Esq. F.R.S. C.E. M.R.I.
                        On the Subway to France.
The advantages which a Railway communication between England and
France would ensure to Western Europe, are great beyond all possi
bility of estimate. Thirty years ago any proposition with a view to
accomplish this object would have been looked upon as whelly Utopian.
But we are living in an age of invention and progress which within
one century has had most beneficial effects upon our race, having not
only greatly increased the welfare and comfort of millions of our fellow-
creatures, but also equally widened the field of inquiry. New dis
coveries have rapidly followed one another, enlarging our knowledge
and extending our conceptions, all tending to elevate the mind of man,
and to raise the standard of his moral and intellectual being. It is
just one hundred years since Watt invented the steam-engine—an
invention which has done more than any other to promote the com
mercial prosperity of all countries, and to develop their resources. It
is only forty years ago that the Manchester and Liverpool Railway
was opened, and since then every civilized country has been covered
 by a network of iron ways ; it is not more than sixty years since the
first cast-iron pipes were used for conveying water; fifty years back
none of our cities had the inestimable advantage of gas-light ; it is but
thirty years since the first steamer crossed the Atlantic, and in less
than thirty years our globe has been girdled with a band of lightning,
which unites its most distant parts with inconceivable velocity, anni
hilating space, and flashing from one end to the other the theughts and
ideas of men,—defying even the speed of time.
     Looking at these facts, the speaker expressed a hepe that he would
not be considered a visionary schemer in proposing to cross the English
Channel by a Railway. The proposition itself is not a new one. There
are some whe propose to construct a bridge for carrying a Railway ;
others, to drive a tunnel through the rocky bed of the Channel ; and,
again, others whe propose to sink covered subways—all with a view to

  1870.J                   on the Subway to France.                   Ill
 unite by a direct Railway communication the shores of England and
 France.
     The effect which such a communication would produce on the traffic
 between the two countries may be foreshadowed by the events of the
 past. Forty years ago, in the good old sailing times, the number of
 passengers between this country and the Continent was 80,000 per
annum; the introduction of a regular steam-boat service raised this
figure in twelve years to 350,000 ; and since the construction of Rail
ways it has farther risen to upwards of a million. Increased facilities
and convenience have therefore greatly extended the traffic between the
two countries. Nor should it be overlooked how much that enemy of
ocean travellers—sea-sickness — is checking its further extension. We
have but to look to the official return of travellers between England
and the ports of Calais, Boulogne, and Dieppe, to observe, that in the
year 1867, for example, the number of passengers in the fine month of
August was 80,000, whilst in the stormy season of January and Febru
ary it only reached 13,000 in each month ; and although the season of
the year may have somewhat affected the figures, apart from bad weather
in the Channel, it is obvious that so great a difference will be mainly
due to the dread of sea-sickness, to which most travellers are liable in
rough weather.
     Referring to the communication with India and the East, Captain
Tylor, in a recent Report to the Board of Trade on the advantages of
the various routes across Europe, observes, " the hope of the Indian
traveller of the next generation, chimerical as it may appear to many
at present, must be nothing less than to pass dry shod from London to
Bombay, through a submarine tunnel from Dover to Calais, through
 Europe by Railway ; over the Bosphorus by a bridge, and forward by
 Railway by the Euphrates Valley, and round the Persian Gulf, to
 Bombay."
     The speaker observed that it was not his business here to make any
 observations upon the schemes of others, contenting himself to submit
 and describe a plan designed and elaborated jointly by himself and
 his colleague, Mr. Revy. He considered it especially his task to
 suggest every possible difficulty—real or imaginary ; and it was not
 until all these difficulties, one by one, had been successfully overcomo
 by their joint exertions extending over more than a year, that they had
 published their scheme of which he now proposed to give a short
 description. Their plan was to build a cast-iron tube on the bottom
 of the Channel between Dover and Cape Grisnez in France, large
 enough to carry ordinary trains ; the tube will be cylindrical, 13 feet
 clear diameter inside, and will be composed of cast-iron rings about
 10 feet long and 4 inches thick ; each ring again will be formed of six
 plates or segments, securely bolted to one another. The various parts
 of the tube will be put together from inside a horizontal chamber
 (for convenience called a Bell), which will slide on the last half-dozen
 completed rings of the tube over its external ribs or diaphragms, in
 which a water-tight joint will completely prevent the sea water from

112                        Mr. J. F. Batman                  [March 18,
entering. This water-tight joint will be similar to that so exten
sively used for hydraulic presses. In the exterior rib of the tube,
closely fitting the inner surface of the chamber, a groove will be cut
all round, about 1 inch deep and 1£ inch wide. Into this groove a
leather or india-rubber collar will be placed, so adjusted that the
 greater the pressure the tighter the joint.
     These points will be the only points of contact, and over them the
bell or chamber will slide like a telescopic tube. Four of these joints
will always be in the bell, so that a slight imperfection in the water-
tightness of one may be corrected by another.
     The dimensions of the chamber, which will be permanently closed
in front by a cover, will be about 80 feet long, 18 feet diameter clear
inside, and 8 inches thick ; it will be bored out for about 50 feet to a
true cylindrical surface, namely, for a distance within which it is in
contact with and will slide over the external ribs of the tube, which
will also be faced and turned for the purpose of securing accuracy of
fitting.
     In the foremost part of the chamber, or bell, will be placed
powerful hydraulic machinery, receiving the water from accumulators
on shere, upon Sir W. Armstrong's system. By the aid of this
machinery the tube will be put together from inside the bell, and as
the tube lengthens by the addition of another ring, the bell will be
pushed forward by hydraulic presses for about 10 feet, io make room
for the construction of the next following ring—always using the
completed portion of the tube as a fulcrum for moving forward the
bell, which in the deepest part of the Channel will meet with a hydro
static resistance of about 1500 tons. The power of the hydraulic
presses will be over 4000 tons, of which the balance of 2500 will be
available to overcome any resistance with which the bell in its onward
motion may meet on the bottom of the Channel.
     The displacement of water by the bell and by the tube will be
nearly the same as their respective weights—weight being kept slightly
in excess of displacement—so that the tube and the bell will weigh
but very little under water.
    In the annular space between the exterior tubular ribs of the tube
and the inner surface of the bell, the head of a screw pile may be
introduced, or several of them, as may be required. These piles may
be attached to any ring on the line of the tube. The shaft of the pile
will pass through a stuffing-box in the ring, like the rod of a piston
in a steam-cylinder. On the average every third ring will receive one
vertical pile, and every sixth two piles 30° inclined. As soon as the
bell in its onward motion has passed over the rings in which the
screws of the piles were introduced, and the shafts have been attached,
the piles will bo driven or screwed into the ground until a firm held
or footing is obtained. By these means the tube will be permanently
tied and powerfully held to the bottom of the Channel, which nothing
afterwards could alter or disturb.
    The ordinary construction of rings will keep the tube in a straight

1870.]                   on the Subway to France.                      113
line ; but by using special castings and moveable joints or diaphragms
in connection with the outer rib of the tube, the direction of the bell
may be altered in every 40 feet about 4 inches, corresponding to a
curve of about a mile radius. The tube may accordingly also be laid
on a carved line in any direction ; it may be made to rise or fall 36
feet in a distance of 200 yards ; and it may be turned round at right
angles with its former direction within one mile. It may thus either
be turned away altogether from a serious obstruction—such as a
sunken rock or soft ground, which a detailed survey on the line selected
might bring to light—or it may pass over the obstruction, or follow a
sudden and extensive depression in the bed of the Channel. By
reversing the operations within the bell, and by taking down tho seg-.
ments and rings of the tube already built, it may for a considerable
distance be taken up again, in case another direction should be required
at a point of the line already constructed.
     The operation of building the tube on shore will be attended with
more difficulty than in deep water ; because during the construction of
the shore-ends the whole weight of the bell, the machinery, and of part
of the tube will have to be supported and carried on slips, while in
deep water these weights will be counterbalanced by the floating power
of the bell. These slips will bo used until low-water line be reached,
at which point the operations will be confined to high-water time ; and
the bell having by degrees advanced far enough into the sea, so that it
 will be wholly covered even at low water—the operation of building
 may be continued without intermission. A similar proceeding in the
 reversed order will be adopted on reaching the French shore. During
 the construction of the shore-ends in rough weather and a heavy sea, the
 bell will temporarily also be firmly held in its position by screw piling.
      All the parts of the tube will be constructed and completed and
 will be temporarily put together on shore, before they are sent into
 the far-end of the tube. They will, on their arrival there, be lowered
 on rails, from which the segments will be picked up, placed and fixed
 in their final position by special hydraulic machinery, all of which has
 been designed in detail, and no manual labour whatever will be
 required for this purpose. The parts of the tube having already been
 put together on shore, there can be neither delay nor difficulty in
 repeating the operation by the aid of powerful hydraulic machinery,
  and accordingly the progress of building the tube from inside the bell
  should be rapid. Special pipes will convey from shore, by mechanical
  power, fresh air to the workmen, and water to the machinery to the far-
 end of the tube. The business of the workmen will chiefly be to direct
  the machinery, to open and close certain valves, to insert the bolts, to
  caulk the lead joints, &c, all the heavy work being accomplished by
  special machinery. The rings of the tube having been constructed, a
 brick lining will be introduced between the inner flanges ; and over
 this brick lining a wrought-iron plate will be bedded in cement, and
  this plate will form the inner surface of the finished tube. All the lead
 joints will, however, remain exposed to view, and should a drop of
      Vol. VI. (No. 52.)                                           i

 114                        Mr. J. F. Bateman                  [March 18,
 water leak through any joint at any point within the tube, it may be
 seen, and may be caulked again until that very drop be excluded. The
 tube when finished will be perfectly dry from shore to shere.
     The effect of sea water on cast iron has also been carefully con
 sidered—it is practically " nil " within a generation. The cast-iron
 guns of the ' Royal George,' after having been submerged for 52 years
 in the tidal waters of the Channel, were recovered from the wreck in
 the year 1834 whelly uninjured and scarcely altered in their appear
 ance. Specimens of these guns may be seen in the Tower of London ;
 even their bore is in perfect condition. Neither anchers nor wrecks of
 any kind could make the slightest impression on the tube, for it would
be by far the strongest structure.
     Of equal importance is the consideration hew such a tube or tunnel
when completed, may be made to carry a train from England to France.
It will presently be seen, that for the propulsion of trains locomo
tive engines could not be employed in such a long tunnel, because the
combustion of the fuel of the engine would so vitiate and poison the
atmosphere within it, that the passenger would be in danger, and
because the ventilation of such a very long tunnel is a matter of diffi
culty.
     In order to warrant the execution of such extraordinary works, the
carrying power of the proposed Railway sheuld not be less than about
two trains per heur, one each way. An engine would burn about half a
ton of coke in passing through the tube with a heavy train, so that per
heur about one ton of coke would be burnt ; and even assuming the most
perfect combustion, more than three tons of carbonic acid would be
produced. To neutralize the dangerous effect of this gas it sheuld be
diluted with at least 500 tons of fresh air. By some means this quan
tity of air must be introduced, which would require a constant current
to be maintained within the tube at the rate of about 20 miles an
heur, to produce which a difference of pressure equal to 3^rd inches
mercury would be necessary between the two ends of the tube. Such a
pressure could only be obtained by air-pumps ; and considering the great
volume of air to be displaced, their dimensions would be very large. This
difficulty has, hewever, been met by adopting air-pumps in the form of
gasometers, in which a cylindrical shell, raised and lowered by mecha
nical power, would easily displace a practically unlimited volume of
air at the required pressure. An additional inch pressure of mercury
over the large sectional area of the tube, brought to bear on a disc
attached to the train, would produce a traction greater than that of
the heaviest engine. Trains might therefore be propelled through
the tube by pneumatic pressure witheut engines, doing away altogether
with the nuisance and danger which the combustion of fuel would
inevitably produce.
    Atmospheric pressure, it is well known, has been used for years in
working railways, and the speaker observed that he had travelled on
a line so worked at a rate of 60 miles an heur. The old atmospheric
plan of propulsion was, hewever, abandoned, because of the mecha

1870.]                  on the Subway to France.                     115
nical difficulty of connecting the train with the small piston of the
atmospheric tube, only about 15 inches in diameter, which was laid
under the train, and the high pressure of air required for propul
sion. In the present case, these difficulties disappear, because the
train will travel within the tube with a piston of 13 feet in diameter,
requiring but a small pressure per square inch. At a speed of
20 miles an hour and a transmission of 12,000 tons of goods per
day—6000 each way—the difference of pressure between the two
shore-ends of the tube would be         inches mercury, equal to about
2 lbs. per square inch. With the same daily transmission of goods
and a speed of 30 miles an hour, the difference of pressure would be
8\ inches mercury, or about 4 lbs. per square inch. It has been found
by calculation that the promptest and most economical way of pro
ducing these differences of pressure would be half by compression and
half by expansion, viz. forcing the air into the tube behind the train,
and withdrawing it in front of it. The passengers would not be aware
of any difterence of pressure in the condition of the atmosphere while
travelling through the tube. At one end of the tunnel the atmospheric
pressure would be similar to that of a deep mine,—at the other end
similar to the rarefied air upon a high mountain, like Snowdon or Ben
Lomond. The indicated horse-power to work the above-mentioned
traffic of goods per day, at a rate of 20 miles an hour, would be about
2300 ; at a rate of 30 miles, it would be 6300—divided equally between
the steam-engine establishments on each coast.
     By adopting the Pneumatic System of propulsion serious accidents
would be out of the question : no collision could take place, and the
pure sea air would accompany every train, securing perfect ventilation.
The position of the train within the tube would always be registered
on shore by self-acting telegraphic signals ; moreover, telegraphic mes
sages may be sent from the train while at full speed to cither shore-
end, so that the passengers would be in immediate communication with
those on shore. If a train should break down during its passage
through the tube from some cause or other, it would bo instantly
known on shore, and, if necessary, an ordinary train with an engine
might be sent for relief. The objection to locomotive engines to work
the traffic arises only from the required continuous passage of engines
 vitiating by degrees the atmosphere ; but an occasional engine and
 train would in no way affect the passengers, for the pumps would have
 to remove all the tainted air before another train was allowed to pass.
     On the proposed plan, the railway across the English Channel might
be completed in less than five years at a cost of 8,000,000J. sterling,
allowing interest on capital expended during construction of works
and 1,000,0002. for contingencies.
     The speaker said, in conclusion, that he believod such a railway
 would be a most successful commercial enterprise. There are, he
 observed, three conditions which ensure the success of an undertaking,
 n'z.—1st, it should be a material improvement on the existing state
 of things ; 2nd, its want should be recognized by the public ; 3rd, it
                                                               i 2

116                            Dr. Bolleslon                  [March 25,
should be placed in the right hands, and it should be under absolute
control. The chief merit of the scheme, if any, might be the circum
stance that no part of it depended on " ifs," and that the whole of the
scheme is as much under control as ordinary mechanical operations.
The cost could bo estimated with a great degree of certainty, which
could scarcely be claimed in respect of any other proposal. It would
consist nearly wholly of cast iron and machinery on shore, the only
uncertain item being the cost of putting the tube together under water.
Thero seemed to be no doubt that tho bottom of the Channel consists
of good hard ground, as indicated on the Admiralty Charts ; but he had
recently applied to the Admiralty for a more minute and detailed survey
of part of the English Channel, and he had reason to hope his request
would be granted.
     [Numerous diagrams were exhibited, illustrating the principal parts
of the scheme and its more important details.]
                                                             [J. F. B .
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 25, 1870.
    John Peter Gasbiot, Esq. F.K.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 Geoeoe Rolleston, Esq. M.D. F.R.S.
On the Character and Influence of the Anglo-Saxon Conquest of England,
                as illustrated by Archaeological Besearch.
There are numerous points of general and living interest relating to
the Anglo-Saxon conquest of this country which are very largely depen
dent upon archseological research for their elucidation. Amongst
these may be mentioned the question of the extent to which the
Romano-British population previously in occupation was extirpated ;
the question of the relative position, in the scale of civilization, held
by victors and vanquished ; and the question of the extent of our in
debtedness as to language and laws to one or other of the two nation
alities. Light is thrown even upon points apparently of the most
purely archseological character from such literary sources as histories
of the nomenclature of localities ; as the records of monasteries ; as
illustrations in manuscripts; and as laws. But the graves of the
Anglo-Saxons and their contents have been for the present inves
tigator the primary, and such literary works as those alluded to, and
such as many of those published under the direction of the Master of the
Rolls and by the Early English Society, have been only a secondary
source of information. They have, however, been by no means neg
lected by him.

1870.]                  on the Anglo-Saxon Conquest.                  117
     It may be well to begin by stating how an Anglo-Saxon is to be
distinguished from a Eomano-British interment. Anglo-Saxons, during
the period of their heathendom, which may be spoken of roughly aB
corresponding in England to a period of some 200 or 230 years on
wards from their first invasion of the country in force, were interred
in the way of cremation, and in urns of the pattern so common in the
parts of North Germany and of Denmark whence they are supposed on
all hands to have come. A reference to any manual of archfeology, or
an inspection of any such series as that figured by Mr. Kemble in the
Horce Ferales from the Museum in Hanover, will show the unmistakable
identity of the pattern, fashion, and moulding of such urns as these,
and these which I have had figured after digging them up in Berk
shire. The Bomans and Bomano-Britons had given up the practice
of burning the dead long before the time of Hengist and Horsa.
When they practised it in England, their urns were of a very different
kind, being well burnt and lathe-turned. All the Bomano-Britons I
have exhumed in the particular cemetery which has furnished me with
the tolerably wide basis of something approaching to 200 interments
of all kinds, were interred much as we inter our dead now. They were
oriented, though by the aid of the sun and not by that of a compass ;
and, dying in greater numbers in the winter quarters of the years, had
the bearings of their graves, as has been observed by the Abbe Coehet,
pointing a little south of east. Now a Bomano-British interment in
this way of burial has to be distinguished from an Anglo-Saxon one
in the same way of non-cremation ; and this may be done thus. The
Bomano-Britons never buried arms nor any other implements which
could be of use in this, and might be supposed to be of similar use in
the next world, together with a corpse. Funeral ware, such as lacry-
matories, I have not found in company with coins of the Christian
Emperors ; but such articles stand in relation to quite a different idea
from that which caused the Teuton to inter the dead with spear,
shield, and knife ; to say nothing of the less common situla and sword.
      The Anglo-Saxons are supposed by Kemble to have relinquished
 cremation only when they assumed Christianity ; it is a little difficult
 to be quite sure of this ; at any rate, when we find, as we often do, an
 Anglo-Saxon in a very shallow grave, which may point to any one
 point of the compass, and in the arms or other insignia which it con
 tains, gives us such clear proof that its tenant thought that whatever he
 may not have brought with him into the world, at all events ho could
 take something out, we are tempted to differ even from such authority as
 Mr. Kemble's. But I am inclined to think that in some cases it is pos
 sible to identify the tenant of a properly oriented grave as having been
 an Anglo-Saxon. In many such graves Anglo-Saxons are to be recog
 nized by virtue of their insignia ; and mixed up with their bones may
 be found the bones of the Bomano-Briton who occupied the grave be
 fore them. But further, in some such cases it is possible to be nearly
 sure that we have to deal with an Anglo-Saxon even though there be
 no arms or insignia in the gravo. These cases are thoBe in which we

118                            Dr. Rolleslon                  [March 25,
have evidence from the presence of stones under the skull that no coffin
was employed in the burial ; and in which stones are set alongside of
the grave as if vicariously. In many such cases the craniological cha
racter of the occupant of such a grave lends some colour to this supposi
tion. But upon such identifications as had been come to in the absence
of arms and insignia I have based no statistics. The results of the
statistics of the cemetery which I have explored, as stated above,
when brought to bear upon the largo questions alluded to at the
beginning of the paper, would lead us to think that the Anglo-Saxons
were in a considerably lower grade of civilization than the people they
conquered, firstly and most forcibly on account of the sherter lives
they led. An old Anglo-Saxon male skeleton was a rarity, an old
Romano-British one a very common " find " in my excavations. Nothing
hewever in this life is from the natural history point of view more
characteristic of real civilization or real savagery than this matter of
the duration of life. The Merovingian Franks had, like the followers of
Ccrdic, been observed to have led shert lives, merry, as the Capitularies
of Charlemagne teach us of their kinsmen, with these kinds of mirth
the end of which is heaviness. The next question which suggests itself
upon the mastery of these facts and figures is, wero not these men
merely soldiers encamped ? are not these statistics just such as a
cemetery similarly explored now-a-days, say at Peshawur or Samarcand,
would yield ? Not altogether such ; for, hewever improbable it may
seem, it is nevertheless true that the Anglo-Saxons, at all events in
Berkshire, appear to have brought their own wives with them and not
to have provided themselves with wives from the families of the con
quered previous inhabitants. The figures of the crania of females
interred with Anglo-Saxon insignia, when compared with figures of
the crania of Romano-British women, show a very great difference, to
the disadvantage of the former of the two sets of females. The soldiers
of Cerdic, whe conquered this part of Berkshire about half-a-century
or so after the timo of the first invasion, resembled the soldiers of
Gustavus Adolphus in very little else, but they appear to have resembled
them in being accompanied by their wives. Whether this was the case
elsowhere in England, I do not know; I am inclined to think that
savagery was no great recommendation, nor heathendom either, to a
Christianized female population in these days ; and that the reluctance
which would on these grounds interpose itself to prevent inter
marriage between Romano-Britons and Saxons, sets up as great an
a priori improbability against the theory which assumes that such
inter-marriages did take place, as the difficulty of bringing wives over
in the ships of these days sets up in its favour.
    Indeed, on the hypothesis of much intcr-marriage the actuality of
our Anglo-Saxon language is a very great difficulty. We do speak a
language which, theugh containing much Celtic and a good deal of
Norman-French, is nevertheless " English." Now we know, from
finding cremation urns of the Anglo-Saxon type all over England
nearly, that the whele of the country was overrun by a heathen popula

 1870.]                on the Anglo-Saxon Conquest.                  119
 tion ; to thus overrun it, this population must have been (relatively at
least) numerous : add to the two conditions of heathendom and multi
tude, which may be considered as proved, the third condition of iso
lation which may be considered as matter for dispute ; and then the
fourth of this heathendom and isolation lasting from the time of
Hengist to that of Augustine; and the present fact of our language
being what it is is explained.
     For proving anything as to the period of which I have been speak
ing, a period which is rendered Pre-historic, not so much by conditions
of time as by conditions of space, the absence of contemporary his
torians having been entailed by geographical and political isolation,
arguments of two kinds, literary arguments and natural history argu
ments, must be employed. Neither the one kind nor the other is
sufficient by itself. The empires of the natural sciences and of
literature touch at many isolated points, and here and there they lie
alongside of each other along lengthy boundary lines. But empires
need not bo hestile theugh they be conterminous ; and that the empires
of which we have just spoken may be united happily and in a most
efficient alliance for work in common, may be seen from the title page
of that most excellent German periodical, the 'Archiv fur Anthro
pologic,' where we have the name of the Physiologist Ecker coupled
in editorship with that of the Antiquarian Lindenschmit. The
necessity for a combination of tho two lines of evidence and argument
is as obvious when we have to controvert, as when we have to establish
a conclusion. If you have to attack or resist a force comprising both
cavalry and infantry, you must have both cavalry and infantry of your
own ; otherwise some day or other, either in a country intersected
with woods, or in some open plain furrowed into deep undulations, one
of the two arms in which you aro deficient will take you in one or
both flanks, and you will bo surprised, broken, and routed.
                                                               [G.R.]

120                       Professor H. E. Boscoe                 [April 1,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 1, 1870.
       Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.B.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
                    Professor H. E. Boscoe, F.B.S.
                           OWENS COLLEGE, MANCHESTER,
    On the Artificial Production of Alizarine, the Colouring Principle
                                 of Madder.
The speaker stated that he had to bring before the notice of his au
dience a discovery in organic chemistry which, whether we regard its
scientific interest or its practical and commercial value, is of the
highest importance, and marks an era in the history of the applica
tion of chemistry to the arts and manufactures even of greater im
portance than the memorable discovery made by Mr. Perkin in 1856
of the production of aniline-violet, or mauve.
    Since the above-named year great progress has been made in the
theoretical investigation of natural and artificial colouring matters
as well as in their preparation on a large scale. The chemistry of
colouring matters has now taken a high and important position, and
chemists instead, as formerly was their wont, of getting rid of all
colouring matters as something foreign to their objects of investi
gation, have, since Mr. Perkin's discovery, found out that the exami
nation of colouring matters may not only lead to scientific laurels,
but may sometimes yield fruit of another and not less acceptable
kind.
    We owe to the brains and hands of two German chemists, Messrs.
Graebe and Liebermann, this remarkable discovery, which diners from
all tho former results which have been brought about by the appli
cation of science to the chemistry of colouring matters, inasmuch as
this has reference to the artificial production of a natural vegetable
colouring substance which has been used as a dye from time imme
morial, and is still employed in enormous quantities for the produc
tion of the pink, purple, and black colours which are seen every
where on printed calicoes, viz. Alizarine, the colouring principle of
Madder.
    It is from the liquid tarry products of the destructive distillation

1870.]               on the Artificial Production of Alizarine.                   121
of coal, a rich source of interest to chemists, that we now derive this
new colouring matter. -
     The following Table contains the results of experiments made on
the large scale, indicating the various yields of tar from different
qualities of coal distilled in the gasworks of various towns :—
                          Destructive Distillation op Coal.
100 tons of Cannel and Bituminous Coal distilled to yield 10,000 cubic feet of gas
                  of spec. grav. 0-6, yield the following products :—
             Gaa.       Tar.    Ammonia     Coke.
                                  Water.
     1     22-25        8-50      9-50     59-75      Average of many experiments.
     -2    20 01        7-85       7-14    65 00      Manchester.
     3     20-40        6-4        5-4     67-85      Dukinfield.
     4     21-7         7-5        5-8     65-0       Macclesfield.
     5     16-3        107         8-0     650        Salford.
     From a careful series of experiments made by a large tar distiller,
the following numbers are derived, showing the average composition
of gas tar :—
                         100 tons of Tar on distillation yield :—
                              Light Oils  Heavy Oils.               Water, Gas,
                  Naphtha. and Carbolic Naphthalene.       Pitch.    and Loss.
                                Acid,     Anthracene.                           I
            1       30           1-5         350           50-0        10-5
            2       3-0          0-8         25-0          600         12-2
     It is from Benzol, C„ H„, discovered by Faraday in 1825, that the
aniline colours are all of them prepared. The colour-producing
power of the coal products are, however, yet far from being exhausted.
It is by means of another and hitherto comparatively unknown
hydro-carbon, Anthracene, Cu H1M that the newest triumphs of the
chemist have been won. This is a substance which in the pure state
few chemists (even yet) have seen, and upon which only two or three
had previously experimented, and yet by one happy discovery—and by
an investigation which more than almost any other exhibits the value
of the synthetic power of modern research—this unknown body has
been made to yield a colouring matter of the greatest possible value.
The truth of this will at once be evident when we learn that the total
 growth of madder is estimated to reach 47,500 tons per annum, worth
 45Z. per ton, and having, therefore, a value of 2,150,000Z. Of this
 nearly one-half is used in the United Kingdom, so that no less a
 sum than l,000,000i. is now paid by us for madder grown in foreign

122                       Professor H. E. Boscoe                  [April 1,
countries. This will now, in part at least, go to benefit our own popu
lation, as wo can now transform our coal into this invaluable colouring
matter.
    In an experiment made on a large scale it was found that 100 tons
of tar yielded 0 - 63 ton of anthracene, or 1 ton of anthracene can be
obtained from the distillation of about 2000 tons of coal, not recken
ing the quantity of anthracene contained in the pitch.
     Madder is the root of several species of Rubia, amongst which the
Bubia tinctorum is the most valued for its dyeing properties. This
grows in Holland, Asia Minor, and in the south of France and of
Russia. A species native to England is the Bubia peregrina. This
belongs to the order Bubiaceos, the native members of which, as the
Galiums, are mostly inconspicuous wild plants. Some of the foreign
species are on the contrary important plants, such as the Cinchena,
Ipecacuanha, and Coffee plants, and these are distinguished for the
number and variety of the peculiar principles which they yield, as
quinine, cinchenine, caffeine, alizarine. Thanks to the kindness of
Dr. Schunck, the speaker was able to shew a young madder plant.
    In spite of the many investigations which have been made of
madder, chemists are still in doubt as to the nature of many of its
constituents. Some attribute its colouring powers to the presence of
at least two substances—alizarine and purpurine—whilst others say
that only one of these produces the true madder colours.
    Alizarine was discovered and obtained from madder, as a crystalline
sublimate, by Robiquet and Colin, in 1831, but little importance at
tached to this discovery until Schunck, in 1848, shewed that all the finest
madder colours contain only alizarine combined with bases and fatty
acids. The second colouring matter, termed Purpurine, was discovered
by Persoz. It contributes to the full and fiery red colour in ordinary
madder dyeing, but dyes a bad purple, alizarine being essential to the
latter. Purpurine disappears during the purifying processes of soap
ing, &c., being far less stable than alizarine. It is distinguished from
alizarine by its solubility in boiling alum liquor.
    These two colouring principles may likewise be easily distin
guished by the spectrum, alizarine producing a set of dark absorption-
bands, quite different from these of purpurine, which again vary
according to the nature of the solvent. Alizarine can be obtained in
yellow needle-shaped crystals by simple sublimation from the dried
madder ; but this colouring matter is, singularly enough, not contained
ready formed in the fresh madder root, but is the product of a pecu
liar decomposition. For a proof that fresh madder does not contain
alizarine we have only to extract the moist root with alcohel, when neither
the alcohelic extract nor the insoluble residue will be found to possess
tinctorial power. Wo owe this knowledge to the researches of Schunck
and Higgin, whe have proved that alizarine is produced by a peculiar
kind of fermentation which partly occurs in the root on standing,
and partly takes place in the dyebeck, when the powdered madder is
treated with water. A crystalline glucoside, termed Rubianic Acid

 1870.J         on the Artificial Production of Alizarine.           123
 (Schnnck), is contained in the root, and it is this which splits np
 simply into alizarine and glucose. This acid crystallizes in fine
yellow needles, and gives a definite and crystalline potash salt, from
 which it was shown to contain 26 atoms of carbon in the molecule.
Hence, as no other product but glucose is formed, it follows that
alizarine must contain C« — Cl2 = Cu. This decomposition of rubianio
acid into alizarine was shown by boiling with an acid, and adding
caustic soda when the blue solution of alkaline alizarine was seen.
The formation of alizarine in extracts of madder root is effected by a
ferment peculiar to the plant, and called Erythrozym. It is a ferment
tui generis, since no other ferment produces the same effect. When
mixed with a solution of rubian or rubianic acid, at the ordinary tem
perature, the latter is rapidly decomposed as with acids. This is what
takes place in making flew de garance. Dyers raise the temperature
of their madder-baths gradually up to the boiling-point, because the
application of a high temperature destroys the ferment. When the
temperature is gradually raised, the ferment acts upon the glucoside,
and produces alizarine.
    That the colouring matter in fresh madder root is not alizarine can
be easily shown by rubbing the soft portions of the root on to paper,
when a yellow stain will be produced, which, on treatment with an
alkali, shows the bright red colour of an alkaline solution of rubian
instead of the blue solution of alizarate.
    According to Schunck, the origin of purpurine, and its relation
to alizarine, are still involved in obscurity.
    The hypothesis which of late years has done more than any other to
stimulate experiment and enlarge our views in organic chemistry is
undoubtedly Kekule's theory of the Tetrad nature of Carbon and his
explanation of the constitution of the Carbon Compounds. In the so-
called Paraffine group of organic substances, the carbon atoms are sup
posed to be connected together by single links of the four bonds
attached to each atom, thus giving rise to saturated compounds by the
attachment of other elements or radicals to the free bonds. In the
group of aromatic substances with which wo are specially concerned
the carbon atoms are more closely linked together, or in other words,
a less number of atoms of hydrogen are necessary to saturate an aggre
 gation of carbon atoms than is the case in the other group. We can
 explain this, upon the assumption of the tetrad character of carbon, by
 supposing that each carbon atom is attached to its neighbour alternately
 by one and by two bonds.
     Another singular property of these aromatic bodies is that they all
contain at least six atoms of carbon and that the simplest hydrocarbon
of which they are made up is Benzol C6 H8 . So that we may regard
all these aromatic compounds as Benzol derivatives, and this hydro
carbon may be considered as the skeleton round which many compli
cated substances are arranged. So that by the replacement of one
atom of hydrogen by N H2 we obtain Aniline, by O H Phenol, &e.
From the knowledge gained by his investigation on the Quinones,

124                        Professor H. E. Roscoe                      [April 1,
Graebe came to the conclusion that alizarine belongs to the Quinone
series ; and, availing themselves of Baeyer's reaction, by which Phenol
can be converted into its hydrocarbon Benzol, Graebe and Liebermann
passed the vapour of natural alizarine obtained from madder over
heated zinc-dust, and found that the hydrocarbon they formed was
identical in all its properties with Anthracene C„ H1(j from coal tar.
Hence they confirmed Schunck's conclusions that the molecule of ali
zarine contains fourteen atoms of carbon. Having thus got hold of
the backbone, as it were, of the compound, it only remained for them
to clothe the hydrocarbon with the four additional atoms of oxygen
and to take off the two atoms of hydrogen in excess, in order to obtain
alizarine.
    Laurent and also Anderson had, many years ago, obtained a body
of the composition C14 H8 0,, and Graebe recognized this as tho Quinone
of Anthracene ; and he now only required to replace in this two atoms
of hydrogen by two of hydroxyl (O H), in order to obtain alizarine,
which clearly appeared to be a quinone acid—
                                                                  (0,"
            C14 H10          C„ H8 (O"),                 0U H, OH
                                                                  | OH
          Anthracene.        Anthraquinone.                Alizarine.
    This replacement of hydroxyl can be effected by Bromine, by which
Bibromanthraquinone C„ H„ Br, 0, is formed, and this, on fusion with
caustic potash, gives potassium alizarate, yielding pure alizarine on
treatment with hydrochloric acid. The high price of bromine ren
dered this process unavailable for manufacturing purposes, and hence
another plan was simultaneously proposed by several chemists for
effecting the same end in a cheaper mode. Use was hereby made of
Kekule's and Wurtz's reaction in the formation of sulphe-benzolic
acid. On treating Anthraquinone with strong sulphuric acid to a
                                                       t SO H
 high temperature, the di-sulphe acid Cu H6 Os j gQj g- is formed, and
this, on heating with concentrated solution of potash, yields the sulphite
and alizarate of potassium ; from the latter substance pure alizarine is
 obtained by the action of acids.
    In the following Tablc we have a statement of the synthetic pro
duction of alizarine from its constituent elements :—
                            Synthesis of Alizarine.
     1. Acetylene by direct union of Carbon and Hydrogen in Electric Arc.
                                C, + H, = C, H,      -          (Berthelot, 1862.)
     2. Benzol (Tri-acetylene) from Acetylene by Heat.
                                3 C, H, = C6 H6                 (Berthelot, 1866.)
     3. Anthracene from Benzol and Ethylene.
                       2 0,^+ C, H, = C14 H10 + 3 H,            (Berthelot, 1866.)
     4. Alizarine from Anthracene. (Process No. 1.)
                                                (Graebe and Liebermann, 1869.)
        (A) Oxyanthracene or Anthraquinone by Nitric Acid.
                                  0,4 He (O H),                 (Anderson, 1861.)

1870.]            on the Artificial Production of Alizarine.               125
                       Synthesis op Alizarine—continued.
        (B) Bibromanthraquinone by action of Bromine.
                  C„ H8 02 + 2 Br, = C„ H6 Br2 02 + 2 Br H
        (C) Alizarine by action of Caustic Potash.
        C14 H, Br2 02 + 4 K H O = C„ H„ (0 K)!0,+ 2KBr + 2H,0
                               Potassium alizarate.
     5. Alizarine from Anthracene. (Process No. 2.)
                              (Graebe and Caro, Perkin, Schorlemmer and Dale.)
        (A) Disulphoanthraquinonic Acid from Anthraquinone.
          C14 H6 (0 H)5 + 2 H2 S O, = 0„ H, 02 { g gj g J + 2 H, O
        (B) Alizarine from the above by the action of Potash.
  Cl4H,O1{|g;g} + 4KH0 = CHH,0,{gg} + 2K,S0, + 2H,0
                                              Alizarine.
    Mr. Perkin states than an intermediate substance is formed in this
                                                  q gQ , and this, when heated
with potash, splits up into alizarine and a sulphite. Other yellow-
coloured products are, according to Perkin, contained in the alizarine
as sent out from his manufactory. The nature of these yellow crystal
line bodies is as yet unknown.
    Of the identity of the natural with the artificial alizarine there can
be no doubt : they agree in all their physical and chemical properties.
Their absorption-spectra are identical, their tinctorial powers are the
same ; the coloured lakes which they form with alumina, iron, and
copper salts are of the same tint and possess the same degree of solu
bility, and these remain alike unaltered by the action of light, so
that when they are fixed in the cotton-fibre they yield equally fast
colours.
    It is difficult to predict how far the artificial alizarine will in future
restrict the growth of madder ; but there is no doubt that for many
styles of calico-printing the artificial alizarine is of the greatest value,
and we may naturally expect to see very important changes effected
in this branch of chemical industry in the further practical application
of this new discovery.
           Contributions to the History of Alizarine. C14 Hb 04.
     1825. Faraday discovered Benzol in Coal-gas Oil. C6 H6.
     1831. Bobiquet and Colin discovered Alizarine in Madder Boot.
     1832. Dumas and Laurent discovered Anthracene ih Coal Oils.
     1848. Schunck gave the Composition of Alizarine. C14 H10 04.
     1850. Strecker        „          „         „          C,„ H6 03.
     1862. Anderson examined Anthracene Compounds. C14 H10.
     1865. Kekule' explained the constitution of the Aromatic Compounds.
     1866. Baeyer obtained Benzol from Phenol.
     1868. Graebe investigated the Quinones.
     1868. Graebe and Liebermann obtained Anthracene from Alizarine.
     1869.       „         „          „        Alizarine from Anthracene.
                                                                  [H. E. R]

12G                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [April 4,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, April 4, 1870.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
Fredk. Braby, Esq. F.G.S. F.C.S.            John Fowler, Esq.
Bernard Cracroft, Esq.                      Mrs. Ellen Margaret Joachim.
Henry Doulton, Esq.                         Themas Hawksley, M.D. M.R.C.P.
William Evans, Esq.                         W. G. Lettsom, Esq.
Frederick Geo. Win. Fearon, Esq.            Miss Anne Egerton Smith.
Lieut.-General Frederick William            Sebastian Smith, Esq.
   Hamilton, C.B.                           Charles Sweet, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FBOM
AnseU, G. F. Esq. (the Author)—The Royal Mint. 8vo. 1870.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XX. No. 4. 8vo. 1870.
Barrett. W. F. Esq. F.C.S. (the Author)—Light and Sound ; their reputed Analogy.
     (' Quarterly Journal of Science,' Jan. 1870.) 8vo.
Bateman, J. F. Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, and J. J. Rc'vy (the Authors)—Description of a
     Proposed Cast-iron Tube for carrying a Railway across the Channel between
     England and France. 8vo. 18U9.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1869-70. Nos. 7, 8. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Dermaptera Saltatoria. Part 3. 8vo.
     1870.
  Guide to Printed Books Exhibited. 12mo. 1870.
Brown, Joseph, Esq. Q.C. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Evils of the Unlimited
     Liability for Accidents of Masters and Railway Companies. (K 97) 8vo.
     1870.
Chemical Society— Journal for March, 1870. 8vo.
Editors— Academy for Mnrch, 1870. 4to.
  American Journal of Science for March, 1870. 8vo.
  Artizan for March, 1870. 4to.                                                   <
  Athenaeum for March, 1870. 4to.
  Chemical News for March, 1870. 4to.
   Engineer for March, 1870. fol.
  Horological Journul for March, 1870. 8vo.
  Journal of Gas-Lighting for March, 1870. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for Mnrch, 1870. 8vo.

  1870.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                          127
    Nature for March, 1870. 4to.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1870. 8vo.
   Photographic News for March, 1870. 4to.
   Practical Mechanics' Journal for March, 1870. 4to.
   Revue <les Cours Scientifiques et Litte'raires. March, 1870. 4to.
   Scientific Opinion for March, 1870. 4to.
Geographical Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XXXIX. 8vo. 1870. 4to.
    Proceedings, Vol. XIV. No. 1. 8vo. 1870.
Gocernor-General of India—Memoirs of Geological Survey of India, Vol. VI.
      Part 3. 8vo. 1869.
   Annual Report. 1867. 8vo.
   Records, Vol. I. Parts 1-3. Vol. II. Part 1. 8vo. 1868-69.
   Pidceontologia Indiea, V. 5-10. fol. 1867-68.
London Corporation Library Committee—J. E. Price, Description of the Tessellated
      Pavement found in Bucklorsbury. 4to. 1869.
Lee, Hobert J. M.D. (the Author)—-On the Ciliary Muscle in Fish, Birds, and
      Quadrupeds. (K 97) 8vo. 1870.
Melde, Dr. F. (the Author)—Experimentaluntersuchungen iiber Blasenbildung.
      EraterTheil. Zweiter Absehnitt. 8vo. 1870.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings. Nov. 1869. 8vo.
 Yorkshire ( West Biding) Geological and Pohjtechnie Society—Report of Proceedings,
      1869. 8vo. 1870.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 245. 8vo. 1870.
Boyal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 117. 8vo. 1870.
St. Petersbourg, AcaaVmie des Sciences—Me'moires, VII6 Serie, Tome XIII. No. 8.
       Tome XIV. Nos. 1-7. 4to. 1869.
    Bulletins, Tome XIV. Nos. 1-3. 4to. 1869.
 Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
       March, 1870. 8vo.
    British Rainfall in 1869. 8vo. 1870.
  Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 14. 8vo. 1870.
 Williams, C. J. B. M.D. F.B.S. (the Author)—The Case of the late Earl St. Maur.
       (K 97) 8vo. 1870.


           ISosal Institution of Creat 13ritattt.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 8, 1870.
      Sra Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                        Professor Huxley, F.R.S.
                     On the Pedigree of the Horse.
                              [Abstract deferred.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 29, 1870.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                   Professor J. S. Blackie, F.H.S.E.
 On Scientific Method in the Interpretation of Popular Myths, with special
                      reference to Greek Mythology.
There is perhaps no subject of great known interest and deep philo
sophical significance which has been so much neglected by British
scholars as Mythology. We have scarcely half-a-dozen books to show
on the subject ; and of these the most notable and the most original,
that of Bryant, found on the shelves of most good English libraries,
is, with all its merits, after all only a grand chase in the dark, with
a few bright flashes of discovery and happy gleams of suggestion by
the way. Payne Knight's treatise on Ancient Symbolism contains
many just and admirable observations ; but it docs not pretend to be
a systematic treatise on Hellenic mythology. Recently the subject
has been taken up by the subtle and versatile intellect of Mr. Glad
stone ; and German notions have been poured in upon us wholesale
under the masterly manipulation of Max Muller. But the one-
sidedness and inadequacy of most of these recent attempts plainly
indicate that we are as yet only in the first stage of a really scien
tific treatment of myths, and that a considerable amount of fervid
speculation on the subject will require to have spent its young force
before the foundations of any stable doctrine on the subject shall be
laid. The fact seems to be that the English mind, so great in prac
tical matters, in certain interesting fields of speculation presents
    Vol. VI. (No. 53.)                                          k

130                         Profesnar Blackie                  [April 29,
almost a total blank ; and when at length questions of deep human
significance belonging to these fields are raised, our lethargic intel
lect, awakened out of a long slumber, unable at first to discern between
truth and falseheod in a strange clement, is dazzled and stimulated
into a transcendental admiration of the first new idea, through the
instrumentality of which it has found the delight of a new conscious
ness. In these circumstances it may not be witheut profit to take a
cool survey of the ground ; and, if nothing better, at least to furnish
young adventurers in this field with a fow cautions that may save them
from repeating in another form the adventurous Quixotism and bril
liant blunders of Jacob Bryant.
     For the sake of distinctness, I will state what I have to say on
this subject in a series of propositions.
     I. The Greek mythelogy in its main points and prominent fea
tures was the product of a vivid imagination and a subtle fancy, acted
upon and reacting on the great forms and forces of the external world
and the mysterious Powers of the inner world in such a manner as,
according to the natural laws of imaginative activity, to create a beau
 tiful procession of divine personages and divine actions, framed after
 the similitude of human persons and human actions. In other words,
 Greek mythelogy is a religion and a poetry of nature, or a highly
poetical anthropomorphic physico-theology.
     This proposition I state as one which may be called broadly the
general result of the researches of the distinguished band of mythe
 logical students in Germany, from Heyne to Welcker, Hartung, and
 Max Miiller, whese erudito labours have so cast into the shade the
 feeble glimmerings of light that could be gathered from our somewhat
 narrow and arid scheol of native schelarship. It is a proposition
 resting on a wide induction, and applicable not to Greek mythelogy
 only, but, in a greater or less degree, to the mythelogy of all peoples
 whe have not sunk into a state of utterly gross and embruted exist
 ence. It is a proposition also from which Mr. Gladstone, whe has a
 special theory as to the origin of certain of the persons in the Greek
 Pantheon, will not withheld his general assent. Let us see, therefore,
 what elements, according to this view, the theological myths of the
 Greeks ought to contain. Now here it is plain that these objects of
 external nature which are most striking in their presentation and most
 potent in their influences, would in the first place be subjected to the
 transmuting action of a vivid and reverential fancy in the early races
 of mankind ; and these objects, of course, are the heavens, the earth,
 the sun, the moon, the stars, the ocean, the rivers, the generative and
 procreative virtue, and the underground world with the powers of
 darkness and of death. But man is not, even in his lowest stage
 (whatever the French Helvetius and certain of his English disciples
 may conceit themselves), a creature of mere sensations, made up whelly,
 to use Hume's language, of impressions from witheut. In his lowest
 stage, he has passions, feelings, sentiments, ideas, and theughts, of
 which, theugh the occasion be sensuous and external, the real spring is

1870.]              on the Interpretation of Greek Myths.               131
mental and internal ; and accordingly, unless we suppose him by some
awful calamity cut short in his rational development and reduced to
a mere animal, his imagination, acting upon the invisible Powers of
the world within, will create impersonations of these powers, after
a fashion similar to the anthropomorphic transformations produced by
the same magic touch in the external world. The only difference here
may likely be, as in the formation of language, that, instead of creating
different gods to represent the inward mysteries, the mind, which
always works by analogies, will superadd a mental significance to
some impersonated power of the external world previously formed, and
thus recognize the outward and the inward as fundamentally one.
This process, however, does not seem absolutely necessary, as it is
quite possible that powerful passions, and visible aspects of passion—
such as Payor and Pallor, in Livy (I. 27)—may assume directly
the anthropomorphic attitude, without any external inoculation. In
this view, I cannot but regard it as a mistaken view of Max Muller to
presume as a matter of course that Erinnys, or the Fury, must be iden
tified with some goddess of the external world. The account of Pausa-
nias (VLLL, 25, 6), according to which this terrible impersonation of
conscience, or the violated moral law, is derived from e^vvvetv, an old
Greek verb originally signifying to be angry, has sufficient probability,
not to mention the obvious analogy of 'Afn/, another name sometimes
given to the awful Maids (vs/ivou), from dpd, an imprecation (iEschyl.,
' Eumen.').
     IL In order to discover what particular form, force, or power of
Nature, or the inner man, is represented by any figure in a mytho
logical procession, the first thing to be done is to bring the special
figure with all its symbolical accompaniments, and in all its traditional
completeness of aspect and attitude face to face with Nature ; and then
proceed, in obedience to the natural action of a reverential and poetical
imagination, to identify the sign with the thing signified, and cause
the god anew to leap as it were directly out of nature, and assume
a human shape before a human imagination.
     Those who wish to see how this may be done, may consult the well-
 known passage descriptive of the origin of Greek mythology in the
 fourth book of Wordsworth's " Excursion." Here the poet of the
 mountains, the woods, and the floods, sets himself to re-create the
 figures of the Greek gods from the living environment of woods, moun
 tains, and floods out of which they arose ; and there can be no doubt
 that this process of re-creation of a lost nature-worship is scientifically
 legitimate. " Omnis scriptura sacra," says Thomas a Kempis, " eo
 spiritu legi debet quo scripta est ; " and in the same way the signature
 of a religion of nature in an anthropomorphic theology can be under
 stood only by a mind contemplating nature under the same conditions
 and influences that were present when the theology was formed. It is
 only, therefore, from the combined action of poetry, piety, and philo
 sophy—such as existed in the soul of Wordsworth—that a recovery
 of the significance of the symbolic representations of a religion of

132                           Professor Blatkie                  [April 29,
nature is to be looked for ; mere science will not suffice, and the
most extensive and curious erudition can only supply the materials of
the reconstruction, not assist in the architecture. These materials are
of the utmost consequence ; otherwise (like Ruskin*) we shall be
amusing ourselves, building an imaginary palace in the air for the
habitation of an imaginary queen of the air. They must be collected
also with great care and labour from many curious and remote
 sources ; for we must not imagine that any secular poet—even Homer,
much less such a luxuriant fancy-monger as Ovid—can supply us on
all occasions with the true character and significance of some of the
most important personages in the motley Greek Pantheon. The Greek
religion, like the Greek people, was tribal and local to a degree which
 we moderns, with our one Cathelic Church, may find it difficult to
 realize ; but a few very superficial glances into the pages of Pausanias,
 or a slight acquaintance with the Vase Chamber of the British Museum,
 will teach the mythologic student hew little Homer and Hesiod, not
 withstanding the eulogy of Herodotus (II. 53), can be looked on as
 the complete Bible of early Hellenic theology. Extensive and well-
 sifted Greek learning will, therefore, on all occasions be necessary be
 fore a successful solution of any of the more difficult problems of
 Greek mythelogy can be attempted ; and of this sort of learning the
 works of Ottfried Miiller, Welcker, and other distinguished German
 writers, furnish us with abundant stores, if we only had the chaste
 imagination and the sober sense to make a good use of them.
      III. In determining the character of a mythelogical personage
 reference may always bo had to the etymology of the name, and the
 significance of the epithets ; but this is an instrument which a
 wise man will employ with the most jealous caution, and always
 as an adminicle of evidence only, never as the foundation of an
 argument.
     It is needless for these whe are in the slightest degree acquainted
 with works on mythelogy, to recall what wild work has been habitually
 played with this potent wand of learned harlequins. In the hands of a
 Bryant of the last century, or an Inman of the present, etymology, as a
 manipulator of myths, is no wise interpreter, much less an infallible
 oracle, but only a clever juggler. A Celt, it has been said, whenever
 he meddles with etymology, becomes mad; and this witness, I am
 sorry to say, is in no small degree true ; but even under the scientific
 guidance of a Bopp, a Pott, a Grimm, and a Miiller, a sober man may
 sometimes even in the full blaze of the new Sun of comparative
 philology, allow himself to drink deep draughts, if not of maimdering
 madness, at least of manifest hallucination. For in the het chase
 after facts to illustrate a favourite theory learned men do not always
 sufficiently consider that the original form of these venerable old
 names (without which etymology is mere guessing) may be lost, and is
 not now recoverable ; further, that two or three different interpreta-
                * ' The Queen of the Air,' hy John Ruskin. 1869.

 1870.J            vn the Interpretation of Greek Myths.               133
tions, all according to philological laws quite legitimate, may be equally
plausible ; and, if the etymology is sought for, not in the native
tongue, but in some foreign dialect, such as Hebrew, Sanscrit, or
Coptic, the danger of slippery transmutations and conjectural illusion
is of course increased tenfold.
     IV. The general statement in the first proposition leaves the
question still open, whether, granting the principal personages in the
Hellenic Pantheon are mere impersonated elements of Nature, there
may not also be found in the wide and various rango of mythelogical
tradition some decidedly historical element. The answer to this
question plainly is, that such an element is by all means to be
presumed in all collections of popular traditions ; and the burden of
proof, as the lawyers say, lies clearly with whesoever asserts the
contrary.
     In reference to this point, the cool way in which Max Muller and
his English disciple, Mr. Cox, assume that there are no human figures
and historical characters in the whele gallery of heroes and demigods
in the Greek mythelogy, is something very remarkable. The idea
that any people which, in its earliest history, possessed an age of great
men and heroes, sheuld systematically blot out the memory of all
this very substantial company, and substitute in their place a floating
conglomerate of mere crystallized epithets of forgotten and humanized
types of degraded gods, is so manifestly improbable, that one is set
seriously to fish out some secret and concealed cause of so startling
an effect. Nor is the cause far to seek. This extravagant applica
tion of the doctrine of Euhcmerus—whese heresy consisted only in his
assigning a human origin to Jove and the other great gods—is to be
 traced to a peculiar idiosyncrasy of the German people, whe, from the
 earliest germ of their great schelarship, have shewn an instinctivo
 aversion to external facts, and an extravagant passion for self-evolved
 ideas. To suppose that Achilles was merely what he appears to be,
 a Thessalian captain, to the German mind appears a prosaic proposi
 tion, altogether beneath the notice of the eagle-flight of their trans
 cendental imagination. He must bo a water-god, or a sun-god, or the
 human representative of whatever theological idea the necessities of
 a despotic system may require. In England such an aversion to the
 recognition of fact in tradition is quite a recent phenomenon, and
 takes its rise, not from a ripe judgment and a sober conviction, but
 merely as an extreme reaction against the old historical scheol of
 Clinton, and the stout English realists of the last century. In Porson's
 day it was the fashion to laugh at the Germans, their philosophies,
 their principles, their ideas, their symbols, and even their doctrine
 of metres ; but now we have got a new light, and with the known zeal
 of green converts, we are ready to receive passively and swear to the
 mere nonsense of these very men, whese sense, only a few years ago,
 we were too ignorant and too insolent to recognize. This state of
 affairs in one section of our intellectual world is certainly not one
 of which John Bull has reason to bo proud. We find him passing

134                         Professor Blackie                 [April 29,
from the extreme worship of the letter, and a faith based on written
autherity, to a wild chase after symbols, an easy reception of all
foreign fancies, and a whelesale historical scepticism, as far re
moved from a sound historical judgment as the whelesale credulity
which it has supplanted. It will require another generation to brush
away the cobwebs which this German insanity is teaching us so
luxuriantly to spin.
    V. The theory of the Germans, of which a recent English mythe
logical writer has become passionately enamoured, is directly the re
verse of the old theory of the sceptical Messenian. Euhemerus taught
that all the gods were originally deified men ; the Germans and Mr.
Cox teach that all the men were originally degraded gods. This
theory, like the other, has its partial truth and its proper place. The
mistake, or, as we sheuld rather say, the madness, consists in its
universal and indiscriminate application.
    A slight consideration may teach us hew a god, or a mere epithet
of a god, may come to bo believed in as a mere man. The human as
pect and attitude which it is the essence of anthropomorphic theology to
assume, must often render it difficult to know whether any particular
narrative describes the actions of a god or of a man. This difficulty,
lying in the mere form of the tradition, vanishes, of course, to the
native believer, from his previous training, and consequent recognition
of the real character of the god. But suppose a strange element,
by conquest or otherwise, to enter into the population. The stranger
has no previous knowledge of the significance of the divine histories,
and so may very naturally take them for something purely human ;
just in the same way as a race of conquerors settling in a country is
often found in the most perverse and ludicrous way to misinterpret
 and misapply the topographical names of the places where they make
 their settlement. An obvious and generally recognized example of
 this we find in the Syrian Adonis, whe, to the framers of the myth,
no doubt was a mere impersonated symbol of a physical pheno
menon, to a devout polytheistic fancy sufficiently intelligible ; but
 whe, in the hands of the Western Greeks, when they got held of him,
became only the dainty hero of an erotic idyll, and a type of such
juvenile beauty as a sensuous Aphrodite might admire.
     VI. Theugh in the early stages of human theught it is an extremely
difficult thing to distinguish physical science from theology, we may
nevertheless recognize a special class of myths which for the sake of
distinction may be called scientific myths. These are myths that
seem to represent in a personal and narrative form certain natural phe
nomena, at the present day familiarly known under certain categories
of natural science.
     What this proposition points to may be best illustrated by what
 Pausanias (Attica 21) says about the Niobe of Asia Minor. That
patient and painstaking topographer relates that when he was passing
 through Phrygia, in the vicinity of Sipylus, he saw a fantastic rock,
 which, viewed from certain points, had the appearance of a weeping

 1870.J            on the Interpretation of Greek Myths.              135
woman. Now, what I wish to indicate here is, that certain mythelo
gical legends may have originated from such geological phenomena ;
either in the way of imaginative manufacture, pure and simple, or at
least in the way of connecting such physical appearances with tradi
tional historical persons. These whe have travelled in the Hartz
mountains will perhaps recall certain legends of this nature, evidently
invented by the popular fancy for the purpose of explaining hew Na
ture happened to put on such grotesque shapes, and assume an atti
tude so fantastic. In the same way the legend of the fire-breathing
Chimaera will most readily be referred to the fountains of flame which
travellers have recognized as issuing from diverse parts of that volcanio
region ; and the mythelogical stories of the giants, these masterful
rebels against Jove's high sovereignty, are in not a few cases con
nected with regions where volcanic action upon a large scale even now
forces itself on the most unspeculative eye. So absurd is it to sup
pose that any one theory, hewever plausible, has an exclusive right
to be legitimated by the stamp of science as the only rightful inter
preter of the strange carnival of forms which the busy croativeness of
the popular imagination may in any country have put forth.
     VII. After all native sources have been exhausted—that is, when
the language and the literature, and the artistic remains of any people
have been theroughly sifted, and failed, when placed front to front
with Nature, to give a key to the significance of any mythelogical
figure—then, and not till then, will it be wise to refer to foreign
sources of information ; and the comparative value of these foreign
sources will depend either upon original connection of races, or upon
accidental historical inoculation, or upon both. The problem of the
mythelogist will then be to trace out by a careful comparison, and,
if it may be, direct historical deduction, the original identity of any
two or more gods worshipped in some most distant regions of the
earth. For the practical application of this proposition the instinct of
mythelogical inquirers was led at an early period, so far as Greece
was concerned, to recur to Egypt. The key-note here was struck by
Herodotus (II. 50), to which in modern times Bryant and Black-
well shewed a forward willingness to respond ; but the researches of
modern Egyptologists have not enabled us to plant upon any scien
tific foundation the conjectures of the ancients with regard to the
influence of the land of Ham on the early religion of Greece. It
rather appears, indeed, that the likeness pointed out between the per
sonages of the Egyptian and Hellenic Pantheon are of that super
ficial and altogether deceptive character, in which polytheism, from
a natural instinct of fraternization, always delighted to indulge ; and,
historically, there is no connection cither of original race or of later
communication which sheuld justify us in presuming that any portion
of the earliest Greek theology is derived directly from the Coptic
Delta. Next to Egypt, Palestine was for a long time the favourite
source to which the Hellenic theology used to bo traced ; our old
schelars and divines, Vossius, Bochart, Gale, and others were of this

136                          Professor Blackie                  [April 29,
opinion. Some aspects of it have been put forward recently in an
original way by Mr. Gladstone ; but the more this theory is examined
the less it appears tenable ; and the pious Christian prepossessions—
originating with the Church fathers on which it was founded—melt
into nothing at the touch of an impartial and discriminating criticism.
For, in the first place, it is evident that if the Greek myths contain
any element that may fitly be derived from a primitive sacred tradition
held by the Hebrew patriarchs, that element must be the unity of tho
Deity contained in the person of Zeus as supreme moral governor ;
but this is precisely the idea which gives no hint towards explaining
that motley variety of figures in which polytheism properly consists ;
and besides, one may say that some vague idea of the unity of God is
so necessary towards any consistent structure of celestial government,
that it could not but rise up spontaneously in the minds of a thinking
people like the Greeks, without the necessity of referring to any ex
ternal source. Then as to the special identification of certain poly
theistic personages—Athena and Apollo—with the persons of the
Christian Trinity which Mr. Gladstone has delighted to make, one
can only say that the marks of identity seem too broadly human and.
general to admit of being confined to any such particular origin. The
figures of a wise goddess and a bright god, the Purifier, might exist
in any form of polytheism, springing, as they naturally do, from the
feelings of the human heart stirred in the creation of an anthropo
morphic system. Any further use of the Hebrew traditions, such as
has been made in the identification of Dionysus with Noah or other
patriarch, is justifiable only on an application of the Euhemeristic prin
ciple far beyond the natural and rational limits to which, in the
opinion of the present writer, it ought to be confined. After Palestine,
the neighbouring country of Phoenicia comes in as a claimant for the
high honour of having given birth to certain of the Hellenic gods.
This claim also has been put forward by Mr. Gladstone with more
than his usual subtlety and ingenuity ; but, while the general point
may be conceded that the long-continued influence of the Phoenicians
on the coasts of the Mediterranean could not remain without leaving
some traces of mythological mixture and fusion, such as may be traced
clearly in the figures of Hercules and Aphrodite, it does not appear
safe to launch largely into this region with the hope of making any
brilliant discoveries. Poseidon, in particular, amid a maritime
people like the Greeks, may be safely held to have sprung from his
native Greek waters, unthoughtful of any more lofty genealogy from
Tyre.
     But it is to the Indus and the Ganges that the most recent specu
lators have taught us to look for the true word that shall solve tho
riddle of the Sphinx of Hellenic mythology ; and it must be confessed
 that the prospect in this quarter, at first blush, looks considerably
more hopeful. For in this case not only have we a striking identity
of race ; but the fancy is at once flushed with the conception, that
the same brilliant discoveries may burst upon us from comparative

1870.]             on the Interpretation of Greek Myths.               137
mythology, as have already shone upon the philological world in
full meridian glory, from the discovery of the identity of the Greek
and Sanscrit languages. May it not he that father Jove, and mother
Cybele, and daughter Diana, have made the long journey from Mount
Mem to Mount Olympus, with as little trouble or transmutation as
the Sanscrit words corresponding to father, mother, and daughter, have
experienced in travelling from the Indus to the Ilissus, and from the
Ilissus to the Cuchullin hills in Skye ? But in this first thrill of
bright hope there start up certain plain considerations calcu
lated in no small degree to damp the ardour of a sober inquirer.
The peculiar difficulty in the case of comparative mythology lies
plainly in the shifting and mutable character of the materials from
which the comparison must be made. Contrast a theological myth,
 in this view, with a geological stratum. Myriads, or millions of ages
 ago, let us say, large sheets of certain earthy deposits were laid down
 in the north-west of Scotland, in Assynt, and about Cape Wrath.
 Once there, they are there for ever, safely buried beneath the cover
 of superior strata. In such a position no harm can reach them, no
 change can touch them. If then, in the far West, on the banks of
 the St. Lawrence, or in the extreme East, similar deposits shall be
 found to exist, protected in a similar way from the influence of
 superficial change, it is plain that a comparison made between these
 strata proceeds from data in a sense as fixed and determinate as
 those which limit the deductions of the mathematician. No disturbing
 influence has interfered; nothing certainly that falls under the
 category of transmutation can have taken place. Take again philology.
 Words are no doubt much more liable to curtailment and contraction,
 to distortion, and disguise of all sorts, than rocks. It requires a
 practised scientific eye, for instance, to recognize the verb ovro^aii, in
 the modern Greek /tar* (for ou.n<irw), an eye ; and language is full of
 such obliterations. But a veiy little historical knowledge will enable
 a classical scholar to trace back with scientific certainty the disguised
 form of Aryan words in Boman and the Romanesque languages, to their
 original types in ancient Greek and Latin. There is a stable and
 indeed a very obstinate element in language, which remains fixed
  amidst aU the confusion which centuries of social disorder and
  intellectual disrepair may have introduced. With mythology, on
 the other hand, from the very nature of the caso, this fixed element,
 which is to form the basis of a science of comparative mythology, is
 reduced to a minimum. The same fancy which created an Indra
 beneath Indian skies, will be creating a Jove beneath the blue of a
 European Olympus ; or, if not absolutely creating, will employ itself
 so constantly in the process of modification, that the points of simili
 tude in the end will bear a very small proportion to the points of
 difference. To borrow a phrase from Max Miiller himself, the myth-
 forming imagination is " a kaleidoscope " of constantly shifting
 figures ; nay, more, it is often a harlequin's wand, of the results of
 whose magic touch no rational account can be given. Ancient faiths

138                         Professor Blackie                  [April 29,
were not, like modern creeds, stereotyped in Articles, so as through
the long course of hundreds and theusands of years to defy change
and to challenge innovation. Innovation rather was the law of their
existence, and the spectator was pleased with the floating heauty of a
cloud which began as a whale and ended as a lion, or a bear, or any
imaginable counterfeit. Under such circumstances one cannot but
stand aghast at the assurance with which Mr. Cox, for instance (re
flecting here as elsewhere the German views of Max Miiller), asserts
that the Iliad of Homer represents a grand physical struggle between
the powers of Light and Darkness, in which Achilles is the champion
of the good principle, and Paris a Trojan Abriman of evil. But Mr.
 Cox himself, in the explication of the allegory, is forced to admit
that to the eye of Trojan patriotism, this prince of darkness necessarily
assumed the character of a prince of light ; and notwithstanding all
this transmutation he most potently believes that the original darkness
out of which the figure of the light-god Paris was shaped, is still
distinctly traceable through the bright disguise which he has assumed !
A man must certainly feel extremely satisfied with his own perspicacity
whe can see through every Protean form of mythelogical meta
morphesis in this way ; but he must not expect that common mortals
shall be able to look with unwinking vision on such a dazzling
legerdemain of the great juggler Fancy. Mr. Cox's methed of mythe
logical investigation, indeed, is from beginning to end unscientific.
He starts with the bright prepossession that whatever gods are
 worshipped on the banks of the Ganges must be found also on the
banks of the Eurotas ; and where points of diversity are systematically
disregarded, it requires only a little Teutonic ingenuity to stilt up a
 few points, it may be of mere superficial and accidental similitude,
into the formal dignity of a proof. If Achilles takes the sulks and
 leaves the Greek camp for a season, and if Meleager, in the war
 between the Calydonians and the Curetes, does the same ; what can
 this mean but that they are both sun-gods, and that the glorious
 luminary, for a day and an heur, has hid his gracious radianco under
a storm-cloud ! with such a style of reasoning anything can be made
out of anything. It is in fact not a whit more rational than the
most fanciful imaginations of Bryant, differing only in this, that
whereas in these days it suited the fashion of the heur, or the whim
of the writer, through strange Egyptian disguises to recognize Greek
gods, at the present heur Indra and Agni, and Krishna, are preferred
as the great originals of the bright Olympian conclave. But
nothing can stand as science which is based on the intoxication of
a favourite fancy ; the dreams of Bryant, notwithstanding his curious
erudition and marvellous ingenuity, have long ago passed away as
mere dreams ; the shelves of German libraries also arc groaning with
volumes of mythelogical lucubrations, that even now, in the shert
heur of their life, are generally registered as devout imaginings.
The Sanscrit novelty in like manner will havo its day ; and after the
first dazzlement shall have passed away, men will rub their eyes and

1870.]            on the Interpretation of Oreek Myths.              13'J
ask themselves how it was possible that they should ever have allowed
themselves to be fooled by such hallucinations.
     There is one point of view from which Mr. Cox looks on the Greek
mythology that has not yet been mentioned. He feels himself thrilled
with a moral horror at the idea of cultivated people like the Greeks
having ever been in such a low moral state as to imagine such mon
strous tales of adultery, incest, and murder, as true histories about
their gods and heroes. These monstrous tales are therefore in all cases
to be received as misunderstood theological myths. Now there can be
no doubt that the amours of Zeus, for instance, are not to be taken
literally as gratifications of mere sensual passion. They represent
unquestionably some physical interaction (like the sacred marriage
of Heaven and Earth in Iliad, XIV.) ; or we may say that a sort of
general fatherhood of Jove and a polygamic connection with mortal
women was necessary to fill the earth with heroes and demigods.
" Sunt superis sua jura I " Polygamy in the great Father of the
Universe may be a benignant semination of divine gifts and graces,
which in the head of a human family could lead only to confusion
and the vague concubinage of savage life. So far well. But when it
is argued further that because the old family history of the Labdacidan
and Pelopidan kings, as represented in tho Greek drama, contains
monstrosities and atrocities which could not possibly have existed in
connection with any real human characters among such a people as
the Greeks, it is forgotten not only that the history of great despotic
and dynastic houses has seldom been fiee from the taint of great
crimes — as the story of the decadent Eoman autocracy, of the
Byzantine Empire, of the Popes of the fifteenth century, not to
mention the kings of Judah, including the well-known King David
himself—but it is kept out of view also that when horrid crimes are
committed, the popular imagination experiences a morbid delight in
exaggerating their horrors; and, to bring the thing to a climax, if a
generation of tragic poets or sensation novel writers are at hand, there
is no limit to the intensity of sanguineous and pitchy hues with which
such real occurrences may be painted out in the popular imagina
tion. Not therefore because a Theban dynast in tho local tradition
 is 6aid to have committed incest unknowingly with his mother, nor
 because a famous Attic prince is believed to have carried off Spartan
 Helen, and even to have descended into Hades, does there arise the
 slightest presumption that the original type of these traditional heroeB
was a Sanscrit sun-god. If marvellous lies are told of modern English
men, why not of ancient Greeks ?
     VIII. It remains only that tho principles laid down in the above
propositions should be tested by their application to some of the
leading and best-known figures in the Greek Pantheon. A few sen
tences will be sufficient for this, as ample indication has been given
already of the method of determining the signification of some of the
principal personages. Let us select from the mass Zeus, Poseidon,
 Apollo, Artemis, Hera, Athena, Hermes, Dionysus, Aphrodite, ^Escu

 140                         Professor Blackie                  [April 29,
 lapius, Hercules, Bellerophen, Achilles, Theseus. Zeus and Poseidon
 explain themselves obviously enough, the one as the dark-thundering
 electric energy of the sky ; the other as the broad-breasted, wide-
 girdling, strong-scourging energy of the sea. The omnipotent ruler
 of the sky represents also the wisdom that rules in the macrocosm
 of the great universe, as in the microcosm of the soul of man. Jove
 in fact, as Supreme Power and Providence, is to the universe exactly
 what Autherity and Polity and Law are to human societies. Apollo,
 as the Sun, requires no commentary, as little his sister Artemis as
 the Moon. Wild beasts and hunters go forth in the night to seek
 for their prey, or snare their game, beneath the glimpses of the moon ;
 Diana, therefore, is the protector of the one and the patron of the
 other. The night season also is favourable to necromancy and incanta
 tion, therefore Hecate (kdni—the moon that sends her rays from for)
 presides over witchcraft and necromancy, and becomes at last in her
latest modern disguise, a witch herself, and the president of all unhely
 convocations of extravagant spirits and ill-favoured hags that delight
in mischief. Hera, as the wife of Zeus, whe is the anthropomorphic
Heavens, is the anthropomorphic Earth ; a great elemental power,
represented also in its productive capacity by Ceres, and by the
great Diana of the Ephesians, and the Cybele or mighty mother of the
 Phrygians. Athena is merely the womanly aspect of Jove, therefore
the only-begotten daughter of the Thunderer, the inheritor of his
wisdom, the representative of his power, and the only goddess whe may
at times, witheut offence, wield his deathful thunderbolt. In accordance
with this obvious view of her connection with the dark-clouded lord
of the upper regions, the epithet of "flashing-eyed" {yXavy.C>iri;\ so
 familiar to us from Homer, must have signified originally the bright
 ness of the clear blue sky that peeps out between the rents of the
thunder-cloud, or possibly also the vivid flash of the lightning.
 This, if I remember rightly, is Welcker's view of the nature of this
goddess. The original nature of Hermes is clearly revealed by the
phallic symbol which he shews (Herod., II. 51), and the fact that
in Homer he appears as a pastoral god of increase (II., XIV. 491),
from which origin, when the day of merchants arrived, he became a
god of gain generally, and even a patron of thieves. His other func
tions and attributes can readily be traced back either to the arts of
early shepherd life, of which he was the patron, or to the dexterities
which belong to mercantile negotiation. Max Miiller's attempted
reduction of this god to the breeze which accompanies the dawn,
shews to what shifts a man of genius may be driven, when he
allows himself to revel freely in the intoxicating element of a favourite
idea. As for Dionysus, that he is fundamentally the same as Hermes
the phallic symbol and potent viny fervour sufficiently indicate ;
the legends about him likewise point plainly to a migration of his
worship from the orgiastic East to the more decent and sober West.
In regard to Aphrodite, her Pheenician origin is universally acknow
ledged ; she follows the Phoenician trading stations from isle to isle,

1870.1             on the Interpretation of Greek Myths.             141
and may be acknowledged in Corinth and the Piraeus, not, however,
necessarily without the admixture of some original incarnation of
sensual love with which she may have coalesced. iEsculapius is an
undoubted example of the partial truth of the doctrine of Euhemerus.
In Homer he is plainly a mortal physician, a native of Thessaly, the
mother-country of medicine and witchcraft to the Greeks. Hercules
also in Homer has the aspect of a simple Hellenic Samson, a man of
marvellous bodily strength, very natural to come to light in those
wild times—a man by whom, no doubt, many very wonderful feats
were achieved, and about whom many more wonderful were believed.
The Hercules, however, of the full-blown Hellenic mythology is
evidently a much more complex person—an agglomerate, perhaps, of
many persons—a mixture certainly of a Theban or Argive Samson
with the well-known Melcarth, the sun-god of the seafaring mer
chants of ancient Tyre, and more ancient Sidon. In this view, that
the twelve labours of the son of Semele are the twelve months of the
year, and the twelve signs of the Zodiac, is in the highest degree
probable. As for Bellerophon, Achilles, and Theseus, enough has
been said above to indicate that not the slightest reason exists why
we should believe that the first was other than a Corinthian prince, as
he appears to be ; or why the second should be either a sun-god or a
water-god (the favourite German idea before Max Miiller), rather than
a simple Thessalian thane, like the Douglas or Percy in our Border
history ; or why, again, the third should not have been as real in
ancient Attica as Robert Bruce was in modern Scotland, or Charlemagne
in the tradition of the Frankish kings. If Ariosto delighted to revel
in beautiful nonsense, this is no reason why we should believe that
the popular imagination of mediaeval Europe should have delighted
to disport itself in a limbo of utter vacuity, and created a great Euro
pean emperor out of nothing.
     The present remarks are not intended to treat with any studied
disrespect either the science of comparative mythology generally, or
the special interpretations of certain individual Greek myths, for which
we are indebted to the learning, genius, and eloquence of Professor
Max Muller. My protest is intended only against the sweeping
and indiscriminate fashion in which he and his followers, neglecting
near and native sources, violently, as it appears to me, force Oriental
ideas upon the whole body of an important class of myths which grew
and flourished on European ground. I object also to the attempt to
give a scientific interpretation of all myths. " Haud scire fas est
omnia." Some mythological fables were in their origin too trifling
to deserve interpretation ; others are certainly too tangled to admit of
it : and in this region, as in the more important domain of metaphysics
and theology, the wisdom of Socrates and the maxim of Sir William
Hamilton will often be applicable : " A contented ignorance is better
than a presumptuous knowledge."
                                                          [J. S. B.]

142                                Annual Meeting.                         [May 2,
                       ANNUAL               MEETING,
                               Monday, May 2, 1870.
       Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                     in the Chair.
     The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
1869 was read and adopted.
     The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1869 amounted to 255
volumes, making, with these purchased by the Managers, a total of
388 volumes added to the Library in the year, exclusive of periodicals.
      Forty-seven new Members were elected in 1869.
     Sixty-three Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were
delivered during the year 1869.
     Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the Professors, for
their services to the Institution during the past year.
      The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers for
the ensuing year :—
          President—Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S.
          Treasurer—William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
           Secretary—Henry Bence Jones, M.A. M.D. F.R.S.
                Managers.                                    Visitors.
 John J. Bigsby, M.D. F.R.S. F.G.S.           William Ernst Browning, Esq.
 William Bowman, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.        John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
 Charles Brooke, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.             William Pell, Esq.
 George Busk, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.           Thomas Williams Helps, Esq. M.A.
 Warren De la Rue, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.         Thomas Hyde Hills, Esq.
 The Earl of Derby, M.A. LL.D. F.R.S.         Alfred Latham, Esq.
 John Peter Gassiot, Esq. F.R.8.             Thomas Lee, Esq.
 John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.       William Martin, Esq.
 Sir John Lubbock, Bart. M.P. F.R.S. F.G.S.   Edward Henry Moscrop, Esq.
 George Macilwaiu, Esq. F.R.C.S.              Rev. Cyril W. Page, M.A.
 Sir Roderick I. Murchison, Bart. K.C.B.      Edmund Pepys, Esq.
    DC L F RS                                The Lord Josceline W. Percy.
 William Pole,' Esq. M.A. F.R.S.              Basil Woodd Smith, Esq.
 Lieut.-Gen. Sir Edward Sabine, R.A. K.C.B.  Thomas Spencer Wells, Esq.
    Pres. R.S.
 The Marquis of Salisbury.
 Sir Charles Wheatstone, D.C.L. F.R.S.

1870.]            Mr. R. A. Proctor on Star-grouping, (f-c.             143
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 6, 1870.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                  Eichard A. Proctor, B.A. F.R.A.S.
                On Star-grouping, Star-drift, and Star-mist.
Nearly a century has passed since the greatest astronomer the world
has ever known,—the Newton of observational astronomy, as he has
justly been called by Arago,—conceived the daring thought that he
would gauge the celestial depths. And because in his day, as indeed in
our own, very little was certainly known respecting the distribution of
the stars, he was forced to found his researches upon a guess. He
supposed that the stars, not only those visible to the naked eye, but
all that are seen in tho most powerful telescopes, are suns, distributed
with a certain general uniformity throughout space. It is my purpose
to attempt to prove that—as Sir Wm. Herschel was himself led to sus
pect during the progress of his researches—this guess was a mistaken
one ; that but a small proportion of the stars can be regarded as real
suns; and that in place of the uniformity of distribution conceived by
Sir Wm. Herschel, the chief characteristic of the sidereal system is
infinite variety.
     In order that the arguments on which these views are based may be
clearly apprehended, it will be necessary to recall the main results of
Sir Wm. flerschel's system of star-grouping.
     Directing one of his 20-feet reflectors to different parts of the hea
vens, he counted the stars seen in the field of view. Assuming that the
telescope really reached the limits of the sidereal system, it is clear
that the number of stars seen in any direction affords a means of esti
mating the relative extension of the system in that direction, provided
always that the stars are really distributed throughout the system with
a certain approach to uniformity. Where many stars are seen, there
the system has its greatest extension ; where few, there the limits of
the system must be nearest to us.
     Sir Wm. Herschel was led by this process of star-grouping to the
conclusion that tho sidereal system has the figure of a cloven disc. The
stars visible to the naked eye lie far within the limits of this disc.
Stars outside the relatively narrow limits of the sphere including all
the visible stars, are separately invisible ; but where the system has its

144                          Mr. B. A. Proctor                    [May 6,
greatest extension these orbs produce collectively the diffused light
which forms the Milky Way.
    Sir John Herschel, applying a similar series of researches to the
southern heavens, was led to a very similar conclusion. His view of
the sidereal system differs chiefly in this respect from his father's, that
he considered the stars within certain limits of distance from the sun
to be spread less richly through space than those whose united lustre
produces the milky light of the galaxy.
    Now it is clear that if the supposition on which these views are
based is just, the three following results are to be looked for.
    In the first place tho stars visible to the naked eye would be dis
tributed with a certain general uniformity over the celestial sphere ;
so that if on the contrary we find certain extensive regions over which
such stars are strewn much more richly than over the rest of the
heavens, we must abandon Sir Wm. Herschel's fundamental hypo
thesis and all the conclusions which have been based upon it.
    In tho second place, we ought to find no signs of the aggregation
of lucid stars into streams or clustering groups. If we should find
such associated groups we must abandon the hypothesis of uniform
distribution and all the conclusions founded on it.
    Thirdly, and most obviously of all, the lucid stars ought not to be
associated in a marked manner with the figure of the Milky Way.
To take an illustrative instance. When we look through a glass win
dow at a distant landscape we do not find that the specks in the sub
stance of the glass seem to follow the outline of valleys, hills, trees, or
whatever features the landscape may present. In like manner, regard
ing the sphere of the lucid stars as in a sense the window through
which we view the Milky Way, we ought not to find these stars, which
are so near to us, associated with the figure of the Milky Way,
whose light comes from distances so enormously exceeding those
which separate us from the lucid stars. Here again, then, if there
should appear signs of such association, we must abandon the theory
that the sidereal system is constituted as Sir Wm. Herschel supposed.
    It should further be remarked that the three arguments derived
from these relations are independent of each other. They are not as
three links of a chain, any one of which being broken the chain is
broken. They are as three strands of a triple cord. If one strand holds,
the cord holds. It may be shown that all three are to be trusted.
    It is not to be expected, however, that the stars as actually seen
should exhibit these relations, since far the larger number are but
faintly visible ; so that the eye would look in vain for the signs of law
among them, even though law may be there. What is necessary is
that maps should be constructed on a uniform and intelligible plan,
and that in these maps the faint stars should be made bright, and
the bright stars brighter.
    The maps exhibited during this discourse have been devised for this
purpose amongst others. There are twelve of them, but they overlap,
so that in effect each covers a tenth part of the heavens. There is

    1870.]          on Star-grouping, Star-drift, mid Star^mist.                145
    first a north-polar map, then five maps symmetrically placed around
    it; again, there is a south-polar map, and five maps symmetrically
    placed round that map ; and these five so fit in with the first five as to
    complete the enclosure of the whole sphere. In effect every map of the
    twelve has five maps symmetrically placed around it and overlapping it.*
         Since the whole heavens contain but 5932 stars visible to the
    naked eye, each of the maps should contain on the average about 593
    stars. But instead of this being the case, some of the maps contain
    many more than their just proportion of stars, while in others the
   number as greatly falls short of the average. One recognizes, by com
   bining these indications, the existence of a roughly circular region,
   rich in stars, in the northern heavens, and of another, larger and
   richer, in the southern hemisphere.
        To show the influence of these rich regions, it is only necessary
   to exhibit the numerical relations presented by the maps.
        The north-polar map, in which the largest part of the northern rich
   region falls, contains no less than 693 lucid stars, of which upwards
   of 400 fall within the half corresponding to the rich region. Of the
   adjacent maps, two contain upwards of 500 stars, while the remaining
   three contain about 400 each. Passing to the southern hemisphere, we
   find that the south-polar map, which falls wholly within a rich region,
   contains no less than 1132 stars 1 One of the adjacent maps contains
   834 stars, and the four others exhibit numbers ranging from 527 to 595.
        It is wholly impossible not to recognize so unequal a distribution
  as exhibiting the existence of special laws of stellar aggregation.
        It is noteworthy, too, that the greater Magellanic cloud falls in
  the heart of the southern rich region. Were there not other signs
- that this wonderful object is really associated with the sidereal system
  it might be rash to recognize this relation as indicating the exist
  ence of a physical connection between the Nubecula Major and the
  southern region rich in stars. Astronomers have indeed so long re
  garded the Nubeculte as belonging neither to the sidereal nor to the
  nebular systems, that they are not likely to recognize very readily the
  existence of any such connection. Yet how strangely perverse is
  the reasoning which has led astronomers so to regard these amazing
  objects. Presented fairly, that evidence amounts simply to this :
  The Magellanic clouds contain stars and they contain nebula ; there
  fore they are neither nebular nor stellar. Can perversity of reasoning
  be pushed farther? Is not the obvious conclusion this, that since
  nebulse and stars are seen to be intermixed in the Nubecula, the
  nebular and stellar systems form in reality but one complex system.
        As to the existence of star-streams and clustering aggregations,
 we have also evidence of a decisive character.')" There is a well-
      * It will be understood that the description here, and all which immediately
 follows, replaces portions of the discourse which would only be intelligible when
 illustrated by means of the diagrams and illuminated maps actually employed.
      t Here, again, without the illustrative maps the argument is necessarily ren
 dered imperfect.
       Vol. VI. (No. 53.)                                                 l

146                        Mr. B. A. Proctor                    [May 6,
marked stream of stars running from near Capella towards Monoceros.
Beyond this lies a long dark rift altogether bare of lucid orbs, beyond
which again lies an extensive range of stars, covering Gemini, Canoer,
and the southern parts of Leo. This vast system of stars resembles a
gigantic sidereal billow flowing towards the Milky Way as towards
some mighty shere-line. Nor is this description altogether fanciful ;
since one of the most marked instances of star-drift presently to
be adduced refers to this very region. These associated stars are
urging their way towards the galaxy, and that at a rate which, theugh
seemingly slow when viewed from beyond so enormous a gap as sepa
rates us from this system, must in reality be estimated by millions
of miles in every year.
    Other streams and clustering aggregations there are which need
not here be specially described. But it is worth noticing that all the
well-marked streams recognized by the ancients seem closely associated
with the southern rich region already referred to. This is true of the
stars forming the River Eridanus, the serpent Hydra, and the streams
from the water-can of Aquarius. It is also noteworthy that in each
instance a portion of the stream lies outside the rich region, the rest
within it ; while all the streams which lie on the same side of the
galaxy tend towards the two Magellanic clouds.
    Most intimate signs of association between lucid stars and the
galaxy can be recognized,—(i.) in the part extending from Cygnus to
Aquila ; (ii.) in the part from Perseus to Monoceros ; (iii.) over the
ship Argo ; and (iv.) near Crux and the feet of Centaurus.
    Before proceeding to the subject of Star-drift, three broad facts
may be stated. They are, I believe, now recognized for the first time,
and seem decisive of the existence of special laws of distribution
among the stars :—
    First, the rich southern region, theugh covering but a sixth part
of the heavens, contains one-third of all the lucid stars, leaving only
two-thirds for the remaining five-sixths of the heavens.
    Secondly, if the two rich regions and the Milky Way be considered
as one part of the heavens, the rest as another, then the former part is
three times as richly strewn with lucid stars as the second.
    Thirdly, the southern hemisphere contains one theusand more lucid
stars than the northern, a fact which cannot but be regarded as most
striking when it is remembered that the total number of lucid stars in
both hemispheres falls shert of G000.
    Two or three years ago, the idea suggested itself to me that if the
proper motions of the stars were examined, they would be found to
convey clear information respecting the existence of variety of struc
ture, and special laws of distribution within the sidereal system.
    In the first place the mere amount of a star's apparent motion
must be regarded as affording a means of estimating the star's dis
tance. The nearer a moving object is, the faster it will seem to move,

1870.]           on Star-grouping, Star-drift-, and Star-mist.        147
and vice versa. Of course in individual instances little reliance can be
placed on this indication ; but by taking the average proper motions
of a set of stars, no untrustworthy measure may be obtained of their
average distance, as compared with the average distance of another set.
     For example, we have in this process the means of settling the
question whether the apparent brightness of a star is indeed a test of
relative nearness. According to accepted theories the sixth-magnitude
stars are ten or twelve times as far off as these of the first magni
tude. Hence their motions sheuld, on the average, be correspondingly
small. Now, to make assurance doubly sure, I divided the stars into
two sets, the first including the stars of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd, the
second including these of the 4th, 5th, and 6th magnitude. According
to accepted views, the average proper motion for the first set sheuld
bo about five times as great as that for the second. I was prepared to
find it about three times as great ; that is, not so much greater as the
accepted theories require, but still considerably greater. To my sur
prise I found that the average proper motion of the brighter orders of
stars is barely equal to that of the three lower orders.
     This proves beyond all possibility of question that by far the
greater number of the fainter orders of stars (I refer here througheut
to lucid stars) owe their faintness not to vastness of distance, but to
real relative minuteness.
     To pass over a number of other modes of research, the actual
mapping of the stellar motions, and the discovery of the peculiarity to
which I have given the name of star-drift, remains to bo considered.
     In catalogues it is not easy to recognize any instances of community
of motion which may exist among the stars, owing to the methed in
which the stars are arranged. What is wanted in this case (as in
many others which yet remain to be dealt with) is the adoption of a
plan by which such relations may be rendered obvious to the eye.
The plan I adopted was to attach to each star in my maps a small
arrow, indicating the amount and direction of that star's apparent
motion in 36,000 years (the time-interval being purposely lengthened,
as otherwise most of the arrows would have been too small to be recog
nized). When this was done, several well-marked instances of com
 munity of motion could immediately be recognized.
      It is necessary to premise, hewever, that before the experiment was
 tried, there were reasons for feeling very doubtful whether it would
 succeed. A system of stars might really bo drifting athwart the
 heavens, and yet the drift might be rendered unrecognizable through
 the intermixture of more distant or nearer systems having motions of
 another sort, and seen accidentally in the same general direction.
      This was found to be the case, indeed, in several instances. Thus
 the stars in the constellation Ursa Major, and neighbouring stars
 in Draco, exhibit two well-marked directions of drift. The stars
 /8, y, S, £, and of the Great Bear, besides two companions of the last-
 named star, are travelling in one direction, with equal velocity, and
 clearly form one system. The remaining stars in the neighbourheod

148                         Mr. R. A. Proctor                       [May 6,
aro travelling in a direction almost exactly the reverse. But even
this relation, thus recognized in a region of diverse motions, is full of
interest. Baron Madler, the celebrated German astronomer, recog
nizing the community of motion between £ Ursee and its companions,
calculated the cyclic revolution of the system to be certainly not less
than 7000 years. But when the complete system of stars showing this
motion is considered, we get a cyclic period so enormous, that not only
the life of man, but the life of the human race, the existence of our
earth, nay, even the existence of the solar system, must be regarded
as a mere day in comparison with that amazing cycle.
    Then there are other instances of star-drift where, though two
directions of motion are not intermixed, the drift character of the
motion is not at once recognized, because of the various distances at
which the associated stars lie from the eye.
    A case of this kind is to be met with in the stars forming the con
stellation Taurus. It was here that Madler recognized a community
of motion among the stars, but he did not interpret this as I do. He
had formed the idea that the whole of the sidereal system must be in
motion around some central point; and for reasons which need not
here be touched on, he was led to believe that in whatever direction the
centre of motion may lie, the stars seen in that general direction
would exhibit a community of motion. Then, that he might not
have to examine the proper motions all over the heavens, he inquired
in what direction (in all probability) the centre of motion may be
supposed to lie. Coming to the conclusion that it must be towards
Taurus, he examined the proper motions in that constellation, and
found a community of motion which led him to regard Alcyone, the
chief star of the Pleiades, as the centre around which the sidereal
system is moving. Had he examined farther he would have found more
marked instances of community of motion in other parts of the heavens,
a circumstance which would have at once compelled him to abandon his
hypothesis of a central sun in the Pleiades, or at least to lay no stress
on the evidence derivable from the community of motion in Taurus.
    Perhaps the most remarkable instance of star-drift is that observed
in the constellations Gemini and Cancer. Here the stars seem to set
bodily towards the neighbouring part of the Milky Way. The general
drift in that direction is too marked, and affects too many stars, to bo
regarded as by any possibility referable to accidental coincidence.
    It is worthy of note that if the community of star-drift should be
recognized (or I prefer to say, when it is recognized), astronomers will
have the means of determining the relative distances of the stars of a
drifting system. For differences in the apparent direction and amount
of motion can be due but to differences of distance and position, and
the determination of these differences becomes merely a question of
perspective.*
   * Hero no nccount is taken of the motions of the stars within the system ;
such motions must be minute compared with the common motion of the system.

 1870.]        on Star-grouping, Star-drift, and Star-mist.                    149
     Before long it is likely that the theory of star-drift will he sub
jected to a crucial test, since spectroscopic analysis affords the means
of determining the stellar motions of recess or approach. The task is
a very difficult one, but astronomers have full confidence that in the
able hands of Mr. Huggins it will he successfully accomplished. I
await the result with full confidence that it will confirm my views.
    Turning to the subject of Star-mist, under which head I include all
orders of nebulae, I propose to deal but with a small proportion of the
evidence I have collected to prove that none of the nebulae are external
galaxies. That evidence has indeed become exceedingly voluminous.
    I shall dwell, therefore, on three points only.
    First, as to the distribution of the nebulae :—They are not spread
with any approach to uniformity over the heavens, but are gathered
into streams and clusters. The one great law which characterizes
their distribution is an avoidance of the Milky Way and its neighbour
hood. This peculiarity has strangely enough been regarded by astro
nomers as showing that there is no association between the nebulae
and the sidereal system. They have forgotten that marked contrast
is as clear a sign of association as marked resemblance, and has always
been so regarded by logicians.
     Secondly, there are in the southern heavens two well-marked streams
of nebulae. Each of these streams is associated with an equally well-
marked stream of stars. Each intermixed stream directs its course
towards a Magellanic Cloud, one towards the Nubecula Minor, the other
towards the Nubecula Major. To these great clusters they flow, like
rivers towards some mighty lake. And within these clusters, which are
doubtless roughly spherical in form, there are found intermixed in won
derful profusion, stars, star clusters, and all the orders of nebulae. Can
these coincidences be regarded as accidental ? And if not accidental, is
not the lesson they clearly teach us this, that nebulae form but portions
of the sidereal system, associating themselves with stars on terms of
equality (if one may so speak), even if single stars be not more important
objects in the scale of creation, than these nebulous masses, which have
been so long regarded as equalling, if not outvying, the sidereal system
itself in extent ?
     The third point to which I wish to invite attention is the way in
which in many nebulae stars of considerable relative brightness, and
belonging obviously to the sidereal system, are so associated with
nebulous masses as to leave no doubt whatever that these masses really
cling around them. The association is in many instances far too
marked to be regarded as the effect of accident.
     Amongst other instances* may be cited the nebula round the stars cl
and c" in Orion. In this object two remarkable nebulous nodules centrally
surround two double stars. Admitting the association here to be real
(and no other explanation can reasonably be admitted), we are led to
   * Eight pictures of nebulre were exhibited in illustration of this peculiarity.

 150                           Mr. B. A. Proctor                     [May 6,
  interesting conclusions respecting the whele of that wonderful nebu
  lous region which surrounds the sword of Orion. We are led to believe
  that the other nebulae in that region are really associated with the
  fixed stars there ; that it is not a mere coincidence, for instance, that
  the middle star in the belt of Orion is involved in nebula, or that the
  lowest star of the sword is similarly circumstanced. It is a legitimate
  inference from the evidence that all the nebula? in this region belong
  to one great nebulous group, which extends its branches to these stars.
. As a mighty hand this nebulous region seems to gather the stars here
  into close association, shewing us in a way there is no misinterpreting,
  that these stars form one system.
       The nebula around the strange variable star, Eta Argus, is another
  remarkable instance of this sort. More than two years ago I ven
  tured to make two predictions about this object. The first was a
  tolerably safe one. I expressed my belief that the nebula would bo
  found to be gaseous. After Mr. Huggins' discovery that the great
  Orion nebula is gaseous, it was not difficult to see that the Argo
  nebula must also be so. At any rate, this has been established by
  Captain Herschel's spectroscopic researches. The other prediction
  was more venturesomo. Sir John Herschel, wheso opinions on such
  points one would always prefer to share, had expressed his belief that
  the nebula lies far out in space beyond the stars seen in the same
  field of view. I ventured to express the opinion that these stars are
  involved in the nebula. Lately there came news from Australia that
  Mr. Le Sueur, with the great reflector erected at Melbourne, has found
  that the nebula has changed largely in shape since Sir John Herschel
  observed it. Mr. Le Sueur accordingly expressed his beliof that the
  nebula lies nearer to us than the fixed stars seen in the same field of
  view. More lately, hewever, he has found that the star Eta Argus
  is shining with the light of burning hydrogen, and he expresses his
  belief that the star has consumed the nebulous matter near it.
  Witheut agreeing with this view, I recognize in it a proof that Mr.
  Le Sueur now considers the nebula to be really associated with the
  stars around it. My belief is that as the star recovers its brilliancy
  observation will shew that the nebula in its immediate neighbour
  heod becomes brighter (not fainter through being consumed as fuel).
  In fact, I am disposed to regard the variations of the nebula as sys
  tematic, and due to orbital motions among its various portions around
  neighbouring stars.
       As indicative of other laws of association bearing on the relations
  I have been dealing with, I may mention the circumstance that red
  stars and variable stars affect the neighbourheod of the Milky Way or
  of well-marked star-streams. The constellation Orion is singularly rich
  in objects of this class. It is here that the strange 'variable ' Betelgeux
  lies. At present this star shews no sign of variation, but a few years
  ago it exhibited remarkable changes. One is invited to believe that
  the star may have been carried by its proper motion into regions
  where there is a more uniform distribution of the material whence this

 1870.]          on Star-grouping, Star-drift, and Star-mist.                151
 orb recruits its fires. It may be that in the consideration of such
 causes of variation affecting our sun in long past ages a more satis
factory explanation than any yet obtained may be found of the problem
geologists find so perplexing —the former existence of a tropical climate
in places within the temperate zone, or even near the Arctic regions.*
     It remains that I should exhibit the general results to which I
have been led. It has seemed to many that my views tend largely to
diminish our estimate of the extent of the sidereal system. The
exact reverse is the case. According to accepted views there lie
within the range of our most powerful telescopes millions of millions
of suns. According to mine the primary suns within the range of our
telescopes must be counted by tens of thousands, or by hundreds of
thousands at tho outside. What does this diminution of numbers
imply but that tho space separating sun from sun is enormously
greater than accepted theories would permit ? And this increase implies
an enormous increase in the estimate we are to form of the vital
energies of individual suns. For the vitality of a sun, if one may be
permitted the expression, is measured not merely by the amount of
matter over which it exercises control, but by the extent of space
within which that matter is distributed. Take an orb a thousand
times vaster than our sun, and spread over its surface an amount of
matter exceeding a thousandfold the combined mass of all the planets
of the solar system :—So far as living force is concerned, the result is
-—nil. But distribute that matter throughout a vast space all round
the orb :—That orb becomes at once fit to be the centre of a host of
dependent worlds. Again, according to accepted theories, when the
astronomer has succeeded in resolving the milky light of a portion
of the galaxy into stars, he has in that direction, at any rate, reached
the limits of tho sidereal system. According to my views, what ho
has really done has been but to analyze a definite aggregation of stars,
a mere corner of that great system. Yet once more, according to
accepted views, thousands and thousands of galaxies, external to tho
sidereal system, can be seen with powerful telescopes. If I am right,
the external star-systems lie far beyond the reach of the most power
ful telescope man has yet been able to construct, insomuch that per
chance the nearest of tho outlying galaxies may lie a million times
beyond the rango even of the mighty mirror of the great Itosse telo-
Bcope.
     But this is little. Wonderful as is the extent of tho sidereal system
as thus viewed, even more wonderful is its infinite variety. We know
how largely modern discoveries have increased our estimate of tho
complexity of the planetary system. Where tho ancients recognized
but a few planets, we now see, besides tho planets, tho families of
satellites ; we see the rings of Saturn, in which minute satellites must
    * Sir John Herschel long since pointed to the variation of our sun as. a pos
sible cause of such changes of terrestrial climate

152              Mr. B. A. Proctor on Star-grouping, dx.           [May 6,
be as the Bands on the sea-shore for multitude ; the wonderful zone
of asteroids ; myriads on myriads of comets ; millions on millions of
meteor-systems, gathering more and more richly around the sun, until
in his neighbourhood they form the crown of glory which bursts into
view when he is totally eclipsed. But wonderful as is the variety seen
within the planetary system, the variety within the sidereal system is
infinitely more amazing. Besides the single suns, there are groups
and systems and streams of primary suns ; there are whole galaxies
of minor orbs; there are clustering stellar aggregations, showing everj
variety of richness, of figure, and of distribution ; there are all the
various forms of nebulae, resolvable and irresolvable, circular, ellip
tical, and spiral ; and lastly, there are irregular masses of luminous
gas, clinging in fantastic convolutions around stars and star-systems.
Nor is it unsafe to assert that other forms and varieties of structure
will yet be discovered, or that hundreds more exist which we may
never hope to recognize.
     But lastly, even more wonderful than the infinite variety of the
sidereal system, is its amazing vitality. Instead of millions of inert
masses, we see the whole heavens instinct with energy,— astir with busy
life. The great masses of luminous vapour, though occupying count
less millions of cubic miles of space, are moved by unknown forces
like clouds before the summer breeze ; star-mist is condensing into
clusters ; star-clusters are forming into suns ; streams and clusters of
minor orbs are swayed by unknown attractive energies ; and primary
suns singly or in systems are pursuing their stately path through
space, rejoicing as giants to run their course, extending on all sides
the mighty arm of their attraction, gathering from ever now regions
of space supplies of motive energy, to be transformed into the various
forms of force,—light, and heat, and electricity,—and distributed in
lavish abundance to the worlds which circle round them.
     Truly may I say, in conclusion, that whether we regard its vast
extent, or its infinite variety, or the amazing vitality which pervades its
every portion, the sidereal system is of all the subjects man can study,
the most imposing and the most stupendous. It is as a book full of
mighty problems,—of problems which are as yet almost untouched by
man, of problems which it might seem hopeless for him to attempt to
solve. But those problems are given to him for solution, and he will
solve them, whenever he dares attempt to decipher aright the records
of that wondrous volume.
                                                              [R. A. P.]

1870.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                        153
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, May 9, 1870.
         Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
      The following Vice-Presidents were nominated for the ensuing
year :—
                The Marquis of Salisbury.
                Lieut.-Gen. Sir Edward Sabine, K.C.B.
                Sir Roderick I. Murchison.
                 Warren De la Rue, Esq.
                 William Spottiswoode, Esq. Treasurer EJ.
                Themas William Boord, Esq. F.S.A.
                 Miss Eliza Bowman.
                 Miss Margaret Graham.
                 Rev. Brenehley Kingsford, M.A.
                 Henry Francis Makms, Esq.
                 Reginald Heber Prance, Esq.
                 The Earl of Rosse, F.R.S.
                 The Hon. Captain Reginald Talbot, M.P.
                 The Hon. Percy S. Wyndham, M.P.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      John Tyndall, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. was re-elected Professor of
Natural Philosophy.
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FROM
 Lord* of the Committee of Council on Education—Universal Catalogue of Works
      on Art. Vol.1. 4to. 1870.
 Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 99. 8vo. 1870.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal. No. 158. 8vo.
    Proceedings, 1869, No. 11. 1870, No. 2. 8vo.
 Breen, Hugh, Esq. (the Auttior)—Corrections of Bouvard's Elements of Jupiter and
       Saturn. (Greenwich Observations. 1868.)
 British Association for the Advancement of Science—Report of the Thirty-ninth
       Meeting at Exeter in 1869. 8vo. 1870.
 Chambers, O. F. Esq. F.B.A.S. M.R.I.—Rev. C. S. Grueber, Plea for the Con
       tinuance of Primitive and Cathelic Usages and Ornaments. (E 97) 8vo.
       1870.
    J. Wordsworth, Lectures Introductory to a History of the Latin Language and
       Literature. (E 97) 8vo. 1870.
    Rev. B. C. Malan, Divine Liturgy of the Armenian Church of S. Gregory the
       Illuminator, translated from the Armenian. (E 97) 8vo. 1870

154                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [May 9,
Chemical Society—Journal for April, 1870. 8yo.
Comitaio GeoJogico d'ltalia—Bolletino 3. 8vo. 1870.
Cracroft, Bernard, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)-Bank Dividend Chart. 1869-70.
Dempsey, J. Maurice, Esq. (the Editor)—Our Ooean Highways: a Condensed
     Universal Route Book. 8vo. 1870.
Editors—Academy for April, 1870. 4to.
  Artizan for April, 1870. 4to.
  Athenseum for April, 1870. 4to.
  Chemical News for April, 1870. 4to.
   Engineer for April, 1870. fol.
  Horological Journal for April, 1870. 8vo.
  Journal of Gas-Lighting for April, 1870. 4to.
  Mechanics' Magazine for April, 1870. 8vo.
   Nature for April, 1870. 4to.
  Pharmaceutical journal for April, 1870. 8vo.
  Photographic News for April, 1870. 4to.
   Practical Mechanics' Journal for April, 1870. 4to.
   Eevue des Cours Scientifiques et Litte'raires, April, 1870.
   Scientific Opinion for April, 1870. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal. Nos. 529, 530. 8vo. 1870.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch. Band XIX. No. 4. 8vo. 1869.
   Veruandlungen, 18G9. Nos. 14-18. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 102. 8vo. 1870.
Gladstone, J. H. Esq. Ph.D. F.RJS. M.R.I.—J. Miller, M.A. Christianum Organum.
      16mo. 1870.
Instilut Imperial de France, Academie des Sciences—Me'moires. Tomes 29, 32, 34,
      35. 4to. 1864-67.
   Me'moires par Divers Savants. Tomes 18, 19. 4to. 1865-68.
Jones, H. Bence, M.D. F.R.S. Hon. Sec. R.I. (the Author)—Ute and Letters of
      Faraday. 2nd edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 1870.
   Portrait of Professor Faraday (engraved from a Drawing by George Richmond,
         R.A., in 1852). 1870.
 London Corporation Library Committee—Analytical Indexes to Vols. II. and VIII.
      of tho ' Remembiancia,' 1593-1609; and 1613-1640. 8vo. 1870.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings. Jan. 1870. 8vo.
Meteorological Society—Proceedings, Nos. 47, 48. 8vo. 1870.
Musee Teyler, Haarlem—Archives. Vol. II. Fasc. 4. 4to. 1870.
National Education Union—Report of Congress at Manchester, Nos. 3, 4. 1869.
      8vo. 1869.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 216. 8vo. 1870.
Porter, J. H. Esq. (the Author)—The Sugar, Beet and Beot-root Sugar. (K 97)
      8vo. 1870.
Prettssische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Feb. 1870. 8vo.
Prussian Academy, lioyal—Monatsberichte, Jan. 1870. 8vo.
Royal Society of London— Proceedings, No. 118. 8vo. 1870.
   Philosophical Transactions for 18ti9, Vol. CLIX. Part 2. 4to. 1870.
Statistical Society--Journal, Vol. XXXIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1870.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      April, 1870. 8vo.
   Report of Rainfall Committee, 1868-69. 8vo. 1870.
Williams, C. J. B. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—The Case of tho late Earl St. Maur.
     (K97) 2nd edition. 8vo. 1870.

1870.]            Canon Moseley on the Descent of Glaciers.                  155
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 13, 1870.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.B.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
                 The Rev. Henry Moseley, M.A. F.BS.
                    CA50M OF RRUTOL ADD INSTIT. IMP. sO. PARIS 0ORHR8F.
                           On the Descent of Glaciers.
Glaciers do not take their origin in the highest Alpine regions. It
is not there that the snow chiefly falls, but on a belt girding them
below. This wide belt is divided herizontally into an upper and lower
part by the snow-line, at a height of from 3000 to 3300 yards. Above
that line snow always lies, and rain very rarely falls ; beneath the
snow-line the snow disappears every summer, and rains are abundant.
It is from this belt about the snow-line that the glaciers are seen
emerging. They lie like huge slugs along the descending valleys,
swelling themselves out to fill their channels where they are wide, and
thinning themselves to pass through the gorges and narrow places in
them. They seldom come down to a lower level than 1100 yards.
Between this level where they end and the snow-line, 3100 yards high,
where they begin, they traverse sometimes a very long space—lying
for the most part at a low pitch. The resemblance to a huge mollusk
is kept up in this, that they move with a strange slow motion, not alto
gether unlike that of such an animal. The parallel will be complete
if we conceive the mollusk to have its tail continually renewed as it
 withdraws it from under the snow-line, and its head continually
melted away as it thrusts it forward below the level of from 1000 to
 1400 yards. If we further imagine the steep sides of the valley
 through which the glacier descends to have similar but smaller glaciers
 crawling down them to the principal glacier, we shall understand
 what is meant by tributary or secondary glaciers, which are thus
placed in regard to the principal ones ; having a far greater pitch or
slope than they, and flowing into them like tributary streams to a
river. The slope of a principal glacier is often as little as 3°, and yet
it may move with a velocity of 24 inches a day. The slope of a
 tributary glacier is sometimes 50°, and it may not advance more than
4 or 5 inches a day at the most.* Masses of rock of different sizes,
from huge boulders to stones, are constantly broken by the frost from
the sides of the valley of the glacier, and are carried slowly down on its
     * The motion of the Glunberg, a tributary of the Aar glacier, inclined at 30°
 to 50°, was found by Desor to be 22 metres a-ycar, while that of the Aar glacier,
 inclined at 4°, was 77 metres.

156                       The Rev. Canon Moseley                [May 13,
back to the level where its head melts away, and there are deposited.
These are called moraines. They lie along the course of the glacier
in ridges protecting the ice beneath them from the sun's rays. That
ice does not therefore melt as the rest of the ice does, and so it forms
a ridge of ice. A moraine is therefore a ridge of stones standing on a
ridge of ice.
    The descent of a glacier is not a descent of the whole together, or
bodily like that of a block of stone. There is an internal descent of
every particle in the glacier over and alongside of every other particle.
If a plane section be imagined to be made across it, the particles of ice
passing through that cross-section at any given time must be conceived
to be all moving at different rates so as to be sliding over and besido
one another ; the particles at the surface moving faster than those
below, and the particles near the centre moving faster than those
at a distance from it, exactly as the particles of a stream of water
move.
    The existence of this differential motion is strikingly seen in
what is called the veined structure of glaciers. This veined structure
appears first to have been described by M. Guyot, in the year 1838.
The following is his account of it, as he saw it on the glacier of Gries,
which I translate from the work of M. Huber :—
    "I saw under my feet the entire surface of the glacier covered with
furrows an inch or two wide cut in snowy ice, and separated from one
another by ridges of harder and more transparent ice. It was evident
that the mass of the glacier was here formed of these two different
kinds of ice : the former (that of the furrows) was white and melted
more rapidly ; the other (that of the ridges) was more perfect, crystal
lized, transparent, and hard. The unequal resistance to melting of
these two kinds of ice was the obvious cause of these depressions and
elevations. After having followed them for several hundreds of
metres I reached a crevasse 20 or 30 feet wide, which, cutting the
furrows at right angles, exhibited down to the depth of 30 or 40 feet
an admirable transverse section of this structure. As far as my eye
could reach I saw the mass of the glacier composed of layers of the
[opaque] white ice separated from one another by layers of the trans
parent ice, the whole forming a mass as regularly stratified as certain
calcareous rocks." This is the veined structure of glaciers.
    [Canon Moseley's remarks on the differential motion of glaciers,
with special reference to the observations and experiments of Forbes
and Tyndall, illustrated by diagrams, will be found in the ' Philoso
phical Magazine' for April, 1870.]
    The effect of the differential motion in separating and distributing
the parts of a glacier has been shown in various ways. The remains
of the guides lost in 1820 in Dr. Hamel's attempt to ascend Mont
Blanc were found imbedded in the ice of the Glacier des Bossons in
1863. " The men and their things were torn to pieces and widely
separated, many feet. All around them the ice was covered in every
direction for 20 or 30 feet with the hair of one knapsack, spread over

 1870.]                  on the Descent of Glaciers.                   157
 an area three or four hundred times greater than that of the knap
 sack. This," says Mr. Cowell, from whose paper read before the
Alpine Club in April, 1864, I have made the quotation, " is not an
isolated example of the scattering that takes place in or on a glacier ;
for I have myself seen on the Glacier of Theodule the remains of the
syndic of Val Tournache scattered over a space of several acres."
     Whatever the force may be which causes the descent of glaciers, it
must be chiefly expended in this constant displacement of the particles
of the ice over one another and alongside one another, of which the
veined structure affords the evidence, and to which is opposed every
where that force of resistance which is called shearing force. By the
property of ice called regelation, when any surface of ice so sheared
is brought into contact with another similar surface it unites with it, so
as to form of the two one continuous mass. This may be shown by
experiment. If a cylinder of ice be placed in an apparatus suitable
for the purpose and slowly sheared partly across, the new surfaces
continually being brought in contact with one another in the act of
shearing will not present the slightest appearance of separation, the
ice being there as continuous as elsewhere, its molecules entering into
precisely the same relations to one another in their new positions as
they did in the positions out of which they have been sheared. Thus
a slow displacement of shearing, by which different similar surfaces of
ice in a glacier were continually being brought into presence and
contact with one another, would exhibit all the phenomena of the
motion of glacier ice.
     The late Principal Forbes calculated that in the Aar glacier the
shearing displacement amounts to -[^ths of the whole displacement of
the glacier. The sliding displacement of the whole glacier bodily on
its bed is, in comparison with it, unimportant as it regards the expendi
ture of force requisite to bring it about. The differential motion is the
great and characteristic phenomenon of the descent of glaciers ; but it is
that, in assigning an adequate cause for which, existing glacier theories
seem to me most conspicuously to have failed.
     The Swiss philosopher De Saussure was the first to study the
descent of glaciers with care, and wrote on it about sixty years ago.
He held that glaciers slip down the slopes on which they rest by their
weight, just as other bodies slip down inclined planes. This explana
tion is simple, and was generally accepted as long as it was thought
that glaciers slipped down bodily like blocks of stone would, with an
equal motion of all their particles ; but when the internal motion of
their particles upon one another, like that of running water, came to
be discovered, and when it was found that the high-pitched tributary
glaciers moved slower than the low-pitched principal ones, this theory
was brought into doubt, for it was in direct contradiction to these facts.
     M. Rendu, the Bishop of Annecy, considered the descent of a
glacier to be so like that of a fluid that it was impossible to expluin it
otherwise than bj supposing ice actually to be a fluid and not the solid
thing it seems to be. He was the founder of the celebrated viscous

158                         Hie Rev. Canon Moseley                  [May 13,
theory of the descent of glaciers, advocated with such remarkable
energy, industry, and ability by the late Principal James Forbes,
whose various works on glaciers have exhausted the whole field of
observation and supply most of the facte on which the true solution
of the problem, whenever it is arrived at, must be founded. When,
however, at another stage of the inquiry, it came to be discovered by
Faraday and Tyndall that ice, when broken up, was capable of being
united again by sufficient pressure, so as to become as perfectly solid
and homogeneous as it was before, it became evident that supposing a
sufficient pressure to be exerted on the glacier, in the direction of its
descent, to crush its substance through the contractions and gorges of
its channel, and over the irregularities in its bed, it would re-form
itself and solidify, and become a compact mass again as it was before,
when it had passed these obstructions. This is the regelation theory.
     At this stage the question had assumed this new form—" If ice be
a viscous fluid, according to the viscous theory, is it fluid enough to
descend by its own weight; or, if it be a solid, according to the
regelation theory, is it little enough solid so to descend ? "
     If, instead of ice, a glacier were of water, it would obviously descend
by its weight. The same would be true if it were of oil, or soft mud,
 or quicksilver, or probably of pitch ; but if it were of iron, or of copper,
 or of lead, it would not descend by its weight only, unless, indeed, these
 metals were in a state of fusion. A quicksilver glacier would descend
 by its weight only because it shears easily ; a cast-iron one would not,
 because it shears with difficulty. There must, therefore, exist a relation
 between the shearing force and the weight of a given volume of a
 glacier, so that it may just descend by its weight only. Now, it is
 possible to investigate mathematically what that relation is.
     I have made that investigation.* I have founded it on this well-
 known law of mechanical philosophy, that " The aggregate work of
 the forces which produce the displacement of a body or a system
 of bodies (however related) must at least equal the aggregate work
 of the resistances which oppose that displacement."
     The resistances opposed to the displacement of a glacier are—
 lstly, Those which oppose themselves to the shearing of one surface
 of ice over another, which is continually taking place throughout tho
 whole mass by reason of the differential motion ; 2ndly, The friction
 of the superimposed laminte of ice upon one another, which is greater
 in the lower than the upper ; 3rdly, Abrasion of the ice on the bottom
 and sides of the channel of the glacier. If it descends by its weight
 only, then the work of its weight in its descent through any distance
 must at least equal the sum of the works of all these resistances. It
 is of course impossible to represent this relation mathematically in
 respect to an actual glacier having a variable direction and an irregu
 lar channel and slope ; but in respect to an imaginary one having a
 constant direction and a uniform channel and slope, it is possible. I
                             * 'Phil. Mag.,* May, 1860.

1870.]                   on the Descent of Glaciers.                       159
have made that calculation, and it results from it that the unit of shear
in ice (that is, the force necessary to make one square inch of ice shear
oyer another square inch) must not be more than 1 \ lb. that a glacier
may descend by its weight only. If the unit of shear in ice be moro
than that, then the glacier cannot descend by its weight only on a slope
like that of the Mcr de Glace. But it is a great deal more than that.
It requires from 60 lbs. to 120 lbs. to shear one square inch of ice over
another square inch. The ice of the Mer de Glace cannot therefore
descend by its weight only ; it does not shear easily enough. It must
be ice of about the consistency of soft putty to descend by its weight
only, for that substance shears with a pressure of from 1£ lb. to 3 lbs.
per square inch.
    Ice, therefore, if it be fluid, is not fluid enough, and if it be solid, it
is too solid to descend by its weight only. There must be some other
force to help it down besides its weight—certainly forty-five times
greater, and possibly ninety times. The imaginary case, to which
alone these calculations apply, differs indeed from the actual case of
a glacier in this respect, that it is straight and uniform. But if its
weight be insufficient to bring a glacier down a straight and uniform
channel, much more will it be so to bring it down a crooked and vari
able one. This result is directly opposed to the viscous theory and
to that known as the theory of regelation, both of which attribute the
descent of glaciers to their weight as the only cause. It reveals the
existence of some other force. What is it ?
     All Alpine travellers, from De Saussure to Forbes and Tyndall,
have borne testimony to the intensity of the solar radiation on the
surfaces of glaciers. " I scarcely ever," says Forbes, " remember to
have found the sun more piercing than at the Jardin." This heat
passes abruptly into a state of intense cold when any part of the glacier
falls into shadow by an alteration of the position of the sun, or even by
the passing over it of a cloud. Now the Mer de Glace moves faster
by day than by night. Its mean daily motion is twice as great during
the six summer as during the six winter months. The connection
between its rate of motion and the external temperaturo is most re
markable. It has been carefully observed, and the results as recorded
by Professor Forbes leave no doubt of the fact, that no change of ex
ternal mean temperaturo is unaccompanied by a corresponding change
of glacier motion. From this it follows that the two are either de
pendent on some common cause, or that the one set of changes stands in
the relation of a cause to the other. That both sets of phenomena—
the changes of the sun's heat, and the changes of glacier motion—sheuld
be due to some common independent cause, seems impossible. We
are forced therefore on the conclusion that one is caused by the other.
And as the changes in the glacier motion cannot cause the changes of
solar heat, it must be the changes of solar heat which cause the changes
of glacier motion. The sun is obviously master of the glacier. Nor
is this to be considered a startling or improbable conclusion. Heat is
but another form of mechanical power. This power is constantly

ICO                          The Bev. Canon Moseley                       [May 13,
streaming into the glacier ; for ice is dia-thermanous. It is readily
penetrable by luminous heat. This has been shewn by Tyndall, whe,
haying sent a beam of heat through a block of Wenham Lake ice, saw
its course starred by the dilatations of the ice. I have, moreover,
myself obtained an ice lens by causing ice to be turned in a lathe to
a spherical surface by means of a templet of iron. Through this lens
 the rays of the sun streamed in abundance, and were concentrated in
 its focus with such intensity as to burn the hand and instantly set fire
 to a match. There can be no doubt therefore that the rays of the sun,
 which in these Alpine regions are of such remarkable intensity, find
 their way into the depths of the glacier. They are a power, and there
is no such thing as the loss of power. The mechanical "work" which
 is their equivalent, and into which they are converted when received
 into the substance of a solid body, accumulates and stores itself up in
 the ice under the form of what we call elastic force, or tendency to
dilate, until it becomes sufficient to produce actual dilatation of the ice in
the direction in which the resistance is weakest, and by its withdrawal
to produce contraction. How much heat entering the surface of a glacier
 is necessary to this result has been made the subject of calculation.
Supposing the depth of the ice to be the same as that at the Tacul, its
motion at different depths that which Tyndall found it to be there, and
 its surface motion that which he measured lower on the Mer de Glace
at Les Fonts, and supposing the resistance to shearing of ice to be
75 lbs. per square inch ; then the mechanical work, which acting within
the mass is necessary to put the glacier in motion, as it actually moves,
 is 61£ units of work per square inch of the surface of the glacier per
day.* Now this quantity of work would be supplied by - 0635 heat-
unit entering the ice per square inch of surface per day and diffusing
itself through it, each heat-unit being the heat necessary to raise 1 lb.
water by 1° F. Far more than this heat probably passes the surface
and enters into the ice of a glacier on days such as that when the
motion was observed which serves as the basis of these calculations.
     But how docs this mechanical power, which thus streams continu
ally into a glacier when the sun shines on it, compel its descent ?
     The fact of the descent of a sheet of lead when placed upon the
inclined surface of a roof, hewever low the pitch, especially in summer,
has long been known ; I myself first observed it on the southern side
of the roof of the Choir of the Bristol Cathedral, in 1855. I have
verified it by the following experiment :—I fixed a deal board 9 feet
long and 5 inches broad to the southern wall of my heuse, so as to
form an inclined plane, and upon it I placed a sheet of lead, turning
its edges down over the side edges of the board, and taking care that
it sheuld not bind upon them, but be free to move with no other
obstruction than that which arose from its friction. Tho inclination
of the board was 18° 32', the thickness of the lead -J th of an inch, its
length 9 feet, and its weight 28 lbs. The lower end of the board was.
           * ' .Proceedings of the Royal Society,' January, 18C9, p. 207.

 1870.J                  on the Descent of Glaciers.                  161
brought opposite to a window, and a vernier was constructed, which
could be read from within, and by which the position of the lead upon
the board could be observed to the 100th of an inch. I began to
measure the descent of the lead on the 16th of February, 1858, and
recorded it every morning between seven and eight o'clock, and every
evening between six and seven o'clock, until the 28th of June. I have
preserved all these observations. In the night, between sunset and
sunrise, the lead scarcely descended at all. It was on days when the
thermometer in the sun varied its height rapidly and much—as on
bright days with cold winds, or when clouds were driven over the sun
—that the descent was greatest. So remarkably, indeed, was this the
case, that every cloud which shut off the sun for a time from the lead,
and every gust of wind which blow upon it in the sunshine, seemed
to bring it down a step. On such days it would descend from \ to
^ an inch. On the contrary, when the sky was open and clear, and the
heat advanced and receded uniformly, the descent was less, altheugh
the diflference of the extreme temperatures of day and night might be
greater. It was least of all on days of continuous rain. The sun was
 the obvious cause of the descent of the lead. It was master of the
lead, as it is of the glacier. A dilatation and contraction of it was
caused by the passage into it, and the withdrawal, of the sun's radiant
heat, and this dilatation and contraction of the lead caused it to
descend. Why it sheuld do so may be easily explained.
     Let AB, Fig. 1, be an elementary plate of the solid, and conceivo
it to be divided into an infinite number of equal elements by planes
perpendicular to its length. Let X be a point so taken in it that, if
it were divided in X, the thrust necessary to push the part X A up
the plane would equal that necessary to push X B down it. Let an
element at X be imagined to have its temperature so raised as just to
equal this thrust ; and let the temperatures of all the elements in X A,
beginning at X,be equally raised in succession. Each will thus be dilated
more than the one before it, because its dilatation will be opposed by a
less resistance ; and the displacement A A, of the extromity upwards
will equal the sum of theso several dilatations. In like manner,
                                   Fio. 1.
if the same temperature bo added to the elements of X B in succes
sion, beginning from X, oach will be dilated more than the one before
it, and the displacement B B, of the extremity B downwards will equal
the sum of those several dilatations. The point X will obviously be
     Vol. VI. (No. 63.)                                         m

  162                     Hie Rev. Canon Moseley                 [May 13,
  nearer to A than to B, because the same thrust of dilatation of the
  element at X would not be able to push so great a length of the bar
  up the plane as it would down it.
      In this state of the temperature of the plate, let a point X, be
  taken such that, if it were divided there, the strain necessary to pull
  the part X, A, down the plane would just equal that necessary to pull
  X! B, up it. Let the temperature of the element at X, be so dimi
  nished as by its contraction just to produce this strain, and let the
  temperatures of all the elements from X, to A, in succession be simi
  larly reduced. Each will contract more than the one before it, because
  a less resistance will be offered to its contraction ; and the displace
  ment A, A, of A, down the plane will equal the sum of these separate
  contractions. In the same way the displacement B, B, of B, up the
  plane will equal the sum of the separate contractions of the elements
  of X, B,. The point X, will be farther from A, than B, , because the
  same strain of contraction of an element at X, would pull a greater
 length of the bar down the plane than up it.
      It is by the dilatation of the greater length of the plate X B
 favoured by its weight that the extremity B is displaced down the
 plane when the temperature is raised ; whilst it is by the contraction
 of the less length X, B, against its weight that it is displaced up the
 plano when the temperature is lowered. The extremity B is therefore
 more displaced down the plane by a given raising of the temperature
 than it is displaced up it by a corresponding lowering. On the whele,
 therefore, the extremity B is made to descend the plane to B, by a given
 alternation of temperature. It is by the dilatation of the less length
 X A that the extremity A is displaced up the plane, and by the con
 traction of the greater length X< A, that it is displaced down the plane.
 It is therefore less displaced up by dilatation, than it is down by
 contraction, and on the whele it descends to A, by a given alternation of
 temperature. Both the extremities A and B of the plate are therefore
 made to descend when it is subjected to a given elevation and then to
 a corresponding depression of its temperature ; that is, the whole plate
 is made to descend from A B to A, B,.
     Now, the theory of the descent of glaciers, which I have ventured
to propose, is that they descend, as the lead in this experiment does,
by reason of the passage into them and the withdrawal of the sun's
rays, and that the dilatation and contraction of the ice so produced
is the proximate cause.
     There is no substance the dilatation or contraction of which, by
changes of temperature, is more theroughly and accurately known
than that of ice. Experiments were made upon it by three indepen
dent observers, at the observatory of Pultowa, in the winters of 1845
and 1846, between the temperatures of 0-9 B. and 28-82 R., from
which it resulted that ice is by far the most dilatable of all known
solid substances, being nearly twice as dilatable as lead. These
experiments have been described by Baron W. Struve, in the ' Trans
actions of the Academy of St. Petersburg.'

   1870.J                   on the Descent of Glaciers.                    163
.      The ice of a glacier behaves itself in its descent exactly as the lead
   did in my experiment.
       It has been argued in opposition to this theory that the tempera
   ture of the ice of glaciers is, by the observations of Agassiz, but very
   little below 32°, and that if radiant heat found its way into it, it would
   not expand, but melt it. To this there is the obvious answer tbat
   radiant heat does find its way into ice as a matter of common observa
   tion, and that it does not melt it, except at its surface, and therefore
   that it does dilate it. Blocks of ice may bo seen in the windows of
   ice shops with the sun shining full upon them, and melting nowhere
   but on their surfaces. And the experiment of the ice-lens shows that
   heat may stream through ice in abundance—of which a portion is
   necessarily stopped in the passage—without melting it, except on its
   surface. My theory supposes that the ice beneath the surface of a
   glacier is a solid. That is all.
        Being a solid, and receiving into its substance heat—that work—
   in great quantities, that work (by the principle of the conservation of
   force) cannot but be stored up in it, under the form of " potential
   energy," and wherever it is present, produce a tendency to dilatation.
   When that tendency takes effect, it is in the direction of the least resist
   ance to the dilatation of that part. It matters not whether the tem
   perature of the ice be below 32° or above it, provided only that the
   condition of solidity be satisfied. Being a solid, it cannot but dilate
   and contract under the variations of temperature to which it is sub
   jected ; and dilating and contracting, it cannot but descend. To show
   that the ice of a glacier does not dilate when heat is received into it,
   it would be necessary to show it not to be subject in this respect to
   a law common to all other solid bodies.
        Great alternations of temperature are not necessary to cause the
   motion of a glacier. A succession of small alternations produces the
   same effect as one great one. Their effect is cumulative. Alternations
   backwards and forwards, of 2° each, six times repeated, would carry
  the glacier (under certain assumed conditions) as far down as a single
  alternation of 12°.
        The observations of Agassiz on the temperature of the ice of the
  Aar glacier in 1841, 1842, were made in borings from 15 to 200 feet
  deep. Thermometers placed in these borings never fell below 0 • 3 C,
  although the external temperature descended at night to 5° or 6° C.
  Commonly they showed exactly zero.* Nothing can, however, be
  concluded from these experiments, because the thermometers were not
  frozen into the ice of the glacier, or the mouths of the borings so effec
  tually stopped as to prevent the access of air or the percolation of
  water from the disintegrated ice near the surface. The maintenance
  of a constant state of humidity in the air of the boring not being thus
  provided against, the included thermometer could not but remain at
  zero, however low might be the temperature of the surrounding ice.
                       • ' Bulletin <le Geneve,' torn. 44, p. 349.
                                                                   M 2

164              Canon Mosely on ike Descent of Glaciers.     [May 13,
For the water of the contained air freezing on the sides of the boring
(like hoar frost) would raise the temperature around the bulb, by the
latent heat set free in freezing, to zero, C. And the humidity of the
air being continually renewed, this process would always go on.
     " A thermometer is, in short, incapable of taking the temperature
of ice, unless that ice bo dry."* These are the words of that emi
nent man Principal Forbes in the last (I think) of his papers on the
subject of glaciers.
     On a Friday evening like this, eight years ago, another eminent
man, whose loss to science we all deplore, addressed the audience then
assembled here on the subject on which I have now been addressing
you. He possessed every accomplishment for the investigation of it,
and had studied it long and successfully ; he was versed in physics,
and was an able and original mathematician. 1 speak of Mr. William
Hopkins, whose name will always be held in honour by reason
of his many contributions to the science of glaciers, and especially
because of the explanation he first gave of the formation of crevasses.
In the introductory part of the discourse which Mr. Hopkins then
delivered he " insisted on the necessity of a more exact definition of
terms and more accurate modes of mathematical reasoning than those
which had up to that time characterized the discussion of glacial phe
nomena."
     That, on the necessity of which ho insisted and for which be
laboured, I also have laboured for. I have sought to bring the dis
cussion of glacial phenomena out of the wide region of scientific
opinion, and place it in that of exact science. That work is, however,
still far from being completed. Life, too, is short, and the power to
pursue studies such as these is sometimes shorter in duration than
life itself. But other workers are behind.
                                                            [H. M.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 20, 1870.
      Sib Henby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
              Professob Alexander Williamson, F.R.S.
                        PRESIDENT OF THE CHEMICAL SOCIETY,
                                   On Atoms.
                              [Abstract deferred.]
                     * Forbes, ' Phil. Mag.,' March, 1859.

   1870.J        Principal Dawson on Primitive Vegetatkni.           165
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 27, 1870.
        Warren De la Eue, Esq. Ph.D. F.E.S. Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                   J. W. Dawson, LL.D. F.E.S. &c.
                     PRINCIPAL OF M'GILL UNIVERSITY, MONTREAL,
                  On the Primitive Vegetation of the Earth.
 The existing flora of the earth is not primitive or primeval, but the
 last of a long series of dynasties of plants, extending from the oldest
 geological periods to the present time. Geology reveals to us several
 Tertiary floras, which perished before the modern period. These were
 preceded by the floras of the Mesozoic and theso by those of the Pa-
 lieozoic. Our attention will be directed this evening to the oldest of
the Palaeozoic floras, that of the Devonian and Upper Silurian periods.
     To understand this old flora, it will be necessary for us to glance
at the general divisions of the vegetable kingdom at present, and their
range in geological time. Modern plants admit of a twofold division,
into Phffinogamous or flowering plants, and Cryptogamous or flowerless
plants. The former have true seeds and fruits, the latter multiply by
minute spores. Each of these great groups admits for our present
purpose of a threefold division. Under Phtenogams we have (1) An-
giospermou8 Exogens, having stems with bark, wood and pith, and
beginning their existence with two cotyledons, or seed leaves. These
plants largely predominate among our trees, shrubs, and herbaceous
plants, especially in the temperate climates. (2) Endogens, destitute
of the divisions of the stem above mentioned, and beginning life with
one cotyledon. The Palms belong to this group, and also the Grasses.
(3) Gymnosperms, having exogenous stems, but with wood of more simple
structure than in the first group, and having the organs of fructifica
tion of very imperfect character. This group includes the Pines and
Cycads. Under Cryptogams we have also three divisions:— (1) Acro-
gens, the Ferns, Club-mosses, and Horse-tails. (2) Anopliytes, the
Mosses and their allies. (3) Thallophytes, the Lichens, Fungi, and
Sea-weeds.
     If we trace these forms of vegetation backward in geological time,
we find that some of them appear to be older than others. The true
Exogens, dominant in the modern time, continue to be so in the

1GG                        Principal Dawson                     [May 27,
Tertiary period ; and in this the Endogens also exist as at present.
As we pass backward in the Mesozoic, these two groups lose their
importance, and we reach what has been called the age of Gymno-
sperms—Pines and Cycads being predominant. At the same time we
lose from the other end of the scale the Anophytes. The Thallo-
phytes scarcely at all appear as fossils, except in the case of a few
Algae. Thus in the Mesozoic flora the lowest group of the Phaenogams
and the highest group of the Cryptogams meet together, and share the
world between them, almost to the exclusion of other groups.
     Passing bakcward into the Palaeozoic, the Cycads, which were plen
tiful in the Mesozoic, appear to fail us. We still find Conifers or Pine
trees and other Gymnosperms, and we have a strange and remarkable
development of the more humble Lycopodiaceous and Equisetaceous
plants, the Club-mosses and Horse-tails, into arboreal forms. This
condition of things exists in the Carboniferous period, in which our
great beds of coal were formed, and extends backward into the oldest
period in which we have a land flora. The Devonian thus belongs to
the age of Acrogens, theugh it is not destitute of other forms.
    My attention was first directed to these ancient plants by the dis
covery made many years ago by Sir W. E. Logan, that in the Gaspe
sandstones, belonging to this group, there are not only drifted frag
ments of plants, but others rooted in the beds of clay or shale which
evidently formed the soils in which they grew. On careful study the
plants most abundant in these root-beds proved to belong to a type of
vegetation previously unknown, and indicated by the restoration in
Fig. 1. The lower portion consists of a cord-like rhizoma or root-
stock, having a scalariform axis and a thick cellular bark. These
rhizomata fill the root-beds with a confused mat of long cords, giving
off numerous slender roots in every direction. In one case they have
accumulated to a sufficient extent to form a bed of coal of one or two
inches in thickness, the oldest known in America. The stems of
these plants, to which the name Psilvphyton princeps was given, are
slender and branching, and in certain states of preservation are sparsely
covered with shert, stiff, spine-like leaves. In other states they are
nearly smooth, with mere points instead of leaves. The young stems
terminate in crozier-like circinate curls, like these of young ferns,
and the fructification consists of oval sacs or spore-cases, borne grace
fully on slender bending stalks. The fruit of these plants reminds
the botanist of that of the modern Pillworts, but the stems are of more
complete organization, and equal in this respect to these of modern
Club-mosses. Such combinations of character are not unusual in fossil
plants, and illustrate what seems to be a general law, viz. that in
the older geological periods low forms of life were allowed to assume
characteristics subsequently limited to higher grades of being.
     The plants of the genus Psilophyton, of which there are several
species, probably grew on swampy flats liable to inundation. They
constitute the most characteristic and abundant members of the
Lower Devonian flora, and appear to have been equally abundant in

 1870.]                  on the Primitive Vegetation of the Earth.                                     167
 Europe as in America, though when occurring in fragments they have
 often been mistaken for Algae and for roots.
                                                   Fig. 1.
           Psilophyton princeps, the oldest known plant of America, restored.
 a, Fruit, natural size ; b, stem, natural stze ; c, Scalariform tissue of the axis, highly magnified. In
              the restoration, one Bide is represented in vernation, and the other in fruit.
     More distinctly allied to the modern Club-mosses were the Lepido-
dendra, Leptophlea, and similar plants of the Devonian, which may be
defined to be gigantic arborescent Club-mosses or Lycopodiums. These
also are widely diffused in the Devonian of all parts of the world; and
some of the genera, especially Lepidodendron, are still more abundant

168                          Principal Dawson                        [May 27,
and attain to greater dimensions in the Carboniferous period.            Fig. 2
represents a peculiar Devonian type, Leptophleum rJiombicum.
                                    Fig. 2.
       Leptophleum rhombicuio—A Lycopodinocous tree of the Devonian.
                       Portion of a brunch, natural size.
    Still another feature of this ancient vegetation was the occurrence
of dense brakes of Catamites, plants which wore exaggerations of the
modern Equisetums, attaining to a diameter of several inches, and to a
great height, and in some cases with strong and woody stems. The
Calainites of the Devonian much resemble these of the Carboniferous,
and two of the species are found also in the latter system. Probably
allied to the Calamites were the beautiful Star-leaves of the genus
Asterophyllites, which occur spread out on the Devonian shales of
St. John, New Brunswick, as if prepared by a careful botanist.
    The Ferns are among the most beautiful plants of the modern
world in point of foliage, and they are very ancient in regard to
geological time, making their appearance abundantly in the Middle
  Cychpttra Jacksoni—An American representative of C. Hibernians, natural size.

 1870.]          on the Primitive Vegetation of the Earth.            1C9
 Devonian. Of the Devonian species, few extend into the Car
 boniferous ; and some forms, like that of the well-known Cyclopteris
 (Archaopteris) Hibernicus of the Upper Devonian of Ireland, are quite
peculiar to that system. This type of ferns is represented in America
 by Cyclopteris Jacksoni and others, Fig. 3.
    There seems to have been in the Devonian a prevalence of forms
of ferns allied to the modern genera Hymenophyllum and Trichomanes.
There were also tree-ferns, large trunks of which, of the genera
Psaronius and Caulopteris, have been found by Professor Newberry in
Ohio, and by Professor Hall in New York. Those of the former
genus had the same habit found in the modern ferns, of sending out
masses of aerial roots which, stretching into the soil like cords, sup
ported the stem. In Scotland a small trunk, approaching to a tree-
fern, has been found. It is the Caulopteris Peachii of Salter.
    Of all the plants of the Palreozoie forests, the most singular are
the SigiUaria. The head-quarters of this genus, or family, are in the
Carboniferous, but several species occur in the Devonian, though they
are of comparatively small stature, as far as yet known. The Sigil-
1arise had tall slender stems, with vertical rows of narrow two-nerved
leaves, and their structures present remarkable points of resemblance
to those of modern Gymnosperms, though there is reason to suspect that
some trees included in the group may have been Cryptogams of high
organization. The Sigillarias were the trees most important in the
accumulation of coal in the Carboniferous ; but in tho Devonian we have
no evidence that their remains accumulated to so great an extent. In
the Lower Devonian especially, the rhizomata of Psilophyton appear
to take the place which the Stigmaria roots of Sigillaria hold in tho
Carboniferous.
     Bising still higher in the vegetable kingdom, we reach unquestion
able Gymnosperms in the pine-trees of the genus Dadoxyhn, whose
drifted trunks, preserved in stone by the infiltration of silicious or
calcareous matter, occur in the sandstones of New York, Ohio, and
New Brunswick, and also in Scotland and Germany. The most note
worthy point with reference to these trees is that, while specifically
distinct from those of the Carboniferous, they resemble them precisely
in the structure of the woody fibres, and more especially in the beau
tiful bordered pores of the cell-walls, a structure fitted to promote the
more free flow of the sap, and in which they agree with the fossil
Conifers of the coal-formation, and also with the modern Araucarian
pines of the southern hemisphere, but differ in detail from the modern
pines of the northern hemisphere.
     Pines of the Araucarian type are, as yet, limited in their down
ward range to the Middle Devonian. In the lower beds of the sys
tem wo find trunks of drifted trees in the sandstones, at first sight
resembling those of Dadoxylon ; but their microscopic structure is
quite different. They present a regular tissue of long cylindrical fibres,
 marked on their sides with irregular spiral lines, and very distinct
from those of modern Conifers, though their markings suggest the

 170                           Principal Dawson                     [May 27,
 spiral lines on the cells of the Yews, whence I have taken the name
 Prototaxites for these remarkable trunks. They have medullary rays
and regular lines of growth, and attained sometimes a diameter of
three feet. Unfortunately we know nothing of their foliage or fruit,
and can but suppose that they constitute a prototype of the coniferous
 trees, probably very different from any known in the modern world.
Fig. 4 represents a fragment of a trunk of this oldest known tree,
preserved by the infiltration of its tissues with silica.
                                    Pio. 4.
             Prototaxites Logani—Fragment of a trunk, much reduced.
     But for one little fragment, we should have been ignorant of the
existence in the Devonian of any higher type of tree than those above
mentioned. In Professor Hall's collections, however, from Eighteen-
Mile Creek, in Ohio, there is a small piece of wood mineralized in a
similar way with other specimens found at that place, and showing, in
addition to woody fibres and medullary rays, the largo tubes or ducts
characteristic of the modern angiospermous Exogens. No such wood
has as yet occurred in the Carboniferous ; and that it should be found
in the Devonian is a startling fact, from which many geologists may
be disposed to withhold their belief until it shall be confirmed by addi
tional specimens. In the meantime I must place this remarkable tree,
Syringozylon mirabile, in the list of Devonian plants. Nothing further
is known of it than the fragment of wood above mentioned. In accord
ance with the law already stated, it may admit of doubt whether its
flowers and fruit would bo of as high a typo of organization as the
wood, though it certainly must have ranked higher than the Gymno-
sperms.
     The plants above mentioned are but examples of the old Devonian
flora. It contains many other forms equally interesting to the geolo
gist and botanist ; but for these I must refer to my more extended
memoirs.
     In turning to the question whether any land flora comparable with
that of the Devonian existed in still older periods, wre may first con
sider the growth of our knowledge of the former, and its relation to

1870.J             on the Primitive Vegetation of the Earth.           171
that of the preceding Carboniferous period. Twenty years ago scarcely
anything was known even by these engaged in the study of vegetable
fossils, of land plants older than the great coal-formation. In 1860 Goep-
pert, in his memoir on the plants of the Silurian, Devonian, and Lower
Carboniferous rocks, mentions only one land plant, and this of very doubt
ful character, in the Lower Devonian ; in the Middle Devonian he know
but one species ; in the Upper Devonian he enumerated fifty-seven.
Most of these were European, but he included also such American
species as were known to him. My first paper on these plants was
published in 1859, and had not reached Goeppert when his memoir was
written. This, with other American facts, would have added ten or
twelve species to his list, some of them Lower Devonian. In the ten
years from 1860 to the present time, I havo been able to raise the
Devonian Flora of Eastern America to 121 species ; and reckening
that of Europe at half that number, we now have at least 180 species
of land plants from the Devonian, or perhaps about one-fifth of the
number known in the Carboniferous, whese fossil flora is so copious,
and has been so much longer known and so theroughly explored. The
Devonian flora includes about twenty-five of the more important
generic or sub-generic forms recognized in the Carboniferous, and about
the same number of forms not recognized in that system. Its species
are on the other hand almost whelly distinct from these of the Car
boniferous. The differences are, perhaps, chiefly such as might be
connected with the less amount and more varied surface of the land in
the earlier of the two periods.
     The flora of the Upper Silurian is at present nearly in the same
condition with that of the Middle and Lower Devonian ten years ago.
I know in the Upper Silurian of Canada only two species of Psilophyton,
both apparently identical with Devonian forms. In England, besides
the spore-cases (Pachytheca) from the Ludlow, there exist in the collec
tions of the Geological Survey fragments of wood and bark, which may
 indicate two or three additional species ; one of them having a micro
scopic structure similar to, if not identical with, that of Prototaxites.
In Germany three or four species are known in rocks of this age. All
of these appear to be Acrogens allied to Lycopodiaceae. That these
few species constitute the whele of the Upper Silurian flora we can
scarcely believe. They occur in marine formations, and were probably
drifted far from the somewhat limited land-surfaces of the period.
Could we approach more nearly to these sheres, or find the deposits
made by streams .flowing from them, we might hepe to find additional
plants, and judging from these that we know, these would resemble the
flora of the Lower Devonian.
     With the exception of some remains which I believe to be of very
doubtful character (the so-called Eophyton of Sweden and of Wales),
the Lower Silurian has as yet afforded no remains of land plants ; and
in North America at least, where we have in this herizon the wide
shallow sand-flats of the Potsdam sandstone, we might have expected
to find some drift trees, had such existed. Still the search is not hepe

  172          Principal Dawson on Primitive Vegetation.            [May 27,
 less ; and the estuary of some stream flowing from the ancient Lauren-
 tian land, may still retain for us the plants of the Lower Silurian.
      Lastly, for reasons stated in a paper lately published in the Proceed
 ings of the Geological Society, I believe that the immense deposits of
 graphite in the Laurentian of Canada, represent carbon of vegetable
 origin, and probably in part produced by land plants, as yet wholly
 unknown to us in any other way. As the Palaeozoic was the age of
 Acrogens, the Laurentian may have been that of Anophytes and Thal-
lophytes. Its forests may have consisted of gigantic mosses and lichens,
towering to the height of trees, and presenting us with a phase of vege
table existence bearing the same relation to that of the Palieozoic
which the latter does to that of more modern periods. But there is
another and more startling possibility : that the Laurentian may have
been a period when vegetable life culminated on the earth, and existed
in its most complete and grandest forms, in advance of the time when
it was to be brought into subordination to the higher life of the animal.
These are questions the solution of which belongs to the geology of the
future.
     To the modern naturalist, vegetable life, with regard to its uses, is
the great accumulator of pabulum for tho sustenance of the higher
forms of vital energy manifested in the animal. In the Palasozoic this
consideration sinks in importance. In the Coal period we know few
land animals, and these not vegetable feedors, with the exception of
some insects, millepedes, and snails. But tho Carboniferous forests
did not live in vain, if their only use was to store up the light and heat
of those old summers in the form of coal, and to remove the excess of
carbonic acid from the atmosphere. In tho Devonian period even these
utilities fail, for coal does not seem to have been accumulated to any
great extent, and the petroleum of the Devonian appears to have been
produced from marine vegetation. A few insects are the only known
tenants of the Devonian land, and these are of kinds whose larva? pro
bably lived in water, and were not dependent on land plants. We may
have much yet to learn of the animal life of tho Devonian ; but for the
present the great plan of vegetable nature goes beyond our measures
of utility ; and there remains only what is perhaps the most wonderful
and suggestive correlation of all, namely, that our minds are able to
trace in these perished organisms structures similar to those of modern
plants, and thus to reproduce in imagination the forms and habits of
growth of living things which so long preceded us on the earth.
                                                               [J. W.D.J

 1870.]      Professor Max Midler on the Migration of Fables.                  173
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.
                             Friday, June 3, 1870.
       Sib Henby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                                  in the Chair.
                          Max Mulleb, M.A. LL.D.
                    PROFESSOR OF COMPARATIVE PHILOLOGY, OXFORD,
                         On the Migration of Fables.*
Pbofessob Max Mulleb began his discourse by tracing the proverb,
" Count not your chickens before they be hatched," back to La Fon
taine's fable, " La Laitiere et le Pot au Lait," in which Perrette,
carrying a milk- pail on her head, indulges in day-dreams ; succes
sively buying chickens, a pig, and a calf, from the profits of the sale
of her milk, but losing all by the fall of her pail, through her imitat
ing the kicking of the calf. This fable was first published, in 1678,
in the second volume of La Fontaine's fables, and in the preface to
that volume the poet states that he owes the largest portion of the
subjects of his new fables to Pilpay, the Indian sage. The Professor
then showed how rich the ancient literature of India was in fables,
and how important a part they occupied in the sacred literature of
Buddhism. In the ' PanAatantra ' (literally Pentateuch), a collection
of Sanskrit fables, a story occurs of a Brahman who had saved a
quantity of rice, which he kept in a jar suspended on a peg in the
wall. Lying on a couch he began to dream how he would sell the
rice and buy goats, sell them and buy cows, sell them and buy buf
faloes, sell them and buy horses, and so on, till he hod built a house
and married a wife. Ho saw in his dream how his son is playing
about ; and as his wife allows the child to come too near the horse's
hoofs, he gets very angry and trys to kick her. While he dreams, he
actually kicks, and the jar of rice is smashed to pieces. The collec
tion of fables in which this story occurs was translated from Sanskrit
into Pehlevi (ancient Persian) in the time of Nushirvan, the King of
Persia, a.d. 531-579, and afterwards translated from Persian into
Arabic by Abdallah-ibn-Almokaffa, who lived at the court of the
Chalif Almansur, 754-75. This Arabic version became the source of
numerous translations into Greek, Hebrew, modern Persian, Latin,
Spanish, and other languages which spread over Europe during the
Middle Ages, and made most of the fables of the ' Panfcatantra,'
familiar as household words in the literary centres of the West.
After reading other forms of this fable, the Professor stated that the
    * This discourse is printed in erienso in the ' Contemporary Review ' for July,
1870.

174                      General Montldy Meeting.              [June 6,
change of the Brahman with his pot of rice into the milkmaid with
her pot of milk took place in the thirteenth century, and was that
adopted by La Fontaine. He then described more minutely the
ramifications of this cluster of Indian fables in their progress from
East to West, pointing out some other channels through which such
tales as the stories of Sindbad reached the literary market of Europe.
In conclusion, he showed that even a Father of the Church had exer
cised an important influence in importing Eastern fables into Europe.
Joannes Damascenus lived at the court of the same Chalif Almansur
for whom Abdallah-ibn-Almokaffa had translated the fables from
Pehlevi into Arabic. In a religious novel, called ' Barlaam and
Josaphat,' Joannes not only introduced a number of Eastern fables,
but actually took his principal hero, Josaphat, from the 'Lalita-
Vistara,' the life of the Buddha, or " Enlightened," a portion of the
sacred canon of the Buddhists. That the story of Barlaam is, in its
most striking points, a mere repetition of the story of the Buddha the
Professor proved by quoting many names; and, finally, he drew
attention to the fact that Josaphat, the hero of the story of Joannes
Damascenus, had been raised to the rank of a saint both in the Eastern
and Western Churches. " What follows, then ?" the Professor asked.
" It follows that Buddha has become a saint in the Romish Church ;
it follows that, though under a different name, the sage of Kapila-
vastu, the founder of a religion which, in the purity of its morals, is
nearer to Christianity than any other religion, and counts even now,
after an existence of 2400 years, 455,000,000 of believers, has re
ceived the highest honours which the Christian Church can bestow.
And whatever we may think of the sanctity of saints, let those who
doubt the right of Buddha to a place among the saints read the
story of his life, as told in the Buddhist canon. If he lived the life
which is there described, few saints have a better claim to that title
than Buddha ; and no one, either in the Greek or in the Roman
Church, need be ashamed of having paid to his memory the honour
which was intended for St. Josaphat, the Prince, the hermit, and the
Baint-"                                                      [M. M.]
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, June 6, 1870.
       Sir Henby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
                Miss Conway Griffiths.
                Hugh Martin Macpherson, Esq. F.R.C.S.
                William O. Priestley, M.D. F.R.C.P.
                Henry Sutherland, Esq. M.B.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.

  1870.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                          175
      The special thanks of the Members were returned for the fol
  lowing Donations to " the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
  Researches " :—
           T. Williams Helps, Esq. (5th Donation)                     £10
           Erasmus A. Darwin, Esq. 2nd Donation)            ..    ..    25
            Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. (12th Annual Donation)        40
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
           FEOM
 The Count of Paris and the Duke of Chartres—Campagnes de l'Armee d'Afrique
      1835-39, par le Due d'Orleans, publie par ses Fils. 8vo. Paris. 1870.
 Anonymous—La Le'gitimite' en Espagne : par H. de Lazeu. (K 97) 8vo. 1870.
 Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 158. 8vo.
   Proceedings, 1870, No. 3. 8vo.
 British Architects, Boyal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1869-70, No. 9. 4to.
 British Museum Trustees—Catalogues of Sea Pens. 8vo. 1870.
 Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1870. 8vo.
 Editors—Academy for May, 1870. 4to.
   Artizan for May, 1870. 4to.
   Athenjenm for May, 1 870. 4to.
   Chemical News for May, 1870. 4to.
   Engineer for May, 1870. fol.
   Horological Journal for May, 1870. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for May, 1870. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for May, 1870. 8vo.
   Nature for May, 1870. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for May, 1870. 8vo.
   Photographic News for May, 1870. 4to.
   Bevue des Cours Scientiflques et Litteraires. May, 1870. 4to.
   Scientific Opinion. May, 1870. 4to.
Jablonowski'schen Society, Leipsic—Preisschriften, XV. With Plates. 4to. 1870.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 48, 53. 8vo. 1870.
Meteorological Society—Proceedings, No. 49. 8vo. 1870.
North of England Institute of Mining Engineers—Transactions. Vols. XVII.
      XVIII. 8vo. 18G7-9.
Photographic Society—Journal. No. 217. 8vo. 1870.
Prussian Academy, Royal—Monatsberichte, Marz, April, 1870. 1870. 8vo.
Royal Irish Academy—Transactions: Science, Parts 9—15; Polite Literature,
      Part 4 ; Antiquities, Part 8. 4to. 1869-70.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 119. 8vo. 1870.
Samuel, Messrs.—Wool and Woollen Manufactures of Great Britain. 8vo. 1859.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      May, 1870. 8vo.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal, Leipsic—Abhandlungen. 3 Parts. 4to. 1809.
      Berichte : 1867. Nos. 3, 4. 1868. 1869. No. 1. 8vo.
 T. Twining, Esq. M.R.I, {the Author)—Science for the People ; a Memorandum.
      8vo. 1870.
 United Service Institution, Royal- Journal, No. 57. 8vo. 1870.
 Van der Menbrugghe, C. (the Author)—Sur la Viscosite" superficielle des Lames de
      la Solution de Saponine. 8vo. 1870.
Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. VII. Parts 1, 2. 4to. 1870.
   Proceedings for 1869. Parts 2, 3. 8vo.

  176                           Professor Odling                      [June 10,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, June 10, 1870.
   Sir H. Holland, Bt. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President, in the Chair.
                      William Odlino, M.B. F.R.S.
                FULLRRIAN PROFKSSOR OF CHRMISTRY, ROYAL IXSTI rUTION.
                 On the Ammonia Compounds of Platinum.
 For nearly a century past ammonia gas, discovered by Priestley in
 1774, has been a subject of extreme interest to chemists. This
 ammonia gas, HjN, is especially characterized by its property of
 uniting directly with hydrochloric acid gas, HC1, to form a solid
 deposit of sal-ammoniac, or hydrochloride of ammonia, HSN . HC1.
     In several important particulars, sal-ammoniac presents a remark
 able similarity of behaviour to chloride of potassium ; and, by linking
 together the hydrogen of its acid with its ammonia so as to form the
 grouping HjN . H or H4N, it may be regarded as the chloride of a
 composite metal ammonium, just as potassium chloride is the chloride
 of the simple metal potassium ; thus : —
                           (H,N.H)Cl               KC1
     Ordinarily, when potassium chloride is subjected to the action of
 a weak current, no potassium, but only potash, makes its appearance
 at the negative pole ; but if the negative pole be constituted of a
 drop of mercury, the electrolytically-liberated potassium remains dis
 solved in the mercury as potassium-amalgam K,Hgy. Similarly,
 when solution of sal-ammoniac is subjected to electrolysis, the nega
tive pole being constituted of mercury, there is produced a bulky
amalgam of ammonium (HjN.H),Hg>; which, hewever, when no
longer under the influence of the current, speedily breaks up into
ammonia, hydrogen, and mercury. Ammonium-amalgam may further
be produced on a large scale by the action of potassium-amalgam or
sodium-amalgam on sal-ammoniac solution, thus :—
         x(H,N.H)Cl + K,Hg„ = xKCl + (H.N.H^Hg,
     Another characteristic property of ammonia gas is its extreme solu
bility in water. By its dissolution it furnishes a liquid having many
of the properties of aqueous potash, as, for example, the properties of
affecting test-paper, of neutralizing acids, and of precipitating metallic
salts. And just as sal-ammoniac may be regarded as a chloride of
ammonium, analogous to chloride of potassium, so may aqueous am
monia be regarded as a hydrate of ammonium analogous to hydrate of
potassium, thus : —
                         (H.N.H)HO                KHO
But whereas chlorido of ammonium, analogous to chloride of potas
sium, constitutes a definite body, —hydrate of ammonium, analogous
to hydrate of potassium, has an inferential existence only. It is

1870.J           on the Ammonia Compounds of Platinum.                 177
inferred to exist in solution from the reactions of the solution ; but,
under all attempts at extraction, it breaks up into ammonia gas and
water, thus :—
             (H,N.H)HO or H,N.H,0           =   H,N   +    H.0
    But by far the most interesting circumstance with regard to am
monia is its property, so remarkably developed by Hofmann, of
serving as a type from which compounds of the most varied character
are derivable by substitution. Just, for example, as the hydrocarbon
residue, or radical, ethyl C8Hj, can replace the hydrogen of hydro
chloric acid to form ethylic chloride CSH5 . CI, so can it also replace
the hydrogen of ammonia to form ethylamine C,HS.H,N. This
ethylamine constitutes a very volatile liquid, vaporizing considerably
even at ordinary temperatures. Its vapour closely resembles ammonia
gas, but is distinguishable therefrom by its ready inflammability.
Like ammonia, ethylamine combines directly with hydrochloric acid
to form ethylamine sal-ammoniac, or hydrochloride of ethylamine
CjH5 H,N . HC1. Like ammonia, also, ethylamine is extremely solu
ble in water ; and its solution, like that of ammonia, behaves in many
respects as a definite hydrate C2H5 HSN . H,0, not obtainable, how
ever, in the isolated state, but, like hydrate of ammonia, known only
in the state of solution.
     There exist, moreover, derivatives of ammonia in which a portion
of its hydrogen is replaced, not by a monad, but by a diad residuo or
radical. Just, for example, as diad ethyleno, C,H4, replaces the hy
drogen of two units of hydrochloric acid to form ethylenic chloride,
C,rL . Clt, so can it also replace, in part, the hydrogen of two units of
ammonia to form ethylenamine, C,H4(H^N), or (C,H4)"H4N,. This
double ammonia unites with two units of hydrochloric acid to form
the definite hydrochloride, C,H4(HaN), . 2HC1, and with two units
of water to form the equally definite, stable, isolable, volatile, crys-
tallizable hydrate CaH4(H,N), . 2H,0.
     The hydrochloride and non-isolable hydrate of ethylamine being
compared with the chloride and hydrate of the monad alkali-metal
potassium, the hydrochloride and isolable hydrate of ethylenamine
are similarly comparable with the chloride and hydrate of the diad
alkali-metal barium, thus :—
    K'Cl      {C,H3(H,N)H} 'CI           Ba"Cl,      { C,H4(H,N), } "01,
    K"HO {C,H4(H,N)H j'HO                Ba" (HO), j C,H/H,10, } " (HO),
And hydrate of ethylenamine agrees with hydrate of barium, as well
 in being a powerfully alkaline base, as in being de-hydrateable, not by
 the action of heat, but by indirect methods only.
     Through the further researches of Hofmann, chemists are ac
 quainted with ammonias and di-ammonias, in which, not only one-
 third, but two-thirds and three-thirds of the hydrogen are replaced
 by monad ethyl and diad ethylene respectively. With regard to
 these compounds, both in their properties and in the nature of the
     Vol. VI. (No 53.)                                             n

178                          Professor Odling                     [June 10,
hydrochlorides and hydrates which they furnish, di- and tri-ethyla-
mine correspond very closely to ethylamine—di- and tri-ethylenamine
very closely to ethylenamine.
                            Ethylamines.           Ethylenamine?.
             Mono- .. .. (C,H4)'HjN        ..      (C,H,)"H4N,
             Di-     .. .. (C,H5)',HN       ..    (C,H4)",H,N,
             Tri- .. .. (C,H,)',N           ..        (C,H,)",N,.
    Altheugh, in this way, the principal developments and ultimate
establishment of the idea of ammonia as a type have resulted from
investigations in organic chemistry, the idea itself appears to have
originated in the first instance from investigations made in mineral
chemistry ; and especially from the investigation of compounds formed
by the reaction of certain metallic salts and ammonia. Graham, indeed,
had early represented certain compounds of metallic chlorides with
ammonia as being metallicized sal-ammoniacs ; but the notion of
ammonia as a trihydric type, susceptible of three successive degrees
of substitution, was first enunciated by Laurent, and was employed by
that most original chemist to explain, among other matters, the con
stitution of different ammoniated compounds of platinum, discovered
by Magnus, Gros, and Reiset successively. These compounds he
represented as being salts of derived ammonias, in which different
proportions of the hydrogen of ammonia were replaced by platinum.
     Platinum is a moderately hard, pewter-coloured metal, possessed
of many singular properties. It was first recognized as a distinct
metal by Wood, an assayer of Jamaica, in 1741. The mode of
working it was discovered and practised by Wollaston early in
the present century, and described by him in the ' Philosophical
Transactions' for 1829. Platinum is especially characterized by its
high specific gravity ; by its low conductivity, dilateability, and
specific heat ; by its high ductility and tenacity ; by its facile divisi
bility and reducibility ; by its curious absorptivity of certain gases,
more especially hydrogen ; by its difficult attackability by chemical
agents ; and by its infusibility at the highest furnace heats. And by
each of these several properties, except perhaps its high specific gravity,
is it suited to some special application in the arts.
     Chemically, platinum is characterized by its high atomic weight,
 197 ; and by its formation of two well-defined chlorides,—a perchloride,
also known as platinic chloride, expressed by the formula Pt""Cl4,
and a protochloride, also known as platinous chloride, expressed by the
formula Pt"Clj. Platinic chloride occurs in crystalline, dark orange
masses, freely soluble in water. Platinous chloride forms an olive-
brown amorpheus powder, quite insoluble in water, but dissolving in
hydrochloric acid to form an ochre-coloured liquid. In 1828, the late
Professor Magnus, by supersaturating this liquid with ammonia, obtained
a remarkable compound, containing the elements of platinous chloride
and ammonia, and presenting itself as a dull green, usually crystalline,
precipitate. This notablo green precipitate has formed the subject of

1870.]             on the Ammonia Compounds of Platinum.                        179
frequent investigation from then till now ; and different views of its
constitution, from time to time, have been put forward. But no one
of these views has received a sufficiently general acceptance to warrant
the designation of the compound in accordance therewith ; so that,
from the period of its discovery down to the present day, it has ever
borne the honoured name of its discoverer, and been known as the
green salt of Magnus.
     Some time after, Gros, in 1838, by treating the salt of Magnus with
nitric acid, obtained a peculiar series of pale yellow, or colourless,
platin-ammonia compounds. Next, in 1840-44 et seq., Beiset and
Peyrone, by acting on the salt of Magnus, or on platinous chloride
itself, with ammonia, obtained, independently of each other, two addi
tional series of compounds, having relations of metamorphosis both
with one another and with the foregoing series of Gros. Then, in
1846, Eaewsky, by acting on the salt of Magnus with nitric acid,
obtained yet another series of compounds, differing from those furnished
to Gros by the same reagent.
     But the formula, attributed by Eaewsky to the salts which he had
just discovered, were inconsistent both with Laurent's view of ammonia
as a type, and with other views of chemical constitution which those
illustrious fellow-workers Laurent and Gerhardt shared in common.
Accordingly, Gerhardt, in 1848, subjected Raewsky's formulse,—not
withstanding their corroboration by a Committee of the Academy,—to
a most trenchant criticism ; and after supplementing his criticism by
laboratory research, published in 1850, his celebrated memoir " On the
Ammoniacal Compounds of Platinum." In this memoir he established
the existence of another, entirely new, series of platin-ammonia com
pounds ; he showed, by experiment, the simple relationship in which
the salts of Raewsky stand to the salts of Gros ; and he set forth a
complete, self-consistent scheme of viewing the several series of
platin-ammonia compounds in their relations to ammonia and to one
another.
     Since the publication of Gerhardt's memoir, further important con
tributions to the knowledge of platin-ammonia compounds have been
made by different chemists, especially by Buckton, Hadow, and
Thomsen. But neither before cor since has any complete general
scheme of the constitution of this class of bodies been put forward.
Nevertheless the scheme of Gerhardt, though always treated with
respect, has never met with general acceptation, and nowadays, at
any rate, is open to very serious objections.*
     The attention of the writer having of late been directed to the
study of these compounds, he has succeeded in differentiating the
simplest of the platinum sal-ammoniacs from several allied and iso
meric bodies with which it had before been confounded ; and in obtain-
    * Gerhardt's own base platinnmine, for instance, is represented by the cer
tainly improbable formula ptz HN or Pt'MIN, and its hydrochloride by the yet
more improbable formula pt2 HN . 2HC1 ; in which the unit of a mon-ammonia is
 represented as combined with two units of hydrochloric acid, and by which the entire
 chlorine of the salt is represented as fulfilling one and the same function.
                                                                         N 2

  180                           Professor Odling                    [June 10,
  ing from it the corresponding hydrated base of the series. He has
  also obtained some reactions of interest with bodies belonging to the
  more complex series ; and, as a general result of his inquiries, has
  ventured to put forward a new scheme of regarding the entire group
  of bodies. This scheme is based on the recognition of two principal
  facts or propositions :—
       1°. The different platin-ammonia compounds are produced in the
  first instance from platinous chloride PtCl"s ; and just as the plati
  num of this compound possesses the property of taking up two addi
  tional proportions of chlorine so as to furnish the platinic compound
  CLPtOl* or Pt""Cl4 , so also does the platinum of the different ammo-
  niated bodies obtained from platinous chloride possess the property of
  taking up two proportions of chlorine, or its equivalent of other
 negative radical, so as to furnish platinic compounds corresponding
  to the original platinous compounds respectively. Hence the division
  of platin-ammonia compounds into the two classes of platinous and
 platinic ; the compounds of the former, differing in constitution from
  these of the latter class, just as platinic differs from platinous chloride,
 by a direct fixation of chlorine.
      2°. The monad residue or radical amidogen H,N, is capable of
 becoming the monad radical ammon-amidogen HjN.HjN or H5NJ,
 just as the monad radical methyl HjC, is capable of becoming the
 monad radical methylen-methyl or ethyl HjC . HjC or HjCj.* View
 ing sal-ammoniac HjN.HC1 as the analogue of methylic chloride
 HjC HC1, the difference is noticeable, that while the ammonia both
 of sal-ammoniac and ammon-amidogen is easily separable, the methy-
 len both of methylic chloride and methylen-methyl is inseparable from
 the remaining constituents of the respective compounds. Hence the
 distinction between the two classes of amic and ammon-amic platinum
 compounds, the latter differing from the former by an actual addition
 of diad ammonia, much as ethylic differ from methylic compounds
 by a virtual addition of diad methylen. The parallelism is indicated
in the under-written formulae for methylic chloride and ethylic
chloride, sal-ammoniac and ammonio-chloride of silver, respectively :—
           H,CHCl        H,C)H          I       H.N.HCl       H4NiAg
                         H,C } CI                             HjN f CI
      The group of platin-ammonia compounds is thus divisible into
the two classes of platinous and platinic ; and each of these again into
the two classes of amic and ammon-amic compounds. To these four
classes must yet be added a fifth sub-class of di-platinic compounds,
including the nitrate-chloride of Raewsky and the subsequently-dis
covered nitrate of Gerhardt and chloride of Hadow. The scheme of
the constitution of the entire group, in accordance with the writer's
views, is exhibited in the accompanying table of the principal chloride,
hydrate, nitrate and nitrite compounds.
                         » 'Phil. Mag.,' 1869, p. 459.

1870.]              on the Ammonia Compounds of Platinum.                     181
                        PLATINUM BASES AND SALTS.
                                  Proposed Scheme.
                Platosamine.                      Amo-platosamine (Bciset's).
         Pt'XH.N), . 2HC1                            Pt"(H,N,), . 2HCl . Aq.
         Pt"(H,N), . 2H(HO)                          Pf'C^N,), . 2H(HO)
         Pt'^HjN), . 2H(NO,)                         Pt"(HsN,), . 2H(NO.)
         Platinamine (Gerhardt's).                 Amo-platinamine (Gros').
      Cl,Pt""(H,N)j. 2HC1                         Cl,Pt""(SsN,), . 2HC1
      Cl,Pt""(H,N), . 2H(HO) ?                    Cl,Pt""(H,N,), . 2H(NO.)
  (HO),Pt '"(IL.N), . 2H(HO)                  (HOXPt-'C^N,), . 2H(NO.)
       OPt""(H,N), . 2H(NO.) . 3Aq.?         (NO^PrXH.N,), . 2H(NO.)
  (NO,), Pf" (HJ*\ . 2H(NO.)                  (NO!),Pt""(HsN,)j . 2HC1
                                                Cl,OPt,""(H5N,)4 . 4HC1
   Amo-diplatinamine (Baewsky's, ftc.).         Cl,OPt,""(HsN,), . 4HNO, Aq.
                                            (NOJ),OPts""(H4Nj)4 . 4HNO, Aq.
                                    Platosamine.
      The hydrochloride is obtainable by direct action of platinous
  chloride Pf'd* on ammonia, just as ethylenamine hydrochloride is
 obtainable by direct action of ethylenic chloride (C,H4)"C1„ on am
 monia ; and, in both reactions, the two compounds are each accompa
 nied by various other products. The parallelism, in constitution and
 properties, of the two compounds and of their corresponding hydrates
 is complete :—
                  Pt"(HsN), . 2HCl             CjH^HjN), . 2HCl
                  Pt"(H,N), . 2H,0             CjH^HjN), . 2H,0
      Hydrochloride of platosamine, in its pure state, has a dull, very
 pale, primrose colour, approaching almost to white. It is very in
 soluble in cold, considerably more soluble in het water.* From its
 concentrated het solution it is usually deposited as a flocculent-looking,
 theugh really crystalline, or partly crystalline, precipitate ; and by
 slow cooling of the solution, it may be obtained whelly in the form of
 distinct needles. The base is obtained from the hydrochloride, through
 the intervention of the sulphate, by decomposing the latter with baryta
 water. It is extremely soluble in water, and readily crystallizable.
 It furnishes a solution manifesting a strongly alkaline reaction, libe
 rating ammonia from its salts, neutralizing acids, absorbing carbonic
acid from the air, and decomposing metallic salts—the precipitates
t hrown down being, hewever, for the most part double compounds.
    * The oranpre-yellow, scaly, far more soluble hydrochloride, obtained by dis
solving salt of Magnus in sulphate of ammonia solution, is a distinct compound.

182            Professor Odling on Ammonia Compounds.               [June 10,
     The base and other soluble platosamine compounds are charac
terized by giving with hydrochloric acid a precipitate of the hydro
chloride, which, when formed in this way, is almost always yellow
and crystalline. All platosamine compounds, including the hydro
chloride, exhibit the platinous property of absorbing chlorine, and
hence of decolourizing a mixture of hydrochloric acid and permanga
nate, to yield platinaminc compounds ; and they all, including the
hydrochloride, dissolve ya gently-heated ammonia, to yield their corre
sponding amo-platosaimno compounds.
                              Amo-platosamine.
     The hydrochloride of this series, unlike that of the preceding, is.
freely solublo in water. It is a beautiful salt, crystallizing usually
in a mass of interlaced lengthy needles. It is made by dissolving
platinous chloride, salt of Magnus, or the above platosamine hydro
chloride, in aqueous ammonia at a gentle heat. The hydrated base is
obtained from it, as is the preceding hydrated base from the preceding
hydrochloride. The so-produced hydrate corresponds in its general
properties with the above hydrate of platosamine, than which, hew
ever, it is far more powerfully alkaline. From different metallic salts
it throws down the respective metallic hydrates.
     Amo-platosamine salts, like these of platosamine, exhibit the pla
tinous property of decolourizing a mixture of hydrochloric acid and
permanganate, of directly absorbing chlorine or bromine, and also of
directly absorbing nitric peroxide, to furnish amo-platinic com
pounds.* The resulting amo-platinic chloro-chlorido occurs as a
pale yellow, the nitro-chloride as a pale green, and the nitro-nitrato as
a pale blue precipitate. Amo-platosamine is further distinguished
from platosamine by the freo solubility of its hydrochloride, and by
the reaction of this salt with platinous chloride solution to throw
down the green salt of Magnus.
                            Platinic Compounds. .
     The most characteristic of the salts of platinamine is the chloride
ClsPt""(Hj!N)J . 2HC1. It is best made by addition of permanganate,
in very slight excess, to a het solution of platosamine hydrochloride,
acidified with hydrochloric acid. It is a beautiful bright yellow salt,
dissolving sparingly in cold, moderately, theugh, on account of its
density, somewhat slowly, in boiling water ; and crystallizing readily
on cooling in isolated octahedrons or square plates. It reacts with
excess of ammonia, at a gentle heat, to form the insoluble chloride of
amo-platinamine. Its chlorine, like that of the amo-platinic chloride,
is evidently in two different conditions of attackability by reagents,
such as alkalies and silver salts. The hydrate of platinamine is ob-
    * The reaction of amo-platosamine cnmi>ounds with nitric peroxide was dis
covered by Hadow, but received from him a different interpretation.

 1870.]                  General Monthly Meeting.                      183
 tained from the hydrate-nitrate, by means of ammonia, as a neutral,
 almost insoluble, bright yellow, crystalline precipitate.
     The best known' salt of amo-platinamine is the chloro-nitrate
 CliPt""(N«H1), . 2HNO„ obtained by treating the salt of Magnus,
 or preferably the hydrochloride of amo-platosamine, with nitric acid.
 It is moderately soluble in water, and crystallizes therefrom in brilliant
 white flat prisms. Its chlorine is not immediately recognizable by
 nitrate of silver; and is only partially precipitable thereby, even after
 long boiling. Its solution yields, with ammonium chloride and sodium
 sulphate, crystalline white precipitates of the chloro-chloride and
 chloro-sulphate respectively.
     The most familiar salt of amo-diplatinamine is the chloroxy-nitrate
 Cl1OPt,""(HJN,)t. 4HN03.Aq. It is best made by boiling the
 chloro-nitrate or chloro-chloride of amo-platinamine with nitric acid
 and nitrate of silver. It presents considerable resemblance to the
 chloro-nitrate of amo-platinamine, but its solution is not disturbed
 either by sulphate of sodium or chloride of ammonium. It yields
 moreover, with platinous chloride solution, a moss-like coppery preci
 pitate which is highly characteristic (Hadow).
                                                                [W. 0.]
                  GENEEAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, July 4, 1870.
        Sir Roderick I. Mukchison, Bart. K.C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 Arthur Balfour, Esq.
                 James Davenport, M.D.
                 James Baumgardt Elmslio, Esq.
                 Captain Herbert P. De Kantzow, B.N.
 were elected Members of the Eoyal Institution.
     The Secretary announced the receipt of a Legacy of £2000 from
the late Alpred Davis, Esq. M.B.I, for the Promotion of Philoso
phical Besearches.
   Resolved, That the Members of the Boyal Institution cannot hear
of the munificence of their late fellow-member, Mr. Alfred Davis,
without expressing their admiration of the liberality of one, who not
only in his life gave large gifts to help the good works of Jews and
Christians, but by his will has continued his unrestricted benefactions
by many noble legacies.

184                         General Monthly Meeting.             [July 4, 1870.
    The Members have on various occasions given their special thanks
to Mr. Alfred Davis for his Donations to the Fund for the Promo
tion of Scientific Research, and the application of the interest of his
legacy to the same good object will yearly confer a fresh benefit upon
the Members of the Eoyal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
          FROM
Acadifmie Royale de Belgique—Bulletins, 2' aerie, Tomes XXVII. XXVIII. 8vo.
      1869. Almanach, 1870. 16mo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XX. Nob. 7, 8. 8vo. 1870.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal — Sitzungsbericbte, 1869. Band II.
      Heft 3, 4. 1870. Heft 1. 8vo.
Beauclerc, Major G. N.R.I, (the Author)—Observations on the Authenticity of a
      Portrait of Mary Queen of Scots. (K 98) 8vo. 1870.
Chemical Society—Journal for June, 1870. 8vo.
 Comitate- Geologico oVItalia—Bollettini, Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. Firenze, 1870.
Editors—Academy for June, 1870. 4to.
   American Journal of Science, May, 1870. 8vo.
   Artizan for June, 1870. 4to.
   Athenaeum for June, 1870. 4to.
   Chemical News for June, 1870. 4to.
   Engineering for June, 1870. fol.
   Horological Journal for June, 1870. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for June, 1870. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for June, 1870. 8vo.
    Nature for June, 1870. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1870. 8vo.
   Photographic News for June, 1870. 4to.
   Bevue des Cours Scientifiques et Litteraires. June, 1870. 4to.
   Scientific Opinion. June, 1870. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 531, 532. 8vo. 1869.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, 1870, No. 2. 8vo.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1870, No. 1. 8vo.
   Verhandlungen, 1870, No. 1. 8vo.
 Institut Imperial de France, Academic des Sciences—Memoires, Tome XXXVI.
      Tome XXXVII. 2« Partie. 4to. 1870.
Jones, H. Bence, M.D. F.R.S. Sec. R.I. — Eeport on Cattle Plague in Great
      Britain, 1865, 1866, and 1867. fol. 1868.
IAnnean Society—Proceedings, 1869-70. 8vo.
Rogers, N. M.D. {(he Author)—Bibliography. (K 91) 8vo. 1870.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      June, 1870. 8vo.
 Tyndall, Professor, LL.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Besearches on Diamagnetism and
      Magne-Crystellic Action. 8vo. 1870.
    Notes on Light. 8vo. 1870.

            ISogal Institution of <&vtat ©ritafn.
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, Nov. 7, 1870.
        Sir Hknry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
                  John Forbes, Esq. M.R.C.P. F.RC.S.
                  Themas Miller Rickman, Esq. F.S.A.
                  The Rev. Arthur Rigg, M.A.
                  Themas Taplin, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. : —
                        Bequeathed by the late Sir James South.
MS. Notes by Mr. Faradny. 5 vols. 4to.
     Notes of Lectures by Mr. Tatum at the City Philosophical Society. 1810-11.
          4 vols.
     Notes of Lectures by Sir Humphry Davy. 1 vol. 1812.
Mr. Faraday's Iron Ring, from which he obtained the first Magneto-electric Spark.
         Presented by Dr. A. J. Stephens, Q.C., Sir James South's Executor.
Mr. Faraday's First Electric Machine.
        FROM
Commissioners in Lunacy—24th Report. 8vo. 1870.
Academie Imperiale des Sciences de St. Fetersbourg—Memoires. VIIe Scrip, Tome
     XIV. Nos. 8, 9. Tome XV. Nos. 1-8. 4to. 1870.
  Bulletins, Tome XIV. Nos. 4, 5, 6. Tome XV. Nos. I, 2. 4to. 1870.
   .Tahresbericht dea Physikalischen Central-Observatoriums fiir 1869. 4to. 1870.
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 81. 8vo. 1870.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Second Series, No. 12. 8vo. 1870.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. VIII. Nos. 1-17. 8vo.
     1868-9.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 82. 8vo. 1869.
American Academy of Natural Sciences—Proceedings, 1869. 8vo.
American Association for Oie Advancement of Science—Proceedings, 1868. 8vo.
  1869.
Anonymous—Ambition's Dream. A Poem. (O 13) 16mo. 1870.
   Vol. VI. (No. 54.)                                                     o

186                          General Monthly Meeting.                     [Nov. 7,
Antiquaries, Society of—Archasologia, Vol. XLII. No. 2. 4to. 1870.
   Proceedings, Vol. IV. No. 8. 8vo. 1870.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Nos. 100, 161, 162. 8vo. 1870.
   Proceedings, 1870, Nos. 4, 5, 6, 7. 8vo.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal—Sitzungsberichto. 1870. Hefte 2, 3. 8vo.
Bombiy Geographical Society—Transactions Vol. XIX. Part 1. 8vo. 1870.
Boston Society of Natural II story, U.S.—Proceedings, Vol. XII. Nos. 18-25.
      Vol. XIII. Nos. 1-14. 8vo. 1869.
   A. fioul 1, Iuvertebrata of Massachussetts. 8vo. 1870.
British Architects, Royal Inntitute of—.Sessional Papers, 1809-70. No. 13. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Fishes, Vol. VIII. 8vo. 1870.
   Guides to Autograph Letters, Minerals, and Exhibition Rooms. 8vo. 1870.
   Catalogue of Lithopliytes. 8vo. 1870.
   Supplement to Catalogue of Shield Reptiles. 4to. 1870.
Chemical Society—Journal for July-Oct. 1870. Svo.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. III. 1870.
 Comitate Geologico cVItalia—Bollettino, No. 6. 8vo. Firenze, 1870.
Davis, Sir John F. Bart. K.C.B. F.R S. (the AtUhof)—The Poetry of the Chinese.
      4to. 1870.
Editors—American Journal of Science, July, Aug. 1870. Svo.
   Artizan for July to Oct. 1870. 4to.
   Athenaeum for July to Oct. 1870. 4to.
   Chemical News for July to Oct. 1870. 4to.
   Engineer for July to Oct. 1870. fol.
   Food Journal for Aug. 1870.
   Horolosrical Journal for July to Oct. 1870. 8to.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for July to Oct. 1870. 4to.
   Quarterly Journal of Science for Oct. 1870. 8vo.
   Mechanics' Magazine for July to Oct. 1870. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for July to Oct. 1870. 8vo.
   Photographic News for July to Oct. 1870. 4to.
Essex Institute, U.S.— Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 1. 8vo. 1870.
   Bulletin, Vol. I. 8vo. 1869.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 533, 534, 535, 536. 8vo. 1870.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Homes, Fossilen-Mollusken. II. 9, 10. fol.
       iH70.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal. No. 103, 104. 8vo. 1870.
Harris, G. Esq. F.S.A. (the Author)—Theory of the Arts; or, Art in relation to
      Nature, Civilization, and Man. 2 vols. 8vo. 1869.
Iluddersfield Archieological Association—Yorkshire Archaeological Journal, Part III.
       8vo. 1870.
Hull, H. M. Esq. (the A uthor)—Tasmania in 1870. (O 14) 16mo. 1870.
Institution of Civil Engineers—Minutes of Proceedings, Vols. XXIX. XXX. 8vo.
      1870.
Ladd, Mr. Wm.—T. Sprat, History of the Royal Society of London. (With the
      rare print by W. Hollar.) 4to. 1677.
Linnean Society—Transactions, Vol. XXVI. Part 4. Vol. XXVII. Parts 1, 2.
      4to. 1870.
   Proceedings, Nos. 49, 54, 55. Svo. 1870.
Lubbock, Sir John, Bart. M.P. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Autlior)-T\ie Origin of Civili
      zation and the Primitive Condition of Man. 8vo. 1870.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, April and Aug.
       Part I. 1870. 8vo.
 Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. VI. No. 6. Svo. 1870.
    Mcdico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. LIU. 8vo. 1870.
 Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Report, Jan.-March, 1869. 4to. 1870.
 Meteorohgical Society—Proceedings. No. 50. 8vo. 1870.
 Murchison, Sir R. I. Bart, (the Author)— Address to the Geographical Section
      of tho British Association. 8vo. 1870.

    1870.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                       187
    Muste Teyler, Harlem—Archives, Vol. III. Vase. 1. 8vo. 1370.
    Photographic Society—Journal. No. 219. 8vo. 1870.
    Preussische Akadeuiie der Wissenscltaften—Monatsberichte, Mai-July, 1870. 8vo.
    Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 120, 121, 122. 8vo. 1870.
   Smithsonian Institution, U.S.—Annual Re[>ort, 18(58. 8vo. 1860.
      Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XVI. 4to. 1870.
      Smithsonian Miscellaneous Colle'tions, Vols. VIII. IX. 8vo. 1309.
   Sociele* Hollaudaise des Sciences, Harlem—Archives Ne'erlandaises des Sciences.
         Tome V. Liv. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1870.
      Verhandelingon. Tome I. Liv. 1, 2. 4to. 1870.
   Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXIII. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1870.
   St. Bartholomew's Hospital, the Treasurer—Hospitil Eeporis, Vol. VI. 8vo. 1870.
   Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Autlior)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
        July-Oct. 1870. 8vo.
   Tyndall, Professor, LL.D. FS.S.—Faraday und seine Entleekungen, von J.
        Tyndall. Uebersetzung herausgegeben durch II. Helmholtz. 8vo. Braun
        schweig, 1870.
   United Service Institution, Iioyal—Journal. Nos. 58, 59, GO. 8vo. 1870.
   Yereins zur BefSrderung des Gevoerbfleisses inPreussen—Verhandlungen, Juli-Dez.
        1369: und Beilage, 4to.
   Victoria Institute—Journal, Vol. IV. No. 16. 8vo. 1870.
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                Monday, Dec. 5, 1870.
  William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treas. R.S. Treasurer and
                            Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  John Colebrook, Esq. M.R.C.S.
                  Lieut. William Cecil Henry Doraville, R.N.
                  Dyce Duckworth, M.D. F.R.C.P.
                  Miss Millicent Bence Jones.
                  William Berkeley Monck, Esq.
                  Thomas Sydney Smyth, Esq.
                  Rev. Charles Frederick Stovin.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
       Lecture Arrangements for the ensuing Season :—
 Prof. Odlino, M.P>. F.K.S —Six Lectures, adapted to a Juvenile Auditory, On
       Burning and Unburning, on December 27, 29, 31, 1870 ; January 3, 5, 7,
       1871.
                                  Before Easter, 1871.
Prof. Michael Foster, M.D. F.L.S.—Eleven Lectures, On the Nutrition of
       Animals, on Tuesdays, January 17 to March 28.
Prof. Odlino, F.K.S.—Eleven Lectures, On Davy's Discoveries in Chemistry, on
      Thursdays. January 19 to March 30.
Rev. W. H. Channing, M.A.—Four Lectures, On the Laws of Human Life as
      revealed in History, on Saturdays, January 21 to February 11.
                                                                      oa

188                           General Montldy Meeting.             [Dec. 5, 1870.
Prof. Jowett, M.A. Master of Balliol College, Oxford.—Three Lectures, On
      Socrates, on Saturdays, February 18, 25, and March 4.
H. O'Neil, Esq. B.A.—Four Lectures, On the Spirit of the Age, on Saturdays'
      March 11 to April 1.
                                  After Easter, 1871.
William Penoelly, Esq. F.E.S.—Three Lectures, On the Geology of Devonshire,
       and especially of the New Bed Sandstone System, on Tuesdays, April lsi,
       25, and May 2.
Charles Brooke, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.E.S.—Two Lectures, On Force and Energy,
       on Tuesdays, May 9 and 16.
Bev. Prof. Hauohton, M.D. F.B.S.— Three Lectures, On the Principle of Least
       Action in Nature, illustrated by Animal Mechanics, on Tuesdays, May 23, 30,
       and June 6.
Prof. Ttndall, LL.D. F.E.S.—Eight Lectures, On Sound, on Thursdays, April 20
       to June 8.
 Joseph Norman Lockter, Esq. F.B.S.—Eight Lectures, On the Instruments
       used in Modern Astronomy, on Saturdays, April 22 to June 10.
      The Presents received since tho last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :
           FROM
 Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal—Sitzungsberichte. 1870. Heft. 4. 8vo.
 British Architect*, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1870-71, Nos. 1, 2. 4to.
 British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Prints and Drawings. Division I. Satires.
        Vol. L 1320-1689. 8vo. 1870.
    Hand-List of Birds. Part 2. 8vo. 1870.
 Chemical Society—Journal for Nov. 1870 8vo.
 Davies. Lieut. J. A. S. AT. R.A. M.R.I, (the Author}—On the Possibility of
        " Making Turret-ships Sea-going Vessels." (L 15) 8vo. 1870.
 Devonshire Association—Report and Transactions, Vol. IV. Part 1. 8vo. 1870.
 Editors—Artizan for Nov. 1870. 4to.
     Athenajum for Nov. 1870. 4to.
     Chemical News for Nov. 1870. 4to.
     Engineer for Nov. 1870. fol.
     Horological Journal for Nov. 1870. 8vo.
    Journal of Gas-Lighting for Nov. 1870. 4to.
     Mechanics' Magazine for Nov. 1870. 8vo.
     Pharmaceutical Journal for Nov. 1870. 8vo.
     Photographic News for Nov. 1870. 4to.
 Institution of Civil Engineers—Education and Status of Civil Engineers. 8vo.
        1870.
 Medical and Chirurgical Society. Royal—Additions to Library. No. 13. 8vo. 1870.
  Military Official, A—The British Army and its Beservus. (I, 15) 8vo. 1870.
  Royal Society—Greenwich Observations. 1868. 4to. 1870.
     Catalogue of Scientific Papers, 1800-63. Vol. IV. 4to. 1870.
     Proceedings, No. 123. 8vo. 1870.
  Royal Society of Literature—Transactions, 2nd Scries, Vol. LX. Part 3. 8vo. 1870.
 Symons, O. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
        Nov. 1870. 8vo.
  Tyndall, Professor, LL.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Essays on the Use and Limit of
         tho Imagination in Science. 8vo. 1870.
   Vereinn zur BefBnlervng des Geicerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Jan.-
        Aug. 1870. 4 to.

                                   1871.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, January 20, 1871.
     Sib Hknby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.K.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                    John Tyndall, Esq. LL.D. F.K.S.
             PKOFKSaOU OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY IN THE BOTAL INSTITUTION,
    On the Colour of Water, and on the Scattering of Light in Water
                                  and in Air.
                           The Method of Research.
By the term " scattering " employed in the title of this discourse
I intend to denote the irregular reflexion of light from particles me
chanically suspended in water or in air. Such particles, you know,
reveal themselves along the track of a beam of light when it passes
through a dark room. Such a beam, wide at some parts and power
fully concentrated at others, is now beforo you, the space it occupies
being accurately revealed by the floating motes. We can abolish this
scattering either by the withdrawal of the light or by the destruction
of the floating matter. I partially intercept this beam ; the spaco
corresponding to the intercepted portion is dark, because there no
light is scattered. I destroy the matter by burning it, and spaces of
darkness immediately appear where a moment ago we had myriads of
shining motes. These experiments are familiar to most of you. To
see these effects aright, it is necessary that the eye should receive
light from the floating dust alone, which is thus differentiated, as
philosophers say, from the unilluminated space around it. This point
is easily illustrated by means of the sun-burners which illuminate this
room. When the gas is turned on the track of the beam sinks in
brilliancy ; when the gas is turned off tho strength of the beam is
augmented.
                         The Oran Eclipse Expedition.
    During the last two or three years I have been looking much at
illuminated dust, and from what I have heard or read of that halo or
glory called the corona, which is seen around the sun during total
eclipses, I thought it might be caused by a kind of solar dust, cast
possibly into space by the enormous agitations and explosions to which

 l'JO                          Professor Tyndall                [Jim. 20,
the sun's phetosphere is known to be subject. Theughts of this kind
-— and they were not the only ones —made me wish to see the corona,
and I therefore availed myself of the permission courteously granted
me to accompany the Eclipse Erpedition to Oran. Every member of
the expedition was, I believe, perfectly prepared through previous
discipline to do his duty efficiently, and if the party was defeated it
certainly was not through any misdeeds of its own.
      From the roof of the bastionet on which I had placed the excellent
instrument lent to me by my friend, Mr. Warren de la Hue, I wit
nessed a very striking effect, which connects itself with this subject of
the scattering of light. When all hepe had vanished, and the darkness
was obviously falling towards totality, I abandoned the telescope and
looked towards a distant ridge, where I knew the darkness would first
appear. At this time a vast fan of beams, issuing from the hidden
sun, covered all the southern sky. These beams, as you know, are
alternations of light and shadow, produced by cloudlets of various
 degrees of density, floating in illuminated haze. The beams are really
 parallel, but by the effect of perspective they appear divergent, like a
 fan. Tho darkness took possession of the ridge to which I have re
 ferred, and immediately afterwards passed over the region of the beams,
 blotting them out as if a sponge had been passed over them. It then
 took possession of three successive patches of blue sky in the south
 eastern heaven. I again looked towards the ridge where the darkness
 first appeared. A glimmer like a dawn was behind it, and immedi
 ately afterwards the fan of beams, which had been for two minutes
 obscured, revived in all its strength and splendour. The eclipso was
 ended, we had been defeated, and nothing remained but to strangle
 disappointment by taking up other work.
                         The Colours of Sea Water.
      The colour of the sea had long interested me, and on my way out
 I collected a number of bottles of water, with a view to subsequent
examination. But my bottles were claret bottles, and I could by no
 means feel sure of their purity. At Gibraltar, therefore, I purchased
fifteen white glass bottles, with ground-glass stoppers, and at Cadiz,
 on my return, I secured a dozen more. These seven-and-twenty
 bottles were filled with water, taken at different places along the line
 between Algeria and Spithcad.
      And here it is most fit that I sheuld express my acknowledgments
 to Cuptain Henderson, the commander of H.M.S. ' Urgent,' whe aided
 me in my observations in every possible way. Indeed, my thanks
 are due to all the officers for their unfailing courtesy and help. The
captain placed at my disposal his own coxswain, a handsome intelligent
fellow named Therogood, whe skilfully attached a curd to each bottle,
 weighted it with lead, cast it into the sea, and after three successive
 rinsings, filled it under my own eyes. The contact of jugs, buckets,
 and other vessels, was thus avoided, and even the necessity of pouring
 the water out afterwards through the dirty London air.

 1871.]                 on the Colour of Water.                        191
     The process of examination to which these hottlcs were subjected
after my return to London is in some sense complementary to that of
the microscope, and may, I think, materially aid inquiries conducted
 with that instrument. In microscopic examination attention is directed
 to a small portion of the liquid, and the aim is to detect the individual
 suspended particles. By the method I pursued, a large portion of the
 liquid is illuminated, its general condition being revealed, through
 the light scattered by suspended particles. Care is taken to defend
 the eye from the access of all other light, and thus defended, it be
 comes an organ of inconceivable delicacy. Were the water perfectly
 free from matter, in a state of mechanical suspension, it would, in my
 opinion, scatter no light at all. The track of a luminous beam could
 not, I think, be seen in such water. But an amount of impurity so
infinitesimal as to be scarcely expressible in numbers, and the indi
 vidual particles of which are so small as wholly to eludo the micro
scope, may, when examined by the method alluded to, produce not
 only sensible but striking effects upon the eye.
     For the sake of sparing time, let us direct our attention to these
nineteen bottles, filled at various places between Gibraltar and Spit-
head. The results of the examination of the water in these nineteen
bottles are tabulated before you. We have first threo specimens of
water, described as green, a clearer green, and bright green, taken in
Gibraltar Harbour, at a point two miles from the harbour, and off
Cabreta Point. What does the home examination reveal about these
waters ? It says that the first was thick with suspended matter, the
second less thick, and the third still less thick. The green brightened
as the suspended matter became less. We now pass suddenly into
indigo water. What change does the home examination here reveal ?
The water becomes suddenly augmented in purity, for the suspended
matter has become suddenly less. Off Tarifa, the deep indigo dis
appears, and the sea is undecided in colour. Accompanying this
change, we have a rise in the quantity of suspended matter. Beyond
Tarifa, we change to cobalt-blue, the suspended matter falling at the
same time in quantity. This water is distinctly purer than the green.
We approach Cadiz, and at twelve miles from the city get into yellow-
green water ; this the London examination shows to be thick with
suspended matter. The same is true of Cadiz Harbour, and also of a
point fourteen miles from Cadiz in the homeward direction. Here
there is a sudden change from yellow-green to a bright emerald green,
and accompanying the change a sudden fall in the quantity of sus
pended matter. Between Cape St. Mary and Cape St. Vincent the water
changes to tho deepest indigo. In point of purity, this indigo water is
shown by home examination to transcend the emerald -green water.
    We now reach the remarkable group of rocks called tho Burlings,
and find the water between the shore and the rocks a strong green ;
the home examination shows it to be thick with fine matter. Fifteen
or twenty miles beyond the Burlings we come again into indigo water,
from which the suspended matter has in great part disappeared. Off

192                            Professor Tyndall                       [Jan. 20,
Cape Finisterro, about the place where the ' Captain ' went down, the
water becomes green, and the heme examination pronounces it to be
thicker. Then wo enter the Bay of Biscay, where the indigo resumes
its powers, and where the heme examination shews the greatly aug
mented purity of the water. A second specimen of water taken from
the Bay of Biscay held in suspension fine particles of a peculiar kind ;
the size of them was such as to render the water richly iridescent. It
shewed itself green, blue, or salmon colour, according to the direction
of the line of vision. Looked at obliquely from the light the water
was blue. Finally, we come to our last two bottles, the one taken
opposite St. Catherine's Lightheuse, in the Isle of Wight, the other at
Spithead. The sea at both these places was green, and both speci
mens, as might be expected, were pronounced by the heme examination
to be thick with suspended matter.
     Two distinct series of observations have been thus brought before
you, the one consisting of direct observations of the colour of the sea,
conducted during the voyage from Gibraltar to Portsmouth ; the other
conducted in our laboratory below stairs. And here it is to be noted
that in the heme examination I never knew what water I had in my
hands. The labels, which had written upon them the names of the
localities, had been tied up as you see them here, all information regard
ing the source of the water being thus precluded. The bottles were
simply numbered, and not till all the waters had been examined did I
open the labels, and ascertain the locality and sea colours correspond
ing to the various specimens. I must, therefore, have been perfectly
unbiassed in my home observations, and they establish beyond a doubt
the association of the green colour of sea water with fine suspended
matter, and the association of the ultramarine colour, and more espe
cially of the black indigo hue of sea water, with the comparative
absence of such suspended matter.
                    The Causes of the Colours of the Sea.
     Lot us clear our way by a few experiments towards an explanation
of the dark hue of the deep ocean.* Colour, you know, resides in
white light, appearing generally when any constituent of the white
light is withdrawn. Here is a liquid which colours a beam sent
through it purple, and this colour is immediately accounted for by
the action of the solution on a spectrum. It cuts out the yellow and
green, and allows red and blue to pass through. The blending of
these two colours produces the purple. Does the liquid allow abso
lutely free passage to the rod and blue ? No. It enfeebles the whole
    * A note written to mo the 22nd of October, by my friend Canon Kingsley,
contains the following reference to this point :—" I have never seen the Lake of
fieneva, but I thought of the brilliant, dazzling dark blue of the mid Atlantic
under the sunlight, and its black blue under cloud, both so solid that one might
leap off tlm spuusoii on to it without fear; this was to mo the most wonderful
thing which I saw on my voyage to and from the West Indies."—J. T.

1871.]                  on the Colour of the Sea.                    193
spectrum, but attacks with special energy the yellow and green colours.
By increasing the thickness of the stratum traversed by the beam, we
cut off the whele of the spectrum. Through the deeper layer, which
I now place in the path of the beam, no colour can pass. Here, again,
is a blue liquid. Why is it blue ? Its action on the spectrum answers
the question. It first extinguishes the red ; then as the thickness
augments it attacks the orange, yellow, and green in succession ; the
blue alone finally remains, but everything might be extinguished by a
sufficient depth of the liquid.
     And now we aro prepared for a concentrated but tolerably com
plete statement of the action of sea water upon light, to which it owes
its blackness. Here is our spectrum. This embraces three classes of
rays—the thermal, the visual, and the chemical. These divisions
overlap each other ; the thermal rays aro in part visual, the visual
rays in part chemical, and vice versa. The vast body of thermal rays
is here beyond the red and invisible. They are attacked with exceed
ing energy by water. They are absorbed close to the surface of
the sea, and are the great agents in evaporation. At the same time
the whele spectrum suffers enfeeblement ; water attacks all its rays,
but with different degrees of energy. Of the visual rays the red are
attacked first, and first extinguished. While the red is extinguished,
the remaining colours are enfeebled. As the solar beam plunges
deeper into the sea, orange follows red, yellow follows orange, green
follows yellow, and the various shades of blue, where the water is deep
enough, follow green. Absolute extinction of the solar beam would be
the consequence if the water were deep and uniform, and contained no
suspended matter. Such water would be as black as ink. A reflected
glimmer of ordinary light would reach us from its surface, as it would
from the surface of actual ink ; but no light, hence no colour, would
reach us from the body of the water. In very clear and very deep sea
water this condition is approximately fulfilled, and hence the extra
ordinary darkness of such water. The indigo, to which I have already
referred, is, I believe, to be ascribed in part to the suspended matter,
which is never absent, even in the purest natural water, and in part to
the slight reflexion of the light from the limiting surfaces of strata of
different densities. A modicum of light is thus thrown back to the
eye, before the depth necessary to absolute extinction has been
attained. An effect precisely similar occurs under the moraines of the
Swiss glaciers. The ice here is exceptionally compact, and owing to
the absence of the internal scattering common in bubbled ice, the light
plunges into the mass, is extinguished, and the perfectly clear ice
presents an appearance of pitchy blackness.
     The green colour of the sea when it contains matter in a state of
 mechanical suspension has now to be accounted for ; and here, again,
 let us fall back upon the sure basis of experiment. This white plate
 was once a complete dinnor-plate, very thick and strong. It is, you
 see, surrounded securely by cord, and to it a lead weight is fastened.
 Forty or fifty yards of strong hempen line wore attached to the plate.

1U4                          Professor Tyndall                 [Jan. 20,
With it in his hand, my assistant, Therogood, occupied a boat fastened
as usual to the davits of the ' Urgent,' while I occupied a second boat
nearer to the stern of the ship. He cast the plate as a mariner heaves
the lead, and by the time it had reached me, it had sunk a considerable
depth in the water. In all cases the hue of this plate was green, not,
of course, a pure green, but a mixture of green and blue ; and when
the sea was of the darkest indigo, the green was the most vivid and
pronounced. I could notice the gradual deepening of the colour as
the plate sank, but at its greatest depth in indigo water the colour was
still a blue green.
     Other observations confirmed this one. The ' Urgent ' is a screw
steamer, and right over the blades of the screw there was an orifice
called the screw-well, through which you could look from the poop
down upon the screw. The surface glimmer which so pesters the eye
was here in a great measure removed. Midway down a plank crossed
the screw-well from side to side, and on this I used to place myself to
observe the action of the screw underneath. The eye was rendered
sensitive by the moderation of the light ; and still further to remove
all disturbing causes, Lieutenant Walton had the great kindness to
have a sail and tarpaulin thrown over the mouth of the well. Under
neath this I perched myself, and watched the screw. In an indigo
sea the play of colours was indescribably beautiful, and the contrast
between the water which had the screw-blades for a background, and
that which had the bottom of the ocean as a background, was extra
ordinary. The one was of the most brilliant green, the other of the
most lustrous ultramarine. The surface of the water above the screw-
blade was always ruffled. Liquid lenses were thus formed, by which
the coloured light was withdrawn from some places and concentrated
upon others. The screw-blades in this case replaced the plate in the
former case, and there were other instances of a similar kind. The
hue from an indigo sea was always green at a certain depth below the
surface. The white bellies of the porpoises shewed the same hue,
varying iu intensity as the creatures swung to and fro between the
surface and the deeper wator. In a rough sea the light which had
penetrated the summit of a wave sometimes reached the eye. A beau
tiful green cap was thus placed upon the wave when the ship was in
indigo water.
     But how is this colour to be connected with the suspended par
ticles ? Take the dinner-plate which shewed so brilliant a green when
thrown into indigo water. Suppose it to diminish in size until it
reached an almost microscopic magnitude. It would still behave sub
stantially as the larger plate, sending to the eye its modicum of green
light, if the plate, instead of being a large coherent mass, were
ground to a powder sufficiently fine, and in this condition diffused
through the clear sea water, it would send green to the eye. In fact,
the suspended particles which the homo examination revealed in green
sea water act in all essential particulars like the plate, or like the
screw-blades, or like the foam, or like the bellies of the porpoises.

1871.J                    on Drinking-water.                         195
Wlien too gross, or in too great quantity, the suspended particles
thicken the sea itself visibly. But when sufficiently small, but not too
small, and when sufficiently diffused, they do not sensibly interfere
with the limpid greenness of the sea itself. They then require the
stronger and more delicate test of the concentrated luminous beam to
reveal their presence.
                  Suspended Particles in Drinking-icater.
    The method employed here, and which is one of extreme simpli
city, may be extended. It may of course be applied to tho examina
tion of ordinary water, and when this is done unexpected results aro
sometimes obtained. Here, for instance, is a bottle of water intended
to quench the lecturer's thirst, and it would be well for the lecturer
not to scrutinize it too closely. In the track of the beam of light it
simply reveals itself as dirty water. So you see that we are invaded
with dirt not only in the air we breathe, but in the water we drink.
And this water is no worse than the other London waters. Thanks to
the kindness of Professor Frankland, I have been furnished with spe
cimens of the water of eight London companies. They are all laden
with impurities mechanically suspended. But you will ask whether
filtering will not remove the suspended matter ? The grosser matter,
undoubtedly, but not the more finely-divided matter. Here is water
which has been passed four times through a filter of bibulous paper,
but it is still laden with fine matter. Hero, also, is a bottle kindly
lent me by Mr. Lipscomb, and passed once through his charcoal filter.
But the track of the beam through it is more luminous than through
air, because the quantity of matter suspended in the water is greater
than what is suspended in air. Hero is another specimen courteously
sent to mc by the Silicated Carbon Company. All the grosser matter
has been removed, but it is thick with fine matter. Nine-tenths of
the light scattered by these particles is perfectly polarized in a direc
tion at right angles to the beam, and this release of the particles from
the ordinary law of polarization is a demonstration of their smallness.
I should say by far the greater number of the particles concerned in
this scattering are wholly beyond the range of the microscope. They
are so small that I do not think that any filter can intercept them. I
do not want to frighten you in any way, for our drinking-water may
be harmless—it may be only nasty. There is an resthetic pleasure in
the drinking of a glass of cold sparkling water, and I fear these expe
riments will destroy this pleasure if you ever enjoyed it. And it is
next to impossible by artificial means to produce a pure water. Mr.
Hartley, for example, some time ago distilled water while it was sur
rounded by hydrogen, but the water was not free from floating matter.
Here is a specimen obtained from the combustion of water in air, tho
aqueous vapour being condensed by the polished surface of a chilled
silver basin. When shaken up it is full of fluff and particles, coarse
and fine. It is so hard to be clean in the midst of dirt. Here, how
ever, is an approach to pure water. It is from the Lake of Geneva,

196                           Professor Tyndall                 [Jan. 20,
and the bottle was carefully filled for mo by my distinguished friend
Soret. The water has remained quiet for a good while, and its purity
is in part to be ascribed to the subsidence of the particles. The track
of the beam through it is of a delicate sky-blue ; there is scarcely a
trace of grosser matter.
    The purest water that I have obtained—probably the purest which
has been seen hitherto—has been obtained from the fusion of selected
specimens of ice. But extraordinary precautions are required to
obtain this degree of purity. Hero is an apparatus devised and con
structed by Mr. Cottrell for this purpose. Through the plate of an
air pump passes the shank of a large funnel, attached to which below
the plate is a series of glass bulbs. In the funnel is placed a block of
the most transparent ice, and over the funnel is a glass receiver. This
is first exhausted and refilled several times with air, which has been
filtered by its passage through cotton wool, the ice being thus sur
rounded by absolutely pure moteless air. But the ico has previously
beon in contact with mote-filled air ; it is therefore necessary to let it
wash its own face, and wash the bulb which is to receive the water of
liquefaction. The ice is permitted to melt, the bulb is filled several
times and emptied several times, until finally the large block dwindles
to a small one. We may bo sure that all impurity has been thus
removed from the surface of the ice. These two bulbs contain water
obtained in this way, the purity of which is the maximum hitherto
attained. Still I sheuld hesitate to call the water absolutely pure.
When the concentrated beam is sent through it the track of the beam
is not invisible, but of the most exquisitely delicate blue. This blue
is purer than that of the sky, so the matter which produces it must bo
finer than that of the sky. Looked at perpendicularly to the beam the
blue may bo quite quenched by a Nicol's prism. It may be, and
indeed has been, contended that this blue is scattered by the very mole
cules of the water, and not by matter suspended in it. But when we
remember that this perfection of blue is approached gradually through
stages of less perfect blue, and when we remember that a blue in all
respects similar is demonstrably obtainable from particles mechani
cally suspended, we sheuld hesitate, I think, to conclude that we have
arrived here at the last stage of purification. The evidence, I think,
points distinctly to the conclusion that could we push the process of
purification still farther, even this last delicate trace of blue would
disappear.
    Dr. Bence Jonos proposed to me a few days ago to express nume
rically the degrees of impurity arising from mechanical suspension.
This ice water might bo called the standard, or " 1," all higher degrees
of impurity being marked by higher numbers. Such a methed would
undoubtedly give distinctness to our language in speaking of water.
But my aim is to point out a means of extreme simplicity by which
microscopic examination may be powerfully aided and supplemented.
Five minutes' inspection of a water in this way will teach you more
regarding the quantity of impurity than whole days spent with the

1871.]                    on Drinking-water.                         197
microscope. The microscope is rightly employed in determining
the character of the individual particles which are revealed en masse
by the luminous beam.
                   Drinking-water from Chalk Districts.
     But is it not possible to match the water of the Lake of Geneva
here in England ? Undoubtedly it is. We have in England a kind
of rock which constitutes at once an exceedingly clean recipient and a
natural filter of extraordinary efficacy, and from which we can obtain
water extremely free from mechanical impurities. I refer to the chalk
formation, in which large quantities of water are held in store. Our
chalk hills are in most cases covered with thin layers of soil, and with
very scanty vegetation. Neither opposes much obstacle to the entry
of the rain into the chalk, where any organic impurity which the water
may carry in is soon oxidized and rendered harmless. Those who
have scampered like myself over the downs of Hants and Wilts will
remember the scarcity of water in those regions. In fact, the rain
fall, instead of washing the surface and collecting in streams, sinks
into the fissured chalk and percolates through it, and when this forma
tion is suitably tapped we obtain water of exceeding briskness and
purity. Here is a large globe filled with the water of a well near
Tring. It is wonderfully free from mechanical impurity ; indeed, it
stands to reason that water wholly withdrawn from surface contami
nation and percolating through so clean a substance should be pure.
Sending a beam through this glass of water its purity is conspicuous ;
you see the track of the beam, but it is not the thick and muddy
track revealed in London waters. It has been a subject much debated
whether the supply of excellent water which the chalk holds in store
could not be rendered available for London. Many of the most emi
nent engineers and chemists have ardently recommended this source,
and have sought to show that not only is its purity unrivalled but
that its quantity is practically inexhaustible. Data sufficient to test
this are now, I believe, in existence ; the number of wells sunk in the
chalk is so considerable and the quantity of water which they yield is
so well known.
     But this water, so admirable as regards freedom from mechanical
impurity, labours under the disadvantage of being very hard. It is
rendered hard by the largo quantity of carbonate of lime which it
holds in solution. The chalk water in the neighbourhood of Watford
holds in solution about 17 grains of carbonate of lime per gallon.
This, in the old terminology, used to be called 17 degrees of hard
ness. Now this hard water is bad for tea, bad for washing. It furs
your boilers, because the lime held in solution is precipitated by
boiling. If the water bo used cold its hardness must be neutralized
at the expense of soap before it will give a lather. I remember being
struck by the enormous quantity of soap wasted in a washing esta
blishment in Hampshire through the hardness of the water. This of
itself would seem an insuperable objection to the use of chalk water in

  198               Professor Tyndatt on Drinling-water.        [Jan. 20,
  London. But the objection has now been successfully met by the
  experimental demonstration that such water can be softened inexpen
  sively and on a grand scale. I had long known tho method of soft
  ening water called Clark's process, but not until recently did I see
  proof of its application in the case of large communities. The chalk
  water is softened by Mr. Homersham at Caterham, at Canterbury, and
  at the Cbiltorn Hills for the supply of Tring, Aylesbury, and other
 places.
      I have visited all these places, and made myself acquainted with
 the works. At Canterbury there are three reservoirs covered in and
 protected by a concrete roof and layers of pebbles both from the
 summer's heat and the winter's cold. Each reservoir contains 120,000
 gallons of chalk water. Adjacent to these reservoirs are others con
 taining pure slaked lime—the so-called " cream of lime." These are
 fdled with water, the lime and water being thoroughly mixed by air
 forced in by an engine through apertures in the bottom of the reser
 voir. The water thus well mixed with the lime soon dissolves all of
 this substance that it is capable of dissolving. The lime is then
 allowed to subside to the bottom, leaving a perfectly clear lime water
 behind.
      The object is now to soften the chalk water. Let us suppose one
 of the three largo reservoirs empty ; into this is introduced a certain
 quantity of the clear lime water, and after this about nine times the
 quantity of the chalk water. The transparency immediately dis
 appears—tho mixturo of the two clear liquids becomes thickly turbid.
 The carbonate of lime is precipitated, and the reservoir being now
 full the precipitate is permitted to subside ; it is crystalline and
 heavy, and therefore sinks rapidly. In about twelve hours you find
 a layer of pure white carbonate of lime at the bottom of the reservoir,
 with a water of extraordinary beauty and purity overhead. A few
 days ago I pitched some halfpence into a reservoir 16 feet deep at the
 Chiltern Hills. The 16 feet hardly perceptibly dimmed the coin.
Had I cast a pin in, it could, I am persuaded, have been seen at the
bottom. By this process of softening the water is reduced from about
 17 degrees of hardness to 3 degrees of hardness. It yields a lather
immediately. Its temperature is constant throughout the year. In
the hottest summer it is cool ; it docs not freeze in winter if con
veyed in propor pipes. It is not exposed to the contamination of
cither earth or air. The reservoirs are covered ; a leaf cannot blow
into it, no surface contamination can reach it, it passes direct from
the main into tho house-tap ; no cisterns are employed, the supply is
always fresh and pure. It is highly charged with air. This is the
kind of water which is supplied to the fortunate people of Canterbury.
     Let me show you a specimen of this softened water, and as the eye
is eminently an organ of relation, needing comparison to judge aright,
I will subject to the gaugo-test a globe of water taken out of our
cistern down-stairs, and a globe of water taken a few days ago from
ono of the reservoirs at the Chiltern Hills. Hero are two electric

    1871.]     Profeggor Odling on the Manufacture of Chlorine.                199
   lamps, connected with two batteries down-stairs. I send the beams
   through both of them, first permitting the globes themselves to act as
   lenses, and afterwards converging the beams upon them with glass
   lenses. You can judge of the difference without any word of mine.
                           The Water Supply of London.
        The purity and goodness of this chalk water are demonstrable, and
   if we like it hard we can have it hard ; if we like it soft we can have
   it soft. It lends itself to our purposes with perfect flexibility ; the
   sole doubtful question is the adequacy of the supply for three millions
   of people. But let us take some common ground. On all hands it
  will be admitted that large—I will not say " vast " quantities of this
  beautiful water run to waste. Why should this be permitted? If
  the chalk is unable to supply the wants of three millions, it is cer
  tainly able to supply the wants of a smaller number. Supposing it
  competent to promote health, cleanliness, and comfort among one-third
  of the population of London, why not apply it to these uses ? Why
  should a valuable treasure be lost, because it does not possess three
  times its actual value ?
       Let your expectations be as moderate as you like, only make the
  trial. That trial, of which the success is demonstrable, will solve the
  larger question whether the chalk is able to supply the whole of
  London. In moral matters it is our duty to realize our best insight.
  Let us do so here. By honestly doing what we can with this chalk
  water, we shall learn the limits of our action. A small good is cer
 tainly within our reach, and by accepting it we may disclose possibly
 an incalculable benefit to London.
                                                                        [J. T.]
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, January 27, 1871.
 Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.8. President, in the Chair.
                         William Odling, M.B. F.E.S.
                  FTJLLERIAN PROFESSOR OF CHKMISTRY, ROYAL INSTITUTION,
              On Improvementg in the Manufacture of Chlorine.
Chlobinb gas was first obtained in 1774 by the Swedish chemist,
Scheele, as a product of the action of muriatic acid—or marine acid,
as it was then called —on the black earthy mineral manganese. In
accordance with the theoretical notions of the day, Scheele gave to his
newly-discovered aerial substance the name dephlogisticated marine
acid, which, translated into the language of the now Lavoisierian

 200                          Professor Odling                    [Jan. 27,
scheol, became soon afterwards oxy-muriatic acid. Its assumed con
 stitution, and relationship to muriatic acid are indicated below.
                      Muriatic acid.
    Hydrogen                                Chlorine.
    Hydrogen      +     Oxygen.                Murium      +     Oxygen.
               Water.                         Hypothetic dry muriatic acid.
     But Davy, in 1810, shewed that muriatic acid gas is a substance
whelly free from water, and a definite compound of Scheele's gas with
hydrogen. He shewed further that Scheele's gas, the so-called oxy-
muriatic acid, was not only incapable of furnishing oxygen under any
circumstance whatever ; but that, so far as experience went, it was
altogether undecomposable. Being thus an undecompounded and
apparently undecomposable substance, he proposed to regard it as au
element, and to designate it, from its yellowish-green colour, by the
name chlorine, which it has ever since borne. After considerable
opposition, especially on the part of Berzelius, whe subsequently,
hewever, became a convert, the view of Davy at length prevailed,
and has ever since held its ground, not indeed witheut occasional
challenging from time to time. Thus Schonbein, in several of his
letters to Faraday, maintained very strongly the superior truthfulness
of the original view ; and still more recently Brodie has represented
the comparable units of hydrogen Hs, muriatic acid HC1, and chlorine
CI,, by the symbols a, ay, and        implying that the units of muriatic
acid and chlorine differ from the unit of hydrogen by a combination
of the matter of a with the matter of % and with the matter of y*, re
spectively. But whatever may hereafter prove to bo its real nature,
chlorine has hitherto proved undecomposable, and is accordingly
regarded by the generality of chemists as an element.
     Coincident with the discovery of chlorine itself was the discovery
of its most characteristic property, that of bleaching vegetable colours.
The petals and leaves of plants, infusions of their several colouring
matters, as well as fabrics dyed with the several colouring matters,
were found to be rapidly bleached when treated either with chlorine
gas, or with a solution of the gas in water. From the rapid action
of the gas and its solution on pronounced vegetable colours, Berthellet
in 1785 conceived the notion that chlorine in one form or other might
be used with advantage commercially for the bleaching of calicoes
and linens, theretofore always bleached by a tedious exposure to air
and sunlight. The processes devised by Berthellet for carrying out
the new methed of bleaching were introduced into Scotland in 1787,
and soon afterwards became extensively employed. Woven fabrics
were bleached by immersion in chlorine water, and paper-pulp more
especially by exposure to chlorine gas.
     The bleaching action of chlorine takes place only in presence

            on Improvements in the Manufacture of Chlorine            2Q1
ter or moisture, and is dependent on the property of chlorino
    suitable circumstances to decompose water, by uniting with
flrogen to form muriatic acid, and so setting free its oxygon, by
i the bleaching is really effected. Thus when chlorine, blue
o, and water are present together, the opposite tendencies of the
ine to take hydrogen, and of the indigo to take oxygen from the
•, are satisfied by the production of chloride of hydrogen or
atic acid on the one hand, and of oxide of indigo or isatin on
ither, this isatin being a soluble orange-red non-tinctorial body :
               Cl2 + H,0 + C.H.NO = 2HC1 + C.^NO,.
is bleaching by the action of chlorino, like bleaching by exposure
ir, is really an act of oxidation.
But the action of chlorino on vegetable fabrics is not confined to
; of bleaching their attached colouring matter ; the fibre of the fabric
tself liable to be attacked both by the free chlorine and the muriatic
1 to which it gives origin. Hence it became important to find a
istitute for the free chlorine which should have, like it, the pro-
¦ty of liberating nascent oxygen so as to bleach, but should not
re, at any rate in the same degree, the property of corrosiveness so
 to destroy. Such a substitute is offered in the familiar compound
own as bleaching powder, introduced into commerce by the Messrs.
:nnant, of Glasgow, in the year 1799. This substance is made by
posing slaked lime to an atmosphere of chlorine gas. The chlorine
iters into combination with the lime of the slaked limo, to furnish a
•oduct which in practice contains some 35 per cent, of its weight of
llorine, and consists of a definite compound of lime with its own
 eight of chlorine, plus a variable excess of slaked limo unacted
pon:
                    CftO . H20 + CI2 = CaOCl2 + H20.
     Bleaching powder occurs as a dry white pulverulent solid, having
i characteristic smell, allied to but not identical with that of weak
;hlorine. It dissolves considerably in water to form a yellow-tinted
liquid, known as bleaching liquor, having a marked alkaline reaction
from the presence in it of excess of lime. Coloured goods immersed
for a longer or shorter time in bleaching liquor of greater or less
strength and temperature, gradually have their colouring constituents
 destroyed or oxidated, the bleaching salt CaOCL., losing its oxygen,
 and becoming changed into chloride of calcium, CaCls. It is ob
 servable that the bleaching or liberation of nascent oxygen from
 bleaching powder is much slower than the bleaching or liberation of
  nascent oxygen by means of free chlorine ; to such an extent, indeed,
  that for many purposes bleaching powder would be quite inapplicable,
  were it not for the property it has of liberating chlorine on acidifica
  tion, whereby a still indirect but yet almost immediate oxidation is
   effected. Ten grains of bleaching powder, for instance, mixed with a
      Vol. VI. (No. 54.)                                        p

202                          Professor Odling                  [Jan. 27,
little sulphuric or muriatic acid, will evolve some four cubic inches of
ohlorine gas :
                CaOCl, + H.SO, = H,0 + CI, + Ca"SO,.
    The superior activity of the chlorine liberated by acidification of
bleaching liquor to the original bleaching liquor, is taken advantage
of commercially. Brown linens, for example, are first steeped in
weak bleaching liquor with little apparent result, and then " soured "
by immersion in dilute acid, whereby an immediate more or less com
plete bleaching is offected. Again, in what is known as the "discharge
style" patterns or designs are printed with a mixture of gum and
tartaric or other acid, upon a red or blue ground, and the printed
fabric passed through a solution of bleach. The red or blue ground
withstands the feebler action of the bleach, but the acid printed
pattern becomes completely decolorized by the chlorine set free
locally, as a result of the action of the acid upon the bleach. It is to
this facility of management and capability of being used in different
ways that the great utility of bleaching powder and its consequent
enormous consumption are due. The amount of bleaching powder
made annually in Great Britain and Ireland at the present time is
estimated at 75,000 tons, representing at the price of ten pounds a
ton, a value of three-quarters of a million sterling.
    Bleaching powder being formed by exposing slaked lime to an
atmosphere of chlorine, the manufacture of bleaching powder involves
the production of chlorine. Indeed, chlorine is produced at chemical
works almost exclusively for the manufacture of bleaching powder,
and of one other product, namely, chlorate of potash. This latter is
made to the extent of about 750 tons per annum, having at the price
of one hundred and five pounds per ton, a value of nearly 80,000/.
sterling.
    The original reaction upon one another of muriatic acid and
peroxide of manganese, by which Scheele was led to the discovery of
chlorine, is the basis of the manufacturing process which has ever
since been almost exclusively followed. The action consists essen
tially in the excessive oxygen of the peroxide taking away the hydro
gen of the muriatic acid and so setting its chlorine free. Peroxide of
manganese, more often called simply manganese, is one of that very
limited class of native mineral substances containing an excess of
oxygen ; the only other similarly peroxidized substance abundant in
nature being nitre, in its two forms of East Indian or potash-nitre,
and Chilian or soda-nitre. Now, when muriatic acid instead of being
acted on by manganese is acted on by nitre, or by the nitric acid,
formerly known as spirit of nitre, produced therefrom, the excessivo
oxygen of the nitre takes away hydrogen from the muriatic acid and
sets its chlorine free. Thus by addition of nitric acid or nitre to
aqueous muriatic acid a solution of chlorine is produced, recognizable
in various ways, and especially by its power of dissolving gold leaf.
Now, although nitre or nitric acid is a much more expensive oxygenant

1871.]       on Improvements in the Manufacture of Chlorine.         203
than manganese it was conceived that nitric acid might nevertheless
be substituted with advantage for manganese, from the circumstance
that after it had given up its excessive oxygen so as to liberate the
chlorine of the muriatic acid, its deoxidized residue could readily
acquire fresh oxygen from the atmosphere, and so reproduce nitric
acid, to be used as an oxygenant over and over again indefinitely ; and,
indeed, the nitric methed of producing chlorine has for some time
past been to a limited extent in actual use.
    With regard to manganese, hewever, until recently no means have
been known of causing its deoxidized residue to re-acquire oxygen
from the air, and so become in a condition to serve again for the libe
ration of chlorine. From time to time, more particularly by Messrs.
Tennant and Mr. Wm. Gossage, attempts have been made in this
direction, some of them so far successful as to achieve a limited adop
tion ; and at length a process of reviving the spent manganese residue
by effecting its aerial oxidation, has proved a decided commercial suc
cess. This process, introduced by Mr. Walter Weldon, has the inci
dental advantage of doing away with the discharge of the extremely
corrosive manganese liquor into streams and watercourses, whereby
great damage was frequently occasioned. It consists substantially
in neutralizing with chalk, the acid liquor left by the action of the
muriatic acid on the manganese, and then pumping air through the
neutralized liquor mixed with excess of lime. The original acid
liquor is substantiolly a solution of chloride of manganese with per-
chloride of iron, chloride of aluminum, chloride of calcium, and the
excess of chloride of hydrogen, or muriatic acid, employed. By neu
tralization of the acid liquor with chalk, the iron of the perchloride
of iron is precipitated, and a pale pink manganous solution loft. By
treatment of this solution with milk of lime, an almost white precipi
tate, consisting of hydrated protoxide of manganese with excess of
hydrate of lime, is thrown down. Then by blowing air through
the resulting thin sludge, raised to the temperature of 140°-160° F.
by injection of steam, oxygen is rapidly absorbed, and the sludge
rendered of a deep black colour. By subsidence the now black sludge
yields a dense deposit, from which the supernatant clear liquid is
run off. Finally, the deposit in its moist condition, and containing in
every cubic foot about four pounds weight of peroxide of manganese, is
acted upon by muriatic acid in the chlorine stills, and the resulting
acid liquid treated over again in the same way, and so on indefinitely.
    Already the Weldon process of manganese restoration is employed
and about to be employed at many large works, to such an extent that
before very long one-half of the entire quantity of bleaching powder
produced in the kingdom may be expected to be made with chlorine
generated by means of the restored manganese. It is noteworthy that
the original pale precipitate of hydrated protoxide of manganese
undergoes oxidation very imperfectly save in presence of a consider
able excess of lime, and that the black product finally obtained is not
 simply peroxide of manganese MnO„ but a compound of the peroxide
                                                             r2

 204        Professor Odling on the Manufacture of Cldarine.      [Jan. 27,
 with lime, of composition varying in different instances between that
 indicated by the respective formulae CaO.MnO, and. CaO^MnO,.,
 a small portion of the lime CaO being usually replaced by its equi
 valent of protoxide of manganese MnO. Some idea of the rapidity of
 oxidation effected under favourable circumstances may be gathered
 from the following result. Of the entire quantity of oxygen contained
 in 175,000 cubic feet of air blown into the sludge within five hours,
 14-8 per cent., equal to rather more than four hundredweights, was ab
 sorbed in the production of twenty-two hundredweights of manganese
 peroxide MnOs.        It is obvious that where Weldon's process is
 carried out, what happens is this :—The original peroxide of mangan
 ese first oxidizes a quantity of muriatic acid, and sets free its
 chlorine. Then the spent manganese is caused to acquire a fresh
 dose of oxygen from the air, and is used to oxidize a fresh quantity
 of muriatic acid, and so on continuously. Thus, except during the
 first use of tho manganese, the muriatic acid is really oxidized by
 the oxygen of the air, the manganese serving only as a carrier.
 Latterly, Mr. H. Deacon, of the Widnes Alkali Works, has conceived
 the idea of dispensing with the carrier— that is the manganese—
 altogether. It has boon known for some time that when muriatic
 acid vapour mixed with air is passed through heated tubes, the oxygen
 of the air effects a partial oxidation of the muriatic acid, setting free
 its chlorine ; but the reaction is not sufficiently complete to render the
 process commercially available. Mr. Deacon however has ascertained
 that when a mixture of air and muriatic acid vapour, heated to about
 700° F., is passed over a mass of brickwork that has been steeped
 in solution of sulphate of copper and afterwards dried, an almost com
 plete decomposition of the muriatic acid is effected. The copper salt
 certainly takes part in the reaction as an intermediary, but in the
 end is quite unaffected, the sole obvious result being that the chlo
 rine of the muriatic acid is set free by the oxygen of the air, with a
 rapidity which seems to leave nothing to be desired. The nature of
 the intermediary action exerted by the copper-salt, so ingeniously
 made serviceable by Mr. Deacon, has not been clearly ascertained. It
 would appear, however, that by two simultaneous reactions taking
 place continuously throughout the process, chloride of copper is ever
being alternately formed and decomposed ; it being remembered that
chloride of copper gives off a portion of its chlorine with much
facility, even by heat alone. The extreme result would probably bo
somewhat as follows :
                      CuCl, + O        = CuO + CI,
                      CuO + 2HC1 = CuCI, + H,0
     Although this new process has not yet been worked on a manu
facturing scale, considerable experience has been acquired with re
gard to it, and the difficulties to which it at first seemed liable have
been successfully provided against. One inevitable difficulty arising

 1871.]         Mr. Spottiswoode on Polarization of Light.           205
 from the diluted state of the produced chlorine, has proved to be less
 serious than was anticipated. This state of dilution is at all times
 considerable; for the chlorine being generated by tho action of
 atmospheric oxygen on muriatic acid, every volume of chlorine pro
 duced even in an absolutely perfect working of the process, must bo
 necessarily diluted with twice its volume of atmospheric nitrogen.
 Nevertheless, according to Mr. Deacon's experience, the diluted state
 in which the chlorine is always obtained, has not been found to
 interfere with its application to the manufacture either of chlorate
 of potash or bleaching powder. The requisite plant for carrying
out the invention on a large scale is now being erected at Messrs.
 Gaskell and Deacon's works.
     For experimental purposes the new process of continuous chlorine
 production may be performed with oxygen instead of air. It then
 manifests a striking reverse relationship to a process of continuous
 oxygen production, in which oxide of cobalt acts as a permanent
 intermediary. In the one experiment the gas goes in oxygen and
 comes out chlorine, muriatic acid being decomposed and water formed.
 In the other experiment the gas goes in chlorine and comes out
 oxygen, water being decomposed and muriatic acid formed. In the
 presence of slaked lime to arrest the muriatic acid, this last reaction
takes place readily and completely below the boiling point of water.
                                                            [W. 0.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 3, 1871.
       Sib Hjenby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
           W. Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. Treas. E.S. and E.I.
    On some Experiments on Successive Polarization of Light made by
                            Sir C. Wheatslone.
The experiments which formed the subject of this discourse were made
by Sir Charles Wheatstone some years ago, but the pressure of other
avocations delayed their publication. The term " Successive polariza
tion" was applied by Biot to denote the effects produced whon a ray
of polarized light is transmitted through a plate of rock crystal cut
perpendicularly to the axis. The plane of polarization is found to be
changed on emergence and through a different angle for each homoge
neous ray. The introduction of instrumental means for converting
the plane polarization of the ordinary apparatus into successive, or, as
it is more commonly called, circular polarization, and the explanation
of the phenomena thence arising, constitute the main purpose of the
communication.

206                           Mr. Spottiatcoode                    [Feb. 3,
     Polarized light is distinguished from ooramon light by the pre
sence of certain peculiarities not ordinarily found ; but the peculiari
ties in question cannot be discerned by the unassisted eye, and require
sp3cial instrumental appliances for detection. A simplo mode of
bringing light iato the condition in question is by allowing it to pass
through a plate of the crystal called tourmilin, cut parallel to the
axis ; and if the ligbt be then examined by causing it to pass through
a second similar platj, held parallel to the former and caused to re
volve like a wheel in its own plaue, it will ba found that the intensity
 alternately diminishes and revives, being zero for two positions 180°
from one another, and a maximum for two positions at 90° from each
 of the former. Thus combination of tourmalins constitute in fact a
 polariscope. which in general consists of two parts, counterparts of
 each other, the first for bringing common light into the condition in
 question, in other words for polarizing ; the second for examining or
 analyzing the light.
     The explanation of this fundamental phenomenon is as follows :—
 The vibrations upon which the sensation of light depends, may in or
 dinary light take placo in any direction in a plano perpendicular to
 the ray. By the process of polarization they are all brought into one
 direction, still, hewever, perpendicular to the ray ; so that througheut
 the entire ray they lie in one plane. On this account the polarization
 here considered is called plane polarization. There are other kinds
 of polarization, such as circular and elliptic, whese names are derived
 from the curves, or orbits, described by the vibrating particles.
      There are also other metheds for producing plane polarization
 beside that above described ; e. g. reflexion at particular angles from
 the surfaces of transparent media, transmission through parallel plates
 of glass, &c. ; but as they all agree in reducing common light to the
 same condition, it is unnecessary for the present purpose to allude to
 them more in detail.
      If a ray of polarized light fall upon a plate of doubly-refracting
 crystal, it is divided into two, wheso vibrations lie in planes perpen
 dicular to one another. These rays traverse the crystal with different
 velocities, and therefore emerge with a difference of phase. On enter
 ing the analyzer the vibrations of both rays are resolved into one
 plane. If the plane of vibration of the analyzer be parallel to one of
 these of the crystal, one ray will be cut off, the other will be trans
 mitted witheut change. In any other position of the analyzer the
 transmitted portions of the two rays will interfero so as to produce
 colour ; and if the analyzer be then turned through 90°, the portion
 of the original light cut off in the first position will be transmitted,
  and vice versa.
      Of this theory the following are the experimental results: —If a
 plate of doubly-refracting crystal, e. g. selenite, be placed between tho
 polarizer and analyzer, and turned round in its own plane, it will be
 found that in certain positions at right angles to one another no effect is
 produced. These may be called neutral positions. In all other posi

1871.]               on Successive Polarization of Light.             207
tions the field is tinted with colour, which is most brilliant when the
plate has been turned through 45° from a neutral position. If the
analyzer be turned, the crystal remaining still, the colour will fade,
and entirely vanish when the angle of turning amounts to 45°. From
this position the complementary colour will begin to appear, and will
be brightest when the angle of turning amounts to 90°. The colour
depends upon the thickness of the crystal, so that by a suitable pre
paration any arrangement of colours may be produced.
      So far for plane polarization. The principle of circular or suc
cessive polarization, as regards the present purpose, is as follows : —
      If two sets of rectilinear vibrations lying in planes perpendicular
to one another meet and combine, the resulting vibration will be
curvilinear, wheso form and position depends upon the difference of
phase of the components. If the second set be in advance or in rear
of the first by a quarter of a wave length, the resulting vibration will
be circular ; but the motion will in one case be direct (like the hands
 of a watch), in the other it will be reverse.
      If two sets of circular vibrations in opposite directions meet and
 combine, the resulting vibrations will be rectilinear, and the position
 of its plane will depend upon the difference of phase of the compo
 nents. If the second set advance upon the first, the plane of resultant
 vibration will undergo direct rotation ; if it recede, it will undergo
 reverse rotation.
       If in such an experiment white light be used, the vibrations of the
 different component prismatic colours will (on account of their dif
 ferent wave lengths) undergo different retardation ; and consequently
 the resulting vibrations will lie in different planes, arranged in pris
 matic order. The order will be from red to violet, or vice versa, in
 accordance with the law stated above.
       If a ray of plane polarized light fall upon a metallic reflector, it
 is divided into two, whese vibrations are respectively parallel and
 perpendicular to the reflector ; and the latter is retarded behind the
  former by a difference of phase depending 'upon the angle of incidence.
  If the plane of vibration of the incident ray be inclined at an angle
  of 45° to the plane of incidence, the two rays into which it is divided
  have nearly the same intensity. At an angle, nearly 45°, which varies
  with the metal employed, but which is perfectly definite, the intensi
  ties become accurately equal. And further, if the angle of incidence
  have a particular value dependent upon the nature of the metal (for
  silver 72°), the retardation will amount to a quarter of a wave length.
  These two rays, on leaving the reflector, will recombine, and in ac
  cordance with the laws above given, will in the last-mentioned cir
   cumstances become a circularly polarized ray. Lastly, the direction
  of motion in this circular ray will depend upon the side on which the
  original plane of vibration is inclined to the plane of incidence ; if,
  when it is inclined on one side, the circular ray becomes right-handed,
   then, when it is inclined on the other, it becomes left-handed.
       Reverting then to the phenomena of double refraction produced

 208               Mr. Spottiswoode on Polarization of Light.        [Feb. 3,
 by a plate of crystal cut parallel to the axis on a plane polarized ray ;
 let the crystal be placed in such a position that the planes of vibration
 of the two resulting rays are inclined at angles of 45° on the two sides
 respectively of the plane of incidence ; and let there be interposed
between the crystal and the analyzer a silver plate at an angle of 72° to
 the direction of these emergent rays. Each of these rays will, in
 virtue of the principles enunciated above, be converted by reflexion
 into a circularly polarized ray ; but one will be a right-handed and
 the other a left-handed ray ; and the difference of phase produced by
 the doubly-refracting plate will be undisturbed by the reflexion. This
 difference of phase depends, as is well known, upon the wave length,
in other words, upon the colour of the light. So that the two circular
rays will combine to form a plane polarized ray, whose plane of vibra
tion depends upon the difference of phase, i. e upon its colour. And
if, finally, the light be then examined by an analyzer in the usual manner,
we shall have all the phenomena of circular or successive polarization.
     From what has been stated above, it appears that the direction of
motion in the two circular rays, and consequently the order of colours
produced, depends upon the position (to the right or left of the plane
 of incidence) of the ray which has been most retarded in the passage
through the crystal plate. If, therefore, the plate being in a given
position, the colours appear in an ascending order, then on turning
the plate through 90° in its own plane, or on turning it over about an
axis in the plane of incidence, the swifter and the slower rays will
change position, and tho order of colours will be reversed.
     The reversal of the order of colour may be exhibited in another
way. Uniaxal crystals are divided into two classes : one, called positive
(e. g. quartz), in which the extraordinary ray moves more slowly than
the ordinary ; the other, called negative (e. g. Iceland spar), in which the
ordinary ray is the slowest. If, therefore, a plate of quartz placed
with its axis at 45° on one side of the plane of incidence give the
colours in one order, a similar plate of Iceland spar similarly placed
will give them in the reverse order.
     The same principles apply to the case of biaxal crystals cut parallel
to a plane containing the two optic axes. A ray of plane polarized
light transmitted through such a plate is divided into two, whose
vibrations respectively bisect the angles formed by the two axes ; the
line which bisects the smallest angle is called the intermediate sec
tion, and the line perpendicular to it the supplementary section ; and
the order of the colours depends upon the relative velocity of the two
rays. In selenito the ray whose vibrations lie in the supplementary
section is the slowest ; in mica it is the swiftest. Hence these two
crystals will, all other circumstances being alike, give opposite orders
of colour, and may be regarded as positive and negative respectively,
like quartz and Iceland spar.
     Tho phenomena by which these principles may bo illustrated are
very numerous and varied, but are better seen than described.
                                                                   [W.S.1

1871.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                         209
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, Feb. 6, 1871.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                     in the Chair.
                Henry Edward Colvile, Esq.
                John H. Dallmeyer, Esq.
                Duncan Davidson, Esq.
                Warren William De la Rue, Esq.
                James N. Douglass, Esq.
                Mrs. Gibbs.
                Abraham Goodall, Esq. F.R.C.S.
                Alexander Macfarlan, Esq.
                Robert Turtle Pigott, Esq., F.R.G.S.
                Robert Sabine, Esq.
                Charles Southwell, Esq.
                Henry Stilwell, Esq.
                Richard Valpy, Esq.
                Mrs. Jacob Waley.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The special thanks of the Members were returned for the following
addition to " the Donation Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Researches " :—
                 W. D. Esq. (5th Donation)                 £5 5 0
       The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :
        FROM
Aeademia Pontijicia de' Nuovi Lined, Roma—AtuiO XXIII. 4to. 1870.
Admiralty, Lords of the—Nauticul Almanac, 1874. 8vo. 1870.
Allen, Peter, M.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—Lectures on Aural Catarrh. 16mo. 1871.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. IV. No. 9. 8vo. 1870.
Asiatic Society of bengal—Journal, Nos. 163, 164. 8vo. 1870.
   Proceedings, 1870: Nos. 8, 9, 10. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Memoirs, Vols. XXXVII. XXXVIII. 4to. 1869-70.
   Index to Monthly Notices. Vols. I.-XXIX. . 8vo. 1870.
   Solar Eclipse of A ug. 18, 1868. By Warren de La Hue, Ph.D. 8vo. 1870.
   Monthly Notices, Vol. XXX. No. 9, Vol. XXXI. Nos. 1, 2. 1870.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal— Sitzungsberiehte. 1870. II. Heftel,2. 8vo.
 Berkley, George, Esq. M.R.I.—Experiments on Steel, by a Committee of Civil
      Engineere. fol. 1808-70.
 Bombay Branch of the Itoyal Asiatic Society—Journal, No. 26. 8vo. 1870.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1870-1 : No. 1-3. 4to.
 British Museum Trustees—Miscellaneous Inscriptions of Assyria, fol. 1870.
    Catalogue of Syriac MSS. 4to. 1870.
    Catalogue of Vases, Vol. II. 8vo. 1870.
    Catalogue of Dermaptera Saltntorin, Part 4. 8vo. 1870.
    Catalogue of Monkeys, Lemurs', and Fruit-eating Bats. 8vo. 1870.
 Channing, Rev. Wm. Henry, U.A.— Religions of China. (K 98) 8vo. 1870.

210                          General Monthly Meeting.                  [Feb. G,
Cliemiad Society—Journal for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 8vo.
Comitato Geologico d'Italia— Bolletino, No. 9, 10. 8vo. Firenze, 1870.
Day, George E., M.A. M.D. F.U.S. (the Author)—Chemistry in its Relations to
      Physiology and Medicine. 8vo. 1860.
Editors—Academy for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 4to.
   American Journal of Science, Nov. 1870. 8vo.
   Artizan for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 4to.
   Athemcum for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 4to.
   Chemical News for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 4to.
   Engineer for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. fol.
   Horological Journal for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 8vo.
   Journal of Gns-Lighting for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 8vo.
   Mechanics' Magazine for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 8vo.
   Nature for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 8vo.
   Photographic News for Dee. 1870, Jan. 1871. 4to.
   Quarterly Journal of Science for Jan. 1871. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 536-539. 8vo. 1870.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. No. 5. 8vo. 1870.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbueh, 1870. No. 2. 8vo.
   Verliandlungen, 1870. No. 6. 8vo.
Grant, Charles, Esq. (the Author) through the Lord Josceline Percy, M.R.I. —
      Gazetteer of the Central Provinces of India. 2nd edition. 8vo. 1870.
Institution of Civil Engineers—Supplemeut to the Catalogue of the Library. 8vo.
      1870.
Jonet, Henry Hence, 31. D. F.R.S. Sec. R.I.—Speech on the German War,
      delivered Aug. 3, by E. Du Bois Reymond. (K 98) 8vo. 1870.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, Nov. 1870. 8vo.
London Institution—Journal, Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1871.
Lubbock, Sir John, Bart. M.P. F.R.S. M.R.I, (tiie Author)—Description of the
      Park Cwm Tumulus. (Etlmo. Soe. Journ. Jan. 1871.)
 Lyon, Mrs. J. T.—Memoir of Dr. C. Collier. 16mo. 1870.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, Aug. 1870 ; Part II.
      and Nov. 1870. 8vo.
 Meteorological Office.—Quarterly Weather Report: II. April-June, 1869. 4to.
       1870.
 Meteorological Society—Proceedings, No. 51. 8vo. 1871.
 Moxon & Co., Messrs. —Havdn Series: a Dictionary of Science. Edited by G. F.
       Rodwell. 8vo. 1871.
 Photographic Society—Journal, No. 221 . 8vo. 1870.
 Preussisuhe Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsbericbte, June-Nov. 1870. 8vo.
 Royal Colonial Institute—Proceedings, Vol. I. 8vo. 1869.
 Royal Society of London -Proceedings. Nos. 123, 124. 8vo. 1870.
 Siichsische Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften, Kbnigliche—Abhandluugen. 4 parts.
       8vo. 1870.
    Bcrichte. 5 parts. 1868-70.
 Scottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. VIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1870.
 Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1870.
 Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Svmona' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      Dec. 1870, Jan. 1871. 8vo.
 Tomlimon, C. Esq. (the Editor)—Dr. W. A. Miller, Introduction to the Study of
      Inorganic Chemistry. 16mo. 1871.
 Twining, Henry, Esq. M.R.I (the Author)—Elemeuts of Picturesque Scenery,
       Vol. m. Part 2. 8vo. 1870.
 Vptal Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta, Ser. III. Vol. VII. Fasc. I, 2. 4to.
      1869-70.
    Upaala Universities Arsskrift, 1868, 1869, 1870. 3 vols. 8vo.
    Bulletin Me'teorologicpic, Vol. II. Nos. 1-6. 4to. 1870.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 61. 8vo. 1870.

   1871.]           Mr. E. J. Reed on Ships and Guns.                           211
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 10, 1871.
         Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
                            E. J. Reed, Esq. C.B.
              On some Fallacies connected with Ships and Guns.
  Is opening his discourse Mr. Reed stated that the fallacies connected
  with ships, to which he proposed to draw attention, grouped them
 selves chiefly about that question of stability which the loss of the
 ' Captain ' has recently brought into so much prominence, and at once
 proceeded to explain the nature of statical stability and the modes of
 measuring it.
      In its simplest form the stability of a ship might be considered as
 the result of the total weight of the ship acting downwards through
 her centre of gravity, and of her total buoyancy (equal to the weight)
 acting upwards through a centre situated at a short horizontal dis
 tance from it, this distance defining the leverage with which either
 force acted about the other. The weight of the ship being the same
 whatever the inclination might be, the distance in question, viewed as
 a lever, or, in other words, the length of the lever, might be regarded
as itself indicating the degree of " righting force " which the ship
possessed. The actual lengths of these levers were given by Mr. Reed
for the ' Captain ' for all degrees of inclination at intervals of 7 degrees,
and were as follows :—
   At 7 degrees its length was -1J ins.     At 35 degrees its leugtli was 7} ins.
                                               Ao                         .-r i
    » 21     „           „    10} „
    a 28     „           „    10 „
      It will here be seen that the length of the righting lever, which
Mr. Reed spoke of as the "Arm of Safety" of the ship, increased up
to 21 degrees of inclination, and then began to decrease, the cause of
this being next explained, and shown to result solely from the lowness
of the freeboard. All the time the ship had bulk to immerse on the
depressed side the buoyancy went on increasing on that side, and the
lever in question lengthened. When she had no more side to immerse,
but was still inclined farther by the wind, the ship began to sink
lower in the water, and re-immerse the opposite side, and consequently
the buoyancy was gradually transferred back to that side, the lever
meanwhile shortening, and the power of the ship to resist the wind

  212                        Mr. E. J. Reed on some                       |Feb. 10,
 diminishing. The "Arm of Safety" consequently never reached a
 greater length than 10J inches, becamo only 5 [ inches at 42 degrees,
 and disappeared at 54^. This state of things was then compared with
 that of the ' Monarch.' The lengths of the corresponding levers in
 her were given as below :—
   At 7 degrees its length was 4 ins. I At 35 degrees its length was 21} ins.
    „ H         „          „     81 „         „ 42     „            „       22 „
    v 21        „          „    12J           „ 49                  „       20 „
    „ 28        „          „    181 „         „ 54J „               „       17J „
      In this ship, therefore, the "Arm of Safety," which is rather less
than the ' Captain's ' at small angles of inclination, instead of sherten
ing like hers when only 10J- inches, goes on lengthening to very
nearly double that amount, attaining its maximum only at about
40 degrees, where the ' Captain's ' leverage was rapidly disappearing ;
and there the ' Monarch ' possessed double the greatest amount of
stability which the ' Captain ' ever possessed. Mr. Reed remarked
that these figures fulfilled the double purpose of showing that the two
ships wore remarkably alike in stability all the time the low freeboard
did not interfere; but as soon as that began to play its part, the
resemblance between them ceased altogether. He next proceeded to
shew the unfitness of the low-sided ship to have her stability substan
tially corrected by ballast, altheugh a high-sided ship could readily
have a deficiency of stability made good by these means. In illus
trating this, he compared the stability of the ' Captain,' with 400 tons
of water-ballast admitted into her double bottom, with that of the
' Vanguard ' class, with their iron ballast, as now equipped—about
360 tons in amount. The introduction of the ' Captain's ' ballast so
far improved her as to lengthen her " Arm of Safety " by a small
amount at all degrees of inclination, but it left the general character
of her curve of stability unaltered. In the case of the ' Vanguard,' on
the other hand, her leverage of safety wont on increasing up to great
angles, becoming greater oven than the ' Monarch's,' and presenting
the very opposite condition to that of the ' Captain.' In all the
aspects of statical stability the ' Captain ' therefore stood alone, and
bears no analogy or relation whatever to oithcr the ' Monarch ' or the
broadside ironclads. Mr. Reed next explained by what means the
stability of ships is increased, and stated that such an arrangement of
weights might be made as to lower the centre of gravity and give to a
ship of the ' Captain's ' type a greater degree of safety than she pos
sessed, but that it was not possible witheut exact calculations, based on
specific designs, to say hew low in freeboard it would be safe to go
with a given spread of canvas. He incidentally remarked that as a
matter of fact the ' Captain's ' centre of gravity was much lower than
that of several ironclads, giving the following figures :—
     ' Minotaur,' distance of centre of gravity below load water line . . 1 -99
     'Valiant,'          „                  „                „            1-89
     'Achilles.'         „                  „                „         .. 1 -5I
      ' < 'nptain,'     „                   „                „        . . 3 - 25

 1871.]           Fallacies connected with Ships and Guns.             213
It might, nevertheless, have been placed lower if the necessity for
doing so had been foreseen. On the other hand, changes involving a
raising up of great weights would have been essential in a new ship
of the type, because on the eve of the loss, Captain Coles admitted to
the Commander-in-Chief that the guns and turrets of the ship were
much too low. Mr. Reed next explained the nature of dynamical
stability, and hew it was measured, and discussed the effects first of a
rising wind, and then of gusts and squalls, upon ships under canvas.
He showed that when inclined to 14 degrees the ' Monarch ' had dyna
mical stability remaining to enable her to resist a squall of sufficient
force, if continued, to held her over to an angle of 20 degrees or more,
and even then to have a large reserve of stability still in store. The
' Captain,' on the other hand, was witheut any such reserve, and would
necessarily roll over under such a squall. Exact calculations only
could shew what reserve of force a ship had, and all these calculations
affecting the ' Captain ' have been made from drawings of the ship as
built since her loss. The necessity for them was not foreseen in the
proper quarter. This portion of the lecture concluded with a brief
discussion of the effect of waves upon ships sailing under canvas, and
of the extreme difference between such ships when with sails and with
out, showing hew little doubt the ' Captain's ' loss need cast on the
unmasted monitors of the navy.
      Another fallacy which also related to the question of stability, but
 which the speaker considered extremely unscientific, and almost
 puerile, is that which attributes certain danger to the existence in a
 ship of a double-bottom divided into watertight cells or compartments.
 Gentlemen, whese names and whese very professions he refrained
from mentioning, had published papers in which the doctrine is laid
 down that a cellular bottom is radically and necessarily dangerous ;
 and, unhappily, such writings have in these days an influence which
 every man of science must deplore. It is difficult to treat such
 opinions with any respect, but the speaker endeavoured, in a few
 sentences, to illustrate their irrationality. He theught the best way
 to proceed was to assume that the logical way of remedying any evil
 which may attend the presence of two bottoms will be to remove one
 of them. He first supposed the inner bottom of the ' Captain ' to
 have been removed, and inquired what effect this would have upon the
 ship. To his mind the effect was obvious. This inner bottom being
 substantially constructed of iron, is of very considerable weight, and
 the removal of this weight from the very bottom of the ship would
 have had the certain effect of raising the centre of gravity, diminish
  ing the stability, and capsizing the ship all the earlier. There cannot
 be a doubt on the question. If it sheuld be said that by removing
 this bottom the means would have been afforded of placing the en
 gines, boilers, and other weights lower down in the ship than they
 could be placed while the inner bottom existed, he would answer that
  this line of argument is based upon a total misapprehension. It
  assumes that the weights of the ' Captain ' and other ironclads were

214                        Mr. J. N. Douglass                 [Feb. 17,
unavoidably placed objectionably high, because of the existence of the
double bottom. The very contrary is the case. The distance between
the double bottoms has been made great in recent ironclads expressly
to facilitate the raising of the engines, boilers, and other weights,
because it has been ascertained that the tendency of ships to roll haa
been reduced by this means. Generally speaking, it may be with
confidence stated that the centre of gravity of an ironclad can be
placed at any requisite height within moderate limits, whether she
have one bottom only or two. Next, he supposed the outer bottom of
the ' Captain ' removed. One effect of this would be to raise her abso
lute centre of gravity considerably, and another would be to immerse
her at least two feet more in the water, and to reduce her freeboard
by that amount. He need not say that under such conditions the
' Captain ' would have been a much worse ship than she actually was.
The truth is, no real objection exists to the double bottom in large
ironclads ; on the contrary, it possesses immense advantages. Only
those who have some fantastic notions on the subject, and who are
incapable of grasping scientific problems as a whole, cling to such
fallacies as these.
     The fallacies connected with guns, which Mr. Eeed adverted to,
led, in his view of the matter, to serious disadvantages. He considered
that any and every argument which led to the use in the present day
of bronze as a material of gun manufacture was fallacious ; and he
discussed the reasons for believing that our service-guns were deficient
in twist of rifling, owing to the use of the stud system of giving
rotation, and that consequently long projectiles, which would be very
useful for naval purposes, could not be fired from them.
                                                           [E. J. E.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                      Friday, February 17, 1871.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                       James N. Douglass, Esq.
                        ENGINEER OF THE TRINITY HOU8E,
                     On the Wolf Rock Lighthouse.
The Wolf is a rugged rock, overflowed by the sea at high water, and
situated about nine miles south-west of the Land's End. It is about
175 feet in length, and 150 feet in breadth at low water of spring
tides. Its highest part is 17 feet above low water, and is covered
2 feet at high water ; it is composed of a hard, dark, felspathic por
phyry. The surface is rugged, rendering a landing upon it at all times
difficult. The depth of water close to the rock is about 20 fathoms

1871.]                   on the Wolf Rock Lighthouse.                 215
on all sides, except towards the south-east, where a sheal extends for
a considerable distance, having only 4i to 5 fathems on it at low
water, at a distance of a cable's length from the Wolf. At a dis
tance of 1 mile from the rock the depth of water on this reef is about
14 fathoms, but in every other direction around the Wolf the depth
is not less than 34 fathems.
     Between the periods of high water and the following low water,
the tidal stream runs south-easterly, southerly, and south-westerly,
whereas from low water to the succeeding high water it sets north
westerly, northerly, and north-easterly. This peculiarity is supposed
to extend to a radius of about 4 leagues from the rock. Situated as
the Wolf Rock is, in deep water, and exposed to the full force of the
Atlantic Ocean, a terrific sea falls upon it, as may easily be surmised,
and of which there are abundant proofs.
     The term "Wolf" appears to be quite modern; it is spelt on old
maps of the time of Queen Elizabeth and of Charles II. the " Gulph "
Bock. It is currently reported in Cornwall that an attempt was
once made to plant on its summit the figure of an enormous wolf,
constructed of copper, hollow within, and so constructed that the
mouth receiving the blasts of the gale should emit a loud hearse
 sound, to warn the seaman of his peril. The project, hewever, was
 rendered abortive by the violence of the elements.
      In the year 1795 a stone lightheuse on the Longships, close to the
 Land's End, and iron beacons on the Wolf and Rundlestone Rocks,
 were erected under licence granted to the Honourable Corporation of
 the Trinity House. The beacon on the Wolf consisted of a pole of
 wrought iron, sunk into the rock, and supported by six wrought-iron
 stays ; the mast and stays being secured in the rock with lead. This
 beacon and a similar one on the Rundlestone Rock were soon swept
 away by the violence of the sea.
      Stevenson's Tower.—There is reason to suppose that the question
 of building a lightheuse on this rock was a subject of discussion
 between the Admiralty and the late Mr. Robert Stevenson, Engineer
  to the Commissioners of Northern Lightheuses, as early as the year
  1823, as a plan exists of a stone structure designed for the purpose, of
  that date. This was estimated to require fifteen years to build, at a
  cost of 150,000Z. The large amount of this estimate was probably the
  reason of the idea being abandoned and a beacon being proposed
  instead, which was afterwards erected. The use of steam and the
  general progress in science and art has reduced the outlay in time and
  money on such works very considerably since the above date.
      During the years 1836 to 1840, the Trinity House erected a second
  iron beacon, designed by their engineer the late Mr. Jas. Walker ; this
  beacon consisted of a cast-iron cone, 12 feet diameter at the base, and
  22 feet high, filled solid with masonry, and surmounted by a mast and
  ball. The difficulties of the undertaking may be estimated from the

 21G                       Mr. J. N. Douglass                  [Feb. 17,
 number of heurs actually worked on the rock during each season,
 which were in
                  Season.
                   1836          only .. .. 39$ hours.
                   1837                          65 „
                   1838                          85 „
                   1839                          68$ „
                   1840                          44$ „
                          Making ft total of .. 302$
 or only 30} working days of ten heurs each, during the five years.
 This Deacon was executed at a cost of 11,298Z. The mast, which
 was of selected English oak, 12 inches in diameter, was carried away
during the following winter; this was replaced by one of wrought
iron. This mast was again carried away during a storm in 1844.
Another mast, larger in diameter, was fixed, having on it a smaller
ball. This was also earned away in 1848. A fourth mast of the same
dimensions, but with a ball still smaller in diameter, was fixed ; this
withstood the force of the sea until it was taken down during the
progress of the construction of the present lightheuse.
    Rundlestow.—The Rundlestone Rock is about 8 miles from the
Wolf and one mile from the shere ; it is only 17J feet in length and
8J feet in breadth at low water of spring tides, and the highest part
is only 8\ feet above low water. The only availablo space for a
beacon on this rock is about 4 feet square. The rock, which is com
posed of hard grey granite, forms part of a very dangerous group of
shoals. A second iron beacon was erected on this rock under great
difficulty by my father in the years 1841 to 1843. The iron mast of
this beacon was carried away during a storm in October, 1844. In
the following January, and before any repairs could be effected, the
cone was struck by a vessel and torn away. The vessel, seriously
damaged, fortunately succeeded in getting into the port of Hayle. The
beacon was reinstated during the following summer, when the globe
was reduced in size. This held on until the winter of 1854, when it was
carried away during a heavy storm. In the year 1856 it was again
reinstated under my superintendence, but during a severe storm in
the succeeding winter it was again carried away. This danger is
now efficiently guarded by an iron bell buoy, designed by me for the
Trinity House. The bell, weighing 3 cwt., is fixed on a wrought-iron
stand attached to the deck, and is sounded by four long pendulum
clappers, which are Y-shaped, thus having two points of suspension,
and rendering the use of the ordinary guides unnecessary. The
length of the swing of the clappers is limited by india-rubber buffers.
The buoy is constructed with a central cylindrical water-tight com
partment large enough to float the buoy in the event of a vessel
running foul of it and driving in the outer plating. Several of these
buoys are now in uso and some have been seriously damaged, but in
no instance has one of these been sunk.

1871]                  on the Wolf Rock Lighthouse.                   217
     The success which had attended the efforts of the Trinity House
 in the erection of lightheuses on the Bishep Rock, Scilly ; the Smalls
 Bock, at the entrance of the Bristol Channel ; and the Hanois Rock,
 at the west end of Guernsey, induced the Corporation to undertake the
 erection of a lightheuse upon this dangerous rock ; and in the year
 1860, the late Mr. James Walker, their engineer, was instructed to
furnish a design for and an approximate estimate of the cost of the
work. These having been approved, I, being at the time engaged
in completing a similar structure on the Smalls Rock, was appointed
to carry out the work as resident engineer. On the 1st July, 1861,
I made the preliminary survey of the rock for the purpose of deter
mining the exact position of the proposed tower. The weather had
been very unpropitious, and on this the only opportunity which had
occurred for leaving my work at the Smalls, I landed upon the rock,
and made the best use I could of the shert time which the state of
the tide allowed, but the sea getting up meanwhile put a stop to my
work ; and as a boat could not, from the increased swell, approach
the rock with safety, I was hauled on board through the surf by a line
fastened round my waist. This mode of embarking was frequently
resorted to afterwards for getting the workmen off the rock when
caught by a sudden change of weather and increase of surf.
     In the autumn of 1861, a workyard was taken at Penzance, 17 miles
from the Wolf, and arrangements were made for commencing opera
tions at the rock in the following spring. The vessels fitted out for
the work consisted of a steam-tendqr of 60 herse-power, fivo barges
for conveying the stone to the rock, each of 40 tons burden, and
a scheoner of 100 tons burden, the latter being specially fitted as a
barrack for the workmen when afloat.
    The form of the tower is somewhat similar to Smeaton's celebrated
Eddystone, but is of much larger dimensions ; it differs but little from
these of the Bishep, Smalls, and Hanois. The stepped outline of base
was first adopted by Mr. Walker for the Menai Lightheuse in the year
1838. This stepping affords additional weight at the base of the tower,
besides affording protection to the herizontal joints in the masonry ;
and the vertical face of each step has a tendency to check the upward
flow of heavy seas on the tower. Its exact height is 116 feet
4J inches, its diameter at the base 41 feet 8 inches, and near the
top, at the springing of the curve of the Cavetto under the lantern
gallery, the diameter is 17 feet. For a height of 39 feet 4£ inches
from the base, the work is solid, with the exception of a space forming
a tank for fresh water. At the level of the entrance door the walls
are 7 feet 9£ inches thick, whence they gradually decrease througheut
the whele height of the shaft to 2 feet 3 inches at the thinnest part
near the top. The shaft of the tower is a concave elliptic frustrum,
the generating curve of which has a major axis of 236 feet, and a
minor axis of 40 feet. It contains 44,506 cubic feet of granite, weigh
ing about 3296 tons ; and its centre of gravity is 36 feet 2\ inches
above the base.
   Vol. VI. (No. 54.)                                           Q

218                        Mr. J. N. Douglass                  [Feb. 17,
    Dovetailing.—In consideration of the exposed position of the work,
it was determined to dovetail each face stone both vertically and
horizontally, in accordance with the system suggested by my father,
and first adopted at the Hanois Lighthouse, Guernsey. It consists in
having a raised dovetailed band 3 inches in height, on the top bed
and one end joint of each stone ; a corresponding dovetailed recess is
cut in the bottom bed and end joint of the adjoining stones, with just
sufficient clearance for the raised band to enter it freely in setting ;
immediately the cement has hardened, the stone is so firmly secured
to the adjoining stones as to be nearly equal in strength to solid
granite. This system of dovetailing also affords great protection to
both horizontal and vertical joints against the wash of the sea when
the work is first set.
    An ingenious system of dovetailing and cramping was adopted
by Smeaton at the Eddystone Lighthouse. The chief defect that was
found in this was the want of a perfect water-stop in the horizontal
joints. An improved system of slate joggling, also very ingenious,
was adopted by the late Mr. Walker. This was found to be rather
complicated in practice, and from the number of pieces required for
securing a single stone, the work of setting the masonry was retarded.
In addition to the security afforded by the dovetailing, each stone of
the first and second courses was secured to the rock by strong bolts
of yellow metal, and each face stone of the third to twentieth courses
inclusive was secured to the course below in the same manner. For
the inside stones galvanized steel bolts were used. All the holes for
the bolts were bored in the workyard ; and so accurately was this
executed, that no instance occurred where the lower part of a hole
was found to be out of position for properly inserting and wedging
up the bolt at the rock. The masonry to the level of high-water
 spring tides was set in fresh Medina Roman cement, mixed with
an equal portion of clean sharp sand ; the remainder of the work was
set with the best Portland cement, mixed with sand in the same pro
portion.
     In spite of the precautions taken for the security of the stones in
 the lower portion of the building, thirty-four stones of the 5th course
 (which course it was found impossible to complete at the end of the
 season of 1865) were carried away during a heavy storm which raged
 on the 24th and 25th of November of that year. It is supposed that
 the damage was caused by a floating wreck, as marks of the cutting of a
chain over the edge of the masonry were observed when an inspection
 could be made. It was also ascertained, soon after the storm, that the
 ship 'Star of England,' of 1544 tons register, from Calcutta, bound to
 London, was nearly lost there during the storm ; and the vessel, which
was said to have been within 100 yards of the rock on the weather
side, was only canted clear of it by cutting away her mizen-mast. It
was therefore concluded that this mast with its gear must have driven
against the masonry, and cansed the damage.

1871.J                 on the Wolf Rock Lighthouse.                   -219
     The general internal arrangements of the tower are as follows.
The lower room, which is approached by a vertical gun-metal ladder
on the outside of the tower, is called the entrance chamber ; in it are
stowed the ropes, life-buoys, and other appliances for landing at the
rock : the second room is used for the stowage of coals, firewood,
&c. ; the third room, called the store-room, is fitted with a crane for
heisting the coals, water, oil, provisions, &c., from the rock, and in it
are stowed the stores and provisions of the light-keepers; in the fourth,
or oil room, is stowed the colza oil for the service of the light. The
fifth, or living room, is fitted with a convenient cooking-range, &c. ;
it has also a bookcase for the circulating library provided by the
Trinity House, which is changed every three months. The sixth,
or bed-room, is fitted with five bed-berths, &c. The seventh, or
service room, is fitted with a stove for keeping up the tempera
ture of the lantern during cold weather, and closets for storing
everything necessary for the service of the light ; the windows of this
room are specially arranged for admitting air to the lantern, and for
regulating the ventilation in all states of the weather. The supply of
air is admitted by a valve at the upper part of the window so as to
pass above the head of the light-keeper on duty, and upwards through
an iron grating surrounding the lantern floor. The step-ladders, for
ascending from floor to floor, and the partitions between the rooms and
staircase are of cast iron, and the use of wood for the fittings has been
limited as much as possible, as a precaution in case of fire. The
doors, windows, and storm shutters are constructed of gun-metal.
     Lanterns. — Lightheuse lanterns were formerly invariably con
structed with vertical framing and flat glazing, and both framing
and glazing were practically as perfect as was required for catoptric
lights. But with the more perfect dioptric instruments now in use,
the interception by the lantern-framing of the vertically-elongated
beam of light sent from these instruments was found to be a matter
of importance, and with the view of reducing this interception to a
minimum, inclined framing was adopted some years since by the late
Mr. Alan Stevenson, engineer to the Commissioners of Northern
Lightheuses. These lanterns are glazed with triangular facets of
 glass. In adopting the cylindrical form for the glazing with helically-
curved framing, the greatest possible inclination can be given to the
framing, thus reducing the interception of the light to a minimum.
The lantern is one of the cylindrical helically-framed type, designed
by me and adopted by the Trinity House. The maximum intercep
tion of the light sent from a first-order dioptric apparatus for fixed
light is 3$ per cent., and the minimum               per cent., giving a
 mean of 3£ per cent, for the whele illuminated area; indeed, the
obstruction is so small that it casts no sensible form of shadow
upon a screen at 40 feet from the light. This lantern is framed
with puddle steel, the framing is rolled in halves, each of the quad
rilateral and triangular panels are welded together separately, and
                                                               Q2

 220                          Mr. J. N. Douglass                  [Feb. 17,
  adjusted to size and curvature on a gauge-block ; they are afterwards
  fitted and riveted together, each pair of quadrilateral panels fishing
  the junctions of the frames above and below them, and thus forming
  a rigid framing of nearly uniform sectional area and strength through
  out the lantern for the support of the plate-glass. The glazing, which
  is half-inch thick, is carefully bent to the required curvature and fitted
  to standard templates, thus ensuring optical accuracy and the perfect
  fitting of any pane tliroughout the lantern. With the cylindrical
  glazing of this lantern the light sent from a dioptric apparatus
 always falls nearly normally upon the internal surface, consequently
 the usual scattering of a portion of this light by reflexion with
 lanterns glazed with flat glass is to a considerable extent prevented.
 The curvature of the glass also affords additional strength for re
 sisting storms. I have found from actual experiment that this addi
 tional strength compared with the ordinary flat glazing amounts
 to 68 per cent. I would here desire to record the very kind and
 valuable advice and assistance I received from the late Professor
 Faraday in conducting the necessary experiments for determining the
 exact form and arrangement of the framing of these lanterns ; also
 the careful investigation of the subject that was afterwards made for
 the Trinity House by Professor Tyndall before these lanterns were
 finally adopted by them.
      This lantern was manufactured by Messrs. Hodge and Sons, of
 Millwall, and was exhibited at the Paris Exhibition of 1867, while
 the curved plate-glass for glazing it and the dioptric apparatus were
 manufactured by Messrs. Chance Bros, and Co., of Birmingham. The
 instrument is probably the most perfect for the purpose that has yet
 been constructed. With the view of giving the Wolf light a perfectly
 distinctive character, a revolving dioptric light of the first order,
 showing alternate flashes of red and white at half-minute intervals,
 was resolved upon. This arrangement involved the consideration of
 the important question—which does not appear to have been previously
 determined with accuracy—of disposing in each beam the relative
 proportion of light to allow for the loss in the red beams by passing
 through a ruby glass medium, and producing at all distances at which
 the light can be seen, with variable states of the atmosphere, flashes
 of nearly the same strength. The investigation of the subject was
entered into by Professor Tyndall, the scientific adviser of the Trinity
 House; and as it was one which could not be determined with accuracy
by photometric measurements, a visit was made by Dr. Tyndall and
myself to the Rock Lighthouse, near Liverpool, which has a catoptric
revolving light, showing one red flash succeeded by two of white, at
intervals of one minute ; and inquiries and observations were made
by us on this light at the Point of Air Lighthouse, at a distance
of 11 miles, and at the Great Ormes Head Lighthouse, at a distance of
30 miles. Experiments with red and white lights were also made at
the experimental lighthouse of the Trinity House at. Blackwall, and
observations on these were taken from a station at Charlton, at a

1871.]                 on the Wolf Bock Lighthouse.                   221
distance of 2 miles. From these practical tests it 'was determined
that the quantity of light to be appropriated to the red beams sheuld
be to that of the white in the ratio of 5275 to 2250, or as 21 to 9
nearly. The apparatus has sixteen panels of refractors and lower
prisms and eight panels of upper prisms to the circle. Eight panels
of refractors and lower prisms of 18° each are appropriated to eight
beams of white light ; and eight panels of refractors and lower prisms
of 27° each, together with the eight panels of the upper prisms of 45°
each, to eight beams of red light. The colour is produced by ruby
glass placed in front of the panels, and revolving with the apparatus.
The illuminating power of each beam sent from the apparatus is
estimated at 31,500 English candles or units of light.
    The optical portions of the apparatus were designed by Mr. James
T. Chance, to whese scientific attainments is, in a great measure, due
the present excellence of manufacture -in this country of the illumi
nating apparatus of our lightheuses.
    [Here was exhibited a revolving dioptric light of the fourth order,
kindly lent by Messrs. Wilkins and Co., Lightheuse Engineers, of
Long Acre. This apparatus had twelve lenticular panels gathering
up the continuous sheet of light into twelve divergent beams. Mr.
Douglass coloured six of these beams by ruby glass shades in the
manner adopted for the Wolf apparatus, but each beam, having the
same initial intensity, the power of the red beams was considerably
reduced by their passage through the colouring medium.]
    Fog-bell.—A fog-bell weighing 5 cwt. is fixed on the lantern gal
lery ; it is struck by two hammers, worked by machinery, fixed in the
pedestal of the illuminating apparatus, but independent of that for
rotating the latter. For the purpose of giving the signal a distinctive
character for the station, the machinery is arranged for striking the
bell three blows in quick succession, at intervals of fifteen seconds.
    Landing Platform.—In consideration of the great difficulty expe
rienced in landing upon the Wolf, which can only be effected on the
north-east side, and even there the surface is rugged and witheut any
vertical face for a boat to approach, it was dotermined to construct a
landing platform of masonry. Frequent tides, which did not ebb low
enough to admit of working at the foundation pit for the tower, were
worked at this platform ; and so rapidly did this portion of the work
progress that the platform was nearly completed before the foundation
pit could be prepared for setting the first stone of the tower. This
platform greatly facilitated the erection of the lightheuse, and will
prove of great value hereafter, from the convenience it will afford for
landing and embarking at times when it would be impossible to do so
witheut it. The landing platform contains 14,564 cubic feet of
masonry, making together with the tower a total of 59,070 cubic feet,
or about 4375 tons.

222                       Mr. J. N. Dottglats                  [Feb. 17,
                      Working Season of 1862.
    On the 17th March, the working party got upon the rock, and
began to cut out the foundation pit. The insecurity of the foot
held, and the constant breaking of the surf over it, rendered great
precaution necessary for the safety of the workmen. Heavy iron
stanchions were sunk into the rock around the site for the foundation,
and each man worked with a safety-rope lying near him, one end of
which was attached to the nearest stanchion. An experienced man
was always stationed on the summit as " crow," to look out for the sea,
whe would give warning of such waves as were likely to sweep the
rock, when the men would held on, head to the sea, while it washed
over them ; picks, hammers, and jumpers, some exceeding 20 lbs. in
weight, were frequently found to have been washed away, when the
waves had passed and were followed by a lull.
    Blasting.— The danger was further increased by frequent blastings
of the rock with gunpowder ; the only shelter that could be obtained
for protection from the shewers of falling pieces of rock with each
blast, was by crowding all hands together under a temporary pent
heuse hastily formed around the iron beacon each time we landed.
Three or four lucky individuals, more nimble than the rest, usually
contrived to scramble through a man-hele into the upper part of the
cone of the iron beacon.
    These circumstances are not related to magnify the difficulties of the
work, but in order that attention may be directed to the precautions
taken, and to the fact that they were successful in preserving life.
    On the 29th September, the last tide of the season was worked;
only twenty-two landings had been effected and eighty-throe heurs of
work obtained on the rock for the season, altheugh not a single oppor
tunity had been lost when it was possible to work even half an heur.
The season was altogether a very unfavourable one for such an under
taking. During these eighty-throe heurs considerable progress was
made in blasting and cutting out the foundation pit for the tower and
in the erection of the landing platform.
    On the death, in October, 1862, of the late Mr. James Walker, the
Engineer to the Trinity House, I was appointed by the elder brethren
to that office ; and my brother, whe was then completing the Hanois
Lightheuse, succeeded me as resident engineer at the Wolf.
                           Season of 1863.
    The first landing was effected on the 20th February, and the last
on the 24th October. During the season, thirty-nine landings were
effected, and the work on the rock was proceeded with during two
hundred and six and a half heurs. At its close, the cutting of the
foundation pit and the erection of the landing platform were about

1871.]                 on the Wolf Rock Lighthouse.                  223
half executed, and the dressing of the 6th course of masonry in the
workyard was completed.
                             Season of 1864.
     The first landing was effected on the 9th April, and the last
on the 5th November. During this season forty-two landings were
effected, and two hundred and sixty-seven heurs' work obtained on
the rock; on the 6th August the first stone of the tower was set.
At the close of the season, thirty-seven stones of the 1st entire course
or 2nd course of the tower were set ; the landing platform was nearly
completed, and the dressing of the 10th course was finished in the
workyard. The iron derrick landing crane was erected on the end of
the landing platform ; it has a solid wrought-iron mast, fixed in a cast-
iron well, into which the machinery, when not in use, is lowered by a
 rack and pinion, and is then secured by strong, wrought iron hinged
covers. The wrought-iron derrick, when not in use, is lowered into
 the long protecting chamber, and is secured therein with strong iron
covers.
     The barges for conveying the stones were specially fitted for the
 work. The held of these barges is fitted with rollers, on which the
 stones are stowed in the exact order in which they are required for
 the work. Each stone, as required to be landed, is rolled on to one
 of the stone-trucks at the stern of the barge, and is drawn up to the
 level of the deck by a chain led from the winch on the deck ; the
 chain from the landing crane is then shackled to the lewis fixed in
 the stone ; the single block of a strong rope veering tackle is also
 attached to the lewis ; one end of this tackle is secured to one of the
 windlass bitts, and the other end to a break barrel on the winch. As
 the chain of the landing crane draws the stone from the truck over
 the roller at the stern of the barge, with the heave of the vessel the
 veering tackle is eased away by the break, and the tackle is kept
 just sufficiently taut to prevent the stone being driven by the sea
 against the rock. Twenty to thirty blocks of stone weighing 4 to 5
 tons each have frequently been landed in this manner in one day
 witheut damage, and with a rise and fall of wave of 12 feet.
     Each barge, when at the landing crane, was moored stem and
 stern, with 10-inch coir hawsers ; and the stern hawsers, even of this
 size, were frequently broken. The barrack scheoner for the accom
 modation of the resident engineer, his assistants, and workicg party,
 was moored at a distance of % mile from the rock, and remained there
 as long as there was any opportunity of doing work. When this was
 no longer possible, and there was no immediate prospect of better
 weather, the moorings were slipped, and the vessel was taken to
 Penzance, there to await another opportunity.
     The landing boat was designed and constructed expressly for the
 work ; she is built diagonally, of two thicknesses of elm plank, with
 out timbers or floors, and is provided with a deck and landing mast

224                       Mr. J. N. Doujlnss                  [Feb. 17,
forward. The deck and gunwale forward are covered with rough
rope matting, for the purpose of affording a good foothold in jumping
from or into the boat. Each workman is provided with a cork lifebelt,
which he is compelled to wear while landing or embarking from the
rock ; and it was frequently necessary for the safety of the men, that
they should wear these belts during the whole of the time that they
were engaged upon the rock.
                           Season of 1865.
    The first landing was effected on the 11th April, and the last on
the 17th December. Between these dates forty-one landings were
effected, and the work on the rock was carried on for two hundred
and fifty hours. At the close of the season the 4th course of masonry
was completed, and thirty-four stones were set in the 5th course.
    In the workyard, the dressing of the 18th course was completed.
It was fully expected that the 5th course woidd have been completed
at the rock before the works were closed for the winter ; but the state
of the weather rendered this impossible, and those stones which were
set, thirty-four in number, were carried away, as previously stated,
during a severe storm in November.
                           Season or 1866.
    The first landing was effected on the 5th March, and the last
on the 13th October. During the summer thirty-one landings were
effected, and two hundred and twenty-four hours and a half worked
on the rock. At the close of the season, the 9th course of the tower
was completed, and two stones were set in the 10th course. In
the workyard the dressing of the 26th course was finished. During
the season the wrought-iron setting crane was erected on the tower,
and used for setting the work. At the close of the season, the bare
post of the crane, a wrought-iron cylinder of great strength, was left
standing 20 feet above the masonry and 23 feet above high water
of spring tides, but during the winter it was broken off flush with the
surface of the work.
                           Season op 1867.
    No opportunity occurred for landing on the rock until the 6th May,
and the last for the season was on the 5th November. During this
time forty landings were effected, and three hundred and thirteen and
a half hours worked on the rock.
    At the close of the season, the 23rd course was completed and
eight stones were set in the 24th course. In the workyard the
dressing of the 39th course was completed. At the commencement
of this season's operations at tho rock, a new mast for the setting
crane was fixed, a topmast was also fitted to it, and thu hoisting and.

 1871.]                   on tlie Wolf Rock Lightlwuse.             225
 setting of this portion of the work was carried out. On the 31st June,
 the sea being very smooth, all hands were able to remain on the rook
 for the first time over high water, on the top of the 11th course.
                              Season of 1868.
     Between the first landing on the 31st March, and the last on the
14th October, thirty landings were effected, and two hundred and
seventy-six and a third hours worked on the rock. At the close of the
season, the 47th course of the tower was completed, and in the work-
yard the dressing of the masonry was finished. On the 17th and 18th
June the steam-winch with its boiler was fixed in the first room of
the tower, and on the 29th was used for the first time; this was
doubtless the first occasion of the employment of a steam-engine upon
a tidal rock. It worked successfully to the completion of the tower,
and considerably facilitated the process of construction. The average
time occupied in raising each block of stone from the landing plat
form to the top of the work was only two and a half minutes, while
to perform the same duty by manual labour would have required
fifteen minutes.
                              Season of 1869.
     The first landing was effected on the 16th March, and on the 19th
July the last stone of the tower was laid by Sir Frederick Arrow, the
Deputy-master of the Trinity House. To this date there had been
twenty-one landings and one hundred and ninety-four and a half hours
of work on the rock, making a total for the eight working seasons of
two hundred and sixty-six landings, and eight hundred and nine and
a half hours, being only one hundred and one working days, of ten
hours each, for the erection of the tower.
     LiglUing-up.—Towards the end of the year, the tower was got
ready for the exhibition of the light which was advertised for the 1st
of January, 1870 ; but Christmas approached, and no opportunity had
occurred for some time for communicating with the workmen in the
tower, except by signal. I was at Penzance waiting for an oppor
tunity to go off with the resident engineer of the work and the three
light-keepers appointed to take charge of the tower. On Christmas
morning the opportunity so anxiously looked for arrived, when we
proceeded in the steam-tender, and succeeded in effecting a landing ;
but before the effects of the light-keepers were fairly ashore, and my
inspection could be made of the works in the tower, the sea had
increased so much that the landing boat could no longer approach the
rock. We had, therefore, with a cold north-east wind blowing, to be
hauled one at a time through the surf to the boat, which we all pre
ferred to tho prospect of a lodging for an indefinite period in the
lighthouse.

226        Mr. J. N. Douglass on the Wolf Rock Lighthouse.       [Feb. 17,
    Since the completion of the tower, the heaviest seas that have been
experienced were on the 11th September, 1869, during a violent gale
from the westward, when large quantities of water went over the
tower ; but the residents state that altheugh the sheck was distinctly
felt with each wave-stroke, scarcely any tremor was perceptible.
    The light was exhibited on the 1st January, 1870, and has since
been continued with regularity every night from sunset to sunrise.
Before the light could be shewn, the services of my brother, the resi
dent engineer, were required for the erection of a similar work, on the
great Basses Rock, off the south-east coast of Ceylon ; the charge of
the completion of the work was therefore entrusted to Mr. M. Beazeley,
the assistant-engineer at the work, whe is now proceeding with the
erection of a new lightheuse upon the Longships.
    It is a source of thankfulness to me to be able to state that this
difficult and dangerous work has been brought to a successful termina
tion witheut loss of life or limb to any person employed. This success
is mainly due to the steady perseverance of the resident engineer, his
assistants, and their workmen ; and I would desire to record the
personal interest and willing heartiness exhibited by these employed
upon this and similar works that have been carried out by the Trinity
House.
    As this is a matter of the utmost importance, affecting as it does
the success of similar undertakings, a somewhat detailed account of
the system under which the workmen are employed may not be con
sidered uninteresting. Each workman is engaged at a daily rate of
wages at the commencement of each season, and signs an agreement for
one year ; the wages are paid monthly, from which is deducted a sum
equal to 2d. per day, as a reserve until the end of the season, which
reserve is forfeited in the event of the man leaving the employment
witheut giving a month's notice. When at sea an allowance of
25 per cent, is added to the ordinary wages, and as a further en
couragement for good conduct and perseverance, a gratuity of 6d. is
allowed for every heur worked upon the rock. This gratuity is not
payable, hewever, in the case of misconduct, or in the event of the
man leaving the employment during the working season. The sum
of Id. per day is deducted from the wages of each workman for a sick
and accidental insurance fund, which is managed by a committee of
four of the workmen, elected by the whele of the subscribers, the
resident engineer acting as treasurer.
     In case of sickness or accident, each subscriber is paid 2». per day,
and is provided with a medical attendant. At the close of the work a
balance of 48Z. 8«. 8$d. remained in the hands of the treasurer, which
was distributed amongst six persons connected with the works, viz,
two whe were then on the sick-list, three whe had met with accidents
on the works, and the widow of a workman whe had recently died.

 1871.]      Mr. Williams on Rumford's Scientific Discoveries.            227
    The average number of persons of the various classes employed at
the Wolf Lighthouse was :—
    Resident Engineer                     Engineers of Steam-tug       2
    Assistant ditto                       Firemen of ditto             'I
    Clerk                                 Millwright                   1
     Storekeeper                          Masons                      22
    Foreman Mason                         Carpenters and Shipwrights 6
    Master of Steam-tug                   Smiths                       6
     Mate of ditto                        Seamen                      14
     Master of Sailing Tender             Miners                       2
     Mate of ditto                        Labourers                    6
                                  Total, 70.
    The total cost of the undertaking, including lantern, illuminating
apparatus, cost of workyard, vessels, and all incidental expenses, may
be taken at 62,726Z. This cost, considering the exceptional difficulties
of the work, compares favourably with any similar work yet executed.
                                                               [J. N. D.]
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 24, 1871.
William Spottiswoode, Esq. Treasurer E.S.& B.I. and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                       W. Mattieu Williams, F.C.S.
                     On Bumford's Scientific Discoveries.
The Bpeaker ventured to assert that it would be difficult, or even im
possible, to name any philosopher, statesman, and philanthropist of
equal eminence to Benjamin Thompson, Count of Eumford, concerning
whom so little is popularly known. This may be explained by the
facts that his statesmanship and philanthropic efforts were chiefly
exerted abroad, and that his philosophical researches resulted in
scarcely anything admitting of attractive lecture-table illustration,
while the discoveries of so many of his contemporaries and immediate
successors were most brilliant in this respect.
     The electrical machine, the voltaic battery, oxygen, hydrogen,
chlorine, the metals of the alkalis, &c, by supplying lecture-table
experiments of such marvellous and previously unknown brilliancy,
developed a new race of teachers—the popular experimental lecturers,
to whom we are mainly indebted for the popular diffusion of scientific
knowledge during the present century, and the philosophers whose
names are connected with the discovery of the materials which sup
plied these teachers with their favourite illustrations, are naturally
the best known to their pupils.

 228                    Mr. W. Matiieu, Williams                   [Feb. 24,
     The researches of Rumford are nevertheless especially worthy of
 general attention, as his subjects literally come home to all of us, the
greater part of his life having been devoted to studying and applying
 the philosophy of common things ; he may be, in fact, regarded above
all others as the philosopher of common things, the science of feeding,
clothing, warming, and sheltering of mankind having been his chief
 pursuit, as the following list of the subjects of his essays and researches
will show.
     The Force of Fired Gunpowder.—Improvements in Field Artillery
 and Guns generally. — Naval Architecture. — Naval Signals (the
essays on these two last-named subjects have not yet been published).
—The Transmission of Heat through Solids, Liquids, Gases, and
Vacuo.—The Helative Warmth of Different Materials used for Cloth
ing. —The Quantities of Moisture absorbed from the Atmosphere by
 Different Materials used for Clothing.—The Production of Air from
Water.—Photometry.—Coloured Shadows.—The Harmony of Colours.
—The Chemical Properties which have been attributed to Light.—
The Weight or Ponderability ascribed to Heat.—The Suppression of
Mendicity, and the Economical Clothing, Feeding, Housing, and In
dustrial Education of the Poor.—The Philosophy and Practice of
Cookery.—The Nutritive Value of Different Kinds of Food.—The
 Cultivation and Use of the Potato.—The Construction of Stoves and
Open Fireplaces.—The Curing of Smoky Chimneys.—The Organiza
tion of Military Academies.—General Military Organization.—The
Education and the Civil Utilizing of the Soldier.—The Economy of
Fuel.—The Construction of Kitchen Furnaces—of Boilers—Roasters
—Saucepans—Stewpans—Gridirons—Dripping-pans—Ironing Stoves
—Cottage Fireplaces—Steam Stoves—Limekilns— Ovens—Teakettles
—Steam Cooking Apparatus—Dye-house Vats—Distillers' Coppers—
Drying-houses—Laundries—Lamps, Safety-valves, &c—The Prepa
ration of Cheap Soups, Indian Puddings, Macaroni, Potato Salads,
 Potato Dumplings, &c.—The Internal Movements of the Particles of
Heated Fluids.—The Final Cause of the Saltncss of the Sea.—The
Influence of Water in Equalizing Climate. —The Heating of Buildings
by Steam.—The Boiling of Water and various Solutions by the Latent
Heat of Steam.—The Salubrity of Warm Bathing (an Essay advocat
ing the introduction of the Turkish Bath).—The Pleasure of Eating,
and the Means that may be employed for Increasing it.—Tho Tensile
Strength of Different Substances.—The Suppression of Usury in
Bavaria.—The Improvement of the Breed of Horses and Horned Cattle
in Bavaria—The Relative Heating Power of Coal and Different Kinds
of Wood.—The Source of Heat excited by Friction.
     This list is mainly made up of practical STibjects, on which Count
Rumford did not merely write suggestive or speculative essays, but
which ho dealt with practically by carrying out successfully on a prac
tical scale his suggestions and improvements. All his practical suc
cesses wore effected by tho application of scientific principles, Rum-
ford's method invariably being to set before himself the task to be

1871.J                 on Rumford's Scientific Discoveries.                        229
performed, then to determine the philosophical principles involved
and having done this, to apply these principles practically. Most of
his purely philosophical investigations were suggested by demands
thus practically created, or by phenomena observed in the courso of
his practical work.
     The great characteristic of Rumford's whele career is that all his
practical work was strictly philosophical, and most of his philoso
phical work was eminently and directly practical.
      When, for example, he was commissioned by the Elector of Bavaria
to roorganize the Bavarian army, he studied the philosophy of cookery,
and made experiments upon the nutritive value of different kinds of
food, in order that he might feed the men as well and as economically
as possiblo. His improvements iu stoves, kitchen utensils, &c., his
numerous researches and essays on subjects connected with the general
economy of the kitchen and the preparation of food, are the results of
his therough and philosophical methed of solving this very practical
problem. The barrack requirements led him to study further the
economy of fuel in the warming of dwellings, the construction of
heating and ventilating apparatus, and of buildings generally.
      In order to determine the best material for the soldier's clothing,
he first considered the function of clothing, and determined that in
winter it sheuld act by resisting the transmission of the animal heat
to the cooler atmosphero, and thereby maintain the body at the tem
perature required ; that for this purpose a non-conductor or a bad con
ductor of heat is required. The relative conducting power of different
clothing materials being in his time unknown, he constructed a
theoretical soldier in the form of a thermometer, which he could clothe
 with the materials to be tested. By heating this clothed thermometer,
 and allowing it to cool in an apartment of constant temperature, he
 obtained the following results :—
     rounded bysur- \J Alr
 Thermometer            i-                     {/ cooled                 . 576 second8-
                                                          from 7Cf to )\ ,n
                                                    11T (Reaumur)                    ,
          „            16 gra. of Fine lint              „       „         1032   „
          „                „      Cotton wool           „        „         1046    „
          „                 „     Sheep's wool           „       „         11 18   „
          „                 „     Raw silk               „       „         1284   „
          ,,                „     Beaver's fur           „       „         1296    „
          „                 „     Eider-down            „        „         1305    „
          „                 „     Hare's fur            „        „         1315   „
      Finding that the raw silk only occupied 515th of the whele bulk of
 the outer bulb containing it, he calculated that if it were an absolute
 non-conductor, it sheuld, as compared with the envelop of air contained
 in the same space, only increase the resistance by ten seconds, but the
 experiment shewed that it had above seventy times the effect. There
 fore the resistance of the silk fibre cannot account for the result. Con
 necting this with his previous investigations on the convection of heat
 by liquids, Rnmford inferred that air is a non-conductor of heat, that
  the fibres acted by enclosing the air between them, and preventing

230                        Mr. W. Mattieu Williams                           [ Feb. 24,
those convection movements by which alone it can carry heat away
from a body in contact with it. He confirmed this explanation by a
series of experiments. He found that when the thermometer was sur
rounded by the same quantity of the above-named materials more
closely twisted or woven, so as to leave less air space between the
fibres, their power of resisting the passage of heat was diminished pro
portionately to the closeness of the weaving, or twisting, or packing.
     He thus not only solved his practical question of clothing, but
made important discoveries respecting the laws of transmission of heat
by gases, and further applied these to retaining heat in furnaces and
buildings by means of cellular walls, or double walls and windows.
     The question of what is the best material for summer clothing
was decided in like manner. He first considered how the body retains
its temperature when exposed to direct summer sunshine in hot cli
mates, or otherwise, when a thermometer similarly exposed rises above
blood heat. He concluded that it is by the evaporation of the insen
sible perspiration. How, then, may clothing aid this ? Evidently by
its power of absorbing the aqueous vapour. Do clothing materials
thus absorb vapour ? If so, do they diner in their powers of absorp
tion?
     To answer these questions he exposed the following substances,
carefully cleaned, upon china plates for twenty-four hours, in a room
that had for several months been dried by a German stove, its atmo
sphere having for six hours previous to the experiment been raised to
 85° Fahr. After this exposure 1000 parts of each were weighed in the
dry room ; then this quantity was exposed for forty-eight hours in an
uninhabited room and weighed again ; then for seventy-two hours in
a very damp cellar. The results were as follows :—
                      1000 Parts of            I After 48 hours After 74 hours
                                               'in room, weighed in cellar, weighed
        Sheep's wool                                  1084              1163
        Beaver's fur                                  1072              1125
        Fur of Russian hare                           1065              1115
        Eider-down                                    1067              1112
                 Raw
        Silk | Ravellings                             1057              1107
                              of white taffety        1054              1103
        Linen j Fine  lint
                 Ravellings of fine linen
                                                      1046
                                                      1044
                                                                        1102
                                                                        1082
        Cotton wool                                   1043              1089
        Silver wire—Ravellings of gold lace           1000              1000
     From these and other experiments he concluded that light flannel
 is the best clothing for summer, and he strongly advocates its universal
 adoption. The soundness of his conclusion is confirmed by the sub
 sequent experience both of soldiers and sailors, and of cricketers,
 rowers, furnace-men, and all who are engaged in work that induces
much perspiration.

1871.J              on Bumford's Scientific Discoveries.
    Count Rumford's researches and inventions connected with his
greatest subject, that of cookery, afford abundant examples of his appli
cations of philosophy to practical affairs ; but the extent of the subject
forbids the citation of more than one small characteristic sample.
After advocating the extended use of Indian corn and giving general
directions for its use, and particularly for the preparation and cooking
of " Indian pudding," including the scientific manipulation of the
pudding bag, he concludes as follows :—" The pudding is to be eaten
with a knife and fork, beginning at the circumference of the slice and
approaching regularly towards the centre, each piece of pudding being
taken up with the fork and dipped into the butter, or dipped in part
only, as is commonly the case, before it is carried to the mouth."
    Again in his essay " On the Pleasure of Eating and the Means
that may be employed for increasing it," after shewing that the
pleasure of eating is produced by bringing the surface of the food
in contact with the surface of the tongue and the palate, and hew a
given quantity of food may have its contact surface increased, he says
in apology for his subject, " If a glutton can be made to gormandize
two heurs upon two ounces of meat, it is certainly better for him
than to give himself an indigestion by eating two pounds in the same
time."
    As an example of his theoretical work his speculations on the
movements of the molecules of a heated fluid may be cited. He
supposes the case of a coin or pebble at the bottom of an open vessel
of water, and says, " As a ray of light cannot fail to generate heat
when and where it is stopped and absorbed, the rays which, entering
the water and passing through it, impinge against the small solid
opaque body at the bottom of the vessel are there absorbed, and must
necessarily generate a certain quantity of heat ; a part of which will
be communicated to these colder particles of water which repose on
its surface."
    He had already shewn by a series of very simple and conclusive
experiments that the particles of a fluid thus heated are set in visible
motion, and he supposes the case of a molecule of water in contact
with the coin, and having a diameter of 0 o o o o o^n of an 1ncn *o
move at the least rate of visible motion -l-J-j-th of an inch per second.
Thus it will move through 10,000 times its own diameter in a second.
Taking the greatest velocity of a 9-pounder cannon ball, 4 inches in
diameter, at 1600 feet per second, it passes through only 4800 diameters
per second ; thus the relative velocity of the molecule of water is mo e
than double that of the cannon ball. Such a molecule thus moving will
come in contact with at least 600,000 others per second, to each of
which it will impart a portion of its heat and motion. Thus, every
inequality of temperature induces violent molecular agitation, and
Rumford asks whether animal life may not depend upon such motion,
seeing that the organic apparatus is mainly fluid, or fluids contained
between walls and in channels, and that there is a continual internal
heating and external cooling due to respiration and surface evapo

  232                      Mr. W. Mattieu Williams                [Feb. 24,
  ration and radiation, or in his own words : " Do not respiration,
  digestion, and insensible perspiration all tend evidently (that is to say,
  according to our assumed principles with regard to the manner in
  which heat is propagated in fluids) to produce and to perpetuate this
  inequality of heat in the animal fluids. And do we not see what an
  immediate and powerful effect they have in increasing the intensity of
  the action of the powers of life ? "
      Intimately connected with this essay is another, which appears to
  be worthy of more attention than it has received, especially in con
  nection with the modern growth of our knowledge of the transmission
  of light and heat in gases and liquids, and the conversion of one force
  into another. The title of this essay is " An Inquiry concerning the
  Chemical Properties that have been attributed to Light." Piumford
  made a number of experiments upon compounds of gold and silver, by
  which he shewed that the decompositions usually attributed to light
  could all be effected in precisely the same manner and degree by
  obscure heat, a temperature below the boiling point of water being
  sufficient when the salts were in aqueous solution, or a higher tem
  perature when the dry salts were used. Also that clear solutions of
  chloride of gold or nitrate of silver are not decomposed by sunlight
  unless some body capable of absorbing -the light, and thereby convert
 ing it into heat, is immersed in them. He asks what is the tempera
 ture induced upon the absolute surface of such a light-absorbing body
 at the instant of absorption or conversion of light into heat. He
 thinks that it must far exceed that indicated by any form of thermo
 meter, because the thermometer only shews the mean temperature of
 the whole mass of the contents of its bulb, and its absolute surface
 is perpetually parting with its heat by conduction, radiation, and the
 convection of the surrounding medium. If the single molecule of
 water above referred to comes in contact with 600,000 others in the
 course of a second, and communicates some of its heat to each, we
 cannot ascertain its initial maximum temperature, and even this is
 below that of the surface of the coin or pebble from which it received
 its heat by contact.
      The time did not permit the speaker to develop these speculations
 and connect them with modern philosophy as intended, and he there
 fore passed on to Rumford's celebrated experiments on " The Source
 of Heat excited by Friction."
     These experiments are so well known that it is unnecessary to
repeat their details here. It will be remembered that after taking
every precaution to insulate his apparatus from any communication
of heat from witheut, and ascertaining that the specific heat of the
borings was unchanged, Rumford found that the heat ovolved by the
friction of a blunt borer against the inside of a metal cylinder was
sufficient to boil 18 - 77 lbs. of water in 2^ heurs, and to keep it boil
ing as long as the friction was sustained. His own conclusion is thus
expressed : " It is hardly necessary to add that anything which an
insulated body, or system of bodies, can continue to furnish without

  1871.]              an Bum/orcCs Scientific Discoveries.            233
  limitation cannot possibly be a material substance ; and it appears to
  me extremely difficult, if not quite impossible, to form any distinct
  idea of anything capable of being excited and communicated in these
 experiments except it be MOTION."
      The italics and capitals are Count Rumford's. As Dr. Tyndall
 says, " Rumford in this memoir annihilates the material theory of
 Heat. Nothing more powerful on the subject has since been written,"
 and " hardly anything more conclusive has since been adduced in the
 way of establishing that Heat is what Rumford considered it to be—
 ' Motion.' "
      This memoir, and the one immediately connected with it, " On
 the Weight or Ponderability ascribed to Heat," and his investigations
 on the Transmission of Heat through Gases and Liquids, are perhaps
 the most important of Rumford's purely philosophical works, and he
 is the father of the Royal Institution. All who have followed the
 recent progress of physical science must admit that this Institution
 has been a dutiful child and has worthily cultivated its patrimonial
 inheritance.
      Old-fashioned story-tellers were wont to conclude their discourse
 with a " moral." This old fashion may be profitably followed in the
 present instance, when we remember that Benjamin Thompson began
 life in extreme poverty, was a poor teacher in a poor colonial village
school, that step by step he rose to such honour and distinction, that
 when Bavaria was so sorely threatened that its sovereign was obliged
 to fly from Munich, full powers of temporary sovereignty were placed
 in Rumford's hands, and he wielded this power with complete success.
 He practically solved great social problems and achieved great social
 reforms, such as to this day, after a lapse of above seventy years, we
 all desire to see repeated, and yet cannot achieve again. Ho abolished
 mendicity from a country where it prevailed to an almost unprece
 dented extent ; he succeeded in making the rogues and vagabonds of
 Bavaria pay all the expenses of their food, clothing, and lodging, and
 leave a handsome balance towards the maintenance of the police who
 apprehended them. Ho thus provided for the poor of an excessively
 pauperized country without any poor's-rates. He was a great states
 man, a practical soldier, the greatest of practical military reformers, a
 skilful mechanic and engineer, and a successful philanthropist, besides
 being a distinguished philosopher. All his success is cloarly trace
able to the fact that whatever he did, from the eating of a slice of
pudding to the dictatorship of a nation, was done by rigidly obeying
those principles of inductive reasoning which have led to the mar
vellous triumphs of modern science.
      If, therefore, you would make your son a successful soldier, a suc
cessful lawyer, a successful statesman, successful in any business or
profession whatever, you shoidd give him a sound, practical scientific
education ; let him learn how to observe and investigate facs, to
generalize them, and from such inductions to deduce sound rules for
practical conduct.
    Vol. VI. (No. 54.)                                            R

234                     General Monthly Meeting.               [March 6,
    Modern science affords the best, the highest, and the most useful
school of intellectual culture : the great business of the present day is
to give to science that decided educational precedence to which it is
entitled, and the whele career of Benjamin Thempson, Count Rumford,
affords a striking example of the kind of intellectual results we may
expect to obtain when sound scientific knowledge and training arc
afforded to every human being —malo and female.
                                                           [W. M. W.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             March 3, 1871,
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President
                              in the Chair.
                          Capt. Norle, F.R.S.
                  On the Pressure of Fired Gunpowder.
                            [Abstract deferred.]
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, March 6, 1871.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
William Blenkin, Esq.                  George Middloton Keill, Esq.
John Browning, Esq.                    John Kennedy, M.D.
Edward Maynard Denny, Esq.             James Macaulcy, Esq.
Frederick A. Eck, Esq.                 Kenneth Robort Murchison, Esq.
Sir Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G.         Mrs. Sheffield Neave.
Colonel Augustus Lane Fox.             George W. Royston Pigott, M.A.
Paul Graham, Esq.                      Eustratios Ralli, Esq.
Col. James Augustus Grant, C.B.        Francis Savage Reilly, Esq.
Edward Walter Grubbe, Esq.             William Chandler Roberts, Esq.
George Harcourt, M.D.                  W. Dehague Routh, Esq.
Captain F. Helbert.                    Mrs. W. Castle Smith,
George William Henderson, Esq.         Themas Sowerby, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.

 1871.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                         235
       The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
        FROM
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 72. 8vo. 1871.
American Association—Proceedings of Eighteenth Meeting, Aug. 1869. 8vo.
      1870.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. V. Part 1. 8vo. 1870.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 165. 8vo. 1870.
Astronomical Society, fioyal—Proceedings, Vol. XXXI. No. 3. 1871.
Ballard, Edward, M.D. (the Auther)—Typheid Fever in Islington traced to Impure
      Milk. (K98) 8vo. 1871.
Bennett, John B. Esq. Registrar-General, Wellington—Statistics of New Zealand.
      1869. fol.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papors, 1870-1, No. 4. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for Feb. 1871. 8vo.
Comitato Geologico oVItalia—Bollettini, Nos. 11, 12. 8vo. Firenze, 1870.
Editors—Academy for Feb. 1871. 4to.
   American Journal of Science, Jan. 1871. 8vo.
   Artizan for Feb. 1871. 4to.
   Athenaeum for Feb. 1871. 4to.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1871. 4to.
   English Mechanic for Feb. 1871.
   Engineer for Feb. 1871. fol.
   Food Journal for Feb. 8vo. 1871.
   Horological Journal for Feb. 1871. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Feb. 1871. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for Feb. 1871. 8vo.
   Nature for Feb. 1871. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb. 1871. 8vo.
   Phetographic News for Feb. 1871. 4to.
   Scientific Review for Feb. 1871. fol.
Elliot, Lady—History of India as told by its own Historians. Edited from Papers
      by Sir H. Elliot, by J. Dowson. Vol. III. 8vo. 1871.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1870, No. 3. 8vo.
   Verhandlungen, 1870, No. 10. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 105. 8vo. 1871.
Geological Survey Office—Mineral Statistics. 1869. 8vo.
   Memoirs. 2 Parts. 8vo. 1870.
   Catalogue of Maps, &o. 8vo.
Jencken, Henry D. Esq. M.R.I.—Compendium of Modern Roman Law. By F. J.
      Tompkins and H. D. Jencken, 8vo. 1870.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 150. 8vo. 1871.
London Institution—Journal, No. 3. 8vo. 1871.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Report, 1869. III. 4to. 1870.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichto, Dec. 1870. 8vo.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXVI. Part 1. 4to. 1870.
   Proceedings, 1869-70. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 125. 8vo. 1871.
   Transactions, Vol. CLX. Part 2. 4to. 1870.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Auther)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     Feb. 1871. 8vo.
                                                                       B 2

23G                    Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the              | March 10,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 10, 1871.
       Sir Henry. Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
                  William B. Carpenter, M.D. F.R.S.
         On the Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.
The objects of the ' Porcupine ' Expedition of 1870 were : (1) to con
tinue southwards the Physical and Biological exploration of the Deep
Sea, from the northern extremity of the Bay of Biscay, at which it
had terminated in 1869, to the Strait of Gibraltar ; (2) to prosecute
similar inquiries in the Western basin of the Mediterranean between
the Strait of Gibraltar and Malta ; and (3) to determine whether an
outward under-current does or does not exist in the Strait, carrying
back Mediterranean water into the Atlantic.
    These objects were on the whele satisfactorily attained ; the only
part as to which there was any want of success being the exploration
of the Bay of Biscay, which was prevented by unfavourable weather.
The Dredgings and Temperature-soundings on the Atlantic coast of
Spain and Portugal gave results of very great interest ; while the
remarkable contrast to these results afforded by the peculiar Tempera
ture-phenomena of the Mediterranean, and by the comparative sterility
of its dopths, proves of unexpected value in the elucidation of questions
of high importance to the Physical Geographer and the Geologist.
The existence of an outward under-current in the Strait of Gibraltar
has now been placed beyond all doubt ; and the determination of the
Physical Cause by which the inward surface-current and the outward
under-current are alike sustained, has a direct bearing on a much
larger question,—that of the General Oceanic Circulation,—pro
pounded in the speaker's previous Discourses (April 9, 1869, and
Feb. 11, 1870).
    The Mediterranean Sea consists of two distinct basins, which
would be entirely separated from each other by an elevation of the
bottom to the amount of about 300 fathems ; for this would establish
a continuity of land between Italy, Sicily, and the northern coast of
Africa ; whereby the eastern basin, which extends from Malta to
the Levant, would be cut off from the western basin, which extends
from Malta to Gibraltar. A yet smaller elevation than this would

1871.j       Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.      237
completely cut off the western basin from the Atlantic ; for altheugh
the narrower part of the Strait of Gibraltar, near its eastern extremity,
has a depth exceeding 500 fathems, there is a gradual shallowing,
with increase of width, towards its western extremity ; so that where
it opens out between Capes Trafalgar and Spartel, a considerable part
of it has a depth of less than 100 fathems, whilst its deepest channel
does not exceed 200 fathems. The bottom slopes westwards, or to
wards the Atlantic, from this summit-ridge ; which thus constitutes a
kind of marine " watershed " between the Atlantic and the Mediterra
nean. The depth of the Western basin approaches 1500 fathems over
a considerable part of its area ; sometimes exceeding that amount ;
whilst that of the Eastern basin approaches 2000 fathems in many
parts, and reaches 2150. Thus such an elevation of the whele area
as would convert the Mediterranean into two " self-contained " lakes,
whilst somewhat contracting their surface, would leave their depth
comparatively little diminished.
     The effect of the ridge at the western extremity of the Strait of
Gibraltar is to cut off all direct communication between the deeper
water of the Mediterranean and that of the Atlantic, whilst allowing
a communication between their sur/ace-waters ; but, as will be pre
sently shewn, this limited interchange between Atlantic and Mediter
ranean water affects the constitution of the latter to a depth consi
derably greater than that of the channel of communication between
them.
     Density.—The first point of difference between the water of the
Mediterranean and that of the Atlantic, is in regard to their respec
tive proportions of. Salt.
     In the course of this Expedition numerous samples of Mediterra
 nean water were collected from various points of 'the surface, and
 from various depths, ranging downwards to 1743 fathems. Theso
 samples wore almost entirely obtained from the western basin ; but
 the deepest sample was taken from the eastern basin, about sixty
 miles beyond Malta. The Specific Gravity of each was determined
 at the time by Hydrometers specially constructed for the purpose, and
 specimens of the most remarkable were brought heme for verification
 with the Balance. The proportion of Chlorine in each sample was
 determined by volumetric analysis, which can be readily carried on
 aboard ship ; and from this the entire proportion of Salt may bo esti
 mated with considerable exactness. The Physical and the Chemical
 methed of ascertaining the density of each sample gave results which
 generally accorded very closely. Similar determinations had been
 previously made in regard to samples of water taken in the Atlantic,
 both from the surface and from various depths down to 1095 fathems,
 during the voyage of the ' Porcupine ' from Falmouth to Lisbon.
     A comparison of theso results leaves no doubt that there is an
 excess of Salinity in the water of the Mediterranean above that of the
 Atlantic ; but that this excess is kept within very narrow limits.
     The range of Specific Gravity in Atlantic water was from a maxi

238                      Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the                              [March 10,
mum of 1 0269 to a minimum of 1 - 0261 ; the mean of all the obser
vations being 1 - 0265.
    The Maximum occurred in sur/ace-water, the Minimum in bottom-
water.
    The proportion of Chlorine was determined by volumetric analysis
in 34 samples. Of these samples 12 woro of surface-water, 12 of
6ottom-water from various depths down to 1095 fathems, and 10 of
intermediate water. The results are expressed in grammes per 1000
cubic centimetres of water :—
                     Surface-water.           Intermediate water.           Bottom-water.
        Average .. 19-94                            19-85                       19-75
        Maximum .. 20-19                            19-94                       19-98
        Minimum .. 19-81                            19-70                       19-46
    It appears from these results that there is a slight excess of Sali
nity in the sur/ace-water of the Atlantic, as had been previously
observed by Forchhammer ; the excess, hewever, being so small as
not to neutralize the excess of density which the deeper water derives
from its lower temperature and from the pressure of the superincum
bent column. Five determinations of the Chlorine contained in sam
ples taken at the same spot, from the surface, and from 10, 25, 50,
and 100 fathems, gave the following results :—
    Surface                 20 013                   50 fathems                    19-909
     10 fathoms   ..   .. 19-909                    100      „                    19-805
    25      „     ..   .. 19-909
    A comparison of these seems to indicate that the excess of Sali
nity, being limited to a mere superficial film, is entirely due to evapo
ration ; and the reason why this more concentrated film does not sink,
as it does in the Mediterranean, seems to be that its excess of Salinity
is so small, that even at the depth of 10 fathems its effect on Specific
Gravity is neutralized by the greater density arising from reduction
of Temperature.
    The range of Specific Gravity in proper Mediterranean water
(excluding samples taken where the influence of the Atlantic inflow
was perceptible) was from a maximum of 1-0292 to a minimum of
1-0268. But there was here so marked a difference in Salinity be
tween Sur/ace-water and Bottom-water, as indicated alike by Specific
Gravity and by Chlorine determinations, that the results of the two
series of observations need to bo presented separately :—
                          Surface-water.                             Bottom-icater.
                        Sp gr.      Chlorine.                     Sp. (rr.     Chlorine.
         Average       10278         20-87                       10285          21-38
        Maximum .. 10284             21-32                       1-0292         21-88
         Miuimum .. 1-0265           20-70                       1-0281         21-08
    The maximum density having first presented itself at moderate
depths in the Western basin, it was expected, when greater depths
were sounded, that the bottom-water would prove yet more dense.

1871.]        Latest Scientific Researches in (lie Mediterranean.        239
This, howcYer, was not found to bo the case ; for the greater the
depth, the less was the excess in the density of the bottom-water.
Thus in the 1743 fathems' sounding, the Specific Gravity of the
Surface-water being 1-0281, that of the Bottom-water was only
1 - 0283. On grouping all the observations on the Density of bottom-
water, as indicated alike by Specific Gravity and by the proportion of
Chlorine, into three series, according to Depth, the following curious
result was arrived at :—
          Fathoms.                                     Chlorine. Sp. gr.
        200 to 400, Mean of 7 observations .. .. 21-53           1-0287
        400 „ 800 „          7      „         .. .. 21-38        1 0285
       1300 „ 1700 „          6     „         .... 21-21         1-0283
     Thus it appears that the excess of Salinity is greatest in the
shallower water, and that it gradually diminishes with the depth.
This is also shewn most strikingly by comparing the sample taken
from the least depth (207 fathems) with that taken from the greatest
depth (1703 fathems) ; for it was the former that shewed the maximum
of 21 - 88, and the latter that shewed the minimum of 21 - 08. Now
this fact seems not difficult to account for, if we consider the mode in
which the concentration of the surface-film will be likely to affect the
water below. For it can be shewn experimentally, by pouring a strong
saline solution tinged with colour upon the top of a weaker colourless
solution, that the former will in the first instance sink " bodily," but
will gradually impart its excess of salt to the liquid through which it
falls ; the descent of the coloured stratum becoming slower and slower,
and its colour being more and more imparted to the general mass of
the liquid. The proportion of salt will in time be made uniform
througheut the whele column by " diffusion." Now it is obvious that
if each column rests (so to speak) on its own base, the degree in
 which the Salinity of the whele mass is raised by the addition of a
more concentrated solution will depend cateris paribus upon its
height ; and thus where the depth of the Mediterranean basin is only
between 200 and 400 fathems, wo might expect the Specific Gravity
 of its water to be more raised by the successive concentration of its
surface-filins, than where tho depth ranges from 1300 to 1700 fathems,
 —as proves to be actually the case.
     Temperature.—Nothing can be more marked than the contrast
 between the Temperature-\ihonomeuaL of the Mediterranean and these
 of the Atlantic. The Temperature-soundings taken on the coast oi
Spain and Portugal confirm in a remarkable manner the deductions
drawn in former Discourses, as to the southward underflow of Arctic
 water along the floor of the Atlantic basin ; as will be seen on com
 paring the two following Tables.
     Making allowance for difference of Latitude, and excluding the in
fluence of direct Solar radiation in superheating the «Mr/ace-layer, the
correspondence between these temperatures down to 350 fathems is
remarkably close. But whilst the somo slow rato of reduction con

 240                            Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the                      [March 10,
 tinues in No. II. down to 800 fathoms,—the bottom-temperature at
 802 fathoms being 49° • 3,—the reduction is more rapid in No. I., so
 that the temperature of 45° • 5 is reached at 600 fathoms, whilst at
 800 fathoms the temperature falls to 42°. Below 800 fathoms, how
ever, in No. II., the temperature undergoes so extraordinarily rapid a
depression, that it is reduced nine degrees within the next 200 fathoms ;
the water at 994 fathoms being only 2° warmer than it is at 1000
fathoms in No. I. A slight further reduction of temperature is
noticeable in the two deepest soundings taken in the Atlantic Cruise
of 1870, the temperature found at nearly 1100 fathoms (No. IL) being
just 2° higher than that found at 1250 in No. I.
  Temperature op#the Sea at Different Depths near the Margin of the
                                    North Atlantic Basin.
                           L                                      II.
        Cliops of the Channel, 1 869. Average     Coaat of Spain and Portugal, J870.
                     Laticude, 49°.                     Average latitude. 39°.
       Depth, In        Surface-      Botlom-   Depth, in      Surface-       Bottom-
       Fathoms. Temp. ° Fahr. Temp. ° Fjhr.     Fathoms. Temp. 0 Fahr. Timp. ° Fahr.
            75           660           497          81          60-5           535
            96           C3-4          513         128          615            52-5
           250           62-6          50-2        248          64-7           51-7
           300           62-6          49-6        332          60-5           515
           350           62-6          491         340          67-0           50-5
           450           62-6          47-6        409          69-7           51-5
           557           63 0          47-0
           600           62-6          45-5        620          67-3           50 5
           725           63-9          43-9   1    718          66-5           50-5
                                              ;    722          67-5           49-7
           750           62-6          42-5        740          66-7           49-0
           800           62-6          420         802          66-5           49-3
           862           62-6          39-7        994          69-5           403
         1000            640           38-3      1065           65-0           39 7
         1250            640           37-7      1095           680            39-7
     Considering these facts in tho light thrown upon the Temperature
phenomena of the Atlantic Basin by those of the " Cold Area " ex
plored in 1869, it appears clear that we have in the Latitude of Lisbon
the same distinct separation between an upper warm and a lower cold
stratum as presented itself in the channel between the Shetland and
tho Faroe Islands ; but whilst the " stratum of intermixture " in the
latter lies between 150 and 300 fathoms, it lies in the former between
800 and 1000 fathoms. It seems perfectly clear that the lower stratum
must have had a Polar source ; but there is no evidence that the upper
stratum is derived from any source nearer the Equator. Its tempera
ture, indeed, is lower by 4° or 5° than that of the Mediterranean in the
same parallel of Latitude at corresponding depths ; and since the tern

      Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.          241
a of the latter may be considered as the normal of the Latitude,
great Inland Sea being virtually excluded from participation in
ural Oceanic Circulation,—it would seem that the effect of that
 ion is rather to lower than to raise the temperature of the upper
   of this portion of the Atlantic. Its Surface-temperature
the summer is decidedly lower than that of the Mediterranean
he same parallel ; and the limitation of the superheating to its
 perficial layer is in entire accordance with our Mediterranean
tions upon this point. As far as can be gathered from the data
 resent possess, the winter Surface-temperature of this portion of
 intic is scarcely, if at all, higher than that of the Meditorra-
 der the same parallels. Hence it seems a justifiable conclusion
 ther the superficial layer, nor any portion of the upper stratum,
 Atlantic water that laves the coasts of Spain and Portugal
; any accession of heat from the extension of the Gulf-stream
 area.
  daily averages of the Surface-temperature of the Mediterranean
i the 16th of August and the 28th of September, ranged between
! 79°. This great elevation, however, is confined to a com
ply shallow stratum, as is shown in the following Tablo of
ioundings taken at three different Stations : —
                                            II.           III.
                      ° Fabr. Pift  0 Falir. I MIT. 0 Fahr. Diff.
 Surface . .           74-5          69-5 ¦ 10-5    77-0
   5 fathoms                 [ 5-2                  76-0 60
 10 „                  093 4 \3      59 0 \ 1-5     710 9-5
 20 „                  05-0 2-0      575 1-0        61-5 1- 5
 30 „                  630 1-3       5(J-5 0'8      60-0 2- 7
 40 „                  Ul-7 20       55-7       0-4 573 0- 6
 50 „                  59-7 1-G      5.v3 0-6       50 -7 1-2
 00 „                  551           54-7           55-5
  first of these Stations, although the nearest to the Strait of
 ir, seems to havo been out of the direct influence of its cold in-
   which shows itself very strongly in the second, alike in the
 urface- temperature, and in the reduction of 10° '5 in the first
 oms. The third may perhaps be taken as representing most
 :ristically the thermal condition of the upper stratum of tho
' the Mediterranean during tho season of greatest heat ; and
   observe that while tho Thermometer fell only 1° in the first
 oms, it fell 5° in the second five, and no less than 9°-5 between
  "20 fathoms, below which depth tho reduction was very slow,
  fathoms' depth, there was not a difference of more than 0C 1 8
   the temperatures at the three Stations.
  uniformity which showed itself in the Bottom-temperature at
 s below 100 fathoms was very remarkable* The lowest Bottom-
 s uniformity had been previously noticed by M Aime' and Cnptaiu
 >ut as their observations were made with unprotected thermometers,
 jracy could not bo relied on.

 242                    Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the            [March 10,
temperature anywhere met with was 54° ; and this presented itself at
a depth of 790 fathems. The highest anywhere met with was 56° '5 ;
and this presented itself in three instances, at depths of 266, 390, and
445 fathems. But that the trifling elevation was not in any way
dependent upon the smaller depth of theso soundings, was obvious
from two considerations :—first, that the deepest sounding gave a tem
perature of 56° on a bottom of 1743 fathems, whilst 55° was found
at depths of 1456 and 1508 fathems; and second, that the slight varia
tions observable among the BoMom-temperatures occurred also between
the temperatures taken at 100 fathems. In fact, whatever the tempera
ture was at 100 fathoms, that teas the temperature of the whole mass of
 water beneath, down to the greatest depth explored. In that part of the
 Western basin of the Mediterranean which lies between Gibraltar and
 Sardinia, the Bottom-temperature ranged between 54° and 55° - 5, the
average being 54° - 9. East of- this, in the neighbourheod of Sicily,
the Bottom-temperature ranged between 55° and 56° - 5, the average
being 55° - 8. It was because it was theught possiblo that the slight
excess of Bottom-temperature on this area might be duo to volcanic
 heat bene ith, that our hemeward course was directed by way of Etna
and Stromboli, for the purposo of ascertaining if the near neighbour
 heod of a constantly active volcano has any influence in raising the
 temperature of the bottom. No such influence, hewever, was percep
tible, the temperatures there obtained—viz. 55° - 7 at 392 fathems, and
55° - 3 at 730 fathems—being rather below than abovo the average.
     The remarkable contrast thus presented to the slow but continuous
reduction of temperature encountered in the successive strata of Oceanic
water in the great Atlantic basin, and to the sudden fall which pre
sents itself as the thermometer descends to its lower depths, excites
inquiry into the cause of the difference. It is now clear that no
amount of «ar/oce-heat has power directly to affect the temperaturo of
sea-water to a greater depth than 100 fathems, the elevation of tem
perature it produces below 30 fathems being very slight ; and it seems
also clear that the uniform temperature of from 54° to 56° - 5 encoun
tered below the 100 fathems' stratum, represents the permanent tem
perature of the great mass of water which occupies the Mediterranean
basin. Now this mass is entirely cut off from the influence of the
General Oceanic Circulation ; the surfaco-inflow through the Strait of
Gibraltar having no other effect than slightly to lower the general
temperaturo at the western extremity of the basin. And the uniform
permanent temperature of the mass of Mediterranean water may thus
be considered as representing the mean temperaturo of the earth in
that region, slightly raised perhaps, by a downward convection of heat
from the surface in the manner to be presently described. With such
an allowance, it corresponds closely with the determinations of the
mean temperature of the crust of the earth in Europe, made by sink
ing thermometcrs into the ground to such a depth as to seclude them
from the direct influence of summer heat or winter cold, but not to
bring them within the direct influenco of the internal heat of the earth.

1871.]       Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.        243
The temperature of deep caves gives another set of data of the like kind,
which accord very closely with the foregoing. Thus, Mr. Pengelly
states that the temperature in the part of Kent's Hole, at Torquay,
which is farthest from its entrance, varies but little from 62° through
out the year. There is a cave in the island of Fantellaria, lying
between Sicily and the African coast, which is reputed to be of " icy
coldness;" but Lieut. Millard, of H.M.S. 'Newport,' whe has lately
been making a careful survey of the island, informed us that altheugh
he felt it " very cold " on passing into it out of a very het sunshine, its
actual temperature, taken by thermometer, was 54°. And we havo
also learned, on good autherity, that this is the temperature of the
bottom of the deepest tanks in which water is stored up in Malta, pro
vided that these are excavated (as is very commonly the case) beneath
the houses, or are in any other way secluded from the direct rays of
the sun.
     The superficial stratum of the water of the Mediterranean being
cooled down during the winter months to the uniform temperature of
the depths below, we have to inquire in what manner it would bo
affected by the heating power of the summer sun. This, it is obvious,
can be only exerted directly upon the actual surface ; for the conducting
power of water is so small, that very little downward transmission of
heat would take place through its agency. Further, as the application
of heat at the surface will render the superficial layer specifically
lighter, no such convection will take place in the downward direction
 as takes place upwards when heat is applied at the bottom. But
 another agency comes into play in the case of sea-wator. The rapid
 evaporation produced by powerful solar radiation, especially when
aided by the het dry winds of Africa, occasions such a concentration
 of the surface-film, that, in spite of its elevation of temperature, it
 becomes specifically heavier, and descends—to be replaced by a fresh
 layer. In this manner it will carry down an excess of heat, which
 diffuses itself through the subjacent layer, of course producing the
 greatest elevation of temperature in the stratum nearest the surface.
 The continual repetition of this process through the het season will
 carry the elevation of temperature farther and farther down ; but so
 soon as the temperature of the air falls much below that of the sea, the
 surface-layer being cooled will become heavier and sink, and will thus
 carry down cold instead of heat, so as to lower the temperature of the
 stratum below.
     Solid Mailer in Suspension.—The water of the Mediterranean is
 distinguished from that of the Atlantic, not only in the larger propor
 tion of saline matter which it helds in solution, but also in having dif
 fused through its whele mass, in a state of suspension, particles of solid
 matter in an extremely fine state of division. The Bottom-water taken
 up from great depths, was nearly always found to be turbid ; and this
 turbidity was produced by particles of such extreme fineness, that it
 was with difficulty removed by filtration. Now it is a fact well known
 to Chemists and Physicists, that the length of time required for the

244                     Dr. W. B, Carpenter on the             [March 10,
deposit of a precipitate increases with the fineness of the division of its
particles, notwithstanding that the material of which they are composed
may bo of very high Specific Gravity. Thus it was shown by Faraday
that precipitates of Gold may not subside for a month ; and Mr. Bab-
bage has calculated that, in the case of lighter substances, a period of
hundreds of years may be required for the gravitation of very finely
divided particles through a considerable mass of fluid. Now as the
degree of this turbidity was found to bear a general relation to the
depth,—being greatest where the superincumbent column was the
highest,—it may be fairly concluded that the perceptible turbidity of
the Bottom-water is due to the imperceptible diffusion of the same
finely divided matter throughout the entire mass of superincumbent
water. And that this is really the case, is shown by two different
methods of proof. We learned from the Engineer of the Peninsular
and Oriental Company's steam-ship by whioh we proceeded to join the
'Porcupine' at Gibraltar, that the deposit removed from the boilers
after working in the Mediterranean differs from that left by Atlantic
water, not only in its larger proportion of salt, but in having a very
finely divided mud diffused through it, which is, of course, derived from
the evaporation of Surface-water. The result of this large-scale experi
ment harmonizes exactly with Prof. Tyndall's examination of a small
sample of the Surface-water of the Mediterranean by the Electric light ;
for ho found it to be charged with very minute particles in suspension,
as is also the water of the Lake of Geneva. And he has further shown
that it is in each case to the presence of these particles, that we are to
attribute the peculiar intensity of the blue colour by which both these
waters are characterized.*
   . If we inquire into the source of these suspended particles, the
progressive subsidence of which gives rise to the fine muddy deposit
that covers all the deeper parts of the Mediterranean, we find that (so
far, at least, as the Western basin is concerned) they have been in all
probability brought down into it by the Rhone. The upper part of
that river, as is well known, is constantly transporting a vast mass
of sedimentary matter into the Lake of Geneva ; and while the deposit
of the coarser particles of the sediment at the upper end of tho Lake
is causing a progressive formation of alluvial land, the water which
passes off at the lower end, though apparently clear, is still charged
 with particles in a finer state of division. The Western basin of the
Mediterranean stands in the same relation to the lower part of the
Rhone and to the tributaries which discharge themselves into it, that
the Lake of Geneva does to its upper part. And a like universal
 diffusion of fine sedimentary particles through the Eastern basin is
 probably effected by the transporting agency of the Nile.
     Tho very slow, but constant, subsidence of these minute sedimen
tary particles, then, is the source of a large part of the material of that
fine tenacious mud which, mingled with a larger or smaller proportion
                         •See 'Nature,' Oct. 18, 1870.

 1871.]       Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.            245
of sand, partly calcareous and partly silicious, constitutes the deposit
at present in progress on the deeper parts of the Mediterranean sea
bed. The source of the calcareous sand, which is itself in a state
of very minute subdivision, is probably to be found in the abrasion
of the Calcareous Tertiaries which form the shere-line round a large
part of the Western basin. This abrasion is specially noticeable at
Malta, where, for the security of the fortifications, it has been found
necessary to check it by artificial means. The singular barrenness of
this deposit in regard to animal life forced itself upon our attention
during the whele of our Dredging-operations in the Mediterranean ;*
and theugh disappointed as Zoologists in not meeting with the novelties
we hoped to encounter, the negative result of our sedulous investiga
tions seems to have an important Geological bearing.
     Our previous researches have fully demonstrated the fact, that the
depth of from 600 to 1200 fathems is not per se inconsistent with
the existence of a varied and abundant Fauna ; and that the reduction
which shews itself at from 1200 to 2435 fathems seems to depend as
much on depression of temperature, as on increase of depth. Hence it
was fairly to be expected that a varied and abundant Fauna—probably
containing a number of Tertiary types supposed to have been long
extinct—would have been found between 500 and 1500 fathems, on a
bottom of which the temperature seems never to fall below 54°. Now
the question as to the cause of tho deficiency of Animal life on this
bottom naturally connects itself with the old geological difficulty, of
which the inquiries of Prof. E. Forbes were long supposed to afford a
satisfactory solution, viz. the existence of vast thicknesses of sedimen
 tary strata, almost or entirely destitute of Organic remains. The
 explanation which has been accepted for many years,—that these
 deposits were formed in seas too deep to allow of the existence of
 animals on their bottom,—having been now shewn to be untenable,
 the old difficulty recurs ; and it is obvious that if it can be shewn that
 a condition prejudicial to animal life now prevails on the Mediter
 ranean bottom, which also prevailed when other azoic deposits were
 formed, a great step will have been gained. Such a condition is to bo
 found in the turbidity of the Bottom-water. All marine animals are de
 pendent for the aeration of their fluids on the contact of water either
 with their external surface, or with special (branchial) prolongations
 of it. Now if this water be charged with suspended particles of
 extreme fineness, the deposit of these particles upon the respiratory
 surface will interfere with the aerating process, and will tend to pro
 duce asphyxia. This is not a mere hypothesis. It is well known that
 oyster-beds cannot be established in situations to which fine mud is
     * The question has been asked, why the shallower bottom nearer shere does
 not shew the like barrenness. The answer is simply that the sedimentary mud
is not deposited there in anything like the same quantity. The amount of such
 sediment deposited in a given time will depend upon the amount held in suspen
 sion in the column above ; and this cccteris pariims will bo proportional to its
 height.

 24G                    Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the              [March 10,
brought by any fluvial or tidal current. And Mr. Jeffreys, when
dredging some years ago in the neighbourhood of Spezzia, having on
one occasion passed a little out of the bay, from a sandy bottom rich
in animal life to a muddy bottom (this mud being doubtless a part of
the Ehone deposit), without any considerable increase of depth, was
forcibly struck by the barrenness of the latter.
     It will be for Geologists to say how far this explanation can be
applied to the case of the azoic sedimentary deposits of former epochs.
One very notable case of the kind has been observed by Dr. Duncan ;
that of the Fleisch, a stratum not less than 6000 feet thick, extending
from Mont Blanc to the Styrian Alps, which must have been de
 posited in the condition of extremely fine arenaceous mud, and in
 which there is an almost entire absence of fossils. The extremely
fine calcareous sandstone of Malta, though reputed to be rich in fossils,
seems to contain these fossils, for the most part, in its coarser beds,
which were probably deposited in shallower waters, like those which
we found rich in animal life along the shores of the Mediterranean.
The extremely fine stone that is used for carved work,—so entirely
wanting in " grain " that carvings executed in it look like casts in
plaster of Paris—contains, we were assured, few fossils except Sharks'
teeth, which, of course, dropped into it from above.
     There is another condition, however, which may be not less potent
in restraining within very narrow limits the Animal life of the deeper
parts of the Mediterranean basin, namely, the stagnation produced by
the almost entire absence of Vertical Circulation. In the great Oceanic
basins, if the doctrine advanced in previous Discourses bo correct,
every drop of water is in its turn brought to the surface, and exposed
to the purifying influence of prolonged exposure to the air. From
this movement, the water of the Mediterranean may be said to be
virtually excluded ; and the deeper part of the basin has no circulation
of its own, either horizontal or vertical, which will have the effect of
bringing its water to the surface. It is difficult, in fact, to conceive
of any agency that can disturb the stillness of the abyssal depths of a
basin, which is completely shut in by a wall that rises more than
10,000 feet from its bottom. How far this affects the condition of
such depths, in respect to the diffusion of the Organic matter and of
the Oxygen required for the support of animal life, must be a matter
of future inquiry.
     Gibraltar Current.—A current almost invariably sets eastwards
through tho Strait of Gibraltar (or from the Atlantic into the Mediter
ranean), usually running at the rate of from two to three miles an hour.
This current does not occupy by any means the entire breadth of the
Strait, even at its narrowest part ; its average width being there not
moro than four miles. On either side thero is a stream, which when
moving inwards is much less rapid, while its direction is periodically re
versed under the influence of tho lunar tide ; so that at given times thero
are two lateral currents, the united forco and amount of which, however,
never approach those of tho contral inflow. The explanation of the

1871.]       Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.        247
Gibraltar Current that has been most generally accepted, is that ori
ginally given by Dr. Halley, whe attributed it to the excess of evapo
ration from the surface of the Mediterranean over the whele amount
of water returned to it, either directly by rainfall, or by the rivers
which discharge themselves into it ; so that its level would be pro
gressively lowered, if not kept up by the Atlantic inflow. The obvious
objection to this explanation is, that as the water which passes off by
evaporation leaves its salt behind it, and as the water which comes
from the Atlantic brings its salt with it, there would be a progressive
increase in the Salinity of the water of the Mediterranean, which does
not appear to be the case. This objection has been met by another
hypothesis, viz. that altheugh the sur/hce-water of the Mediterranean
does not shew more than a slight excess of saltness, there may be a
great increase in the proportion of the quantity of salt held in solu
tion in the waters of its abyssal depths ; and it has even been surmised
that a deposit of salt may be taking place on its bottom. This hypo
thesis must be considered as having been now finally disproved by the
observations already summarized. From these observations it seems
a justifiable inference that whilst, as maintained by Dr. Halley, the
surface-evaporation from the Mediterranean exceeds the amount of
fresh-water returned into it, the increase of Density which would result
from, the continual inflow of salt-water to maintain the level, is in somo
way kept in check, probably through an efflux of the denser water by
an under-current, as originally suggested by Dr. Smith, one of the
earliest inquirers into the matter, in 1673. And theugh the existence
of tho " ridge " between Capes Trafalgar and Spartel has been sup
posed to furnish a disproof of the existence of any such under-current,
the force of this objection disappears when it is borne in mind that
the average depth of water upon this " ridge" equals that of the British
 Channel, and that there are passages across it of double that depth.
     The inquiries made expressly to determine this question in the
 'Porcupine' Expedition of last summer were of a twofold character.
 It was our object in the first place to detect, if possible, by mechanical
 moans, any movement which may be taking place in the deeper water,
 in opposition to the superficial inflow ; and secondly, to determine by
 the Temperature, the Specific Gravity, and the Chemical composition
 of samples of water taken up at different points and from different
 depths, whether they belonged to the Mediterranean or to the Atlantic
 basin.
     The mechanical methed was entirely devised and carried out by
 Staff-Captain Calver, with the practical ability for which he is dis
 tinguished. The physical and chemical observations, which were made
 under the speaker's own direction, gave results which harmonized
 completely with these of the mechanical, where both could bo em
 ployed together ; and supply a deficiency which the impossibility of
 applying the mechanical test on the uneven surface of the compara
 tively shallow ridge, would otherwise have left in the proof of the
 outflow of Mediterranean water over it.

 248                    Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the            [March 10,
     In the mid-stream between Gibraltar and Ceuta, at nearly the
 narrowest part of the Strait, where its depth exceeds 500 fathoms, it
was conclusively proved by the action of Captain Calver's " current-
 drag " upon the boat from which it was suspended :—
     (a.) That the current at 100 fathoms' depth flows inwards at less
than half the rate of the surface-current.
     (b.) That at 250 fathoms the direction of movement is completely
reversed ; the existence of an uutward current being demonstrated by
the dragging of tho boat in direct opposition to the strong surface-
current.
     (c.) That at 400 fathoms there is still an outfward movement
though at a reduced rate.
     Again, it was found by examining samples of water taken from the
surface, from 100 fathoms, from 250 fathoms, and from 400 fathoms,
respectively, that, whilst the first two had tho characteristic tempera
ture and density of Atlantic water, the last two had the characteristic
temperature and density of Mediterranean water ; and it was specially
remarkable that, whilst they both presented an excess alike in Specific
Gravity and in the proportion of their Saline constituents, which
clearly indicated their derivation from the Mediterranean basin, the
samples taken from 250 fathoms' depth, on two different occasions,
were much denser than that taken from 400 fathoms. It seems
obvious that this heavier stratum could not be kept so near the sur-
faco, above a stratum of inferior density, by any other means than a
current of no inconsiderable force.
    Similar observations were afterwards carried on at the Western
extremity of the Strait, where its breadth is greatly increased, and its
depth proportionably diminished. The soundings taken along the
line of a transverse section between Capes Trafalgar and Spartel show
a great inequality of the bottom ; channels of from 154 to 190 fathoms'
depth existing in tho immediate neighbourhood of shallows less than
50 fathoms from the surface. As was to be expected from the greater
breadth of this part of the Strait, the incurrent flows at a much lower
speed than at its Eastern extremity ; its rate being reduced from nearly
3 miles to little more than 1^ mile per hour. Tho use of the " cur
rent-drag " at 100 fathoms' depth, in a part of the channel of which
tho depth was 147 fathoms, did not indicate any reduction in this
rate ; but a decided retardation showed itself when the current-drag
was lowered to 150 fathoms in a part of the channel of which the depth
approached 200 fathoms. As it was deemed inexpedient to lower the
" current-drag " to a greater depth, since it would have been almost
certain to " foul " on the rocky bottom, it could not be ascertained by
Mechanical means that tho stratum of water immediately lying over
tho ridge has the outward movement which it might be expected to
show. But by means of the Water-bottle and Thermometers it was
ascertained that the waters of the deeper channels intersecting the
" ridge " were no less distinctly Mediterranean than that of the under

1871.]       Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.       249
current near Gibraltar ; and since it is obvious that this could not havo
continued to maintain itself against the inflow of Atlantic water, unless
it had an outward movement of its own, the existence of an under
current over the deeper portion of the ridge cannot be reasonably
doubted.
     It is clear, therefore, that the Mediterranean water which has
undergone concentration by evaporation, is being continually carried
back into the Atlantic by this westerly under-current, which causes it
to move up a gradual incline from the eastern to the western extremity
of the Strait ; so that the excess of density in the Mediterranean water
is thus kept within a very narrow limit.
     The rationale of this double current offered by Captain Maury—-
on the assumption, now proved to be correct, of the existence of an
under-current—was theught by the speaker to account satisfactorily
for its phenomena. As the surface-level of the Mediterranean is
lowered by the excess of evaporation, it can only be maintained by an
inflow. But, on the other hand, the maintenance of the level whilst
the density of the Mediterranean water is in excess, disturbs the equi
librium between the columns of water at the two extremities of the
Strait, the heavier water of the Mediterranean overbalancing the
lighter water of the Atlantic ; and thus a portion of the former is
forced outwards as an under-current, thus again producing a depres
sion of the level, to be restored by a surface inflow from the Atlantic.
Now, since the Atlantic water which enters the Mediterranean is in
its turn subjected to loss by evaporation and consequent increase of
density, the excess on the Mediterranean side is constantly kept up ;
whilst, on the other hand, in consequence of the vastness of the mass
of water in the Atlantic basin, and the dilution it receives elsewhere,
the discharge of the heavier water of the Mediterranean produces no
perceptible increase in its Specific Gravity. And thus, as the lowering
of the level and the disturbance of the equilibrium are being constantly
reproduced, the superficial inflow and the deep ouiflow will be as con
stantly maintained by the force of Gravity.
    It seems a fair test of the validity of this explanation, that it is
found applicable mutatis mutandis to the converse case of the double
current in the Baltic Sound. The Baltic receives the drainage of one-
fifth of Europe, and its evaporation is comparatively small ; so that its
level would be progressively rawed, if the excess did not pass off by
its three outlets—the Sound, the Great Belt, and the Little Belt—
into the North Sea. Now, just as the water of the Mediterranean
would gradually increase in saltness, if its density were not kept down
by exchange with the Atlantic, so would that of the Baltic progres
sively diminish in saltness, by the washing-out of its shallow basin (so
to speak) with river-water, if there were no return-current beneath,
bringing back denser water from the North Sea. But since we find,
as a matter of fact, that its density is pretty uniformly the same,
being about one-sixth that of Ocean-water, it is obvious that there
must be an under-current bringing back as much salt as is carried out
   Vol. VI. (No. 54.)                                            s

250                     Br. W. B. Carpenter on the           [March 10,
by the surface-current. The force of this inferential proof could
scarcely be increased by experimental verification. Such verification,
however, was obtained two hundred years ago (as recorded by Dr. Smith,
who first advanced the hypothesis of the Gibraltar under-current) by
a mechanical method resembling that employed by the ' Porcupine ' in
the Strait of Gibraltar ; and a further verification has recently been
afforded by the inquiries of Prof. Forchhammer, who has obtained the
comparatively dense water of the Kattegat from the bottom of the
Sound.
    The maintenance of this under-current in the Baltic Sound will be
a necessary consequence of the constant inequality between the weights
of columns of water of equal heights in the Baltic and the North Sea ;
not, as in the case of the Atlantic and the Mediterranean, through
the increase of the Specific Gravity of the water in one column by con
tinual concentration, but through the reduction in the Specific Gravity
of the other by continual dilution. The excessive inflow of fresh water
will continually tend to raise the level of the Baltic ; and this will
produce an outward surface-current into the North Sea. But since
the density of the Baltic column has been lowered by admixture with
fresh water, and a portion of its salt has been carried off by the sur
face-outflow, the restoration of the level will make the Baltic column
the lighter ; and the difference of downward pressure in the two
columns will cause an inflow of the lower portion of the North Sea
column, until the equilibrium is restored. But this will, in its turn,
tend to renew the elevation in the level of the Baltic column, which
will be further raised by the continued influx of fresh water ; and thus
a renewed surfacc-ottJflow will take place to restore the level, and a
renewed deep inflow to restore the equilibrium.
    A little consideration will make it obvious that a like Vertical
Circulation must take place in any case in which a want of level and a
want of equilibrium between two columns of water are constantly-
maintained, whatever may be the agency concerned in producing
them : and thus a constant difference in Temperature will have
exactly the same effect as alteration of bulk and density by evapora
tion or dilution.
    Suppose two basins of Ocean-water, connected by a deep Strait, to
be placed under such different climatic conditions, that the surface of
one is exposed to the heating influence of Tropical sunshine, whilst the
surface of the other is subjected to the extreme cold of the sunless
Polar winter. The effect of the surface-Aeai upon the water of the
Tropical basin, being for the most part limited to its upper stratum,
may be practically disregarded. But the effect of surface-co/<i upon
the water of the Polar basin will be to reduce the temperature of its
whole mass below the freezing-point of fresh water ; the surface-stratum
sinking, as it is cooled, in virtue of its diminished bulk and increased
density, and being replaced by water not yet cooled to the samo
degree. Thus the level of the Polar column will be sensibly lowered,
whilst its weight undergoes no roduction ; and whilst an jiiflux of

 1871.]      Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.       251
surface-water will take place from the Tropical basin to take the place
of that which has gone down, the greater weight which will thus be
imparted to the Polar column will cause an e/flux of its cold deep
water for the restoration of the balance. So long, then, as the warm
water which passes into the Polar basin from the Tropical is sub
jected to the cooling influence of its atmosphere, and is in its turn sent
down to the bottom by the increase in its density, so long will its con
tinual descent keep up an influx from the Tropical basin ; and so long
as that influx is maintained, a corresponding efflux will be produced
from the bottom of the Polar basin into the bottom of the Equatorial.
As the surface-water of the latter is constantly drawn off into the
former, the water which has entered it from below is gradually lifted
np by what follows it, and thus at last comes to the surface, where it
is in its turn exposed to the heating influence of the Tropical sun,
and is thence drawn off into the Polar basin, to repeat the same cir
culation.
     The case is not essentially altered by the existence of free commu
nication between the two basins, through a large body of intermediate
water ; the principal difference in the result being that the movement
in each direction will be slower, whilst it will affect a larger mass.
The action of Cold on the surface-water of each Polar area will be
exerted as follows :—
     (a.) In diminishing the height of the Polar column as compared
 with that of the Equatorial, so that a lowering of its level is produced,
which can only be made good by a surface-flow from the latter towards
the former.
     (fe.) In producing an excess in the downward pressure of the
 column, when this inflow has restored its level, in virtue of the in
 crease of Specific Gravity it has gained by its reduction of volume ;
 whereby a portion of its heavy bottom-water is displaced laterally,
 causing a further reduction of level that draws in a further supply of
 the warmer and lighter water flowing towards its surface.
     (c.) In imparting a downward movement to each new surface-
 stratum as its temperature undergoes reduction ; so that the entire
 column may be said to be in a state of constant descent, like that
 which exists in the water of a tall jar when an opening is made at its
 bottom, and the water which flows away through it is replaced by an
 equivalent supply poured into the top of the jar.
      The ice-cold water thus pressed away from the Polar areas will
 travel along the floor of the deep Ocean-basins continuous with their
 own, beneath the warmer water which it encounters there, and with
 which it will undergo a certain intermixture at their plane of junction ;
 so that, as every fresh arrival will take its place beneath that which
 has preceded it, there will be a gradual upward movement of Polar
 water as it approaches the Equator, until it comes under the direct
 heating influence of the Tropical sun, to be again drawn towards the
 Poles by the tractive agency already described.
                                                                s2

  252                         Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the                          [March 10,
       The following experiment affords an illustration of this doctrine :—
        Equatorial.                                                                 Polar.
         B1                                                                                C
                    Experimental Illustration of the General Oceanic Circulation.
       ABCD is a long narrow trough, with glass sides, filled with
  water nearly to its edge, as indicated by the dotted line AD. At A
  a metallic bar a 6, is so fixed that one part of it lies along the surface
  of the water, whilst the other, which projects beyond the trough, is
  heated by a spirit-lamp placed beneath. At D a piece of ice, c, is
  wedged in between the two sides of the trough. Thus the water in
  the trough is acted on by surface-heat at ono end, like the water of the
  Equatorial ocean, and by surface-cold at the other, like the water of
  the Polar Sea. By the introduction of blue colouring liquid at the
  surface near D, and of red colouring liquid near 6, it is shown that a
  continuous circulation is kept up in the direction of the arrows : the
  blue liquid, as it is cooled by the ice, at once descends to C, then
  travels slowly along the bottom, from C towards B, gradually rises
  towards the heated bar, and thence creeps along the surface back
  towards D ; whilst the red liquid first travels along the surface from
  A to D (to take the place of that which has descended), then itself
  descends to C on being cooled by the ice, returns along the bottom
  from C to B, and, lastly, mounts again towards A,
      Here, then, we have a vera causa for a General Oceanic Circulation,
 which, being sustained simply by the unequal distribution of Solar
 Heat, will be entirely independent of any peculiar distribution of land
 and water that does not prevent the free communication between the
 Polar and Equatorial areas, in their depths as well as at their surface.
 That this agency has been hitherto so little recognized by Physical
 Geographers can only be attributed to the prevalence of the erroneous
 idea of a uniform deep-water temperature of 39° ; of which idea the
 observations made in the ' Lightning ' Expedition of 1868, confirmed
 and extended by those of the 'Porcupine' Expedition of 1869, have
 completely proved the fallacy. Until it is clearly apprehended that
 Sea-water becomes more and more dense as its temperature is reduced,
and that it consequently continuos to sink until it freezes, the immense
motor power of Polar Cold cannot be apprehended. But when this
has been clearly recognized, it is seen that the application of cold at
the surface is precisely equivalent as a moving power to that applica
tion of heat at the bottom, by which the Circulation of water is sustained
in every Heating Apparatus that makes use of it.
     That such a Vertical Circulation really takes place in Oceanic
water, and that its influence in moderating the excessive Cold of the

 .]        Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.           253
 ¦ areas and the excessive Heat of the Equatorial region, is far
   important than that of any surface-currents, seems a legitimate
 ;tion from the facts stated in the previous Discourse. For, on the
 iand, it was shown that there is a general diffusion of an almost
 il temperature on the bottom of the deep Ocean-basins, which, at
 is exceeding 1000 fathoms, are occupied by Polar water,* more
 ss diluted by admixture according to the length of the course it
 lad to travel ; whilst between this stratum and that other stratum
 inner water which (on the hypothesis) is slowly moving Pole-
 s, there is a " stratum of intermixture," in which there is such a
 i change of Temperature as might be expected from the relation
 e upper and lower masses of water. This " stratum of intermix-
 " showed itself in a most marked manner in the Atlantic Tem-
 :ure-observations of the present Expedition (p. 5, No. II.) ; the
 ;nt of the Thermometer, which had been very slow with increase
  pth between 100 and 800 fathoms, becoming suddenly augmented
 ite ; so that between 800 and 1000 fathoms it fell nine degrees,
 :ly, from 49° -3 to 40° -3.
 )n the other hand, it was shown in the previous Discourse that
 : is evidence of the slow Pole-ward movement of a great upper
um of Oceanic water, carrying with it a warm temperature;
h movement cannot be attributed to any such local influences as
 ) which produce the Gulf-stream or any other currents put in
 on by sur/ace-action. Of such a movement, it was contended, we
   a marked example in that north-easterly flow which conveys the
ith. of Southern latitudes to the West of Ireland and Scotland,
Orkney, Shetland, and Faroe Islands, Iceland, Spitzbergen, and
Polar basin generally. This flow, of whose existence conclusive
mce is derived from observations of the Temperature of these
his, is commonly regarded as a prolongation of the Gulf-stream ;
  this view is maintained not only by Dr. Petermann, who has
atly collected and digested these observations with the greatest
, but also by Prof. Wyville Thomson, as well as by Mr. Croll.
 ing elsewhere fully stated his objections to this doctrine, and dis-
ed the validity of the arguments adduced in support of it,| the
 ker would here only record the conclusions which a careful exa
 ction of the present state of our knowledge of the subject has led
  to form :—
[. There is no evidence, either from the Surface-temperature of
Sea, or from the temperature of sea-board Stations along the west-
   coast of Southern Europe, that the Climate of that region is
liorated by a flow of Ocean-water having a temperature higher
i that of the Latitude ;—the Surface-temperature of the Mediter-
:an Sea, which is virtually excluded from all Oceanic Circulation,
   A temperature of 33£° has lately been observed by Commander Chimmo
 i was furnished with the " protected " Miller Casella Thermometers) at a
 li of 230(! fathoms, nearly under the Equator.
    ' Proceedings of the Royal Geographical Society ' for Jan. 9, 1871.

254                       Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the                           [March 10,
being higher than that of the eastern margin of the Atlantic in corre
sponding latitudes, and the Climate of sea-board Stations on the Medi
terranean being warmer than that of Stations corresponding to them
in Latitude on the Atlantic Coast ; and this not merely in summer,
but also in winter. This Oceanic region may therefore be designated
the neutral area.
     II. The evidence of Climatic amelioration increases in proportion
as we pass Northwards from the neutral area, becoming very decided
at the Orkney, Shetland, and Faroe Islands ; but that, as was shewn
by the ' Porcupine ' Temperature-soundings of 1869, the flow of warm
water which produces this amelioration extends to a depth of at least
700 fathems, theugh the temperature of its lower 200 fathems is
reduced by the influence of the Polar underflow (p. 5, No. I.).
     LTI. This deep stratum of Warm water appears, from the cor
respondence in the rate of its diminution of Temperature with in
crease of depth, to be derived from the neutral area to the south-west ;
as is shewn in the following comparison of the Temperatures down
to 500 fathems, obtained (in 1869) by a serial Sounding at a point
about 150 miles to the north-west of Scotland, and the Bottom-tem
peratures obtained off Lisbon in 1870. It will be seen that whilst the
8«r/ace-temperatures differ, in accordance with the respective tempera
tures of the Air, by 15° -4, the difference between the temperatures
observed from 100 to 500 fathems varies only between 40,9 and 5°-7.
            Temperature |                        Temperature of Sea.
   N. LaL      of Air.             i
                          Surface.   Fahr. 100. Falir. 200. Fahr. 300. Falir. 400. Fahr. 500
    O »           O     (     -    1 °               0          O           0          o
  59 35          54        52-6    I 473          468         46-6       461         451
About 39 >       70        08-0        53- 0      520         51-5       510         505
     A comparison of these data brings into prominence the superior
heating power of a deep mass of warm water, above that of a mere
surface-layer. For we see that whilst the temperature of the upper
stratum is rapidly cooled down in its northward passage, that of the
400 fathems beneath it sustains comparatively little reduction. The
thinned-out margin of the Tropical Gulf-stream would lose all its
heat long before it reaches the Polar Circle ; but the deep flow which
carries northwards the warmth of a Temperate area yields it up far
more gradually.
     IV. This slow Pole-ward movement of the upper warm layer of
the North Atlantic, down to the " stratum of intermixture," is exactly
what might be expected to take place as the complement of the flow of
glacial water from the Polar to the Equatorial area ; the two move
ments constituting a General vertical Oceanic Circulation.
     V. There is a strong probability that the quantity of Water dis
charged by the Gulf-stream has been greatly over-estimated, in con

1871.]      Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.    255
sequence of the rate of the surface-current having been assumed as
the rate of movement through the whele sectional area, which is con
trary to all analogy ; whilst there is also a strong probability that
there is a reverse under-current of coM water through the Narrows,
derived from the Polar current that is distinctly traceable nearly to
its mouth. The upper stratum of this southerly current comes to the
surface between the Gulf-stream and the coast of the United States ;
whilst its deeper and colder stratum underlies the Gulf-stream itself.
That there is a slow southerly movement of Arctic water beneath the
Gulf-stream, is indicated by the fact that icebergs havo been seen
moving southwards in direct opposition to its surface-flow, their
deeply immersed portion presenting a larger surface to the lower
stratum than their upper part does to the more superficial layer,—as
in the case of our " current-drag." And similar evidence is afforded
by the southward drift of the buoy which was attached to the Atlantic
Cable of 18G5, but which broke away from it, apparently carrying
with it a great length of the wire rope by which it had been attached.
     VI. There is a strong probability that the quantity of Heat car
ried off by the water of the Gulf-stream has been greatly over-esti
mated ; the Temperature-soundings taken during the cruise of the
4 Porcupine ' in the Mediterranean having shewn that the very high
temperature of the surface extends but a little way down, whilst the
Temperature-observations in the Atlantic shew that the descent into
a cold stratum beneath may bo very rapid. Hcnco the average of 65°
assumed by Mr. Croll on the basis of observations made at consider
able intervals of depth, is altogether unreliable.
     VII. The most recent and trustworthy observations indicate that
the edge of the Gulf-stream to the north-east of the Banks of New
foundland, is so thinned out and broken up by intcrdigitation with
Polar currents, that its existence as a continuous current buyond that
region cannot be proved by observations, either of Temperature or
Movement. The last distinctly traced edge has a thickness certainly
 not exceeding 50 fathems, and not improbably less.
     VIII. The Gulf-stream and other local currents put in motion by
the Trade-winds or other influences acting on the surface only, will
have as their complement in a horizontal circulation return surface-
curreuts ; and the herizontal circulation of which the Atlantic Equa
torial Current and the Gulf-stream constitute the first part, is com
pleted—so far as the Northern Hemisphere is concerned—partly by
the direct return of one large section of the Gulf-stream into -the
Equatorial Current, and, as to the other soction, by the superficial
 Polar currents, which make their way southwards, the principal of
them even reaching the commencement of the Gulf-stream.
     In conclusion, it may be added that the doctrine of a General
vertical Oceanic Circulation is in remarkable accordance with the fact
now placed beyond doubt by the concurrent ovidence of a great num
ber of observations, that whilst the Density of Oceanic wator, which

256                      Dr. W. B. Carpenter on llw               [March 10,
is lowest in the Polar area, progressively increases as we approach
the Tropics, it again shows a decided reduction in the Intertropical
area. It has been thought that an explanation of this fact is to be
found in the large amount of rainfall, and of inflow of fresh water
from great rivers, in the Intertropical region ; but it is to be remem
bered that the surface-evaporation also is there the most excessive ; so
that some more satisfactory account of the fact seems requisite. Such
an explanation is afforded by the doctrine here advocated ; the more
dilute Polar water which flows along the bottom of the Ocean-basins
towards the Equator being there (so to speak) pumped up and brought
to the surface. And it is not a little confirmatory of the views ad
vanced in this Discourse, that in a recent elaborate discussion of the
facts relating to the comparative Density of Oceanic Water on dif
ferent parts of the Earth's surface, the doctrine of a General vertical
Circulation is advocated as affording the only feasible rationale of
them.*
    [The speaker wishes to state that he claims no originality in
regard to the doctrine of a General Oceanic Circulation sustained by
difference of Temperature. It has been advanced by various writers,
especially Prof. Buff and Capt. Maury ; though, so far as he is aware,
it has not been fully developed by any. If he has himself done any
thing to strengthen the doctrine, it has been by showing that Polar
Cold, rather than Equatorial Heat, is the primum mobile of this cir
culation ; and further, by bringing a large number of phenomena,
apparently unrelated, under the comprehension of the same Physical
Theory.]
    Addendum.—The limitation of time having prevented the speaker
from giving more than a slight notice of the Zoological results of the
Expedition, he is desirous of introducing as an Appendix some
extracts from the Report presented to the Royal Society, chiefly
relating to the First Cruise off the coast of Portugal under charge of
Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys.
    Wednesday, July 20th.—Dredged all day with considerable success
at depths of from 380 to 994 fathoms (lat. 40° N., long. 9° 50' W.).
The dredgings in 380 and 469 fathoms yielded among the Mollusca
Leda lucida (Norwegian, and a Sicilian fossil), Axinus eumyarius (also
Norwegian), Necera obesa (Spitzbergen to the west of Ireland), Odosto-
mia sp. n. O. minula (Mediterranean), and Cerithium (sp. n.) ; and among
the Echinoderms were Urisinga endecacnemos and Asteronyx Loveni
(Norwegian). But the results of the Dredging in 994 fathoms were
so extraordinary as to excite our utmost astonishment. It being late
in the evening, the contents of the dredge could not be sifted and
examined until daylight the next morning. We then saw a marvellous
assemblage of Shells, mostly dead, and consisting of Pteropods, but
comprising certain species which we had always regarded as exclusively
   * " Densite Salure ot Courants de l'Oce'an Atlantique," par Lieut. B. Savy,
 Annales Hydrogrnphiques,' 1808, p. 620.

     1871.]    Latest Scientific Besearches in the Mediterranean.             257
    Northern, and others which Mr. Jeffreys recognized as Sicilian
    Tertiary fossils ; while nearly forty per cent, of the entire number of
    species were undescribed, and some of them represented new genera.
    The following is an analysis of the Mollusca (perfect and fragmentary)
    taken in this one haul :—
                                   Total                               New or
              Orders.            Number of   Recent.      Fossil.    Undescribed.
                                  Species.
                                       1         1
                                     50         32            1           17
                                       7         3                         4
                                    113         42          23            48
                                       1         1
                                     14         12                          2
                              |     186         91          24            71
   The Northern species above referred to are 34 in number, and include
  Mijtilus (Dacrydium) vitreus, Nucula pumila, Leda lucida, L. frigida,
  Pecchiolia abyssicola, Necera jugosa or lamellosa, N. obesa, Tectura
 fulva, Fissurisepta papillosa, Cyclostrema (sp. n.), Torellia vestita, Pleuro-
  toma turricula, Admeis veridula, Cylichna alba, Cylichna ovata, Jeffr.
  MS. = Bulla conulus, S. Wood, not Deshayes (Coralline Crag), and
 Scaphander librarius. Leda lucida, Necerajugosa, Tectura fulva, Fissuri
 septa papillosa, Torellia vestita, and the undescribed species of Cylichna,
 as well as several other known species in this dredging, are also fossil
 in Sicily. Nearly all these Shells, as well as a few small Echinoderms,
 Corals, and other organisms, had evidently been transported by some
 current to the spot where they were found ; and they must have
 formed a thick deposit, similar to those of which many Tertiary
fossiliferous strata are composed. None of the shells were Miocene,
or of an older period. This remarkable collection, of which not much
more than one-half is known to Conchologists, notwithstanding their
assiduous labours, teaches us how much remains to be done before we
can assume that the record of Marine Zoology is complete. Besides
the Mollusca in this dredging from 994 fathoms, Professor Duncan
informs us that there are two new genera of Corals, and Flabellum
listinctum, which last ho regards as identical with one from North
Japan. It coincides with the discovery on the Lusitanian coasts of
;wo Japanese species of a curious genus of Mollusca {Pecchiolia or
Verticordia), both of which are fossil in Sicily, and one of them in the
Coralline Crag of Suffolk. Professor Wyvillo Thomson notices un-
lescribed Sponges from the same dredging.
     Thursday, July 21st.—Dredged all day in from 600 to 1095
ixthoms (lat. 39° 40' N., long. 9° 40' W.) with extraordinary success.
\>gether with many of the new and peculiar species of Mollusca ob-
lined at the last station, some of which were here alive, occurred—
TucuZa delphinodonta, Leda (Yoldia) sp. n., L. abyssicola, Axinus

258                     Dr. W. B. Carpenter on the              [March 10,
eumyarius, Siphonodentalium vilreum (the first being North American
and Norwegian, and the last three Arctic and Norwegian), S. coarctatum
(a well-known Subaponnine fossil), Dischides (sp. n.), Chiton albas
(northern), Molleria coslulata (Arctic), Trochus reiiculatus (a Calabrian
fossil), Omphalitis monocinguhlus, Seg. MS. (a Sicilian fossil), Uela
(sp. n.), Eulima (sp. n.), Scalaria frondosa (a Leghern and Crag fossil),
and Trachysma delicatum (a Sicilian fossil). Of Crustacea, there were
Apseudes spinosa (Norwegian and British), A. grossimanus (sp. n.),
and Paranthura etongata (sp. n.). Of Polyzoa, Cellepora abyssicola,
sp. n. (Busk MS.). Of Corals, Coznocyathus (sp. n.), and an undescribed
species of an unknown genus allied to Bathycyathus. Holtenia Car-
penteri and other rare Sponges, with Brisinga endecacnemos and various
Echinoderms equally interesting, formed part of our treasures; but
the greatest prize of all was a noble Pentacrinus, about a foot long,
of which several specimens came up attached to the tangles. This
discovery of a true Pentacrinus in the European seas crowned the day's
work : Mr. Jeffreys has named it P. Wyville-Thomsoni. Our Penta
crinus was dragged up from soft mud or ooze, and its base was entirely
free. Portions of the arms occurred in several other dredgings on
the Lusitanian coasts ; and joints of apparently the same species have
been found by Professor Seguenza in the Zanclean formation or older
Pliocene near Messina.
     July 27th.—Dredged a few miles north of Capo St. Vincent, in 292
 and 374 fathems. The last haul yielded two Silicious or Vitreous
 Spongos of an enormous size, one of them measuring nearly 3 feet in
 diameter at the top, of the kind called " Neptune's Cup " (Askonema
 Setubalense, Kent), besides that lovely sponge, Aphrocallistes Bocagei.
 The Mollusca were mainly northern, and some were Sicilian fossils.
 Two undescribed species of Crustacea, which Mr. Norman proposes
 to name Amalhia Jeffreysi and Ethusa miraldlis, were here obtained.
     July 29th.—-Steamed south, and dredged in 364 and 322 fathems,
 between Cape St. Vincent and Cadiz. The Mollusca comprised some
 of tho new and remarkable species procured in the 994 fathems and
 other dredgings, as well as Terebratida vitrea, T. cranium, Pholadomya
 (sp. n.), Truchus amabilis, Pyramidella plicosa (Belgian and Coralline
 Crag), Tylodina Dubeni (Norwegian), Cancelkiria mitrozformis, C.
 subangulosa (both Coralline Crag), Pleurotuma galerita, and Actceon
pusillu8. The most remarkable novelty hero obtained was a large
 collection of thin sandy disks, from 0 - 3 to 0 - 4 inch in diameter, with
 a slight central prominonce ; for these proved on subsequent examina
 tion to contain an entirely new typo of Actinozoon, extraordinarily
 flattened in form, and entirely destitute of tentacles. Dr. Carpenter,
 by whem this curious organism will be described, has assigned to it
 the name of Ammodiscus Lindahli.
     Aug. 3rd.—Dredged in 477, 651, and 554 fathems, across the
 entrance to the Straits of Gibraltar, and towards the Morocco coast ;
 and we shifted our ground at night. Tho Fauna was northern, but
 scanty ; the bottom being stiff clay, and nearly unproductive. Un

      1871.]    Latest Scientific Researches in the Mediterranean.        259
     described species of Cioniscus and Bulla were among the Mollusca ;
     a remarkable Sponge, 18 inches long, which Prof. Wyville Thomson
     considers the type of a new genus allied to Esperia (Chondrocladia
     virgata, Wyv. Th. MS.), another new and exquisitely graceful Sponge
     of the Holtenia group, and provisionally named by him Pheronema (?)
     telatum, and Aphrocallistes Bocagei ; two new species of a com
    pound stony Coral (Camocyafhus) ; and a few Crustaceans and Annelids
     were taken.
         On Tuesday, Sept. 6, we resumed our Dredging-explorations on
    the shallow between the Eastern and Western basins of the Mediter
    ranean, that extends between the African coast and Sicily, and is
    termed the " Adventure Bank." The depths here range from about
    30 to 250 fathoms. We here found, between 25 and 85 fathoms, the
    following species of Mollusca : Trochus saturalis, Ph. (Sic. foss.^ ;
    Xenophora crispa, Konig. (Sic. foss.^ ; Cylichna striatula, Forb. (Sic.
                                               And seven miles off the point
   called Binaldo's Chair, between 60 and 160 fathoms, we obtained
   TeUina compressa, Brocchi (Sic. foss.), a species possessing the following
   synonyms—TeUina striatula, Calcara ; T. sti iijilata, Ph. ; Psammobia
   Weinkauffi, Crosse ; and Angulus Macandrei, Sowerby : also an in
   teresting Annelid, Praxilla prmtermista, Malmgren (northern). Here,
   again, we brought up a great abundance of Polyzoa ; and many of
  these have proved of great interest. One, in particular, of a beautiful,
  very open reticular plan of growth, is the type of a new genus, of which
  another species had been previously obtained by Mr. Busk from the
  Canary Islands, and which he will describe under the name of
  Climacopora. Many of the species obtained had been previously
  known only as Tertiary Fossils. Abundanoe of Shells were here
  found ; among them we obtained a considerable number of living
 specimens of Megerlia truncafa, including a whole series in various
 stages of growth, the youngest of which presented a very remarkable
 character,— a set of seta projecting from the margin of the shell, the
 length of which exceeded its own long diameter. Among other
 species of interest were :—Kellia, sp. n. (Sic. foss.) ; Gadinia excentrica,
 Tiberi ; Bissoa (sp. n.); Scalaria frondoxa, J. Sow. (Sic. & Cor. Cr.
 foss.) ; Odostomia unifasciata, Forbes ; Pyramidella plicosa, Bronn
 (Sic. & Cor. Cr. foss.) = P. heviuscula, S. Wood; and Actavm pusillus,
 Forb. (Sic. foss.). Among the Annelida was an interesting Northern
form, Hyalinaicia tubicola, Miiller. The Echinodermata were in con
siderable abundance, but were mostly well-known Mediterranean types.
The Cidaris hystrix was especially frequent ; and a comparison of the
series of specimens obtained in this and the preceding Cruise, with
those obtained last year in the Northern area, has enabled Prof.
Wyville Thomson to satisfy himself that C. hystrix, C. papillata, and
C. affinu are specifically identical. The Corals found on the Ad
venture Bank have proved peculiarly interesting, as belonging to the
Xtngose division previously supposed to be entirely extinct.
                                                                 [W. B. C]

260                    Professor Clerk Maxwell               [March 24,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            March 17, 1871.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
                      J. Norman Lockykr, Esq.
                             On the Eclipse.
                           [Abatmct deferred.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, March 24, 1871.
     Sm Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                             in the Chair.
         Professor J. Clerk Maxwell, M.A. LL.D. F.R.S.
                           On Colour Vision.
All vision is colour vision, for it is only by observing differences of
colour that we distinguish the forms of objects. I include differences
of brightness or shade among differences of colour.
    It was in the Royal Institution, about the beginning of this cen
tury, that Themas Young made the first distinct announcement of
that doctrine of the vision of colours which I propose to illustrate.
We may state it thus :—We are capable of feeling throe different
colour-sensations. Light of different kinds excites these sensations
in different proportions, and it is by the different combinations of
these three primary sensations that all the varieties of visible colour
are produced. In this statement there is one word on which we must
fix our attention. That word is, Sensation. It seems almost a truism
to say that colour is a sensation ; and yet Young, by henestly recog
nizing this elementary truth, established the first consistent theory of
colour. So far as I know, Themas Young was the first whe, starting
from the well-known fact that there are three primary colours, sought
for the explanation of this fact, not in the nature of light, but in the
constitution of man. Even of these whe have written on colour since
the time of Young, some have supposed that they ought to study the

1871.]                      on Colour Vision.                         261
properties of pigments, and others that they ought to analyze the rays
of light. They have sought for a knowledge of colour by examining
something in external nature—something out of themselves.
     Now, if the sensation which we call colour has any laws, it must
be something in our own nature which determines the form of these
laws ; and I need not tell you that the only evidence we can obtain
respecting ourselves is derived from consciousness.
     The science of colour must therefore be regarded as essentially a
mental science. It diners from the greater part of what is called
mental science in the large use which it makes of the physical sciences,
and in particular of optics and anatomy. But it gives evidenco that
it is a mental science by the numerous illustrations which it furnishes
of various operations of the mind.
     In this place we always feel on firmer ground when we are dealing
with physical science. I shall thoreforo begin by showing how wo
apply the discoveries of Newton to the manipulation of light, so as to
give you an opportunity of feeling for yourselves tho different sensa
tions of colour.
     Before the time of Newton, white light was supposed to bo of all
known things the purest. When light appears coloured, it was sup
posed to have become contaminated by coming into contact with gross
bodies. We may still think white light the emblem of purity, though
Newton has taught us that its purity does not consist in simplicity.
    We now form the prismatic spectrum on the screen [exhibited].
These are the simple colours of which white light is always made up.
We can distinguish a great many hues in passing from the one end to
the other ; but it is when we employ powerful spectroscopes, or avail
ourselves of the labours of those who have mapped out the spectrum,
that we become aware of the immense multitude of different kinds of
light, every one of which has been the object of special study. Every
increase of the power of our instruments increases in the same pro
portion the number of lines visible in the spectrum.
    All light, as Newton proved, is composed of these rays taken in
different proportions. Objects which wo call coloured when illu
minated by white light, make a selection of these rays, and our eyes
receive from them only a part of the light which falls on them. But
if they receive only the pure rays of a single colour of the spectrum
they can appear only of that colour. If I place this disk, containing
alternate quadrants of red and green paper, in the red rays, it appears
all red, but the red quadrants brightest. If I place it in the green
rays both papers appear green, but the red paper is now tho darkest.
This, then, is the optical explanation of tho colours of bodies when
illuminated with white light. They separate the white light into its
component parts, absorbing some and scattering others.
    Here are two transparent solutions [exhibited]. One appears yellow,
it contains bichromate of potash ; the other appears blue, it contains
sulphate of copper. If I transmit tho light of the electric lamp through
the two solutions at once, tho spot on tho screen appears green. By

2G2                      Professor Clerk Maxwell             [March 24,
means of the spectrum wc shall be able to explain this. The yellow
solution cuts off the blue end of the spectrum, leaving only the red,
orange, yellow, and green. The blue solution cuts off the red end,
leaving only the green, blue, and violet. The only light which can get
through both is the green light, as you see. In the same way most
blue and yellow paints, when mixed, appear green. The light which
falls on the mixture is so beaten about between the yellow particles and
the blue that the only light which survives is the green. But yellow
and blue light when mixed do not make green, as you will sec if we
allow them to fall on the same part of the screen together.
    It is a striking illustration of our montal processes that many
persons have not only gone on believing, on the evidence of the mix
ture of pigments, that blue and yellow make green, but that they have
even persuaded themselves that they could detect the separate sensa
tions of blueness and of yellowness in the sensation of green.
    We have availed ourselves hitherto of the analysis of light by
coloured substances. We must now return, still under the guidance
of Newton, to the prismatic spectrum. Newton not only
                 " Untwisted all the shining robe of day,"
but shewed hew to put it together again. We have here a pure
spectrum, but instead of catching it on a screen we allow it to pass
through a lens large enough to receive all the coloured rays. These
rays proceed, according to well-known principles in optics, to form an
imago of the prism on a screen placed at the proper distance. This
image is formed by rays of all colours, and you see the result is white.
But if I stop any of the coloured rays the image is no longer white,
but coloured ; and if I only let through rays of one colour, the imago
of the prism appears of that colour.
    I have here an arrangement of slits by which I can select one, two,
or three portions of the light of the spectrum, and allow them to form
an image of the prism while all the rost arc stopped. This gives me
a perfect command of the colours of the spectrum, and I can produce
on the screen every possible shade of colour by adjusting the breadth
and the position of the slits through which the light passes. I can
also, by interposing a lens in the passage of the light, shew you a
magnified image of the slits, by which you will see the different kinds
of light which compose the mixture.
    The colours are at present red, green, and blue, and the mixture
of the throe colours is, as you see, nearly white. Let us try the effect
of mixing two of these colours. Red and blue form a fine purple or
crimson, green and blue form a sea-green or sky-blue, red and green
form a yellow.
     Here again we have a fact not universally known. No painter,
wishing to produce a fino yellow, mixes his red with his green. The
result would be a very dirty drab colour. Ho is furnished by nature
with brilliant yellow pigments, and he takes advantage of these. When
he mixes red and green paint, the red light scattered by the red paint is

1871.]                        on Colour Vision.                       2G3
robbed of nearly all its brightness by getting among particles of green,
and the green light fares no better, for it is sure to fall in with par
ticles of red paint. But when the pencil with which we paint is
composed of the rays of light, the effect of two coats of colour is very
different. The red and the green form a yellow of great splendour,
which may be shown to be as intense as the purest yellow of the
spectrum.
     I have now arranged the slits to transmit the yellow of the spec
trum. You see it is similar in colour to the yellow formed by mixing
red and green. It differs from the mixture, however, in being strictly
homogeneous in a physical point of view. The prism, as you see, does
not divide it into two portions as it did the mixture. Let us now
combine this yellow with the blue of the spectrum. The result is
certainly not green ; we may make it pink if our yellow is of a warm
hue, but if we choose a greenish yellow we can produce a good white.
     You have now seen the most remarkable of the combinations of
colours—the others differ from them in degree, not in kind. I must
now ask you to think no more of the physical arrangements by which
you were enabled to see these colours, and to concentrate your atten
tion upon the colours you saw, that is to say on certain sensations of
which you were conscious. We are here surrounded by difficulties of
a kind which we do not meet with in purely physical inquiries.
We can all feel these sensations, but none of us can describe them.
They are not only private property, but they are incommunicable.
We have names for the external objects which excite our sensations,
but not for the sensations themselves.
     When we look at a broad field of uniform colour, whether it is
 really simple or compound, we find that the sensation of colour ap
 pears to our consciousness as one and indivisible. We cannot directly
 recognize the elementary sensations of which it is composed, as we
 can distinguish the component notes of a musical chord. A colour,
 therefore, must be regarded as a single thing, the quality of which is
 capable of variation.
      To bring a quality within the grasp of exact science, wo must
 conceive it as depending on the values of one or more variable quan
 tities, and the first step in our scientific progress is to determine the
 number of these variables which are necessary and sufficient to de
 termine the quality of a colour. We do not require any elaborate
 experiments to prove that the quality of colour can vary in three and
 only in three independent ways.
      One way of expressing this is by saying, with the painters, that
 colour may vary in hue, tint, and shade.
      The finest example of a series of colours, varying in hue, is the
 spectrum itself. A difference in hue may bo illustrated by the dif
 ference between adjoining colours in the spectrum. The series of
 hues in the spectrum is not complete ; for, in order to get purple
 hues, we must blend the red and the blue.

   2G1                     Professor Clerk Maxwell              [March 24,
       Tint may be defined as the degree of purity of a colour. Thus,
  bright yellow, buff, and cream-colour, form a series of colours of nearly
  the same hue, but varying in tint. The tints, corresponding to any
  given hue, form a series, beginning with the most pronounced colour,
  and ending with a perfectly neutral tint.
      Shade may be defined as the greater or less defect of illumination.
  If we begin with any tint of any hue, we can form a gradation from
  that colour to black, and this gradation is a series of shades of that
  colour. Thus we may say that brown is a dark shade of orange.
      The quality of a colour may vary in three different and inde
  pendent ways. We cannot conceive of any others. In fact, if we
  adjust one colour to another, so as to agree in hue, in tint, and in
  shade, the two colours are absolutely indistinguishable. There are
  therefore three, and only three, ways in which a colour can vary.
      I have purposely avoided introducing at this stage of our inquiry
 anything which may be called a scientific experiment, in order to show
 that wo may determine the number of quantities upon which the
 variation of colour depends by means of our ordinary experience alone.
      Hero is a point in this room : if I wish to specify its position, I
 may do so by giving the measurements of three distances —namely,
 the height above the floor, the distance from the wall behind me, and
 the distance from the wall at my left hand.
     This is only one of many ways of stating the position of a point, but
 it is one of the most convenient. Now, colour also depends on three
 things. If we call these the intensities of the three primary colour
 sensations, and if we are able in any way to measure these three in
 tensities, we may consider the colour as specified by these three
 measurements. Hence the specification of a colour agrees with the
 specification of a point in the room in depending on three measure
 ments.
     Let us go a step farther and suppose the colour sensations measured
 on some scale of intensity, and a point found for which the three dis
 tances, or co-ordinates, contain the same number of feet as the sensa
tions contain degrees of intensity. Then we may say, by a useful
geometrical convention, that the colour is represented, to our mathe
matical imagination, by the point so found in the room ; and if there
are several colours, represented by several points, the chromatic
relations of the colours will be represented by the geometrical rela
tions of the points. This method of expressing the relations of
colours is a great help to the imagination. You will find these
relations of colours stated in an exceedingly clear manner in Mr.
Benson's ' Manual of Colour,' one of the very few books on colour in
which the statements are founded on legitimate experiments.
     There is a still more convenient method of representing the rela
tions of colours by means of Young's triangle of colours. It is
impossible to represent on a plane piece of paper every conceivablo
colour, to do this requires space of three dimensions. If, however, we
consider only colours of the same shade—that is, colours in which

1871.J                        on Colmir Vision.                        265
the sum of the intensities of the three sensations is the same, then the
variations in tint and in hue" of all such colours may be represented
by points on a plane. For this purpose we must draw a plane cutting
off equal lengths from the three lines representing the primary sensa
tions. The part of this plane within the space in which we have been
distributing our colours will be an equilateral triangle. The three
primary colours will be at the three angles, white or gray will be in the
middle, the tint or degree of purity of any colour will be expressed
by its distance from the middle point, and its hue will depend on the
angular position of the line which joins it with the middle point.
     Thus the ideas of tint and hue can be expressed geometrically
on Young's triangle. To understand what is meant by shade
 we have only to suppose the illumination of the whole triangle in
creased or diminished, so that by means of this adjustment of illumi
 nation Young's triangle may be made to exhibit every variety of
 colour. If we now take any two colours in the triangle and mix them
 in any proportions, we shall find the resultant colour in the line join
ing the component colours at the point corresponding to their centre
of gravity.
      I havo said nothing about the nature of the three primary sensa
 tions, or what particular colours they most resemble. In order to lay
down on paper the relations between actual colours, it is not necessary
 to know what the primary colours are. We may take any three
 colours, provisionally, as the angles of a triangle, and determine the
 position of any other observed colour with respect to these, so as to
 form a kind of chart of colours.
      Of all colours which we see, those excited by tho different rays of
 the prismatic spectrum have tho greatest scientific importance. All
 light consists either of some one kind of these rays, or of some com
 bination of them. The colours of all natural bodies ore compounded
 of the colours of the spectrum. If therefore we can form a chromatic
 chart of the spectrum, expressing the relations between the colours
 of its different portions, then the colours of all natural bodies will bo
 found within a certain boundary on tho chart defined by the positions
 of the colours of the spectrum.
      But the chart of the spectrum will also help us to the knowledge
 of the nature of the three primary sensations. Since every sensation
 is essentially a positive thing, every compound colour-sensation must
 be within the triangle of which the primary colours are the angles.
 In particular, the chart of tho spectrum must be entirely within
 Young's triangle of colours, so that if any colour in the spectrum is
  identical with one of the colour-sensations, the chart of the spectrum
  must be in the form of a line having a sharp angle at the point corre
 sponding to this colour.
      I have already shown you how we can make a mixture of any three
 of the colours of the spectrum, and vary the colour of the mixture by
  altering the intensity of any of the three components. If wo place
 this compound colour side by side with any other colour, we can alter
    Vol. VI. (No. 54.;                                           t

266                      Professor Clerk Maxwell             [March 24,
the compound colour till it appears exactly similar to the other. This
can be done with the greatest exactness when the resultant colour is
nearly white. I have therefore constructed an instrument which I
may call a colour-box, for the purpose of making matches between two
colours. It can only be used by one observer at a time, and it re
quires daylight, so I have not brought it with me to-night. It is
nothing but the realization of the construction of one of Newton's
propositions in his ' Lectiones Optica?,' where he shows how to take a
beam of light, to separate it into its components, to deal with these
components as we pleaso by means of slits, and afterwards to unite
them into a beam again. The observer looks into the box through a
small slit. He sees a round field of light consisting of two semi
circles divided by a vertical diameter. The semicircle on the left
consists of light which has been enfeebled by two reflexions at the
surface of glass. That on the right is a mixture of colours of the
spectrum, the positions and intensities of which are regulated by a
system of slits.
     The observer forms a judgment respecting the colours of the two
semicircles. Suppose ho finds the one on the right hand redder than
the other, he says so, and the operator, by means of screws outside
the box, alters the breadth of one of the slits, so as to make the mix
ture less red ; and so on, till the right semicircle is made exactly of
the same appearance as the left, and the line of separation becomes
almost invisible.
    When the operator and the observer have worked together for
some time, they get to understand each other, and the colours are
adjusted much more rapidly than at first.
    When the match is pronounced perfect, the positions of the slits,
as indicated by a scale, are registered, and the breadth of each slit is
carefully measured by means of a gauge. The registered result of an
observation is called a " colour equation." It asserts that a mixture
of three colours is, in the opinion of the observer (whose name is
given), identical with a neutral tint, which we shall call Standard
White. Each colour is specified by the position of the slit on the
scale, which indicates its position in the spectrum, and by the breadth
of the slit, which is a measure of its intensity.
    In order to make a survey of the spectrum we select three points
for purposes of comparison, and we call these the three Standard
Colours. The standard colours are selected on the same principles as
those which guide the engineer in selecting stations for a survey.
They must bo conspicuous and invariable and not in the same straight
line.
    In the chart of the spectrum you may see the relations of the
various colours of the spectrum to the throe standard colours, and to
each other. It is manifest that the standard green which I have
chosen cannot be one of the true primary colours, for the other
colours do not all lie within the triangle formed by joining them.
But the chart of the spectrum may be described as consisting of two

1871.]                       on Colour Vision.                        267
straight lines meeting in a point. This point corresponds to a green
about a fifth of the distance from 6 towards F. This green has a
wave length of abont 510 millionths of a millimetre by Ditscheiner's
measurement. This green is either the true primary green, or at least
it is the nearest approach to it which we can ever see. Proceeding
from this green towards the red end of the spectrum, we find the
different colours lying almost exactly in a straight line. This indicates
that any colour is chromatically equivalent to a mixture of any two
colours on opposite sides of it, and in the samo straight line. The
extreme red is considerably beyond the standard red, but it is in the
same straight line, and therefore wo might, if we had no other evidence,
assume the extreme red as the truo primary red. We shall see, hew
ever, that the truo primary red is not exactly represented in colour by
any part of the spectrum. It lies somewhat beyond the extreme red,
but in the samo straight line.
     On the blue side of primary green the colour equations are seldom
so accurate. The colours, hewever, lie in a line which is nearly
straight. I have not been able to detect any mcasurablo chromatic
difference between the extrome indigo and the violet. The colours of
this end of the spectrum aro represented by a number of points very
close to each other. We may suppose that the primary blue is a
sensation differing little from that excited by the parts of the spectrum
near G.
     Now, the first thing which occurs to most people about this result
is that the division of the spectrum is by no means a fair ono. Be
tween the red and the green wo have a series of colours apparently
very different from either, and having such marked characteristics
that two of them, orange and yellow, have received separate names.
The colours between the green and the blue, on the other hand, have
an obvious resemblance to ono or both of the extreme colours, and
no distinct names for theso colours have ever become popularly
recognized.
     I do not profess to reconcile this discrepancy between ordinary
and scientific experience. It only shews that it is impossible by a
mere act of introspection to make a true analysis of our sensations.
Consciousness is our only autherity; but consciousness must be
methedically examined in order to obtain any trustworthy results.
     I have here, through the kindness of Professor Huxley, a picture
of the structure upon which the light falls at the back of the eye.
There is a minute structure of bodies like rods and cones or pegs,
and it is conceivable that the mode in which we become aware of the
shapes of things is by a consciousness which differs according to the
particular rods on tho ends of which the light falls, just as the pattern
on the web formed by a Jacquard loom depends on the mode in which
the perforated cards act on the system of movable rods in that
machine. In tho eyo we have on the one hand light falling on this
wonderful structure, and on the other hand we have the sensation of
sight. We cannot compare these two things ; they belong to opposite

 208                    Professor Clerk Maxwell                   [March 24,
 categories. The whole of Metaphysics lies like a great gulf between
 them. It is possible that discoveries in physiology may be made by
 tracing the course of the nervous disturbance
                   " Up the fine fibres to the sentient brain ; "
 but this would make us no wiser than we are about those colour-
 sensations which we can only know by feeling them ourselves. Still,
 though it is impossible to become acquainted with a sensation by the
 anatomical study of the organ with which it is connected, we may
 make use of the sensation as a means of investigating the anatomical
 structure.
     A remarkable instance of this is the deduction of Helmholtz's
 theory of the structure of the retina from that of Young with re
 spect to the sensation of colour. Young asserts that there are three
 elementary sensations of colour ; Helmholtz asserts that there are
 three systems of nerves in the retina, each of which has for its func
 tion, when acted on by light or any other disturbing agent, to excite
 in us one of these three sensations.
     No anatomist has hitherto been able to distinguish these three
 systems of nerves by microscopic observation. But it is admitted in
 physiology that the only way in which the sensation excited by a
 particular nerve can vary is by degrees of intensity. The intensity
 of the sensation may vary from the faintest impression up to an
 insupportable pain ; but whatever be the exciting cause, the sensation
will be the same when it reaches the same intensity. If this doctrine
of the function of a nerve be admitted, it is legitimate to reason from
the fact that colour may vary in three different ways, to the inference
that these three modes of variation arise from the independent action
of three different nerves or sets of nerves.
     Some very remarkable observations on the sensation of colour have
been made by M. Sigmund Exner in Professor Helmholtz's physiolo
gical laboratory at Heidelberg. While looking at an intense light of
a brilliant colour, he exposed his eye to rapid alternations of light
and darkness by waving his fingers before his eyes. Under these
circumstances a peculiar minute structure made its appearance in
the field of view, which many of us may have casually observed.
M. Exner states that the character of this structure is different
according to the colour of the light employed. When red light is
used a veined structure is seen ; when the light is green, the field
appears covered with minute black dots, and when the light is blue,
spots are scon, of a larger size than the dots in the green, and of a
lighter colour.
     Whother these appearances present themselves to all eyes, and
whether they have for their physical cause any difference in the
arrangement of the nerves of the three systems in Helmholtz's theory
I cannot say, but I am suro that if these systems of nerves have a
real existence, no method is more likely to demonstrate their existence
than that which M. Exner has followed,

1871.J                       on Colour Vision.                           269
                             Colour Blindness.
    The most valuable evidence which we possess with respect to
colour vision is furnished to us by the colour-blind. A considerable
number of persons in every large community are unable to distinguish
between certain pairs of colours which to ordinary people appear in
glaring contrast. Dr. Dalton, the founder of the atomic theory of
chemistry, bas given us an account of his own case.
    The true nature of this peculiarity of vision was first pointed out by
Sir John Herschel in a letter written to Dalton in 1832, but not known
to the world till the publication of Dalton's Life by Dr. Henry. The
defect consists in the absence of one of the three primary sensations
of colour. Colour-blind vision depends on the variable intensities of
two sensations instead of three. The best description of colour-blind
vision is that given by Professor Pole in his account of his own case
in the ' Phil. Trans.,' 1859.
    In all cases which have been examined with sufficient care, the
absent sensation appears to resemble that which we call red. The
point P on the chart of- the spectrum represents the relation of the
absent sensation to the colours of the spectrum, deduced from obser
vations with the colour box furnished by Professor Pole.
    If it were possible to exhibit the colour corresponding to this point
on the chart, it would be invisible, absolutely black, to Professor Pole.
As it does not lie within the range of the colours of the spectrum
we cannot exhibit it ; and, in fact, colour-blind people can perceive
the extreme end of the spectrum which we call red, though it appears
to them much darker than to us, and does not excite in them the
sensation which we call red. In the diagram of the intensities of the
three sensations excited by different parts of the spectrum, the upper
figure, marked P, is deduced from the observations of Professor Pole ;
while the lower one, marked K, is founded on observations by a very
accurate observer of the normal type.
    The only difference between the two diagrams is that in the upper
one the red curve is absent. The forms of the other two curves are
nearly the same for both observers. We have great reason therefore
to conclude that the colour sensations which Professor Pole sees are
what we call green and blue. This is the result of my calculations ;
but Professor Pole agrees with every other colour-blind person whom
I know in denying that green is one of his sensations. The colour
blind are always making mistakes about green things and confounding
them with red. The colours they have no doubts about arc certainly
blue and yellow, aud they persist in saying that yellow, and not
green, is the colour which they are able to see.
    To explain this discrepancy we must remember that colour-blind
persons learn the names of colours by the same method as ourselves.
They arc told that the sky is blue, that grass is green, that gold is yellow,
and that soldiers' coats are red. They observe difference in the colours

270                      Professor Clerk Maxicell             [March 24,
of these objects, and they often suppose that they see the same colours
as we do, only not so well. But if we look at the diagram we shall see
that the brightest example of their second sensation in the spectrum
is not in the green, but in the part which we call yellow, and which
we teach them to call yellow. The figure of the spectrum below
Professor Pole'6 curves is intended to represent to ordinary eyes
what a colour-blind person would see in the spectrum. I hardly dare
to draw your attention to it, for if you were to think that any painted
picture would enable you to see with other people's vision I should
certainly have lectured in vain.
                            On the Telhw Spot.
    Experiments on colour indicate very considerable differences
between the vision of different persons, all of whom are of the ordinary
type. A colour, for instance, which one person on comparing it with
white will pronounce pinkish, another person will pronounce greenish.
This difference, however, does not arise from any diversity in the
nature of the colour sensations in different persons. It is exactly of
the same kind as would be observed if one of the persons wore yellow
spectacles. In fact, most of us have near the middle of the retina a
yellow spot through which the rays must pass before they reach the
sensitive organ : this spot appears yellow because it absorbs the rays
near the line F, which are of a greenish-blue colour. Some of us have
this spot strongly developed. My own observations of the spectrum
near the line F are of very little value on this account. I am indebted
to Professor Stokes for the knowledge of a metho4 by which anyone
may see whether he has this yellow spot. It consists in looking at a
white object through a solution of chloride of chromium, or at a screen
on which light which has passed through this solution is thrown
[exhibited]. This light is a mixture of red light with the light which
is so strongly absorbed by the yellow spot. When it falls on the
ordinary surface of the retina it is of a neutral tint, but when it falls
on the yellow spot only the red light reaches the optic nerve, and we
see a red spot floating like a rosy cloud over the illuminated field.
    Very few persons are unable to detect the yellow spot in this way.
The observer K, whose colour equations have been used in preparing
the chart of the spectrum, is one of the very few who do not see every
thing as if through yellow spectacles. As for myself, the position of
white light in the chart of the spectrum is on the yellow side of true
white even when I use the outer parts of the retina ; but as soon as I
look direct at it, it becomes much yellower, as is shown by the point
W C. It is a curious fact that we do not see this yellow spot on every
occasion, and that we do not think white objects yellow. But if we
wear spectacles of any colour for some time, or if we live in a room
lighted by windows all of one colour, we soon come to recognize white
paper as white. This shows that it is only when some alteration
takes place in our sensations, that we are conscious of their quality.

1871.]                     on Colour Vision.                      271
    There are several interesting facts about the colour sensation
which I can only mention briefly. One is that the extreme parts of
the retina are nearly insensible to red. If you hold a red flower and
a blue flower in your hand as far back as you can see your hand, you
will lose sight of the red flower, while you still see the blue one.
Another is, that when the light is diminished red objects become
darkened more in proportion than blue ones. The third is, that a
kind of colour blindness in which blue is the absent sensation can
be produced artificially by taking doses of Santonine. This kind of
colour blindness is described by Dr. Edmund Eose, of Berlin. It is
only temporary, and does not appear to be followed by any more
serious consequences than headaches. I must ask your pardon for
not having undergone a course of this medicine, even for the sake of
becoming able to give you information at first hand about colour
blindness.
                                                         [J. C. M.]


           Kogal institution of ©reat Britain.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 3, 1871.
      Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                      Captain Noble, F.R.S. &o.
                            LATE ROYAL ARTILLERY,
                  On the Tension of Fired Gunpowder.
The first attempt made to explain the action of gunpowder was, I
believe, that of M. De la Hire, who, in the History of the French
Academy for 1702, ascribed the force of fired gunpowder to the
behaviour of the air enclosed in and between the grains of powder.
This air he considered to be highly heated by the combustion of the
charge, and the consequent elasticity to bo the moving force of the
projectile.
     Robins, who followed M. De la Hire as the next writer on the sub
ject, and who may be considered to have laid the foundation of this,
as of so many other departments of artillery science, points out how
inadequate to the effect are the forces supposed to act by M. Do la
Hire. He himself instituted a carefully-planned and well-conducted
series of experiments, in which he determined the quantity of perma
nent gas generated by the explosion of gunpowder ; adduced experi
ments which he considered to prove that this quantity is the same
whether the powder be exploded in the air or in vacuo ; and finally
determined the increase of elasticity due to the supposed temperature
of the explosion. The conclusions at which Robins arrived were
briefly as follow :—1. That the whole action of the powder on the
projectile was due to the permanent gases generated by the explosion.
2. That at ordinary temperature and atmospheric pressure the per
manent gases occupied about 240 times the volume of the unexploded
powder. 3. That the heat of combustion increased this volume to
about 1000 times that of the powder, and that hence the maximum
force of gunpowder—-somewhat less with small, somewhat greater
with large charges—was about 1000 atmospheres, that is to say about
6£ tons on the square inch. But although Robins considered this
pressure the maximum exerted by fired gunpowder, it is worthy of
remark that he recognized the intensity of the local pressure which
arises when the gases generated have space sufficient to acquire a con-
   Vol. VI. (No. 55>                                           u

274                            Captain Noble                   [March 3,
siderable velocity before meeting with an obstacle. In a common
musket he placed a ballet 16 inches from the charge, and found that
at the seat of the shot the barrel was bulged like a bladder to twice its
original diameter, while two pieces were blown out of it
     The first regular experiments which had for their object the
determination of the pressure of gunpowder fired in a close vessel or
chamber were those of Count Eumford, made in 1793, and published
in the Transactions of the Boyal Society for 1797. The powder used
was sporting, of very fine grain, and its composition (there being only
67 per cent, of saltpetre), differed notably from ordinary powder. The
charges used, moreover, were very small, the maximum being only 18
grains. In one case, indeed, the vessel was filled ; about 28 grains
were necessary to fill the chamber ; but by this experiment the vessel
was destroyed. The objects Eumford had in view were—first, to
ascertain the limit of the force exercised by the exploded powder
when the gases are at their maximum density ; secondly, to determine
the relation between the density of the gases and the tension. The
results of the first and most reliable series of Kumford's experiments
give the maximum tension at about 29,000 atmospheres, or 191 tons
on the square inch. But, great as this pressure is, Count Rumford
considers it much below the truth. He made a second series, the
results of which, to use his own words, " are still more various, extra
ordinary, and inexplicable." The tension of the gas in the first series
of experiments was with 12 grains of powder about 2700 atmospheres ;
but in this second series the pressure with the same charge is repeat
edly found to be above 9000 atmospheres. Count Eumford does not
attempt to explain the enormous discrepancy between the two sets of
experiments, unless a remark on the heat of the weather during the
second set can be so considered ; but, relying on this second series
and on the experiment in which the vessel was destroyed by 28 grains,
he arrived at the conclusion that 101,021 atmospheres, or 662 tons
on the square inch, is the measure of the initial force of the clastic
fluid generated by the combustion of gunpowder. Eumford met the
objection that if the tension were anything like that he names, no
gun would have a chance of standing, by assuming that the com
bustion of the powder is much slower than is ordinarily supposed,
and, indeed, lasts all the time the shot is in the bore ; and he further
accounts for the enormous initial tension by ascribing it to the elas
ticity of the aqueous vapour or steam contained in tho powder.
Seasoning, on M. de Betancourt's experiments, that the elasticity of
steam is doubled by every addition of temperature equal to 30° Fah
renheit, his only difficulty, and one which he leaves to his successors
to explain, is why the steam liberated by the combustion of the
powder does not exercise a much higher pressure than tho 100,000
atmospheres he has assigned to it.
    In 1843 Colonel Cavalli proposed to insert in the bore of a gun a
series of small barrels, intended to throw a wrought-iron spherical
ball. By ascertaining the velocities of these balls Colonel Cavalli

1871.]              on the Tension of Fired Gunpowder.              275
considered that he would be able to assign the corresponding pressures.
Colonel Cavalli's plan was actually carried out, and from his experi
ments he deduced what ought to be the theoretical thickness of the
metal at various points along the bore.
     A very great improvement on Colonel Cavalli's method was intro
duced in 1854 by a Prussian Artillery Committee, under the direction
of General, then Major, Neumann. ... But their experiments do not
possess a very high interest, as they were applied only to compara
tively very small guns, and had for their chief object the comparison
between elongated and non-elongated cartridges. The general result
seems to have been that in the 6-pr. gun the maximum pressure was
about 1100 atmospheres, while in the 12-pr. it was nearly 1300
atmospheres, . . . and in every chafge with which they experimented
two maxima of tension were distinctly perceptible. The Russian
artillerist, General Mayevski, in a memoir founded on these experi
ments, confirms the results at which the Prussian Committee have
arrived, and points out that from the experiments the maximum pres
sure must be attained before the bullet is any considerable distance
from its initial position. General Neumann's method appears to have
been repeated in Belgium about the year 1860 with a 70-pr. rifled
gun. I have not seen a detailed report of these trials, but the maxi
mum pressure with ordinary powder was stated to be about 3000
atmospheres.
      In 1857-8-9 Major Eodman carried on for the United States a
most interesting and extensive series of experiments on gunpowder.
 [These were fully described by the aid of diagrams and tables.]
                                         person who experimented on tho
 effect of size of grain, and proposed prismatic powder. It is most
 unfortunate that experiments so well devised, and carried out with
 so much care, should be rendered in many cases almost valueless
by the absence of important data, by the admission of manifestly
 erroneous observations, and, finally, by results passed over in silence
 which are not only frequently anomalous, but in some cases abso
 lutely impossible.
      Major Rodman, like Count Rumford, endeavoured to ascertain the
 maximum force which powder was capable of exerting when fired in
 its own volume. He fired various charges in enormously strong shells,
 through a small vent        in diameter, and he considered that in all
 cases the maximum pressure would be exerted before the shell burst.
 His results were very diverse, varying from 32 tons per square inch
 (4900 atmospheres) to 82 tons, or about 12,400 atmospheres, and,
 singularly enough, the highest pressure was given by the smallest
 charge : from the great discrepancies, as well as from other consider
 ations, I do not think we can accept these determinations as entitled
 to much weight.
      MM. Bunsen and Schischkoff's experiments were directed, in tho
 first place, to determine the exact nature, both of the permanent gases
 and the solid products generated by the explosion of powder ; secondly,
                                                              u 2

 276                            Captain Noble                    [March 3,
 to determine the heat generated by the act of explosion ; thirdly, to
 determine the maximum pressure which gunpowder fired in a close
 chamber would give rise to ; and, finally, to determine the total quan
 tity of work which a given weight of gunpowder is capable of produc
 ing. The apparatus adopted for obtaining the products of combustion
 was so arranged that the powder to be analyzed falls in a very finely
divided stream into a heated bulb, in which, and in tubes con
nected with it, tho resulting products are collected for examination.
MM. Bunsen and Schischkoff, in drawing attention to their results and
the extraordinary difference between their estimates and those given
by so eminent an authority as Piobert, point out that many of the as
sumptions previously made must depend on very faulty premises ; but
their own experiments havo not altogether escaped attack, and I think
we are bound to receive some of their results with great reservation,
until it can be demonstrated that the products of combustion are the
same in the bore of a gun as when produced in the method followed
in these experiments.
     The results of their analysis are given in this table.* The perma
nent gases at a temperature of zero and pressure of 760 mm., occupied
a volume 193 times greater than that occupied by the powder, and
represented about         the weight of the powder. The remainder was
solid residue, and MM. Bunsen and Schischkoff conceive, that although
a portion of these solid matters may undoubtedly be volatilized by the
high temperature of the explosion, yet any pressure which may be
exerted by such vapours is quite insignificant. This opinion appears
to be founded on the fact that the solid residue arising from the ex
plosion of gunpowder is not fused when exposed to tho action of a jet
of inflamed hydrogen.
     Piobert and other authorities, on tho other hand, consider that the
    * Transformation experienced by gunpowder in burning, after Bunaen and
Schischkoff.
                                                                     gnn.
                                                  KOSO-1 .. .. 0 4227
                                                  KOCO' .. .. 0-1264
                                                  KOS'O' .. .. 0 0327
                                                  KS                0 0213
                                Residue .. 0-6806 KCy,S* .. .. 0-0030
                                                  KONO5 .. .. 0-0372
                                                  0                 0 0073
                                                  S                 0-0014
                                                  2NH«0,3CO! 0 0286
I (Nitre         .. 0-7899
| Sulphur .. .. 0-0984
                 C 0-0769                         N .. 0-0998 = 79-40
                 H 0-0041                         CO' .. 0-2012 = 101-71
                 O 00307        Gases      0-3138 OO .. 0-0094 = 7-49
                             r.                   H .. 0-0002 = 2-34
                                           0-9944 HS .. 0 0018 = 1-16
                                                  O .. 00014 = 1-00
                                                                    193- 10

 1871.]             on the Tension of Fired Gunpowder.                277
 pressure exerted by the volatilized residue has far more influence on
 the pressure than the permanent gases.
      The temperature of the fired gunpowder was determined by ex
 ploding a small charge of powder enclosed in a tube, which was itself
 immersed in a larger tube containing water. From the increment of
 temperature communicated to the water by the explosion, it was found
 that one part of fired powder would raise 620 parts of water by 1° Cent.,
 and hence it was calculated that the temperature of gunpowder fired
 in a close chamber impervious to heat is 3340 Cent., or 5980 Fahr.
     Assuming, first, that the products obtained in the two methods I
 have just described are identical, and, secondly, that no variations in
 the products arise from the combustion of large charges, this result
 would be very near the truth.
      The pressure in a closed vessel is readily deducible from the above
 data, and MM. Bunsen and Schischkoff compute that the maximum
 tension which the gas can attain—to which it may approximate, but
 can never reach—is about 4374 atmospheres, or about 29 tons on the
 square inch. This pressure has been undoubtedly reached in the case
 of heavy guns, and considerably exceeded in the case of powder fired
 in closed vessels. MM. Bunsen and Schischkoff also compute, from
 their data, the theoretical work of a kilogramme of gunpowder at
 67,400 kilogrammetres, that is 67,400 kilogrammes raised 1 metre in
 height. The committee on explosives have, however, realized in the
 shot alone nearly 60,000 kilogrammetres per kilogramme of powder in
 a comparatively short gun ; and it may therefore be conjectured that
 this estimate, like that of the maximum pressure, is considerably too
 low, although undoubtedly much nearer the truth than the extravagant
 estimates which have frequently been made.
     In the year 1861-2 Sir W. Armstrong and myself made several
experiments to determine the maximum pressure of powder in the bores
of what were then considered very large guns—the 110 and the 70
pounders. Two methods were adopted, and although they, like nearly
every experiment connected with gunpowder, gave results in some
degree anomalous, yet the conclusion at which we arrived—namely,
that the maximum pressure with the powder then used, in the bores of
the guns I have mentioned was about 17 tons on the square inch—is
probably not far removed from the truth.
     [The description of these methods was illustrated by diagrams of
apparatus.]
     It is not possible in anything like a reasonable time to give an
analysis of the voluminous investigations of Piobert on the question
of gunpowder. Generally, however, his views seem to be that he
ascribes much of the initial pressure of gunpowder to the effects of
the vaporized solid products increasing enormously the tension due
to the pemanent gases. He points out errors in some of Bumford's
conclusions, but accepts as tolerably accurate the pressures given by
Bumford's first series, which would, at maximum density, give a
tension of about 29,000 atmospheres.

278                             Captain Noble                     [March 3,
     A committee, under the presidency of Colonel Yonnghosband,
has been recently appointed to examine into our gunpowder, which
has for some years enjoyed on the. Continent the unenviable denomi
nation of " brutal powder."
     The researches of this committee have been solely devoted in the
first place to a special object—the production of a powder suitable for
the monster guns which are now required by the services. . . . The
guns we have principally used have been three in number—a gun of
21 in. diameter, firing projectiles of 4f lbs., and charges of 9 oz. ; an
8-in. gun, firing projectiles of 180 lbs., and charges of from 20 to 40 lbs. ;
and a 10-in. gun, firing projectiles of 400 lbs., and charges of from
60 to 70 lbs. of powder. The means we have used to determine the
pressure have been likewise three —first, a Rodman gauge ; secondly,
a crusher gauge, designed to overcome certain faults in the Eoduiau
gauge ; thirdly, a chronoscope, designed for measuring very minute
intervals of time. . . .
     The chronoscope consists of a series of thin disks, each 36 inches
in circumference, fixed at intervals on a horizontal shaft, and driven
at a high speed by a heavy descending weight, which is, during the
experiment, continually wound up by a handle, and with a little
practice the instrument can be made to travel either quite uniformly
or at a rate very slowly increasing or decreasing. The precise rate of
the disks is ascertained by means of a stop-clock, which can be con
nected or disconnected with a revolving shaft at pleasure. The speed
with which the circumferences of the disks travel is in this instrument
generally about 1200 inches per second. An inch therefore repre
sents the 1200th part of a second, and as by means of a vernier we
are able to divide the inch into 1000 parts, the instrument is capable
of recording less than the one-millionth part of a second. I may
mention, by way of enabling you to realize the extreme minuteness of
this portion of time, that the millionth part of a second is about tho
same fraction of a second that a second is of a fortnight.
     When the primary of an induction coil is suddenly severed, a spark
under proper management is given off from the secondary, and in the
arrangement I am describing, the severance of the primary is caused
by the shot in its passage through the bore, and the record of its
passage is transferred to the disks in the following way. The peri-
phorios of the revolving disks are covered with strips of white paper
coated with lampblack, and are connected with one of the secondary
wires of an induction coil. The other secondary wire, carefully
insulated, is brought to a discharger opposite to the edge of a disk,
and fitted so as to bo just clear of it. The primary wires of the
induction coils arc so connected with the bore of a gun that the shot
in passing a definite point shall sever the primary current, and thereby
produce a spark from the secondary. A hollow plug is screwed into
the gun, carrying at the end next tho bore a cutter, which projects
slightly into the boro. The cutter is held in this position by the
primary wiro, which passes in at one sido of tho plug, then through

1871.]              on the Tension of Fired Gunpowder.                279
a hele in the cutter, and out at the other side of the plug. When the
shet passes the cutter it presses it level with the surface of the bore,
 thereby severing the primary and causing the induced spark to pass
instantaneously from the discharger to the disk, making a minute per
foration in the paper covering upon the opposite part of the disk, and
at the same time burning away the lampblack, so that the position of
the perforation is marked by a white spot. There is an induction coil
for each disk, and each disk, discharger, and coil form, so to speak,
an independent instrument for recording the instant when the pro
jectile passes a certain point in the bore of the gun. Before using the
instrument, we must be satisfied that the various independent instru
ments give corresponding results, and the best mode of doing this is
 to get a record upon each disk of the same event.
     Thus it is obvious that if the whele of the primaries are cut simul
taneously, the sparks on all the disks sheuld be in a straight line, and
the deviations from a straight line are the errors, either constant or
variable, and from the observations the constant errors can, of course,
be eliminated. Two metheds of securing a simultaneous rupture of
the primaries have been followed. One plan consisted in wrapping
all the wires round a small magazine of fulminate of mercury, and
exploding the fulminate. The other consisted in collecting the whele
of the wires on a small screen close to the muzzle of a rifle, and
cutting them by means of a flat-headed bullet. Both metheds have
given excellent results. . . .
     The powders which we have experimented on may be divided
into four classes—1. The old quick-burning, violent powders, such as
R. L.G. and L. G. ; 2. Pellet Powder; 3. Pebble Powder; and 4.
Prismatic Powder ; any of the three last classes are superior to the
first.
     I have arranged on the diagrams exhibited curves intended to
illustrate the differences between three of the classes of powder I have
been describing, and in each case I have selected an example which I
believe to be as nearly as possible a type of the class. For the pur
pose of comparison they are all taken from experiments with the 10-in.
gun.
     Our old rule of proof for powder, that of the eprouvette mortar,
seems, with our present lights, to be specially designed to produce in
powder these qualities whese absence we most desire. Pellet powders
are regular cylinders formed in moulds, while pebble powders are
 tolerably regular lumps of powder cake, about the size of large
 pebbles. . . . The prismatic differs considerably from these in being
 a less dense powder, and possessing the property of lighting with
 extreme slowness. R. L. G. is a quick-lighting and extremely quick-
 burning powder; pellet and pebble are quick-lighting, slow-burning
 powders ; and prismatic is a slow-lighting and quick-burning powder.
 It is probable that the prismatic powder owes its extreme slownoss of
 lighting to the deposition of a heavy coating of saltpetre, due to the
 moisture present in the process of manufacture.

280                            Captain Noble                     [March 3,
     Altheugh we find that almost inappreciable differences in the
manufacture cause occasionally great differences of action when the
powder is submitted to the test of firing, we are able to point to
several causes which are of the greatest importance in modifying the
behaviour of the powder in the gun. These points are—1. Specific
gravity ; 2. Length of time during which the component charcoal
has been burned ; 3. Degree of moisture employed in manufacture ;
 4. Hardness ; 5. Size of grain.
     Much less time was taken by the shot in the earlier parts of its
motion in the case of R. L. G. and pebble than in that of prismatic.
It may be interesting to mention that the total time taken by a pro
jectile, when fired with a battering charge, to reach the muzzle of a
10-in. gun is about the one-hundredth part of a second. The velo
cities at each point of the bore, deduced from these time curves, were
also exhibited.
     The pressures indicated by curves obtained from the chronoscopo
indications were compared with the corresponding indications with the
crusher gauge. They are as follows :—With the pebble, pellet, and
prismatic powders, under ordinary circumstances, with ordinary or
battering charges of the service and with service vents, the pressures
indicated by the crushers placed in the powder chamber do not differ
materially from one another, and any of them, or the mean of the wheto
of them, agree tolerably closely with the maximum pressure indicated
by the chrouoscope. But when we come to R L. G. or L. G. powders (the
old quick-burning powders), a striking difference manifests itself ; not
only do the pressures in R. L. G. differ very materially from the indi
cations given by the chronoscope, but they differ widely from ono
 another. . . . We are therefore met in the case of the destructive
powders with difficulties which do not exist in the case of slow-burning
 powders, and as we arc compelled to admit that some of these pressures
 are entirely local or confined to certain portions of the gun, we give
 the following explanation. Robins obtained high local pressure by
 placing the musket-bullet at some distance from tho charge. This
 phenomenon doubtless is duo to the inflamed gas, vapours, or other pro
 ducts of the combustion of the powder attaining a very high velocity
 l>eforo encountering the resistance of the bullet, and the reconversion
 of the tis viva into pressure accounts for the intense local pressure that
 Eobins observed. The local pressure we have observed can be similarly
 explained. Tho vis viva of the products of combustion of the first por
 tion of the chargo ignited is in like manner converted into pressure at
 the seat of the shet ; and as we know that the rapidity of combustion
 of powder is enormously accelerated by the tension under which it is
 exploded, it is possible that this pressure may bo increased by a violent
 disengagoment of gas from the unconsumed powder at the seat of the
 shet. The time during which this abnormal pressure is kept up must
 bo exceedingly minute, even when compared with the infinitesimal
 times we are considering ; for we find the chronoscope pressure, which
 may bo regarded in the case of these " poudres brutales " as representing

 1871.]             on the Tension of Fired Gunpowder.                  281
the mean of pressures of a violent oscillatory character, hardly altered
at all, even although the local pressures—as, for instance, when tho
rear vent is used—are increased fifty per cent. Other indications lead
to the same conclusion ; but it is worthy of remark that, when violent
local pressures are set up, waves of pressure, so to speak, appear to
sweep from one end of the inflamed gases to the other, and to continue
more or less during the whole time the shot is in the bore. . . .
     To one difficulty I must allude. In the quick-burning powders,
at all events, it seems to be certain that all, or at least all but a very
trivial quantity, of the,powder is converted into gas by the combustion
of the powder before the projectile has been materially moved from its
initial position. This being the case, how are we to account for the
great loss of work which results when, under ordinary circumstances,
 a charge is ignited from the rear vent ? This loss is very variable,
 but in one instance in our own experiments the work realized in the
 shot was reduced from 78 foot tons to 58 foot tons per lb. of powder.
The cause of this great loss of work, in an instance where it is difficult
to believe that any quantity of powder can have escaped ignition, may,
perhaps, bo sought either on the hypothesis that under this peculiar
 mode of ignition tho products of combustion differ materially from
 those arising under ordinary circumstances, or, as heat plays so im
 portant a part in the pressure of fired gunpowder, it may possibly be
surmised that with the rear vent a much greater waste of heat has
resulted than in the case of the service vent. I believe it is generally
assumed that the loss of work arising from the heat communicated to the
gun is altogether insignificant. This is, however, not so. Careful ex
periments were made on this head some years ago in Italy with rifles,
the rifles being fired under three conditions—viz. with the bullet as
usual, the bullet very considerably removed from the charge, and with
no bullet at all. The results were that in all cases the heat communi
cated to the barrel represented considerably more than one-third of the
total work developed, according to Bunsen and Schischkoff, by the com
bustion of the powder, being greatest when the ball was placed at some
distance from the charge, least when the rifle was loaded in the ordinary
manner.
     The loss of heat would be very different in tho caso of the large
charges with which we are dealing, but it is still much too large to be
neglected, and it is certain that where the wave action, to which I have
so often adverted, is set up, there is always a considerable loss of useful
effect.
     Collaterally with the researches of tho committee on the action of
gunpowder in guns, I have made at Elswick a series of experiments on
the tension of the gases in closed vessels, and have been so fortunate
as not only to determine the tension of the gases at various densities,
but have exploded charges filling entirely the chambers of closed
vessels, and have altogether retained, and, by means of a special
arrangement, discharged at pleasure the gaseous products of com
bustion.

282                           Captain Noble                   [March 3,
    The inflamed products were confined in a chamber by means of a
gas check; the pressuro was determined by means of a crusher
arrangement, and the charge was exploded by means of one of Mr.
Abel's fuzes. The current passed through an insulated cone, which,
the moment the charge was fired, destroyed the insulating material
and effectually closed the passage. The details of one or two of these
experiments will be interesting to you. When we first made the
arrangement for confining the powder absolutely, I thought that the
best method of stopping the escape of the gas was to make a steel
vent, closing it with a gun-metal plug fused wjth tin. This arrange
ment was apparently successful. When I had just got up to tho
cylinder, and was stooping down to feel its heat, the charge suddenly
made its escape with considerable violence. When the cylinder was
opened for examination it was found that the escape of the gas was
due to the heat of the explosion having melted the tin between the
conical plug, and through the melted tin the gas readily escaped.
Another most remarkable occurrence was noted in the examination of
this cylinder. On taking out the crusher apparatus, I found that a
portion of the solid steel projecting into the charge had been melted,
and apparently run ; also the head of a hardened steel screw had
evidently fused. These effects were produced in 32 seconds. By
way of comparison I put, for 37 seconds, into one of the hottest of
Siemens' regenerative furnaces, at a temperature probably of about
 3300° F., a similar piece of steel. It was raised only to a heat of
about 180° F. The temperature of this fusion may have been seriously
affected by chemical changes through which the fused metal may have
passed.
     In another experiment I determined the tension of three-quarters
 of a pound of E. L. G. powder, completely filling the chamber in
 which it was fired, and having no escape whatever, to be about 32 tons
on the square inch. For the purpose of this discourse I made a
 similar experiment with F. G. and pellet. The results were com
 pletely successful. The gas was entirely confined. In the first case,
 when I got up to the cylinder it was making a singular crepitating
 noise, due probably to the sudden application of great internal heat.
 The temperature of the exterior of the cylinder rose rapidly to 111° F.,
 and then remained nearly stationary for some time. I then let the
 gases escape, which they did with a sharp hissing noise, rising to a
 scream when any obstacle was placed on the orifice. With the escaping
 gases there was not the slightest appearance of smoke, vapour, or
 colour of any kind. Tho pressuro indicated by the F. G. was 37 tons
 on the square inch, or about 5600 atmospheres. Here, in these sealed
 bottles, are the solid residues of combustion from the F. G., and also
 from pebble. In each cylinder had been placed platinum wire and
 foil of different degrees of thickness. These have disappeared, and I
 am unable to say in what state they now are, until the residues have
 been examined.
     I look upon the success of theso experiments as being of great

1871.]             on the Tension of Fired Gunpowder.               283.
importance. Not only, with the assistance of my friend and colleague
(on the committee), Mr. Abel, so well known for his researches in
explosive substances, shall we be able to determine the various pro
ducts of combustion when the powder is fired at its maximum pressure,
but we shall be able to determine whether any, and if so what, change
in the products is due to combustion under varying pressure ; we
shall also be able to determine the heat of combustion, and solve
other important questions. . . .
    The practical conclusions to be deduced from the investigations
forming the subject of this discourse may be arranged as follows :—
        1st.—The maximum pressure of fired ordinary gunpowder,
    unrelieved by expansion, is not much above 40 tons to the square
    inch.
        2nd.—In large guns, owing to the violent oscillations produced
    by the ignition of a largo mass of powder, the pressure of the gas
    is liable to be locally exalted, even above its normal tension, in a
    perfectly closed vessel, and this intensification of pressure endan
    gers the endurance of the gun, whilo detracting from the useful
    effect.
        3rd.—Where large charges are used, quick-burning powder
    increases the strain upon the gun without augmenting the velocity
    of the shot.
        4th.—The position of the vent, or firing point, exercises an
    important influence upon the intensity of wave action; and in
    further enlarging the dimensions of heavy guns we must look to
    improved powder, and improved methods of firing the charge, so
    as to avoid as much as possible throwing the ignited gases into
    violent oscillation.
         5th.—In all cases it is desirable to have the charges as short
    as possible, and the cartridge so lighted as to reduce the run of
    the gas to the shortest limit.
                                                              [A. N.]

284                          Mr. Norman Lochyer                     [March 17,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 17, 1871.
       Sib Henby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.It.S. President,
                                  in the Chair.
                     J. Norman Lockyeb, Esq. F.R.S.
                         On the Recent Solar Eclipse.
My duty to-night, a pleasant one, although it is tinged with a certain
 sense of disappointment, is to bring before you the observations which
were made of the recent eclipse in Spain and Sicily, to connect them
with our former knowledge, and to show in what points our know
ledge has been extended. In these observations, as you know, we had
nothing to do with the sun as ordinarily visible, but with the most
delicate phenomenon which becomes visible to us during eclipses. I
 refer to the Corona.
                       General Notions of the Corona.
      Let me, in the first place, show you what is meant by this term,
and state the nature of the problems we had before us. I have here
some admirable drawings, which I will show by means of the lamp, of
 the eclipse that was observed in 1851 by several astronomers who left
England in that year to make observations in Sweden, where the
eclipse was visible. You must bear in mind that the drawings I shall
bring to your notice were made in the same region, at places not
more than a few miles apart.* The first drawing was made by an
observer whose name is a sufficient guarantee for its accuracy—I refer
to Mr. Carrington—and when the sky was absolutely free from clouds.
In the next diagram you will see the corona is changed. The bright
region round the sun is no longer limited to the narrow border of
light round the dark moon, as seen by Mr. Carrington, but it is con
siderably expanded. The third gives still a greater extension, although
that picture was drawn within a quarter of a mile of the place where
Mr. Carrington's was taken. And lastly, we have a drawing made by
the present Astronomer Royal, of that same eclipse, through a cirro-
stratus cloud, as unlike Mr. Carrington's as anything can possibly be.
So that you see we began with a thin band of light about the moon,
     * Mr. Carrington observed at Lilla Edet, on the Gota River. The Astronomer
Royal observed at Gottenburg. The second drawing referred to was made by
Pettersen, nt Gottenburg; the third by a friend of the Rev. T. Clievallier, at the
same place ; and I might have added another by Fearnlny, taken at Rixhiift, in
which the corona is larger than in any of the others. The scries is most instruc
tive. Sec Mem. I{. A. S., vol. xxi.

1871.]                  on the Recent Solar Eclipse.                    285
•which would make the corona a few thousand miles high, and we end
with a figure which Mr. Airy graphically likens to the ornament round
a compass-card, and which gives the corona a height equal to about
once and a half the sun's diameter.
     I will next bring before you some drawings made during the eclipse
of 1858, which was not observed in European regions, but in South
America by two first-rate observers—one, M. Liais, a French astro
nomer, who was stationed at Olmos, in Brazil ; the other, Lieutenant
Gilliss, who was also there as a representative of the American
Government, and observed some thousand miles away in Peru.
     I will throw on the screen the appearances observed by these gentle
men, and I think you will acknowledge the same variations between their
results, as to degree, while in one case we get a perfectly new idea of the
phenomena—a difference in kind. I would especially call attention in
the Olmos drawing to those extraordinary bundles of rays of won
derful shapes, which you see are so much brighter than the other por
tions of the corona. Such forms have been seen in other eclipses, but
they are somewhat rare. The drawing made by Lieutenant Gilliss
bears the same relation to that made by M. Liais as Mr. Carrington's
did to the Astronomer Eoyal's ; so that we may say that we not only
get variations in the dimensions of the corona as seen at different
stations, but that we furthermore get a strange structure introduced
now and then in our drawing in regions where absolutely no corona
at all exists in the other.
     So much by way of defining the phenomena and giving an idea of
the eye observations generally.
     Let me now attempt to show you how the phenomena observed in
 tho last eclipse bear upon the results which had been previously accu
 mulated by means of telescopic and naked-eye observations, and by
means of the polariscope and spectroscope.
             I.—Telescopic and Naked-Eye Observations.
              a.—A Part of the Corona is undoubtedly Solar.
     The first use I propose to mako of the telescopic and naked-eye
 observations of last year, is to show you a photographic copy of an
admirable drawing made by Mr. Brett, who, though unfortunate enough
 to see the sun only for a very short time, was yet sufficiently skilled to
 mako good use of that brief period. This drawing will bring before
 you the fact, that even when a large portion of the sun remained
 unobscured by the moon, Mr. Brett was enabled to see a dim ring of
 light round the unobscured portion, which since the year 1722 has
 been acknowledged, beyond all question, I think I may say, to repre
 sent something at the sun. It was observed in 1722 round the un-
eclipsed sun, and in more recent times by Mrs. Airy in 1842, and by
Itumker 1^ minute before totality in 1860, not to mention other in
stances. Therefore, we have one observation made during this eclipse,
confirming the old one, that in the corona there is a region of some

28G                         Mr. Norman Lockyer                 [March 17,
small breadth at all events which is absolutely solar, and which it
only requires a diminution of the solar light to enable us to see.
This, then, we may look upon as the known ; now let us feel our way
gradually outwards.
               6.—Rays, or Streamers, are added at Totality.
     The drawings made in all the eclipses which have been carefully
recorded bring beforo us quite outside this narrow, undoubtedly solar
region, observed before totality, as I have shewn, and also by Mr. Car-
rington and by Lieutenant Gilliss during totality in 1851 and 1858,
extraordinary appearances of a different order. While in fact we have
a solar ring from 2' to 6' high, wo have rays of all shapes and sizes
visible outside, in some cases extending as far as 4°, and in all cases
brighter than the outer corona on which they are seen, the rays being
different in different eclipses, and appearing differently to different
observers of the same eclipse, and even at the same station. Here is
a copy of a drawing made by M. Rumker of the eclipse of 1860, and
I shew it for the purpose of calling your attention to the fact that the
two curious rays represented in it belong to a different order of things
from these which we see in the rest of the corona. From the begin
ning to the middle of the eclipse the east rays were the most intense.
In the next drawing, whicn was made by the same observer, you see
something absolutely new : and now the western sido of the corona is
the most developed ; we have a new series of bright rays, and altogether
it is difficult to believe that it is a drawing made by the same observer
of the same eclipse.
     The third drawing is a representation of the same eclipse by
M. Marquez, whe observed with a perfection of minute care which has
scarcely ever been equalled : I bring it before you to shew that the rays
he saw wore altogether differently situated. We may conclude then
that the rays, altheugh extremely definite and bright—as bright or
brighter than the other portions of the corona which are visible before
totality, they being invisible before totality—appear different to different
observers of the same eclipse, and to the same observer during- different
phases.
                     c.— They change from Side to Side.
     I have already said that M. Rumker observed that from the begin
ning to the middle of totality the rays on the east side of the sun were
longest and brightest, and that from the middle to the end of totality
the rays on that side of the sun where the totality ended were longest
and brightest.
     Wo will now carry this observation a step further, by referring to
threo drawings made by M. Plantamour in the same eclipse, that of
1860. In the first drawing we have the beginning of the total eclipse
as seen in the telescope : with the naked eye naturally we sheuld get
the sun disappearing at the east or left-hand sido, the moon moving
from west to east ; in the telescope things are reversed, and we havo

1871.]                  on the Recent Solar Eclipse.                   287
it right instead of left : and hero we have the same thing that M.
Rumker observed, namely, that when the eastern limbs were in contact
bright rays (M. Plantamour saw three) were visible on the side at
which the contact took place. When the moon was half way over the
sun, two rays of reduced brilliancy were observed on that side, not
necessarily in the same position as tliose first observed, but one of these
has been abolished altogether ; and on the other sido of the sun, where
totality was about to end, we have three rays gradually suggesting
themselves : at the end of totality the rays visible at the commence
ment are abolished, and now instead of them and of these seen at the
middle of the eclipse, we have a bran new set of rays on the side of
the moon from whence the sun is about to emerge.
     This observation I need hardly say is of considerable importance
in connection with the fact that from the year 1722 almost every
observer of a total eclipse has stated that there is a large increase of
brilliancy, and an increase of the size of the corona on the side where
the sun has just been covered, or is just about to emerge.
     Now, what was there bearing on this point in the recent observa
tions ? I have here three drawings, which, theugh roughly done,
you will see are of great importance side by side with these of
M. Plantamour. These are drawings which have been sent in to the
Organizing Committee by Mr. Gilman, who lives in Spain, and whe
took considerable interest in the eclipse, and sent the results of his
 observations to England with the eclipse party when they camo
 heme ; and it is of importance that you sheuld see everything that
 Mr. Gilman has done. If you agree with this explanation of the
 square form of the corona, which was observed in Spain this year, it
 will explain the quadrangular form observed in the corona in a good
 many previous eclipses. Mr. Gilman says that at the commencement
 of totality—let me remind you, the commencement was determined by
 the disappearance of the sun at the east limb of the moon, which is
 east in Mr. Gilman's drawing, as he was observing with the naked
 eye — the commencement, he says, was determined by the corona
 flashing out very much like a capital D- You see on the black board
 exactly the outline, and you will at once mentally associate one half
 of the diagram with the rays observed by M. Plantamour, and the
 other half in which there is a nearly perfect ring of light round the
 moon, with the corona observed by Mr. Carrington all round it in a
 cloudless sky. At mid-eclipso Mr. Gilman also observed the corona,
 sketched out its outline carefully, and found rays coming out on the
 opposite side, adding themselves on to the perfect ring first seen there.
 Opposite the two salient angles he observed at the commencement of
 totality—represented by the top and bottom of the upright stroke of
 the capital D—there were two others ; the corona now appeared square,
 and then, just before the end of totality camo on, the two corners
 first seen wore observed to disappear altogether, leaving nothing but a
 perfect ring, and where, at the beginning of the eclipse, nothing was
 seen but a perfectly round ring, the two exactly similar forms on

 288                       Mr. Norman Lockyer                   [March 17,
 the opposite side shot forth, and you got a D reversed (Q). Mr. War
 rington Smyth, who drew a square corona, saw the light flash out into
 the corona before the end of totality, and believes that all the angles
 of the square were not visible at one and the same time.
     Here, then, you have observations of exactly the same character
 as those of M. Plantamour, to which I have referred. In the drawings
 of both are shown the inner part of the corona, which you saw grow
 ing in the observations of 1851, to which were added the strange
 forms observed in 1858. You have these strange variations positively
 growing at the same place and the same time, in the same and in
 different eyes. Obviously there must be very much that is non-solar,
 call it personality, atmospheric effect, or what you will, connected
 with it. We have added to the stable the unstable. The question is,
 to what is this unstable portion due ?
                  d.— They are very variously represented.
     I will now refer to other drawings of the late eclipse, which were
made in Sicily. For some reason or other, which I do not profess to
understand, the corona, which appeared in Spain to be square, and to
Mr. Gilman like a D at the beginning, and like a D reversed (Q) at the
 end, —to all those with whom I have conversed who saw it in Sicily,
 it appeared as round as you see it here, in this drawing made by Mr.
 Griffiths ; and, instead of being square, we had sent to us all sorts of
pictures, a large number of them representing a stellate figure. Here
is a drawing made by a Fellow of the Koyal Society, on board one of
 Her Majesty's ships (the ' Lord Warden ') which were trying to save
the poor ' Psyche ' at Catania. In this we have perfectly regular rays
drawn from every region of the sun, some long, some short, but
similar rays are almost invariably opposite each other ; but in the
interior, inside these rays, the corona is just as it was observed by
Mr. Griffiths at Syracuse. I now show you a drawing made by an
American gentleman at sea, between Catania and Syracuse, with one
ridiculously long ray, a ray as long as was seen by Otto Struve in 1860.
Other drawings were made, even on board the same ship, so unlike
each other, and so bizarre, that I need only refer to them as showing
that there at all events must be some personality. We have then to
account for the variations between the observations made in Spain and
those made in Sicily. I regret that we have not a third order of diffi
culties to contend with, as doubtless we should have had if observa
tions had been made by Mr. Huggins' party in North Africa.
            e.— The Bays are accompanied by a Mass of Light.
     These changes of the rays from side to side are accompanied by,
and are perhaps to a certain extent due to, the bursting forth of brilliant
light in their neighbourhood, where the limbs are nearest in contact
This was first observed by Miraldi in the eclipse of 1724, and has
frequently been recorded since. Mr. Warrington Smyth, to whom I

 1871.]                  on the Recent Solar Eclipse.                  289
 have before alluded, states that ho noticed this in the last eclipse, and
 the photographs, I think, have recorded it ; but as there is some un
 certainty on this point, I need only suggest it.
       /. —Long Bays are seen extending from the Cusps before and
                                after Totality.
     So far I have referred only to the rays visible during totality, but
long rays were seen when a crescent of the sun was visible in 1860 and
 1868 by Mr. Galton and Mr. Hennessy. Mr. Brett caught the same
phenomenon last year ; but as the sky was cloudy the commencements
 of the rays only were seen, appearing like delicate brushes in prolon
gation of the cusps. These observations are of great value, as no one
for one moment imagines that these rays are solar, and yet they are very
 like those seen during totality.
 g.—Sometimes Dark Bays, called Bifts, are seen instead of Bright ones.
     These rays to which I have referred are, however, not the only
kind of rays that are observed. At times are seen, as it were, open
 ings in the corona ; the openings being of the same shape as the rays,
 that is, expanding as they leave the dark moon, and opening more or
 less exactly as the rays do. Like the rays also they are sometimes
very numerous; in other eclipses they are few in number. Let us
 take the eclipse observed in India in 1868. Several drawings made
 there showed the corona as square as it was drawn in Spain last year ;
 others as round as it was seen in Sicily; but the eclipse was not
 observed only in India, it was observed at Mantawalok-Kelee by
 Captain Bullock, and at Whae-Whan, on the east coast of the Ma
 layan Peninsula, by Sir Harry St. George Ord, Governor of the
 Straits Settlements. In the former place we had rifts expanding
 rapidly as they left the sun—one forms an angle of 90°, the sides
 of another being parallel—separating patches of corona, which in
 some places extends 2£ diameters of the moon from the sun.
     At Whae-Whan we are told that at one particular moment of the
 eclipse " it was noticed that from several points in the moon's circum
ference darker rays emanated, extending to a considerable distance into
 space, and appearing like shadows cast forth into space by something
not very well defined ;" these dark rays afterwards " diminishing."
     Now let us pass on to the eclipse of 1869. In two drawings made
 by Dr. Gould, in which the changes in the bright bundles of rays come
 out in a most unmistakable way, we get similar rifts, which changed
 as violently as did the rays; while in another drawing made by
 Mr. Gilman the whole corona is furrowed by narrow rifts in all
 regions lying between violet, mauve-coloured, white, and yellowish
white rays !
     Now, what have we bearing on this point in the recent observa
 tions? No rift was seen in Sicily; one rift was recorded by the
 sketchers in Spain, but more than one rift was photographed in both
    Vol. VI. (No. 55.)                                           x

290                      Mr. Norman Lockyer                 [March 17,
places. We must remember, however, in thus bringing cye-sketchee
and photographs into comparison, first that the eye too often in such
observations retains a general impression of the whole phenomenon,
while the plate records the phenomenon as it existed at the time at
which it was exposed ; and secondly, that we know that the plates
record chemically, while the eye records visually. We are dealing
with two different kinds of light.
    I will show you two photographs on the screen. Although the
lucid intervals were very rare, we were fortunate enough to get one
photograph of the coronal regions in Syracuse, and one in Spain.
I now show you the photograph made by the American party in
Spain. You see here that, probably owing to a cloud, we got a cer
tain amount of light driven on to the dark moon, and you also see
the indications of the rifts. This photograph was taken with an
instrument with a small field of view, so that the most important parts
of the corona were rendered invisible by the instrument itself.
     Lord Lindsay, who also photographed in Spain, recorded no rifts.
     In the other photograph, taken at Syracuse, the result is better.
We have the equivalent of the rift in the photograph I showed you
before. The instrument was extremely unsteady, and the definition
 not so good as it would have been if Mr. Brothers had had a good
 opportunity of displaying his skill. We get other fainter indications
 of other rifts here and there, and the question whether these rifts
 agree in the photograph taken in Spain with those in that taken in
 Syracuse is one of great importance ; and it is to be hoped that
 before long it will be set at rest. Some observers think they agree ;
 others think they do not.
     But there is an important consideration based on that photo
graph, to which I must draw your particular attention. I have shown
you the photograph as it may be thrown on the screen; but in the
photograph itself there are delicate details which it is impossible
to reproduce. The dark portions in the corona indicated in the
copy I have shown you are merely the bases of so many dark wedges
 driving out into space, like their prototypes in the Indian eclipse.
It is Mr. Brothers's opinion, I believe, that all you see on the screen
 round the dark moon, all that enormous mass of light, nearly uniform
in texture, and these beautiful broad rays between the rifts are really
and absolutely parts of the solar corona. I confess I do not wish to
 commit myself to such an opinion. We want more facts, and the onus
probandi lies with those who insist upon that view, and I have yet to
hear an explanation of them on that basis.
       h.—The Corona sometimes seems to be Flickering or Rotating.
     We now come to the next point. Time out of mind, that is, for the
last two centuries, the corona has been ' observed to be flickering,
wavering, or rotating, moving in every conceivable way and direction.
In 1652 it was described as " a pleasant spectacle of rotatory motion.''

1871.]                  on the Recent Solar Eclipse.                    291
Don Antonio Ulloa remarked of the corona observed in the eclipse of
1788, " It soemed to be endued with a rapid rotatory motion, which
caused it to resemble a firework turning round its centre." The
terms whirling and flickering were applied in the eclipse of 1860.
This extraordinary condition of things was also thoroughly endorsed
by the late observations. It certainly exists, and is among the
observations we have to take into account. When I saw an officer of
one of the ships at Catania, I asked him if he had taken a drawing
of the corona. "No," he said. .1 asked him, "Did you see any
rays ? " " Yes." " Then why did you not make any drawing of
them ? " His answer was, " How on earth could you draw a thing
that was going round and round like a firowork?" This was not the
only observation of the kind, and the tendency of such observations I
need hardly say is to strengthen a belief in the unstable, and therefore
uncosmical, nature of their rays.
     Is this variation of light due to the brilliancy of the corona, and
the rapid change of the rays, which is ono of the results which comes
out clearest ? In 1842 the brilliancy of the corona was stated to bo
insupportable to the naked eye. A similar remark was mado to me
by several of these officers whe saw the last eclipse in Sicily.
                    II.—Polariscopic Orservations.
     With regard to the polarization experiments, by the kindness of
 Mr. Spottiswoode I am enabled to shew you, in a very clear way, the
 rauon d'etre of the polariscopic observations made during this and
 former eclipses ; but the polariscopic ground is a wide one, and it is
 not my intention to cover it to-night.
     I have had this arrangement of lamp, reflector and prisms made
 so that you may see hew the polariscope can determine the percent
 age of reflected light at different angles, and the direction of reflexion.
 Assume this lamp to represent the sun, let this reflector close to the
 lamp represent a particle near the sun, reflecting light to us, wo shall
 naturally have the light reflected at a much larger angle than if the
 reflector were close to the screen representing a particle in our own air.
 Having this idea of the angle of reflexion in your minds, and the fact
 that the larger the angle under these conditions the more the polari
 zation, if you take this lamp, as I have said, to represent the sun, and
 this mirror to represent any particle, of whatever kind you cheose to
 imagine, it is clear, that in order to get the maximum polariscopic
 effect from that particle, that you must have it so situated that it will
 reflect light at a considerable angle to the beam coming from this
 lamp.
      Now it is clear, that in order to polarize the beam most strongly,
 I must place the reflector close to our imaginary sun. If I so place
 it as to represent a particle in our own atmosphere, the angle will bo
 so small that the polarization of the light will hardly be perceptible.
     Here is our sunlight, which we will polarize at as great an angle
                                                                x 2

 292                      Mr. Norman Lockyer                 [March 17,
 as we can, by placing the reflector close to the imaginary sun, and
 send it through this magnificent prism, which Mr. Spottiswoode has
 been good enough to place at our disposal ; and in the path of the
 beam I will place an object so that you may determine whether there
 is polarized light. [Experiment.] You see there is considerable
brilliancy in those colours; their brilliancy depending upon the
 amount of polarization.
     Now if, instead of having our reflector close to our imaginary sun
 to represent a particle in the sun's atmosphere, we place it near the
 screen to represent a particle in our own, in which case the angle is
 extremely small, the brilliancy of the colours will entirely disappear.
You see it has disappeared. The colours, as colours, are distin
 guishable, but their brilliancy has gone.
     That is the rationale of the polariscopic observations, which have
 been made on the occasion of the last eclipse with more elaboration
than they ever were before. If we found the corona to be strongly
polarized, this was held to be a great argument in favour of the corona
being a real solar appendage, an argument strengthened if the polar
ization was also found to be radial. At present, however, a great many
of the observations that have been made have not been received, and
those that have been received are as discordant as those obtained in
former eclipses, and therefore my account is an imperfect one, because
I have not had an opportunity of discussing all these observations.
Indeed, if I had, I should hesitate to give an opinion on the subject.
When Mr. Carrington saw that small corona in 1851,- and Mr. Gilliss
saw that small corona in 1858, neither of them traced any polarization
whatever ; but when M. Liais saw that large corona in 1868 which was
invisible to Mr. Gilliss, he in his turn saw an immense amount of
polarization, which led him to believe that the corona was solar, the
whole of it, rays and everything included, and that we had an indi
cation of a solar atmosphere two or three times higher than the dia
meter of the sun ; that is, an atmosphere two or three millions of miles
in height. This observation is not in accordance with the general
conclusions from the drawings I have shown you ; and let me add
that the assumption of reflexion at the sun is not without its diffi
culties, and that we have not yet traced reflected sunlight, even when
the strongest polariscopic effects have been observed.
  III.—Ami's and Madler's Conclusions as the Results of the
                   Pbe-speotbosoopio Observations.
    Before passing to the spectroscopic observations I will state the
conclusions at which the Astronomer Royal and M. Madler arrived
after the observations of 1860 had been gathered together.
    The Astronomer Royal, in a lecture delivered before the British
Association at Manchester in 1861, stated that the assumption of an
atmosphere extending to the moon explained the observation of Planta-
mour, which could, he thought, be explained in no other way, and he

1S71.]                 on the Recent Solar Eclipse.                  293
held also that the polarization experiments seemed to show the same
thing. The Astronomer Koyal was content to find the reflexion, which
so many now insist most be at the sun, taking place somewhere between
the earth and moon.
     M. Madler's verdict is in the same direction, and though he does
not perhaps express so decided an opinion, he maintains that the
atmosphere plays a principal part in the phenomenon; and after
 detailing experiments to show this, he remarks of the solar and atmo
spheric portions, " Both cover each other and unite in one phenomenon,
so that the corona is a mixed phenomenon."
     I shall shortly show you that the spectroscope, leaving the tele
scope out of consideration, has taught us that this is true ; though I
 shall not be able to show you that it is the whole truth ; we are not
yet in a position to do that. Madler concludes his observations by
 remarking, " We cannot share the doubts of those who are afraid to
 surround the sun with too many envelopes ; neither do we find any
 thing unnatural in tho statement that the sun has as many atmospheres
 as Saturn has rings ; but we gladly admit that we cannot yet say any
 thing positive. We have here a large field of probabilities, and the
 decision may yet be distant."
     We can speak with more certainty now !
                   IV.—Spectroscopic Obsebvations.
 a.—Spectrum of the Corona first observed by Tennant, Pogson, and Bayet.
     We now come to the consideration of those observations in which
 we are aided by a most powerful and our most recent ally, the spec
 troscope, first used in the eclipsed sun, as you know, in the eclipse
 of 1868. You all know that in that year the question of the nature of
 red flames was for ever settled by M. Janssen, Major Tennant, Capt.
 Herschel, and others, who observed that eclipse in the most admirable
 manner ; but we have nothing to do with the red flames now, we have
 to do with something outside them.
     Now, most of you are under the impression, and it was mine until
 the day before yesterday, that the only thing we learnt about the
 corona in the eclipse of 1868, was that its spectrum was a continuous
 one ; and I need not tell anyone in this theatre that the assertion
 that it was continuous was one that was extremely embarrassing, and
 implied that we had something non-gaseous outside the red flames,
 which seemed very improbable to those who know anything about
 the subject. But some of you will no doubt remember that, besides
 Major Tennant, who made this observation, we had a French observer,
 M. Bayet, who gave us a diagram of the spectrum of one of the pro
 minences, and Mr. Pogson, who has now been for some time in India,
 and is a well-known observer, who gave us, nominally as the spectrum
 of a prominence, a spectrum with some curious variations from
  M. Bayet's diagram.
     I exhibit a copy of M. Bayet's diagram of the spectrum of a pro

294                       Mr. Norman Lockyer                [March 17,
minence, as he called it. At the bottom is what he considered as the
spectrum of the lower portion of the prominence, while in the higher
portion, where we get fewer lines, as he considered, is the spectrum
of the higher portion of the prominence ; the spectrum of tho lower
portion contains the lines B, D, E, and F, and some other lines, in all
nine, while the spectrum of the upper part of the prominence, as he
thought it, only contains three lines. It was at first difficult to
account for these observations. In the first place, one could not
understand the line B being given, because I soon found that the line
B was not seen as a bright line in the chromosphere spectrum ; it was
clearly the line C that was intended. Hence doubt was thrown on
the other lines ; it seemed as if M. Bayet was wrong about his
elongated lines D, E, and P, and probably meant C near D and P.
And so it was explained—I am ashamed to say by myself—that there
was no particular meaning in these elongated lines except that the
spectrum of the prominence some distance away from the sun was
simpler than it was nearer the sun, as happens in all prominences, as
we may now determine any day we choose to look at the sun by
means of the spectroscope.
    Now let us hear Mr. Pogson. He gave a diagram showing five
lines in the spectrum of what he thought a prominence, and he
writes :—" A faint light was seen [in the spectroscope], scarcely
coloured, and certainly free from either dark or bright lines. While
wondering at tho dreary blank before me, and feeling intensely dis
appointed, some bright lines came gradually into view, reached a
pretty considerable maximum brilliancy, and again faded away. Five
of these lines were visible, but two decidedly superior to the rest.
         The readings of the two brightest were secured. It struck
me as strange that these brightest lines should appear at a part of the
spectrum not corresponding to any very conspicuous dark lines in the
solar spectrum          [These lines are a little less refrangible than
E.J The third lino seen in order of brilliancy must have been either
coincident with, or very near the place of the sodium line D, but it
was much fainter than the two measured, while the fourth and fifth
lines were extremely faint." [They were very faint and doubled,
and near F. I have seen F give way to a double line in our hydrogen
experiments, though I am not prepared to say this is an explanation
of Mr. Pogson's observations.]
    The fact that we have here the first observations of the spectrum
of the sun's corona is one beyond all doubt ; and why M. Bayet and
Mr. Pogson thought they were observing prominences when they were
observing above them, is explained by a remark made by Captain Tup-
man, of the Boyal Marine Artillery, who acted as jackal to Professor
Harkness, and picked out the brighter spots of the corona for his obser
vation. Professor Harkness observing the prominence bright lines, said
to Captain TupmaD, " You have turned the telescope on to a prominence ;
I want the corona." " No," said Captain Tupman, " I am giving you
tho corona as well as I can." It was certainly the corona in both

1871.J                  on the Recent Solar Eclipse.                 295
cases. Here you see, dimly and darkly, the first outcome of the
spectroscope on the nature of the corona ; a record as fairly written
as anything at the sun can write it ; and I am more anxious to lay
stress on these observations, since they have lain fallow for two years,
and show the importance of observations, not only in extending our
knowledge, but in explaining prior observations ; and it is an addi
tional reason for never rejecting an observation. What was, however,
dim and dark in 18G8 shone out brightly in 1869, thanks to the skill
of the American observers of the eclipse of that year.
       6.—Laboratory Experiments bearing on these Observations.
    But before I proceed to refer to the admirable observations
made in America during this eclipse, I wish to introduce you to
some work which was commenced in 1868, and has been done quite
independently of eclipses. In a lecture which I delivered here about
two years ago, I described to you some of the facts observed hy the
spectroscope in the bright-line region which had been spectroscopi-
cally determined to exist all round the sun, and which, as in it all
the various coloured effects are seen in total eclipses, I had named
the Chromosphere. It was clear that by the new method of observing
this without any eclipse, by partially killing, so to speak, the atmo
spheric light, we got a percentage only of tho phenomenon, as the
atmospheric light could only be killed by an amount of dispersion
which enfeebled and shortened the chromospheric lines ; so that
although we could say that an envelope of somo 5000 or 6000 miles
in height existed round the sun, we could not fix this as a maximum
limit. Further, when we examined the spectrum of this envelope we
got long lines and short lines ; and I told how the short lines indi
cated a low stratum, and how a long line indicated a higher one. To
explain this, I will show you an observation made long before the
new method was thought of. Even before that timo we had abun
dant evidence of such strata, if we could not determine their nature :
we had distinct evidence either of one thing thinning out, and then
another, or that various substances were situated at different levels,
under different conditions ; on the first hypothesis, at the extreme
outside of the chromosphere the last thing would thin out, and then
there would be an end of all things as respects the sun.
    I will show you a drawing made by Professor Schmidt of the eclipse
of 1851. I do not wish to call your attention to the strange shape of
the large prominence, but to the fact, that as tho moon passed over this
region we get a thin red band, first along the edgo of the dark moon,
and after the moon had passed over still further we see this red layer,
suspended as it were in the chromosphere, with a white layer below it.
This is the explanation of the long and short lines visible in tho spec
trum of the chromosphere ; in tho red layer we have hydrogen almost
alone ; below, its red light was conquered by other light with bright
lines in all parts of the spectrum, and we get white light.

296                         Mr. Norman Lockyer                 [March 17,
     Lord Lindsay tells me he has a distinct indication, written by the
sun himself, that in one particular part of the chromosphere, as
recorded photographically in Spain, there were three such layers.
And over and over again we find recorded white light close to the sun,
then red alone, or red mixed with yellow, then violet, and lastly green.
And M. Madler remarks on this very admirably, " The violet band is
the link between the prominences and the corona."
     Before going further, I will show you the difference in the ap
pearance of what we may term hot hydrogen and cold hydrogen, that
is, hydrogen which we drive into different degrees of incandescence by
means of the spark. After Dr. Frankland and myself were able to
determine that the pressure in these solar regions was small, we came
to the conclusion, that outside the hot hydrogen there must be some
cooler hydrogen, in order that the phenomena we observed, both in the
laboratory and in the observatory, should agree.
     I have in this tube hydrogen at a certain pressure, and here wo have
a coil which will enable us to send a spark through it ; you see we get
a certain amount of redness in that tube, and if you look on one side or
above you will see a sort of bluish-greenish light. Now that redness
 represents the condition of the hydrogen in the region of the sun where
Dr. Schmidt gave us that extremely thin red ring, and the combination
 of the blue and red would give you something very like violet.
     But here I have hydrogen under a different condition. In the tube
 its rareness is not excessive ; but in this globe, of which I am about to
 speak, you have the nearest approach to a vacuum ever obtained through
 which a spark will pass ; and I beg to call your attention to what will
now happen. This globe contains the same chemical element, prepared
 at the same time as the chemical element you have in the tube, but
 you see that, so far as colour goes, we have something perfectly dif
 ferent in this case. Now we send the spark through it. I would beg
 Professor Tyndall, if he will be good enough, to observe the spectrum
 of this hydrogen in this globe. [Professor Tyndall did so.] You will
 see that there is one line ? [Professor Tyndall. Yes.] And a con
 tinuous spectrum ? [Professor Tyndall. And a continuous spectrum.]
 Cool hydrogen gives us only the bright line F, plus a continuous
 spectrum, and many of you will know the extreme importance of that
 observation. It accounts for the F line being observed without the
 C line in 1868 and last year, and also for the continuous spectrum
 observed in the Indian eclipse.
                          c.—The American Eclipse.
      When we come from the Indian to the American eclipse with the con
 siderations to which I have drawn your attentipn, namely, the existence
 of these different layers due to the different elements and conditions of
 the same element thinning out, we shall see the extreme importance
 of the American observations, for they establish the fact that outside
  the hydrogen layer there was a layer giving only a line in the green,
  the lino which Rayet and Pogson had observed associated with the

1871.]                  on tlw Recent Solar Eclipse.                  297
hydrogen spectrum and the spectrum of the yellow substance. Hero
obviously we have, I think, merely an indication of another substance
thinning out, in spite of the extraordinary suggestion which was put
forward that the corona was nothing but a permanent solar aurora.
     I need hardly tell you that the idea of a permanent aurora any
where was startling, and that of a permanent solar aurora more
startling still ; but what I claim is that during last year's observations
we made this very startling idea into a most beautiful fact, namely, that
this outer layer of the chromosphere is in all probability nothing more
nor less than an indication of an element lighter than hydrogen,
although this is not yet absolutely established, for the line is coin
cident with one of the lines in the spectrum of iron.
  d. —The Layers increase very rapidly in Density. Reproduction of the
                            Coloured Phenomena.
      Dr. Frankland and myself were early drawn to consider the solar
 nature of the large coronas, to which I have called your attention, as
 extremely questionable, even on the supposition of cool hydrogen,
because we did not see hew, with its temperature and pressuro, it
 could extend very far : and an experiment which I have to make hero
 will probably make that clearer.
      We have in these glass vessels hydrogen a little more brilliant now
 the spark passes through it than that you saw in the globe, because I
 have been compelled to mix with it a certain amount of mercury vapour.
 Below, we have at the present moment sodium vapour being generated
 from metallic sodium in one tube, and mercury vapour in the other.
 I hope, if the experiment succeeds, you will see that a good many of
 the coloured phenomena seen in the chromosphere during eclipses may
 be easily reproduced by such experiments as this ; and not only the
 coloured phenomena but the increase of brilliancy accompanied by
 changes of colour recorded. You can now all see the yellow tinge at
  the bottom of one tube, and the green tinge at the bottom of the other ;
 and if there were time to continue this experiment by increasing the
  density of the vapours now associated with the hydrogen, I could
  make the bottom portion of each tube where the vapours are densest
  shine out almost like the sun, while the cool hydrogen at the top
  would remain not more brilliant than it is at present. We sheuld have
  as it were a section of the chromosphere.
                               V.—Conclusion.
       I will proceed now, if you will allow me, to some of the general
   results obtained during the last eclipse.
       I think that, altheugh the work has been very unfortunately in
   terrupted, still the result has been most satisfactory. By putting
   together observations hero and observations there, I consider our
   knowledge of the sun is enormously greater than it was a few months
   ago. For instance, wc arc enabled to understand the long-neglected

 298                        Mr. Norman LocJcyer                [March 17,
 observation of Eayet, and the equally long-neglected observation of
 Pogson ; and we know that outside the hydrogen there is, in all pro
 bability, a new element existing in a state of almost infinite tenuity.
 And we are sure of the existence of cool hydrogen above the hot
 hydrogen, a fact which seemed to be negatived by the eclipse of 1869.
     I think if we had merely determined that there was this cool
 hydrogen, all our labour would not have been in vain, as it shows the
 rapid reduction of temperature ; but there is more behind. I told you
 that M. Madler, in summing up the observations made up to 1860,
 came to the conclusion that part of the corona was certainly solar, and
 that whether the outer portions were or were not solar, was a matter
 of doubt. I do not say that we have settled that absolutely, but we
 have firm evidence that some of the light of the corona is due to
 reflexion between the earth and the moon. The outer corona was
observed to have a rosy tinge over the prominences, and the spectrum
 of the prominences was detected many minutes above them, as well as
 on the dark moon. It could not have got this colour at the sun, for its
intrinsic colour is green, and the red light of the hydrogen supplied at
 the sun is abolished altogether, is absorbed, and can only reach the
 corona at the sun, so to speak, as dark light.
     It is a great fact that we are sure, as far as observation can make
us sure, that there is a glare round the hydrogen which gives us the
spectrum of hot hydrogen on the corona, where we know that hot
hydrogen does not exist. Assume the hot hydrogen which gives us the
red light to be only two minutes high, the spectroscope has picked it
up eight minutes from the sun ! The region of cool hydrogen is
exaggerated in the same way. We get it where there is no indication
of the cool hydrogen existing. And then with regard to the element
•which gives us the line of the green, we got that twenty minutes or
twenty-five minutes away from the sun. Well, no man who knows
anything about the matter will affirm that it is certain that the
element exists at that distance from the sun.
    Therefore I think we have absolutely established the fact that as
the sun —the uneclipsed sun—gives us a glare round it, so each layer
of the chromosphere gives us a glare round it That is exactly what
was to be expected, and that it is true is proved by the observation
—a most important observation made in Spain — that the air, the
cloud, ever between us and the dark moon, gives us the same spectrum
that we get from the prominences themselves.
     Given, however, the layers and elements in the chromosphere
extended as far as you will, and apparently increased or not by reflexion
not at the sun, wo have still to account for rays, rifts, and the like.
If anyone will explain either Mr. Brothers's photograph or Mr.
Gilman's picture of the eclipse of 1869, containing those dark bands
starting fr >m the moon and fading away into space, and the bright
variously-coloured rays between them on any solar theory, ho will
render great service to science. But in the meantime I must fall back
upon M. Madlor's opinion of 1860, with the addition to it that I have

1871.]                 on the Recent Solar Eclipse.                    299
stated that we have found, at all events, that some of the doubtful light
is now solar ; we have turned the opinion into a fact.
     Bear in mind that close to the sun you have a white layer com
posed of vapours of many substances, including all the outer ones ;
outside this is a yellow region ; above that a region of hydrogen,
incandescent and red at the base, cooler, and therefore blue, higher
up, the red and blue commingling and giving us violet; and then
another element thinning out and giving us green. Take these colours
in connection with those which are thrown on our landscapes or on
the sea during eclipses, each region being lit up in turns with varying,
more or less monochromatic light, and that light of the very colour
composing the various layers, each layer being, as I have shown, so
much brighter than the outer ones that its light predominates over
them. Is it too much to suggest to those who may bo anxious to
attempt to elucidate this subject, that probably if thoy would consider
all the conditions of the problem presented by that great screen, the
moon, allowing each of these layers by turn to throw its light earth
wards, the inequalities of the edge of the globular moon allowing here
light to pass from a richer region, here stopping light from even the
dimmer ones, they would bo able to explain the rays, their colours,
variations, apparent twistings, and change of side ? I do not hesitate
to ask this question, because it is a difficult one to answer, since the
whole question is one of enormous difficulty. But difficult though it
be, I trust I have shown you that we are on the right track, and that
in spite of our bad weather, the observations made by the English and
American Government Eclipse Expedition of 1870 have largely
increased our knowledge.
     With increase of knowledge generally comes a necessity for
changing the nomenclature belonging to a time when it was imperfect.
The researches to which I have drawn your attention form no ex
ception to this rule. A few years ago our scienco was satisfied with
the terms prominences, sierra, and corona, to represent the pheno
mena I have brought before you, the nature of both being absolutely
unknown, as is indicated by the fact that the term sierra was employed,
and aptly so, when it was imagined tho prominences might bo solar
 mountains ! We now know many of the constituent materials of
 these strange things ; we know that we are dealing with the exterior
 portion of the solar atmosphere, and a large knowledge of solar
meteorology is already acquired, which shows us the whole mechanism
 of these prominences. But we also know that part of the corona is
not at the sun at all. Hence the terms leueosphere and lialo have been
 suggested to designate in the one case the regions where the general
 radiation, owing to a reduced pressuro and temperature, is no longer
 subordinate to the selective radiation, and in the other, that part of the
 corona which is non-solar. Neither of these terms is apt, nor is
either necessary. All purposes will be served if the term corona
be retained as a name for tho exterior region, including the rays,
rifts, and tho like, about which doubt still exists, though it is now

300                      General Monthly Meeting.               [April 3,
proved that some part is non-solar, while for the undoubted solar
portion the term Chromosphere—the bright-line region—as it was
defined in this theatre now two years ago, exactly expresses its
characteristic features, and differentiates it from the photosphere and
the associated portion of the solar atmosphere.
    Here my discourse would end, if it were not incumbent on me to
state how grateful I feel to Her Majesty's Government for giving us
the opportunity of going to the eclipse ; to place on record the pleasure
we all felt in being so closely associated in our work with the distin
guished American astronomers who from first to last aided us greatly ;
and to express our great gratitude to all sorts of new friends whom we
found wherever we went, and who welcomed us as if they had known
us from our childhood.
                                                           [J. N. L.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 31, 1871.
     Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                    Professor Max Mullkr, LL.D.
                               On Mythology.
                             (Abstract deferred.)
                 GENEKAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, April 3, 1871.
       Warren De la Eue, Esq. D.Ci. F.E.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
           William Cubitt, Esq.
           William Gould, Esq.
           Robert Hannah, Esq.
           John Henry Mackenzie, Esq.
           Rev. John Macnaught, 1/L.A
           Joseph Reynolds Masters, Esq.
           George Borwick Robertson, Esq. F.C.S.
           George Wilson, Esq.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.

1871.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                         301
      The special thanks of the Members were returned for the fol
lowing Donations to " The Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Researches " :—
           T. Williams Helps, Esq. (6th Donation)                     £10
      The Presents received since the last Meoting wore laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
         FROM
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—No. 13. 8vo. 1871.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 80. 8vo. 1870.
Antiquaries, Society of—Archaeologia, Vol. XLIII. Part 1. 4to. 1871.
Astronomical Society, Royal— Proceedings, Vol. XXXI. No. 4. 1871.
Benton, W. Esq. (the Author)—Principles of tlie Science of Colour. 4to. 1868.
   Manual of the Science of Colour. 12mo. 1871.
Bcitish Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1870-1, No. 5. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for March, 1871. 8vo.
Comitate Geologico dItalia—Bollettini. 1871. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. Firenze.
Editors—Academy for March, 1871. 4to.
   American Journal of Science, Fob. 1871. 8vo.
   Artizan for March, 1871. 4to.
   Athenaeum for March, 1871. 4to.
   Chemical News for March, 1871. 4to.
   Engineer for March, 1871. fol.
   Horological Journal for March, 1871. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for March, 1871. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for March, 1871. 8vo.
   Nature for March, 1871. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1871. 8vo.
   Photograpliio News for March, 1871. 4to.
   Scientific Bcview for March, 1871. fol.
Grove, W. R. Esq. Q.C. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Die Verwandschaft der
      Naturkrafte, von Dr. W. R. Grove : herausgegeben durch E. von Schroper :
      mit einem Anhang von B. Clausius. 8vo. Uraunschweig. 1871.
Meteorological Office—Barometrical Manual. 8vo. 1871.
Meteorological Society—Proceedings, No. 52. 8vo. 1871.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 223. 8vo. 1871.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 126. 8vo. 1871.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      March, 1871. 8vo.
   Symons' British Rainfall, 1870. 8vo. 1871,
Vereins z«r BefGrderung des Gewerbfldsses in Preussen—Vcrhandlungen, Sept-
      Dez. 1870. 4to.
Victoria Institute—Journal. No. 17. 8vo. 1871. Title, &c. to Vol. rv.
 Willis, M. A. [the Authoress, unfe of Rev. R. Willis,—Shert Sketch about Washing
      Linen, and other Tracts. l6mo. 1869-71.

302                              Professor Bloxkie                       [April 21,
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, April 21, 1871.
        Warren de la Rue, Esq. LL.D. F.E.S. Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                          Professor Blackie, F.E.S.E.
                         On the pre-Socratic Philosophy.
The history of origins is always interesting and generally obscure ;
but in the case of the early Greek philosophy a sufficient number of
fragments has been saved from the wreck of tradition to enable us to
have a clear view of the salient doctrines of the pre-Socratic thinkers,
though not certainly an accurate knowledge of the complete organism
of their speculation. The pre-Homeric poetry of Greece, of the
existence of which in rich abundance there can be little doubt, can
be separated from the new organism into which it was worked by the
genius of Homer, only by a process more or less conjectural and
slippery ; but on some of the most interesting and significant utter
ances of the school of Greek thinkers who flourished in Asia Minor,
Magna Grecia, and Sicily for the century and a half that preceded
Socrates, we are able to lay our fingers with as much certainty as on
the discourses of Socrates himself reported by the pious discipleship
of Xenophon ; and the fragments which two hundred years ago lay
scattered and untested, have in recent times been so laboriously col
lected, critically sifted, and organically arranged by the diligent,
intelligent, and sober-minded workers of erudite Germany, that it
is in the power of every fairly equipped scholar to re-create, in a more
or less complete form, the main features of pre-Socratic speculation.
With the aid of the learned works of Preller, Karsten, Zeller,* to
give a rounded completeness to the information on this subject which
we gather from Aristotle, Plato, Eusebius, Hippolytus, Clemens,
Plutarch, and Stobseus, I have set myself to present in one broad
view whatever of most general human significance and scientific in
terest seemed to shine clearly out from these early speculations ; and
the result of my labours is the bird's eye of pre-Socratic thinking
which the present discourse contains.
    * Karsten: ' Philosoph. Grtec. Vet. Beliq.' Pruxelles, 1830. Rittor et Preller :
' Historia Philos. Grcec. Rom.' Gothte, 18GU. Zeller : ' Geschiehte dor Griechisehen
Philosophie.'

1871.]                  on pre-Socratic Philosophy.                   303
    With regard to tho whole of this early period of Greek thought
two general remarks may be made : first, in reference to its locality,
that it is more Asiatic than European, tho Greek colonies of Asia
Minor being its cradle ; and second, with respect to its character, that
in those early times all knowledge, thinking, and feeling was less
specialized than at the present day ; in such fashion that, if the things
known and speculated on were much fewer, the men who knew and
speculated on them were more complete. In our time the gulf that
separates the scientific from the metaphysical, the imaginative, and tho
religious man, and all these from the man of business and affairs, is
often very great, and practically impassable. The scholar will have
nothing to do with physical science ; the student of mind ignores
matter ; the dissector of brain ignores mind ; and both seem either
unable or unwilling to bridge over the spaco that separates the special
province of cognition from tho general domain of human spiritual
instincts, aspirations, and emotions.. It seems indeed the inevitable
tendency of the division of labour, while it improves and multiplies
the product, to narrow and to dwarf tho producer. The ancient in
tellect grew up more like a rich leafy tree with many branches,
spreading themselves out towards the sun on all sides; the modern man
is taught to live only in a straight lino, and to extend himself, as
J. 8. Mill says of Jeremy Bentham, infinitely in one direction. He
thus loses the central point of philosophic survey altogether, or at
best works out only ono idea, which he is inclined to impose on the
universal system of things, and cultivating assiduously one side of his
nature, cheats himself of tho beautiful symmetry and balance of a
complete growth. More particularly we must observe that the opposi
tion betwixt physical science and metaphysical speculation, so common
in modern times, was not known to tho ancients ; their physics was
always mixed largely with metaphysics ; or rather we now are in the
habit of treating separately subjects which then had not begun to
be even thought of as separato ; the man of physical science was at
the same time a metaphysical thinker ; the materialist was also a
spiritualist ; and science stood before men, not naked as now with tho
exposures of a cunning dissector, but festooned with the flowers of
poetry and fragrant with the breath of piety. Hence it comes that
in Empedocles, for instance, we find that complex combination of
physician, poet, priest, and jrolitician, so difficult for us moderns to
understand. Nature was constantly speaking to thoso ancient Greek
sages in the language of morals ; and morals on the other hand did
not disdain to uso the languago of nature. That which had never
been divorced could not be looked on as antagonistic.
     It is not therefore altogether truo— certainly not to be taken in a
strict and literal sense—when we read that Socrates was the father of
 Moral Philosophy. Pythagoras was a great moralist and a pious man
 more than a hundred years before him ; the so-called seven wise men,
 as Laertius well notes, wore all not merely or mainly speculative
 thinkers, but active citizens, and often practical statesmen, and so

304                            Professor Blackie                  [April 21,
could not avoid making human life, and the laws of the social organism,
one of their principal studies. The social world, in fact, could no
more exist witheut moral philosophy in some shape or other, than the
physical world could grow and blossom witheut the sun ; and the mis
sion of Socrates, therefore, was not so much to create a moral philo
sophy which had never existed before, as (1), to protest against a habit
of physico-metaphysical speculation, which wasted itself in vogue
conjectures, and which in the then state of scientific observation could
lead to no practical result (Xen. Mem. i. 14, 15) ; and (2), by
putting the weapons of an exact logic into the hands of thinking men,
to teach them hew to vanquish scepticism on its own battle-field, and
to plant morals, as practical reason, on the high vantage ground of a
demonstrative science. This characteristically Greek tendency to
identify morals with reason, and right action with true thinking,
appears equally in Xenophen's dialogic reminiscences, and in Plato's
argumentative dialogues, as the characteristic feature of the Socratic
philosophy ; and the scientific control of morals by logic is a pecu
liarity marked enough to draw a strong line of distinction between
the gnomic morality which inspired Homer and Hesiod no less than
Pythagoras, and the systematically-built-up ethics of which Socrates
and Plato were the architects.
    In making a rapid summation of the results of the pre-Socratic
thinkers, I shall divide them, according to what appear their most
distinctive characters, into three classes : the hylozoists, the atomists,
and the metaphysical or theological philosophers.
    I. By the Hylozoists I understand these philosophers whe found
the a.p-/r\ or firs* principle of things in some external, objective, visible,
tangible, material element ; and yet they were not materialists in the
popular sense of the word at all ; for they knew nothing of, and could
scarcely have considered that idea, so familiar to us, of a dead matter
as opposed to mind. With them all Nature was concoived as essen
tially alive ; " all things," as Thales said, " are full of gods " (Diog.
Laert. i. 27) ; hence the technical term hylozoism, or vitalized
matter. With this class of thinkers all matter was conceived of as
permeated and interfused and moulded by a divine and reasonable
power felt to be everywhere present, but spoken of only and mainly
under some favourite bodily presentation. What the orthedox Romanist
believes to have taken place by a special miracle through sacerdotal
agency in the elements of broad and wine consecrated in the Mass,
this the Hellenic hylozoist believed constantly to take place every
where by the eternal miracle of Nature, and specially to be manifested
in the clement which he looked upon as most entitled to the dignity
of         or original principle. The names which fall under this first
class are fivo, viz. Thales, Anaximander, Anaximenes, Heraclitus,
Empedocles.
    Of all these the most popularly known is Thales ; theugh, so fur
as speculative significance is concerned, his name is to us certainly
not the most interesting. The familiarity of his name to our modern

1871.]                   on pre-Socratic Philosophy.                        305
ears is doubtless owing to Lis historical connection with tho famous
names of Solon and Croesus, made public property by the pleasant pen
of Herodotus. His calculation of eclipses also fixes him as a notable
mark in the history of mathematical science ; while his characteristic
doctrine that water, or rather fluidity, is the ipyr^, has perhaps received
an accidental advertisement of wide circulation in the well-known
initial words of Pindar's Olympian Odes, apurrov piv vSuip. The phi
losophical value of this maxim is not very great ; yet it confessedly
announced a principle which, so far as it goes, has been confirmed and
strengthened by the various investigations of modern physical science.
From the salt wastes of Central Asia to the compact ice wedges of the
Arctic Ocean, the most superficial view of Nature proclaims that,
while solidity is almost the only thing that is absolutely dead, fluidity
is always and everywhere the cradle of life. The myriad-moving life
of which a drop of water is the sphere has long been one of the
favourite exhibitions of our microscopic showmen ; and physiologists
and organic chemists have been eager to expound to admiring popular
audiences how much of this " too, too solid flesh," which we call our
bodies, is really composed of the liquid dew into which Hamlet wished
that it might dissolve. The fecundity of the fishy tribe was another
fact of superficial Nature, on which Thales is reported to have founded
his doctrine ; a fact which the minute observations and calculations
of modern naturalists have brought into most significant prominence.
Ancient mythology, also, not only in its Hellenic, but in many far-
distant forms, agreed in testifying to the great part played by water
in the original creation of the world. Homer (Hiad, xiv. 201) sang
of an Olympian dynasty older than Jove,—
           "Ocean the primal father of God*, and Tethys the mother;"
and with this the Babylonian tradition in Bcrosus of primeval " water
and darkness," and the Hindoo Avatar of Brahm, as Narayana (Nc-
 reus, veph, Nar) strikingly agreed.* The physical truth indicated in
 these mythologies is distinctly stated in the Mosaic record (Gen. i. 3) ;
 and if for tho Hebrew phrase, " the Ruach Elohim," or " Breath of
 God," we were to substitute the " Divine Beason, or \6yo;," any
 appearance of difference would be removed which to superficial ob
 servers may now seem to separate the cosmogony of Moses from that
 of Thales.
     A disciple of Thales was Anaximander, and, like his master, a
 citizen of the flourishing Ionic colony of Miletus. In the doctrine of
 this philosopher that the aittipov is the dpxv we              a certain depar
 ture from the general character of the class to which he belongs ; for
 though this aittipw, the Infinite, or rather the Undetermined, was some
 thing external and objective, it differed from the a.pyj\ of Thales, and
 the other teachers of this school, in that it was a something neither
               * See my ' Homer,' vol. iv., note to the lino quoted.
    Vol. VI.    (No. 55.)                                               v

306                         Professor Blackie                 [April 21,
visible, nor tangible, nor cognoscible by human senses in their ordi
nary action. The uneipov was conceived as a sort of indeterminate
basis of all existence,—something, perhaps, like the protoplasm of a
distinguished living physiologist, containing the possibilities of all
that may be, but the reality of nothing that is ; an element neither
water, nor air, nor earth, nor fire, but a common matrix out of which
they are developed by a process of internal differentiation. The only
value of this Anaximandrian notion seems to lie not certainly in any
reality which can be proved to belong to it, but rather in the truly
philosophical principle that it involves, that things are not what they
seem, and that what the superficial observer calls different things, are,
when nicely looked into, often only different states of the same thing.
What profound truth lies in this view the frequent presentation under
the appliances of modern chemistry of the same body under the liquid,
gaseous, and solid forms, most amply demonstrates. Beyond this, the
fragments of Anaximandrian speculation possess nothing to interest
the modern thinker ; except only we must by no means omit to mention
his singular anticipation of the Darwinian theory of the descent of
man by a process of development from the inferior animals. This
doctrine is distinctly stated as belonging to Anaximander by Hip-
polytus (Bef. Hcer., i. 6), and by Plutarch in various places, in words
as we shall now translate them.
    " Anaximander says that the first animals were generated in the
liquid element, and were enclosed in certain thin prickly rinds or skins ;
that as they grew they became more and more consolidated, till at
length the shell bursting, they came out into a different form of life."
(Plac, Phil. v. 19.)
    " Anaximander says that man originally was born (developed) out
of different animals ; for that, while other animals, the moment they
are born, know how to help themselves and procure food, man alone
requires a long nursing; and being such as he now is, could not
possibly have had his life preserved in the earliest stages." (Apud
Euseb., Prrepar. Evang., i. 8.)
     " Anaximander declares that man originally had his existence as
a sort of fish among fishes, and that being nursed in a soft element,
like creatures that live in the mud, he by degrees became strong
enough to help himself, and being cast out from his original slimy
home, took the dry land, and became a terrestrial animal." (Qiucst.
Sympos., viii. 4.)
    This theory, indeed, which has so strangely startled us moderns,
was quite familiar to the Greeks, and appears in the well-known
account of the Egyptian frogs crawling, half-released, from the slime
of the Nile (iElian, V. H.), and in not a few other quarters. In
modern times, also, Lord Monboddo was not singular in directing
attention to the probable indications of an original caudal appendage
in man ; a French writer before him had expatiated largely on the
evidence for this fact, and for that other yet more remarkable one,
that the sea had at one time possessed the whole dry land—at which

1871.]                     on pre-Socratic Philosophy.                   307
period man, according to Anaximander's idea, was certainly a fish,
and conld, indeed, have existed in no other form.*
     Anaximenes, the next link in this Milesian chain, need not detain
ns. By laying down the proposition that air, not water, was the
<ksyjl, this thinker certainly made a step in advance ; for air is cer
tainly fluidity in its most perfect form : a form also of more subtle
penetrative power than water—of more universal diffusiveness, and
more essentially connected with all forms of vitality. But beyond
this we find nothing in his doctrine of any peculiar significance. Far
otherwise is the case with the next representative of this scheol—
Heraclitus. He was a native of Epliesus; and from the manner in
which he is constantly spoken of by the greatest of the ancients, it is
easy to gather that as a thinker he peers high above his Ionic brethren ;
and disputes with Pythagoras and Parmenides the claim to being the
most important name in the development of Greek speculation previous
to Plato. The surname of a-Korsivi;, or " the obscure," which he
received from the Greeks, may have arisen partly from an original
moodiness of disposition, partly from a fondness for the old poetic
and figurative style in philosophizing, but partly, no doubt, also
from the real profundity of his cogitations. He evidently went
with a decided preference into regions where darkness more or less
visible must always be the best light which finite minds are capable
of receiving. The most distinctive and suggestive of his dogmas arc
the following :—
     (1) His doctrine that irvp, or fire, is the "/>%i/, is a very decided '
step in advance both of Thales and Anaximenes ; for chemistry has
now taught us by many curious processes, what appears no doubt
 broadly on the general face of Nature, that heat is the power to the
 action of which both water and air owe their existence. Take away
 heat from water and it becomes ice ; take away heat, and the expan-
 siveness caused by heat, from a gas, and under the influence of strong
 pressure it becomes liquid. Heraclitus therefore proceeded by a true
 process of induction when he put his finger on heat as that common
 principle which, by producing fluidity, makes life possible.
     (2) But this fire or heat is nothing of a merely material kind, like
 the caloric, or matter of heat, of which our captains of physical
 science were once fond of talking. The fire of Heraclitus is a reasonable
 or rational heat ; it is inspired by a Xoyo; ; it is $p6vi[tov and fyptvijpej
 (Hippol., ix. 10. Sext. Empir. adv. Math., vii. 127) ; it works by a
 divine necessity, which is the cause of order and law in the universe,
 and on which the validity and stability of all human laws ultimately
 depend. Mind and Rcason, indeed, are diffused everywhere in the
 universe, and are the common elements in virtue of which a har
 monious and coherent whele is rendered possible. "Huvok «Vn -Xa.ci ro
 fypoviiv tpefyovrai yip itivrt; oi dvQpuTtivot vdjxoi foto \vo; rov Oei'ow
    * ' Telliamed ; or, Discourses between an Indian Philosopher and a French
Missionary ;' from the French of De Maillet. London : 1750.
                                                                  T 2

308                              Professor Blachie                    [April 21,
uparcei yap rorovrov oxoVov HeXsi, xa! sfcapxiei •ea.ai you KsprylyvsTiu.
(Stob., Sorm. iii. 84.) To a modern ear this doctrine may probably-
sound very like Pantheism ; and no doubt it is Pantheism, but a sort
of Pantheism by no means like some of our modern Pantheisms, full
cousins to Atheism. It is rather like the Pantheism of Spinoza,
which, if it is to receive a peculiar name, ought, according to Hegel,
rather to be called Acosmistn than Atheism. It annihilates the world
by concentrating all the significance of the term existence in the idea
of God.
     (3) The divine rational energy, called kvp, is essentially self-
motive, and never at rest Ylivra. pel—all things are in a perpetual
flux, so that a flowing river is the most proper type of universal exist
ence. (Plato, Crat. 402a).
                        " Nothing to hold itself is strong,
                             But all things, like a river,
                          Whirl along and ewirl along.
                             And bubble along for ever."
     (4) But, though the motion of existence in the cosmos is shapeless
and ceaseless, it is in one important respect not like the course of a
river ; it is not a motion directly forward and onward ; bnt it is a
motion forward and backward, with recurrent strokes like the vibra
tions of the string of a lyre or a bow.* This implies a sort of self-
contradiction inherent in the very nature of things. Life is mani
fested by the assertion of contraries: health, beauty, truth, and
rightness of all kinds consist in a balance of opposites. This doc
trine Heraclitus felt so strongly, that he did not hesitate to say that
iritepov elvcti irarspa. xal /SairiXea xai xvpiov itivrwv (Plut., Is. Osir. 48)
"War is the father, and king, and lord of all things;" and in putting
forth this, to us strange sentiment, he no doubt in somewise antici
pated the famous maxim of Spinoza, adopted by Hegel—Omnis
afflrmatio est negatio.
     (5) Heraclitus further taught that at the bottom of this constant
vicissitude, which we call life and the world, there is a something
which never changes—an absolute sameness in the midst of relative
otherness ; so that what we call death is really only another form of
life ; and the life of any one thing always grows out of the death
of some other thing."f This side of his speculations, if carried out,
might have formed the basis for a doctrine of permanency, which would
have been the natural and proper counterpoise to the sensuous scepti
cism that was only too easily deduced from his favourite doctrine of
flux; but it was reserved for the philosophers of the abstract and strictly
metaphysical school to give duo emphasis to this essential element of
the Cosmos.
     The fifth and last doctor of this class was Empedocles of Agri-
     * Uahlvrovof apuovln K6<Tpov inwmtp xipns xai t6£ov. Plut. Is. Osir., 45.
     t 'OSbs ivu xa) Kdra fill) xal ii/Tij. Hippol. ix., 10.

  1871.]                    on pre-Socratic Phibsophy.                    309
 gentum,,a man of noble family, lofty character, great talent, and
 various accomplishment, of whose poems, itspi $6<reujs and x.aftapfi,oi,
 considerable fragments are preserved, commented on in Earsten's
 collection and Preller's history of Grteco-Roman philosophy. Import
 ant as was the figure which he played in his native country, in the
 curiously compound character of a physician, a priest, and a politician,
 he does not seem to have said much on philosophy that had not been
 already said by his predecessors. Like Plato, naturally a poet, and
 a man of a constructive imagination, he seems to have wished to com
 bine into one rich whole the speculations of his predecessors, partly
 disguised under different names. The Water, Air, and Fire of three
 of his predecessors he adopted, and with the very obvious addition of
 Earth to them, he constructed the universe out of our familiar four
 elements, which he called frXfitua.ro, constantly submitted to the in
 fluence of the two adverse principles, <I>iAia and Nflxof—Love and
 Stripe. This was evidently nothing but an old mythological expres
 sion for the doctrine of balanced contraries laid down by Heracfitus ;
 and the only thing worth saying about it is that it suggests to modern
 associations more directly the attractions and repulsions of physical
 science made so familiar to us by the establishment of chemistry as
 one of the most fertile fields of discovery. The alternation of life
 and death, of construction and destruction, of organization and disso
lution, caused by the eternal action of Hiixo; and $iVa, comes strongly
 out in some lines preserved by Simplicius (Phys., 34a), which I
translate as follows :—
              " First from the Many grew the one ; and then
                The One, resolved into its parts, again
                Became the Many ; thus the changes run
                 Of all that lives and dies beneath the sun ;
                Now Love unites their elements ; and they
                Chained into one a balanced whole display,
                Now by strong Hate and Strife their parts resile,
                And into ruin drops the stately pile."
     His fragments aro remarkable for a very strongly pronounced
materialism, as we would call it, not, however, without a distinct
recognition of the Pythagorean Aoyof, which happily withdraws him
from the companionship of that gross school of thinkers who, as Plato
says in the ' Theffitetus,' believe only in their fingers ; at the same time
he asserts in language which, if used by a modern writer, would cause
him to be set down as full brother to Helvetius, that all aiVSijo-if is
Qpovri<ns, and especially that the seat of tppivijcns is in the blood. He
also shows a decided tendency to break down the wall of partition
between man and the lower animals ; nay, he asserts that intelligence
belongs to plants as well as to animals ; and that man in his present
state is in the fourth degree of gradual ascent from a less complete
and more dependent to a more complete and less dependent state of
existence (Plut., Plac. Phil., v. 19). He thus shares with Anaxi

                             Professor Blackie                [April 21,
mander the glory or the folly, as it may turn out, of the development
theory of animal life, so attractively put forward by Darwin.
     II. Of the second great class of the pre-Socratic philosophers the
distinguished head was Democritus of Abdera. He was the greatest
naturalist and traveller, and the most encyclopaedic man of his day—
a sort of Humboldt of the fifth century B.C., and a precursor of Aris
totle ; and it is as a man of science and universal knowledge rather
than as a philosopher that he must take rank in the history of intel
lect. The doctrine of atoms which he originated has no doubt a
certain philosophical value, though assuredly not a very profound one ;
for it is easy to see that all composite masses can be broken down,
dissipated, and resolved into certain infinitesimally small atoms or
molecules, which must be regarded as their ultimate elements. But
when the sage of Abdera, by adding to this primitive material fact the
idea of mere force, conceived himself to have given an explanation of
the curious structure of the reasoned system of things which we call
 the cosmos, he manifestly did not advance, but rather made a great
 step backward in the physico-metaphysical speculation of his pre
 decessors. They had always explicitly or implicitly asserted the
 presence of an indwelling Ao'yoj, or reason, as the soul of the world :
 this was a living and a dynamical conception, which contained, with
 out attempting to explain, the great mystery of a miraculous divine
 centre of existence ; but they never attempted mechanically to construct
the universe out of mere variously-formed atoms, brought together by
 blind forces and fortuitous collisions. The philosophy of Democritus
 is in fact pure Atheism—that is, pure nothingness and nonsense ; for
a reasonable world can never be conceived as the possible result of an
 unreasonable cause. If the maundering of a madhouso were to go on
 to all eternity, it could never produce sanity ; if the babblement of a
 host of children were to go to infinity, it could never stumble into
 the demonstration of a single proposition in Euclid ; and so evident
 is this that one cannot but feel seriously inclined to doubt whether,
 after all, Democritus, had we been able to submit him to a cross-
 examination, would have pleaded guilty to the inanity of the Epi
 curean Atheism of which he stands historically as the father. Cer
 tainly with regard to Protagoras, Diagoras, and a few other Greeks of
 this period, who are said to have professed open Atheism, it never
 can be proved that in their negation of all theology they meant to do
 more than protest against the existence of such superhuman beings as
 the anthromorphic gods, which they found as objects of popular
 worship in their own country; and the writings of some modern
 speculators, such as David Hume, teach us to believe that a subtle
 thinker may puzzle himself in theory with arguments tending to sap
 the belief in a reasonable Cause, and yet refuse to acknowledge tho
 consequences of his argument when it lands him in the positive
 profession of blank Atheism. But however this be, the thinker who
 constructs a theory of Nature without God can have no pretensions to
 the name of philosopher; the very fact of his ignoring the only

1871.]                    on pre-Socratic Philosophy.                   311
possible explanation of the existence of a reasonable system of things
is a proof that he has given up philosophy in despair. He may be a
man of subtle thought, of curious science, of universal knowledge ;
but a philosopher, or an expounder of ultimate truth, he cannot
possibly be ; for the world which it was his business to explain he
not only leaves a riddle and a mystery as he found it, but makes it
absolute nonsense. We need not be surprised, therefore, that as a
 philosopher Democritus exercised no influence on the two great
 schools of Greek thought which the next century saw founded in
 Athens : the cold, sharp, analytic intellect of Aristotle, and the lofty,
 constructive genius of Plato stood equally apart from a pseudo-
 philosophy which was content to float about blindly in a blind
 vacuity, and to reason upon postulates which implied the absolute
 denial of all reason. No philosopher could prosper in reasoning
 Greece of which Xoyos in some shape or other was not the centre.
       III. We now come to the third and last and most distinguished
 class of early Greek thinkers, viz. those who taught that the dpxv was
 not a thing objective, visible, or tangible, or appreciable by the senses
 in any way, but an inner, invisible, moulding, and formative principle,
 which we call mind, or at least some function of mind, and which can
 not be conceived as objective or material. This philosophy of course
 gave the direct contradiction to all atheism, and therefore it may be
 properly called theological ; it is also rightly termed metaphysical,
 because it finds the apyj or fundamental cause of all things in some
  thing behind and beyond that beautiful and various outside which we
  call the world. Now no doubt Thales, Heraclitus, and Empedocles, as
  we have indicated, all believed in this metaphysical cause of every
  thing physical as much as Pythagoras, Xenophanes, and Anaxagoras ;
  but they presented this metaphysical cause always under the mask of
  some physical element ; and the key-note of their thinking directed
  attention in a marked way to something external. But when Pythagoras,
  the great founder of the theological philosophy, declared the first
  principle of all things to be Numbkh, he brought the philosophical
  mind into an entirely new position, turned as it were the obverse side
  of the coin, and showed an image and superscription there altogether
  different from that which had been previously exhibited. By api0u,dj
   of course was meant, not merely multitude or succession of unit's, but
  calculated number, relation, proportion, and all that curious construction
  of nicely-measured spaces on which symmetry in architecture, harmony
  in music, and the whole practice of the fine arts depend. In announcing
   this principle Pythagoras saw deeper into the nature of the cosmos
   than any of the pre-Socratic philosophers ; he saw that the world is
   a world simply because it is a xdir/xof, or an order ; and order always
   depends on calculation, on the arrangement of units according to
   certain relations of number. But the relations of number are a thing
   purely abstract and intellectual ; they are the product of thinking ;
   they are not derived from the senses; animals see an infinity of things,
   and see them often with a more keen and sharp observation than men ;

312                          'Professor Blackie                 [April 21,
but animals have no calculation ; the cleverest monkey is much farther
romoved from the comprehension of the simplest arithmetical proposi
tion than the stupidest man, for the one is separated by a gap, the
other removed only by a step or steps from all abstract notions. It
is plain therefore that by asserting number as the ipyr,, Pythagoras
was only defining the method of operation of Mind, or Kayo; ; and
what he called Numbkb was only another name for what our modern
mea of physical science call Law. For that law is altogether a matter
of calculation any one may see in the constant practice of mechanical
philosophers, astronomers, and chemists ; the laws of nature are only
tbe regularly acting forces of nature ; and all regularly acting forces
are necessarily either directly or indirectly the product of mind ; as
a steam engine, for instance, however often multiplied, is always and
everywhere the product of the calculating intellect of James Watt,
propagated and perpetuated through countless imitators. In assigning
this high position to the mathematical element in the constitution of
the universe, Pythagoras certainly deserves to be reverenced as the
great prophet and anticipator of our modern scientific processes ; what
he demonstrated with a fine preference in the case of the musical
scale, is now demonstrated in everything ; not only the motions of the
stars and the arrangement of leaves in plants, but the very winds and
storms are made the subjects of calculations. Unless indeed it be in
the flow of emotion, the flash of wit, the play of fancy, and the fervour
of passion, it is difficult to find now a domain that can boast its free
dom from the wide control of calculated Number.
    As in reference to the mundane system, the Pythagorean assertion
of dpi8[iis necessarily implied the unity of the plan of the world, and
its existence as the product of a calculating architect, so in reference
to the social system the same idea brought into prominence the prin
ciple of order, and authority, and subordination, that at the present
day gives its loading features to what are called Conservative politics,
as opposed to the politics of a free and equal individualism. Pytha
goras accordingly preceded Plato in the constitution of a republic
mainly on the principle of order; and in one respect certainly far
excelled his brilliant successor ; for the constitution which the Athenian
projected remained a dream upon paper, while the community esta
blished by the Samian was a realized fact of considerable social im
portance for a season. In the establishment of this community indeed
he comes nearer to the founders of the great moral society of the
Christian Church than any ancient philosopher ; it appeared, however,
that in this he occupied ground which philosophy was not competent
to maintain ; for the Pythagorean societies in South-Eastern Italy,
being oligarchic in their character and operation, came into collision
with that democratic element which was always so potent in the Greek
colonies, and being cast out lost their organic consistency. This great
failure no doubt gave the hint to Plato to content himself with found
ing a school at Athens, not a community ; for it is only upon very rare
occasions that political parties have ventured to interfere with the
ventilation of unapplied speculations in the schools.
    i

1871.]                       on pre-Socratic Philosophy.                  313
     Less popularly known than Pythagoras, but scarcely of less sig
nificance in the history of theught, is Xenophanes of Colophen, whe
stands chronologically between the Samian and Heraclitus. As the
founder of the Eleatic Scheol, he, with Parmenides, stands forward
 as the champion of the principle of unity in the universe, adding the
 necessary counterpoise to the doctrine of flux and mutability, on which,
 as we have seen, Heraclitus so moodily rung the changes. How to
 bridge over the gap between the one and the many—to apprehend
 how the Iv became itoXXi if we start from the one, and hew the iroWd
 was worked into the unity of a consistent whele, if we are to start
 from the many—that of course was, and is, the great problem of all
 metaphysical and theological theught. To solve this problem, the
  Eleatics took the methed of Spinoza ; they asserted the one as the
 only really existent, and allowed the many to shift for themselves as
  they best might under the name of appearances, modifications, illu
  sions (the Hindoo Maya), and whatsoever you please, of the nature of
  fleeting, ephemeral, and witheut independent root and enduring reality.
  God only exists ; all created things are mere ephemeral phantoms and
  phenomenal illusions. As assertors of the self-existent h, the Eleatics
  were naturally opposed to that breaking down of the divine nature
  into a multitude of discordant personalities which they beheld in the
  popular polytheism of their country ; and it is one of the great merits
   of Xenophanes that he anticipated Plato by a century and a half in
   publishing a rigorous protest against the contradictions, puerilities,
   and immoralities of the Homeric theology. Whether the boldness of
   his utterances in respect to the popular theology may not have been
   the cause of his leaving his Asiatic heme, and settling, like Pythagoras,
   in Southern Italy, we have no means of knowing ; the following decla
   rations, hewever, which I translate from his fragments in Karsten's
   collection, if they had got beyond the auther's private circle, are
   certainly strongly enough worded to have made the writer's position
   sufficiently uncomfortable in that part of the world where the presence
   of St. Paul, five centuries afterwards, raised such a storm of blatant
   spite and fury among the worshippers of the Ephesian Artemis.
                                            i.
        " There is one God, supreme above all gods and men that be ;
          Not like a mortal thing in shape, nor like in theught is He.
                                           n.
        " O vain conceit, to ween that gods like men are born, and shew
          Our human face, and use our speech, and in our garments go I
                                           in.
        " If sheep and swine, and lions strong, and all the bovine crew.
          Could paint with cunning hands, and do what clever mortals do,
          Depend upon it every pig with snout so broad and blunt,
          Would make a Jove that like himself would thunder with a grunt;
          And every lion's god would roar, and every bull's would bellow,

314           Professor Blackie on pre-Soeratic Philosophy.             [April 21,
                                          IV.
      " Homer and Hesiod, whem we own great doctors of theology,
        Said many things of blissful gods that cry for large apology.
        That they may cheat, and rail, and lie, and give the rein to passion,
        Which wore a crime in men whe tread the dust in mortal fashion.
                                           v.
     " All eyes, all ears, all theught is God, the omnipresent soul,
        And free from toil, by force of mind he moves the mighty whele."
     The only other point worthy of remark with regard to Xeno-
phanes is that he seems to have been the first Groek speculator—
certainly the first of whem any record is left—whe distinctly noted
these curious phenomena in the crust of the earth's surface indicative
of an early disturbed state of the globe, which, when collected and
systematized, have grown up into the interesting modern science of
Geology. The passage in which this remarkable notice occurs' is in
that part of the work of Hippolytus (Refut. Haer., i. 14) which gives
a review of the opinions of the Greek philosophers ; and here he dis
tinctly says that " shells, and the prints of fishes, and marine animals
were found in the rocks at Syracuse, Malta, and Paros ; and that this
was evidently the result of a revolution of the Earth's surface, when
everything was swathed in mud, and the living creatures of the sea
left the impressions of their bodies in the soft beds, which afterwards
became dry."
    The last philosopher whem our present scheme requires us to
mention is Anaxagoras, the friend of Pericles, and the precursor of
Plato in the complete emancipation of metaphysical speculation from
physical symbols. No doubt Socrates in a well-known passage accuses
this philosopher of not having consistently applied the intellectual
principle of the world which he laid down (Plat. Phaed. 98 B.) ; but
in declaring that the only adequate explanation of the cosmos was to
be found in self-existent self-energizing vov; or Mind, Anaxagoras
certainly made a stride in advance, marking him out as well worthy of
the commendation bestowed by Aristotle, that in this matter he spoke
like a full-grown man as contrasted with the lisping and babblement
of children. There is in fact only a very superficial difference of
expression between the vod; of Anaxagoras and the Elohim of Moses.
" In the beginning God created the Heaven and the Earth." About
the exact meaning of the word " create " (Bara), of course our finite
intellects always must dispute : if we could understand that word
fully, we sheuld be not men, but God : apart from this, hewever,
the fia<rtXixo; vov; of Anaxagoras and Plato, which is the keystone
of Christian faith as well as of the highest modern thinking, is simply
another name for Qso;—God. We find, therefore, in the dpx^ of
Anaxagoras a natural and beautiful culmination which harmonizes
in one significant watchword the philosophy of Greece, the faith of
Christendom, and the instincts of a healthy humanity.
    Of the sophists as predecessors or contemporaries of Socrates
it is not necessary to say anything in this paper. They were not so

1871.]          Prof. Odling on the Revived Theory of Phlogiston.                 315
much founders of systems of philosophy as disputers about philo
sophy—corresponding to a certain class of our literary men, who
talk and write on all subjects without having any strong convictions
on any subject ; some of them, indeed, as Gorgias, professing only to
be teachers of rhetoric, and others adding to that some superficial in
struction in the principles of a worldly morality and a time-serving
statesmanship. The philosophy that they taught was generally of a
negative and destructive character ; and the part which it played in
the history of thought was mainly to bring out in full armed strength
the rational ethics of Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. Of course I
am fully aware of the attempt recently made by Mr. Grote to plant
these gentlemen on a higher and more dignified platform ; but great
as are the merits of this distinguished writer in reference to the
political history of Greece, I cannot but regard his chapter on the
sophists as the product of a reactionary feeling, doomed to pass away
 with the generation which gave it birth.
                                                                         [J. S. B.]
                       WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, April 28, 1871.
          Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.K.S. President,
                                      in the Chair.
                          William Odlino, M.B. F.R.S.
                    rCIXEKIAN rROFESSOB OF CHEMISTKT, ROYAL INSTITUTION,
                        On the Revived Theory of Phlogiston.
      Observaticmem, quam produco, bono jure mihi vindico. . . . Materia hxc iqntt-
  cent, in omnibus tribus regnia, una eademque exittit. Unde, ut e vegetabili in
  animate, abundantiseime trammiqrat, ita ex utrolibet horum, in mineralia et ipsa
  metallii, promplissime omnium trans/ertur.—Staulii, Experimenta, Observatioues,
  Aniniadversiones, CCC Numero.
  In 1781-83, Cavendish showed that when inflammablo air or hydro
  gen, and dephlogisticated air or oxygen, are exploded together in
  certain proportions, "almost the whole of the inflammable and de
  phlogisticated air is converted into pure water," or as he elsewhere
  expresses it, " is turned into water."
       On June 24, 1783, the experiment of Cavendish was repeated on a
   larger scale and in a somewhat different form by Lavoisier, who not
   only confirmed tho synthesis of the English chemist, but drew from
   it the conclusion—at first strongly contested, then rapidly acknow
   ledged, and since never called into question—" that water consists of

 316                         Professor Odling                 [April 28,
 inflammable air united to dephlogisticatod air," or that it is a com
 pound of hydrogen and oxygen.
     This conclusion, so opposite to his own preconception on the
 matter, Lavoisier subsequently confirmed by an analysis of water.
 He found that iron, heated to redness and exposed to the action of
 water-vapour, became changed by an abstraction of oxygen from the
 water, into the self-same oxide of iron procurable by burning the
 metal in oxygen gas,—the other constituent of the water, namely, its
 hydrogen, being freely liberated.
     With the demonstration by Lavoisier of the composition of water
 began the triumph of that antiphlogistic theory, which he had con
 ceived, in a necessarily imperfect form, so far back as 1772, or before
 the discovery of oxygen, and had brought to completion by the aid of
 every successive step in pneumatic chemistry, achieved by himself or
 by others.
     In 1785, the relationship to one another of hydrogen and water
 being then conclusively established, Berthellet declared himself a
 convert to the new theory of combustion put forward by his country
 man. Fourcroy next gave in his adhesion ; and soon afterwards Do
 Morveau, invited to Paris expressly to be reasoned with by Lavoisier,
 succumbed to the reasons set before him. The four chemists then
 associated themselves together, and in spite of a strong theugh shert
 lived opposition both in England and Germany, succeeded in obtain
 ing for La CIrimie Frangaise an all but universal recognition.
     The principal articles of the new or antiphlogistic theory of com
 bustion propounded by Lavoisier are as follows :—That combustible
 bodies in burning yield products of various kinds,—solid in the case
of phespherus and the metals, liquid in the case of hydrogen, gaseous
in the case of carbon and sulphur. That in every case the weight of
 the products formed by the burning is greater than the weight of the
combustible burnt. That the increase of weight is due to an addition
of matter furnished to the combustible by the air in which its burning
takes place. That bodies of which the weights are made up of the
weights of two or more distinct kinds of matter are of necessity com
pound ; whereas bodies of which the weights cannot be shewn to bo
made up of the weights of two or more distinct kinds of matter are in
effect simple or elementary. That inasmuch as the weights of the
products furnished by the burning of different combustibles are made
up of the weights of the combustible burnt and of the oxygen con
sumed in the burning, these products are compound bodies—oxides in
fact of the substances burnt. That inasmuch as given weights of
many combustibles, as of hydrogen, sulphur, phespherus, carbon, and
the metals, are not apparently made up of the weights of two or more
distinct kinds of matter, these particular combustibles are in effect
elementary ; as for the same reason is the oxygen with which in the
act of burning they enter into combination. And, lastly, that combus
tion or burning consists in nothing else than in the union of combus
tible matter, simple or compound, with the empyreal matter, oxygen—

1871.]              on the Revived Theory of Phlogiston.               317
the act of union being somehow attended by an evolution of light and
heat. And except that it would be necessary nowadays to explain
how in certain cases of combustion, the combustible enters into union
not with oxygen, but with some analogue of oxygen, the above precise
statement might equally well have been made by Lavoisier in 1785,
 or be made by one of ourselves at the present day.
      Lavoisier's theory of combustion being known as the antiphlogistic
 theory, the question arises, What was the phlogistic theory to which
 it was opposed, and which it succeeded so completely in displacing ?
 This phlogistic theory was founded and elaborated at the close of the
 seventeenth century by two German physicians, Beccher and Stahl.
 Having exercised a scarcely disputed authority over men's minds
 until the notorious defection in 1785, it preserved for some years
 longer a resolute though tortuous existence, and was to the last de
  fended and approved by our own Priestley and Cavendish —who died,
  the former in 1804, and the latter in 1810.
       The importance attached to the refutation of this theory may be
 judged of from the circumstance that aftor the early experiments
  of Lavoisier on the composition and decomposition of water had been
  successfully repeated by a committee of the French Academy in 1790,
  a congratulatory meeting was held in Paris, at which Madame
  Lavoisier, attired as a priestess, burned on an altar Stahl's celebrated
  Fundamenta Chemice Dogmaticm et Experimentalis, solemn music
  playing a requiem the while. And the sort of estimation in which
  the Stahlian doctrines have sinco been held by chemists is fairly
  illustrated by a criticism of Sir J. Herschel, who, speaking of the
  phlogistic theory of chemistry, says that it " impeded the progress of
  the science, as far as a science of experiment can be impeded by a
  false theory, .... by involving the subject in a mist of visionary
  and hypothetical causes in place of the true acting principles." Pos
  sibly, however, this much-abused theory may yet prove to contain an
   element of permanent vitality and truth ; anyhow the study of this
   earliest and most enduring of chemical theories can never be wholly
   devoid of interest to chemists.
       To appreciate the merit of the phlogistic theory it is necessary
  to bear in mind the period of its announcement. Its originator,
   Beocher, was born in 1625, and died a middle-aged but worn-out man
  in 1682, a few years before the publication of the * Principia.' His
   more fortunate disciple, Stahl, who was born in 1660 and died in
   1734, in his seventy-fifth year, though afforded a possibility of know
  ing, seems equally with Beccher to have remained throughout his
   long career indifferent to the Newtonian principle that the weight of
   a body is proportionate to its quantity of matter—that loss of weight
   implies of necessity abstraction of matter, and increase of weight addi
   tion of matter. Whether or not the founders of the phlogistic theory
   conceived that change of matter in the way of kind, might equally
   with its change in point of quantity, be associated with an alteration
   in weight—and it must not be forgotten what pains Newton thought

318                          Professor Odling                   [April 28,
it necessary to take in order to shew the contrary— certain it is they
attached very little importance to the changes of weight manifested
by bodies undergoing the metamorphesis of combustion. It might be
that when combustible charcoal was burned the weight of incombus
tible residue was less than the original weight of charcoal—it might
be that when combustible lead was burned the weight of incombustible
residue was greater than the original weight of metal—this was far
too trifling an unlikeness to stand in the way of the paramount like
ness presented by the two bodies. For the lead and charcoal had the
common property of manifesting the wonderful energy of fire ; they
could alike suffer a loss of light and heat—that is, of phlogiston—by
the deprivation of which they were alike changed into greater or less
weights of inert incombustible residue.
     And not only were these primitive students of the philosophy of
combustion unconscious of the fact and meaning of the relationship
in weight subsisting between the consuming and the consumed body,
but they were altogether ignorant of the part played by the air in the
phenomena which they so boldly and successfully attempted to explain.
Torricelli's invention of the barometer and Guericke's invention of the
air-pump were both indeed made during Beccher's early boyheod ; but
years had. to elapse before the consequent idea of the materiality of air
could be domiciled, as it were, in human understandings. And not
until more than a century after Torricelli's discovery of the weight of
air,—not, indeed, until the time of the great pneumatic chemists Black,
and Cavendish, and Priestley, and Scheele, was it ever imagined that
the aerial state, like the solid or liquid state, was a state common to
many distinct kinds of matter ; and that the weight or substance of a
rigid solid might be largely contributed to by the weight or substance
of some constituent having its independent existence in the aerial or
gaseous form. The notion that 100 lbs. of smithy-scales might con
sist of 73 lbs. of iron and 27 lbs. of a particular kind of air, and that
100 lbs. of marble might consist of 66 lbs. of lime and 44 lbs. of
another kind of air, was a notion utterly foreign to the older philosophy.
Air, it was allowed, might be rendered mephitic by one kind of con
tamination, and sulphurous by another, and inflammable by a third ;
it might even bo absorbed in, and so add to the weight of, a porous
solid, as water is absorbable by sand ; but still air was ever indisput
ably air, essentially alike and unalterable in its mechanical and
chemical oneness. This familiar conception had to be overcome,
and the utterly strange notion of the largely aerial constitution of
solid matter to be established in its stead, by the early pneumatic
chemists, Black, and Cavendish, and Bergmann, before the deficiencies
rather than positive errors of the phlogistic theory could be perceived.
    But long ere the foundation of modern chemistry had thus been
laid, in 1756, by Black's discovery of fixed air or carbonic acid as a
constituent of mild alkalis and limestone, these old German doctors,
Beccher and Stahl, theugh ignorant of the nature of air and neg
lectful of the import of gravity, had yet found something to say about

1871.]             on the Bevived Theory of Phlogiston.               319
the chemistry of combustion worthy of being defended a century after-
¦wards by men like Priestley and Cavendish,—worthy, it is believed,
of being recognized nearly two centuries afterwards as the expression
of a fundamental doctrine in chemical and cosmical philosophy. They
pointed out, for example, that the different and seemingly unlike pro
cesses of burning, smouldering, calcining, rusting, and decaying, by
-which combustible is changed into incombustible matter, have a com
munity of character; that combustible bodies possess in common a
power or energy capable of being elicited and used, whereas incom
bustible bodies are devoid of any such energy or power ; and lastly,
 that the energy pertaining to combustible bodies is the same in all of
 them, and capable of being transferred from the combustible body
 which has it to an incombustible body which has it not, rendering the
 body that was energetic and combustible inert and incombustible, and
 the body that was inert and incombustible energetic and combustible—
 and further rendering some particular body combustible over and over
 again. That this is a fair representation of the views held by phlo
 gistic chemists is readily recognizable by a study of chemical works
 written before the outbreak of the antiphlogistic revolution. After
 Lavoisier's challenge, the-advocates of phlogiston, striving to make it
 account for a novel order of facts with which it had little or nothing
 to do, were driven to the most incongruous of positions ; for while
 Priestley wrote of inert nitrogen as phlogisticated air, Kirwan and
 others regarded inflammable hydrogen as being phlogiston itself in
 the isolated state. Very different is the view of phlogiston to be
 gathered from the writings of Dr. Watson, for example, who was
 appointed Professor of Chemistry at Cambridge in 1764, became
 Regius Professor of Divinity in 1771, and Bishop of Llandaff in 1782.
 This cultivated divine, indifferent it is true to the novel questions by
 which in less placid regions men's minds were so deeply stirred,
 amused the leisure of his dignified University life by writing scholarly
 accounts of the chemistry it had formerly been his province to teach ;
 and in the first volume of his well-known ' Chemical Essays,' pub
 lished in 1781, the following excellent account of phlogiston is to be
 found :—
     " Notwithstanding all that perhaps can be said upon this subject, I
 am sensible the reader will still be ready to ask, What is phlogiston?
 You do not surely expect that chemistry should be able to present
 you with a handful of phlogiston, separated from an inflammable
 body ; you may just as reasonably demand a handful of magnetism,
 gravity, or electricity to be extracted from a magnetic, weighty, or
 electric body. There are powers in nature which cannot otherwise
 become the objects of sense, than by the effects they produce ; and of
 this kind is phlogiston. But the following experiments will tend
 to render this perplexed subject somewhat more clear.
     " If you take a piece of sulphur and set it on fire, it will burn en
 tirely away, without leaving any ashes or yielding any soot. During
 the burning of the sulphur, a copious vapour, powerfully affect

320                           Professor Odling                    [April 28,
ing the organs of sight and smell, is dispersed. Means have been
invented for collecting this vapour, and it is found to be a very
strong acid. The acid thus procured from the burning of sulphur, is
incapable of being either burned by itself, or of contributing towards
the support of fire in other bodies : the sulphur, from which it wag
procured was capable of both : there is a remarkable difference, then,
between the acid procured from the sulphur, and the sulphur itself.
The acid cannot be the only constituent part of sulphur ; it is evident
that something else must have entered into its composition, by which it
was rendered capable of combustion. This something is, from its
most remarkable property, that of rendering a body combustible,
properly enough denominated the food of fire, the inflammable prin-
ciple, the phlogiston          This inflammable principle, or phlogiston,
is not one thing in animals, another in vegetables, another in mine
rals; it is absolutely the same in them all. .... This identity of
phlogiston may be proved from a variety of decisive experiments ; I
will select a few, which may at the same time confirm what has been
advanced concerning the constituent parts of sulphur.
    " From the analysis or decomposition of sulphur effected by burning,
we have concluded that the constituent parts of sulphur are two—an
acid which may be collected, and an inflammable principle which is
dispersed. If the reader has yet acquired any real taste for chemical
truths, he will wish to see this analysis confirmed by synthesis ; that
is, in common language, he will wish to see sulphur actually made
by combining its acid with an inflammable principle. It seldom
happens that chemists can reproduce the original bodies, though they
combine together all the principles into which they have analyzed
them ; .... in the instance, however, before us, the reproduction of
the original substance will bo found complete.
     "As the inflammable principle cannot bo obtained in a palpable
form separate from all other bodies, the only method by which we
can attempt to unite it with the acid of sulphur must be by presenting
to that acid some substance in which it is contained. Charcoal is
such a substance ; and by distilling powdered charcoal and the acid of
sulphur together, we can procure a true yellow sulphur, in nowise to
be distinguished from common sulphur. This sulphur is formed from
the union of the acid with the phlogiston of the charcoal ; and the
charcoal may by this means be so entirely robbed of its phlogiston,
that it will be reduced to ashes, as if it had been burned
     "I will in this place, by way of further illustration of the term phlo
 giston, add a word or two concerning the necessity of its union with
 a metallic earth, in order to constitute a metal. Lead, it has been
 observed, when melted in a strong fire, burns away like rotten wood ;
 all its properties as a metal are destroyed, and it is reduced to ashes.
 If you expose the ashes of lead to a strong fire, they will melt ; but the
 melted substance will not be a metal, it will be a yellow or orange-
 coloured glass. If you pound the glass, and mix it with charcoal dust,
 or if you mix the ashes of tho lead with charcoal dust, and expose

1871.]            on the 'Revived Theory of Phlogiston.               321
either mixture to a melting heat, you will obtain, not a glass, but
a metal, in weight, colour, consistency, and every other property the
same as lead. The ashes of lead melted without charcoal become glass ;
the ashes of lead melted with charcoal become a metal. The charcoal,
then, must have communicated something to the ashes of lead, by
which they are changed from a glass to a metal. Charcoal consists
of but two things—of ashes and of phlogiston ; the ashes of charcoal,
theugh united with the ashes of lead, would only produce glass ; it
must therefore be the other constituent part of charcoal, or phlogiston,
which is communicated to the ashes of lead, and by an union with
which the ashes are restored to their metallic form. The ashes of
lead can never be restored to their metallic form witheut their being
united with some matter containing phlogiston, and they may be
reduced to their metallic form by being united with any substance
containing phlogiston in a proper state, whether that substance be
derived from the animal, vegetable, or mineral kingdom ; and thence
we conclude not only that phlogiston is a necessary part of a metal,
but that phlogiston has an identity belonging to it, from whatever
substance in nature it be extracted. And this assertion still becomes
more general, if we may believe that metallic ashes have been reduced
to their metallic form, both by the solar rays and the electrical fire."
    The foregoing account by Dr. Watson is almost a translation from
Stahl's ' Zymotechnica Fundamentalis, simulque experimentum novum
sulphur verum arte producendi,' in which he establishes what may be
called the permanency of chemical substance—that metallic lead is
reproducible from the ashes of lead, sulphur verum from the acid of
sulphur. And, whether or not taking note of the oxidations and deoxi-
dations effected, hew little differently, even at the present day, would
the actions referred to be described and explained. Is it not our habit
to say that charcoal and sulphur and lead are bodies possessing poten
tial chemical energy, that is phlogiston ; that in the act of burning,
their energy which was potential becomes kinetic or dynamical, and is
dissipated in the form of light and heat ; that the products of their
burning (including the gaseous product now known to be furnished
by the burning of charcoal) are substances devoid of chemical energy,
that is, of phlogiston ; that when the acid substance furnished by
burning sulphur is heated with charcoal, some energy of the unburnt
charcoal is transferred to the burnt sulphur, just as some energy of
a raised weight may be transferred to a fallen one, whereby the burnt
sulphur is unburnt, provided with energy, and enabled to burn again,
 and the fallen weight is lifted up, provided with energy, and enabled
to fall again ; that the potential chemical energy of metallic lead did
not originate in the lead, but is energy or phlogiston transferred
thereto from the charcoal by which it was smelted ; and lastly, that
the chemical energy of the charcoal itself, its capability of burning,
its power of doing work, in one word its phlogiston, is merely a
portion of energy appropriated directly from the solar rays ?
     If this be a correct interpretation of the phlogistic doctrine, it is
   Vol. VI. (No. 55.)                                            z

322                         Professor Odling                   [April 28,
evident that the Stahlians, theugh ignorant of much that has since
become known, were nevertheless cognisant of much that became after
wards forgotten. For most of what has since become known, mankind
are indebted to the surpassing genius of Lavoisier ; but the truth which
he established, alike with that which he subverted, is now recognizable
as a partial truth only ; and the merit of his generalization is now per
 ceived to consist in its addition to—its demerit to consist in its
 supersession of—the not less grand generalization established by his
 scarcely remembered predecessors. This being so, the relationship to
 one another of the Stahlian and Lavoisierian theories of combustion
 furnishes an apt illustration of the general truth set forth by a great
 modern writer, that " in the human mind, one-sidedness has always
 been the rule, and many-sidedness the exception. Hence, even in revo
 lutions of opinion, one part of the truth usually sets while another
 rises. Even progress, which ought to superadd, for the most part only
 substitutes one partial and incomplete truth for another ; improvement
consisting chiefly in this, that the new fragment of truth is more
wanted, more adapted to the needs of the time, than that which it
 displaces."
    .The partial truth contributed by Lavoisier was indeed more
wanted, more adapted to the needs of the timo, than the partial truth
which it displaced. To him chemists arc indebted for their present
 conception of material elements ; and especially for their know
ledge of the part played by the air in the phenomena of combustion,
whereby oxygenated compounds are produced. The phlogistians,
indeed, were not unaware of the necessity of air to combustion, but
being ignorant of the nature of air were necessarily ignorant of the
function which it fulfilled. To burn and to throw off phlogiston
being with them synonymous expressions, the air was conceived to
 act by somehew or other enabling the combustible to throw its phlo
 giston off; and a current of air was conceived to promote combus
tion by enabling the combustible to throw its phlogiston off more
easily. Moreover, contact of air was not essential to combustion,
 provided there was present instead some substance, such as nitre,
 which equally with, or even more effectively than air, could enable
 the combustible to discharge itself of phlogiston. But while tho
 phlogistians, on the one hand, were unaware that the burnt product
 differed from the original combustible otherwise than as ice differs
from water, by loss of energy; Lavoisier, on the other hand,
 disregarded the notion of energy, and shewed that the burnt pro
duct included not only the stuff of the combustible, but also the
 stuff of the oxygen it had absorbed in the burning. But, as well
observed by Dr. Crum-Brown, we now know " that no compound
contains the substances from which it was produced, but that it
contains them minus something. We now know what this something
is, and can give it the more appropriate name of potential energy ;
but there can be no doubt that this is what the chemists of the
seventeenth century meant whon they spoke of phlogiston."

1871.]            on the Revived Theory of Phlogiston.                 323
    Accordingly, the phlogistic and antiphlogistic views are in reality
complementary and not, as suggested by their names and usually
maintained, antagonistic to one another. It has been said, for example,
that according to Stahl, the product of combustion is simple, and the
combustible a compound of the product with imaginary phlogiston—
which is false ; whereas, according to Lavoisier, the combustible is
simple, and tho product a compound of the combustible with actual
oxygen—which is true. But in this case, as in so many others, every
thing turns upon the use of the same word in a different sense at
different periods of time. "When Lavoisier spoke of red lead as being
metallic lead combined with oxygen, he meant that the matter or stuff
of the red lead consisted of the matter or stuff of lead plus the matter
or stuff of oxygen. But when the Stahlians spoke of metallic lead
being burnt lead combined with phlogiston, they had tho same sort
of idea of combination in this instance, as others have expressed by
saying that the weight of a body is compounded of its matter and its
gravity ; or that steam is a compound of water and heat ; or, to uso a
yet more Lavoisierian expression, that oxygon gas itself is a compound
of the basis of oxygen with caloric. It is not, then, that the one state
ment, Stahlian or Lavoisierian, is false and the other true, but that
both of them are distorted, because incomplete. Chemists nowadays
are both Stahlian and Lavoisierian in their notions ; or have regard
both to energy and matter. But Lavoisierian idoas still interfere
very little with our use of the Stahlian language. While we acknow
ledge that in the act of burning the combustible and the oxygen take
equal part, just as yi the act of falling the weight and the earth take
equal part, yet in our common language we alike disregard the abun
dant atmosphere and abundant earth as being necessarily understood,
and speak only of the energy of the combustible and of the weight,
which burn and fall respectively. Whatever may be the fault of lan
guage, however, chemists do not omit to superpose the Lavoisierian
on the Stahlian notion. They recognize fully that it is by the union
of the combustible with oxygen that phlogiston is dissipated in tho
form of heat ; and further, that phlogiston can only be restored to
the burnt combustible on condition of separating tho combustible from
the oxygen with which it has united ; just as energy of position can
only be restored to a fallen weight on condition of separating it to a
distance from the surface on which it has fallen.
    That Stahl and his followers regarded phlogiston as a material
substance, if they did so regard it, should interfere no more with our
recognition of the merit due to their doctrine, than the circumstance
of Black and Lavoisier regarding caloric as a material substance, if
they did so regard it, should interfere with our recognition of tho
merit due to the doctrine of latent heat. But though denning phlo
giston as the principle or matter of fire, it is not at all clear that tho
phlogistians considered this matter of fire as constituting a real body
or ponderable substance ; but rather that they thought and spoke of it
as many philosophers nowadays think and speak of the electric fluid
                                                               z 2

324      Prof. Odling on the Bevived Theory of Phlogiston.      [April 2,
and luminiferous ether. The nondescript character, properly as-
cribable to phlogiston, is indicated by the following quotation taken
from Macquer's ' Elemens de Chymie Théorique :' 1749. It most not,
of course, be forgotten that the popular impression as to phlogiston
having been conceived by its advocates as a material substance having
a negative weight or levity, is erroneous ; and is based on an innova
tion that was introduced during the struggling decadence of the
phlogistic theory, and advocated more particularly by Lavoisier's
subsequent colleague, Guyton de Morveau, in his ' Dissertation snr
le Phlogistique, considéré comme Corps grave, et par rapport aux
changemens de pesanteur qu'il produit dans les corps auxquels il
est uni :' 1762. Macquer writes as follows :—
    " La matière du soleil, ou de la lumière, le phlogistique, le feu, le
soufre principe, la matière inflammable, sont tous les noms par lesquels
on a coutume de désigner l'élément du Feu. Mais il paroît qu'on n'a
pas fait une distinction asséz exacte .... du nom qu'il mérite véri
tablement lorsqu'il entre effectivement comme principe dans la com
position d'un corps, ou bien lorsqu'il est seul et dans son état naturel.
Si on l'envisage sous cette dernière vue, le nom de Feu, de matière du
soleil, de la lumière et de la chaleur, lui convient particulièrement.
Pour lors, c'est une substance que l'on peut considérer comme com
posée de particules infiniment petites, qui sont agitées par un mouve
ment très rapide et continuel, par conséquent essentiellement fluide.
Cette substance, dont le soleil est comme le réservoir général, s'en
émane perpétuellement, et est répandue universellement dans tous les
corps que nous connoissons ; mais non pas comme principe ou essen
tielle à leur mixtion, puisqu'on peut les en priver, du moins en grande
partie, sans qu'ils souffrent pour cela la moindre décomposition
Cependant les phénomènes que présentent les matières inflammables
lorsqu'elles brûlent, nous indiquent qu'elles contiennent réellement la
matière du Feu comme un de leurs principes                   Examinons
donc les propriétés de ce feu fixé, et devenu principe des corps. C'est
lui auquel nous donnerons particulièrement le nom de matière inflam
mable, du soufre principe, ou de Phlogistique, pour le distinguer du
Feu pur."
    Again, much the same thing is to be found in Baumé's ' Manuel de
Chymie :' 1765 ; as for example :—
    " Nous considérons le feu sous deux états différens. Lorsqu'il est
pur, isolé, et qu'il ne fait partie d'aucun composé .... Lorsqu'il
est combiné avec d'autres substances, et qu'il fait un des principes
constituans des corps composés .... On n'est pas certain si le feu
est pesant. Il y a des expériences pour et contre
    " Pendant la combustion des substances, le feu combiné se réduit
en feu élémentaire, et se dissipe à mesure. Le célèbre Boerhaave n'est
cependant pas de ce sentiment ; il dit que si cela étoit, la quantité de
feu élémentaire devroit augmenter à l'infini dans la nature
Mais il est facile de répondre à cette objection, en disant comme on
est on droit de le présumer, que le feu élémentaire, dégagé des corps,
    -

1871.]                        Annual Meeting.      ¦                   325
se combine a mesure avec d'autres substances, et qu'il perd toutes ses
proprietes de feu libre, en devenant principe constituent des corps,
dans la composition desquels il entre                Le principe dont nous
entendons parler ici, est celui que Stahl a nomme phlogistique."
     In interpreting the above and other phlogistic writings by the
light of modern doctrine, it is not meant to attribute to their several
authors the precise notion of energy that now prevails. It is con
tended only that the phlogistians had, in their time, possession of a
real truth in nature which, altogether lost sight of in the intermediate
 period, has since crystallized out in a definite form. " I trust," said
 Beccher, " that I have got hold of my pitcher by the right handle."
And what he and his followers got hold of and retained so tenaciously,
though it may be shiftingly and ignorantly, we now hold to know
ingly, definitely, and quantitatively, as part and parcel of the grandest
generalization in science that has ever yet been established.
                                                                [W. 0.]
                    ANNUAL           MEETING,
                          Monday, May 1, 1871.
      Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
    The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
1870 was read and adopted.
    Eighty-one new Members were elected in 1870.
    Sixty-three Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were
delivered during the year 1870.
    The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1870 amounted to 118
volumes, making, with those purchased by the Managers, a total of
307 volumes added to the Library in the year, exclusive of periodicals.
    Thanks were voted to tho President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the Professors, for
their services to the Institution during the past year.
    The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers for
the ensuing year :—
        President—Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. P.R.S.
        Treasurer—William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. F.K.S.
        Secretary—Henry Bence Jones, M.A. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S.

326                            Mr. W. R. S. Ralston                         [May 5,
              Managers.                                    Visitors.
John J. Bigsby, M.D. F.R.S. F.G.S.         John R. Andrews, Esq.
George Berkley, Esq. C.E.                  William Ernst Browning, Esq.
William Bowman, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.1LS.       John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
George BusV, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.          Rev. Charles J. Fynes Clinton, M.A.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.       Edward Frankland, Esq. D.C.L. F.RJS.
Capt. Douglas Galton, C.B. F.R.S. F.G.&    Thomas Williams Helps, Esq. M.A.
John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.     James Heywood, Esq. F.R.S.
Win. Robert Grore, Esq. M.A. Q.C. F.R.S.   Thomas Lee, Esq.
The I.ord Lindsay.                         Robert Pilkington Linton, Esq. F.R.C.S.
George Macilwatn, Esq. F.R.C.S.            Col. William Kirkman Loyd.
The Duke of Northumberland, D.C.L.         James Dyce Nicol, Esq. M.P.
William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.             Rev. Cyril W. Page, M.A.
Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bait. M.A.       Arthur John Edward Kusscll, Esq. M P.
Robert P. Roupell, Esq. M.A. Q.C.          Basil Woodd Smith, Esq.
Col. Philip James Yorke, F.R.S.            Michael Wills, Esq.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, May 5, 1871.
     William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. & Treasurer R.S. & K.I.
                          Vico-Prcsident, in the Chair.
                         W. R. S. Ralston, Esq. M.A.
                                On Russian Folk-lore.
 The early history of all the Slavonic nations is shrouded in no slight
 obscurity, and over that of the Russians the darkness has gathered so
 ileiiBoly that even their claim to be considered Slavonians has been
 contested. The statement that " if you scratch a Russian you will
 find a Tartar " has been amplified into a theory ; and certain writers
 protest that the Russian people is nothing more than a collection of
 Finnish, Turkish, and Mongol herdes whe have accepted a form
 of speech borrowed from their Slavonic neighbours. On this question
 the study of Russian Folk-lore throws a considerable amount of light,
 and that of a welcome kind, for by its aid it seems possible to re
 cognize, in the ancestors of the great nation which now peoples so
 largo a portion of Europe, men of a like race with ourselves, linked
 with our forefathers, not o'nly by similar linguistic forms, but also by
 common religious ideas.
      How and when the Slavonians entered Europe are questions which
 have not yet been answered with precision, but they seem to have
 settled at an early period along the Danube, and thence to have been
 obliged to migrate towards the North and East; and from these whe
 pushed farthest towards the East the present Russians arc supposed to

   1871.J                     on Russian Folk-lore.                     327
  be descended. The mythelogical system of these Eastern Slavonians
  appears to have been of a simple nature, and never to have developed
   itself so fully as that of their Western brethren. They seem to have
  personified and adored the chief forces of Nature, and to have paid at
  least a certain amount of worship to the souls of the dead. Their
  principal deity, it is said, was originally Svarog, the Celestial Firma
  ment, from whem sprang Ogon, Fire (the Vedic Agni), Dazhbog, the
  Day-God or the Sun, and Perun, the Thunder-God,—the Perkunas of
  the Lithuanians, whese name some philologists derive from Indra's
  epithet of Parjanya. They erected no temples, and they recognized no
  priestly caste, the elders in each family group presiding over the sacri
  ficial rites, which were performed under the shade of trees or beside
  running waters.
       From the reverence they paid to their dead arose their belief in a
  race of supernatural beings occupying a middle place between gods
  and men. In common with all the other Aryan races the Slavonians
  believed that the disembodied soul had to enter on a long pilgrimage,
  crossing a wido sea or climbing a steep hill. In order to help it on
  its way, coins were thrown into the grave together with the body it had
, tenanted, and also parings of nails or the claws of wild beasts— the
  money to pay for its passage, the claws to assist it to climb. Small
  ladders, also, were provided, in order that the soul might more quickly
  mount to heaven—a custom which has come down to the present day,
  the Bussian peasants in many places baking in henour of their dead
  little ladders of dough, or pies" marked with bars in imitation of a
  ladder's rungs. But it was not supposed that the souls of the dead
  were utterly cut off from the world of the living ; on the contrary, it
  was held that many of them haunted the spots where they had been
  accustomed to live, and became for their relatives and descendants the
  source of weal or woe according as they were well treated or neglected.
  From these notions, modified by some of these less elevated ideas about
  the unseen world which the Aryan races appear to have adopted from
  the aboriginal inhabitants of the various countries in which they
  settled, probably sprang the belief in the different forms with which
  the fancy of the Russian peasant still peoples the woods, the waters,
  and the fields.
       Among these the most important is the Domovoi, the Lar Fami-
  liaris, the " lubber fiend," or Hobgoblin of Russia. He is supposed
  to be the spirit of the original founder of the family, and so he is
  affectionately styled " Grandfather," and is treated with great respect.
  By day he lives behind the stove, but at night he comes out and
  assists in the work of the heuse, or watches over the live stock. He
  sympathizes intensely with the family, rejoicing when its members
  are merry, and grieving when they are sad. If they move into another
  heuse they take care to invito him to accompany them, performing
  certain rites in order to ensure his good-will towards his new abode.
      The spirits of drowned women, and especially of these whe drown
  themselves, and also these of unbaptized children, are supposed to

328                       Mr. W. B. S. BaUlon                     [May 5,
join the ranks of the Rusalkas, the beings whe haunt the waters.
They appear for the most part in the shape of beauteous maidens,
whese slender forms are clothed in flowing white raiments, and over
whese sheulders loosely fall masses of grass-green hair. They answer
to the Lithuanian Undines and the Servian Vilas, and in many respects
to our own Fairies, like whom they love to dance and sing by night
beneath the moon, marking the grass with dark circles where they
have moved ; and they are given to sailing in egg-shells, when they
find them unbroken ; and they are troubled with doubts as to their
future state. The little ones among them, moreover, may be saved
during the space of seven years after death, if anyone whe meets them
will baptize them in due form. Like mermaids, the Rusalkas are
constantly employed in combing their long tresses, and like the
Gorman water-spirits, they strive to entice unwary admirers into their
abodes, and there they tickle them to death.
     A less poetic inhabitant of the waters is the Vodyany, or male water-
sprite, a bloated, red-faced, watery Silenus, whe often works mischief
for fishermen if they do not propitiate him by due offerings. And
corresponding with him is the Lyeshy, a silvan demigod, satyr, or
faun, whe haunts the forest, and whese voice may be heard in the
eche, and his laughter in the creaking of boughs. Sinco the intro
duction of Christianity into Russia, all these supernatural beings have
suffered considerably in reputation ; one legend even attributing to
them all a simply demoniacal origin, and affirming that they are that
part of Satan's host which fell upon e"arth after having been expelled
from heaven—an idea which is current in many other countries, as,
for instance, in Ireland about the fairies.
     Besides these divine and semi-divine, or semi-diabolical beings,
there are certain supernatural personages whe figure to a great extent
in the stories current among the Bussian peasants. Of these one of
 the most important is the Yaga-Baba, whe answers to the Giantess,
 Ogress, or female Troll of Western fairy tales. She is a hideous old
woman, tall and bony. She lives in a solitary hut, which turns on a
 pivot in obedience to a word of command, or in a larger building
 surrounded by a fence made of dead men's bones. As she lies indoors
 she stretches from one side of her chamber to the other, and her long
iron nose goes right through the ceiling. When she leaves her
dwelling she drives through the forest in an iron mortar, propelling
 it with the pestle, and sweeping away her traces with a broom. She
 is the type of all that is ferocious and destructive, and the mythelo-
gists recognize in her an impersonification of the storm.
     Another remarkable character is Koshchei the Deathless, a demon
 whe carries off queens and princesses from their hemes, and keeps
 them imprisoned within his palace walls until the hero comes whe is
 destined to set them free. In order to kill him, it is necessary to find
 out where his death is hidden, the result of the discovery being the
 same as in the Norse story of the giant whe had no heart in his body,
 or in the Deccan tale of " Punclikin." The name of Koshchei is derived

   1871.]                     on Russian Folk-lore.                        329
   from Kost, a bone, and his character is that of an ossifier or petrifier.
   The Russian mythologists recognize in him a type of winter, which
   makes all things hard and cold, and which strives to keep from the
   light of day the fair maiden the spring.
       But the figure under which is usually personified the evil spirit
   which wars against sunlight and fair weather is that of the Snake. In
   the Russian stories it is generally a many headed, winged, fire-breathing
   snake, with attributes partly human and partly ophidian, who steals
   the beauteous maiden, or puts to death the adventurous hero, to be
   himself ultimately slain by some generally youthful and originally
. despised hero. The Snake, Koshchei, and the Yaga-Baba are all closely
   related to each other, seeming, indeed, to be merely different embodi
   ments of the same spirit of darkness—of that evil principle which the
   old Slavonians recognized as a deity under the title of Chernobog, the
   Black God ; a name which is in itself a sufficient proof of his supposed
   opposition to the spirit of light and beneficence, Byelbog, the White
   God.
        Such are the principal mythological beings who figure in the folk
   lore of the Russian peasants. That lore itself may be divided into
   three chief branches—the songs which the people sing, the stories
   which they tell, and the " metrical romances " which are recited to
   them by professional minstrels. These have all been so sedulously
   collected and edited of late years, that the books which have been
   devoted to them would of themselves form no small library. Many
   special works have also been composed on the subject of the Proverbs,
   the Incantations, and the other relics of the popular wisdom or super
   stition of old times which have come down to the present day, and
   which abound in Russia to an extent scarcely to be equalled in any
   other European country. The collection of Proverbs, for instance,
   made by Mr. Dahl, the author of by far the best Russian Dictionary,
   contains no less than 30,000 specimens, and the Zagovors, or Runes, to
   which special volumes have been devoted, are as numerous as they are
   complete.
        But the most interesting among these relics of old times are the
 • mythic and ritual songs which the heathen Slavonians used to sing at
    their festivals, scraps of which have been retained in the memory of
    the peasants, in spite of the opposition or the transforming influence
    of the Church. These fragments of fossilized poetry are of the
    greatest value as trustworthy illustrations of a very doubtful page of
    history, and their evidence often lends material aid in strengthening
    a feeble link in a chain of argument. They are now fast disappearing
    before the influences of civilization ; but fortunately the peasants in the
    remoter districts of the country have preserved them until recent times
    with a care and conscientiousness for which all archaeologists owe them
    a largo debt of gratitude.
        Each season of the year has its own songs, and their singers are
    careful not to mix up together what ought to be kept separate. From
    times immemorial the period following the winter solstice has been set

 330                      Mr. W. R. S. Ralston                     [May 5,
apart as a time of rejoicing for the birth of a New Year. According
to a popular legend the sun—generally a female being in Slavonian
mythelogy—then arrays herself in heliday attire, and urges her car
upon the summer track. A festival, known as that of Kolyada, is held
in henour of the occasion, and songs are sung, to which the name of
Kolyadki is given, during the interval between Christmas Eve and the
Epiphany. Some of them are cosmogonic, others are ritual, but all of
them are of an evidently pagan origin, theugh Christian names have
in many cases been given to the heathen divinities whe are mentioned
in them. The Kolyada festival is also the chief time for the
Gadaniya, or Guesses, on which in olden times great stress was laid by
all classes of the community, but which have now passed almost
entirely into the hands of girls whe are desirous of gaining informa
tion about their destined husbands.
    In the Kolyadki sung during this season of the year, mention is
made of a goddess called Kolyada, but she seems to have been merely
a popular embodiment of the festival. The songs called Ovseneeuiya,
hewover, seem really to have been consecrated to a deity named
Ovsen— a "good youth," whe makes the way clear for the New
Year, and brings with him from Paradise rich gifts of fruitfulness, and
whem some of his attributes seem to link with Freyr, the Teutonic
Sun-God.
    The death of winter and the arrival ofthe spring are typified in Russia
by various observances, and a groat number of songs called Vesenniya
are then sung in honour of the coming of Vesna, the vernal season. In
them constant allusions are made to Lado and Lada, the god and
goddess of love and fertility. Easter brings with it a number of
songs which in olden times were consecrated to some heathen festival
in henour of the revival of the season of light and warmth, which
during the cold winter-tido has laid torpid and apparently dead, the
Paschal week having received from some such association of ideas
the epithet Seyetlaya or bright. With the first week after Easter
commences the festival of the Krasnaya Gorka, or "red hill," the
epithet referring, like the redness of the well-known Easter eggs, to
the brightness of the spring, and the name of " hill " having been
given to it because it was originally held on some high place. Its
chief feature is the Khorovod—the circling dance attended by cheral
song which has always been a marked feature of Slavonian festivities.
This is also the season of the Radunitsa feast, held in henour of the
dead, whe are supposed at this time of the year to awake from their
winter sleep, and to rejoice (radovaf) in unison with their living
descendants, whe go out to their graves and there indulge in banquets
which still retain something of their old sacrificial character.
    The 23rd of April is consecrated to St. George, and to it are
devoted a number of songs called after his name. From the nature
of their contents it is evident that the Christian saint has merely
taken the place of an old heathen deity, for it is not a slayer of
dragons whe appears in them, but a patron of farmers and herdsmen,

1871.]                       on Russian Folk-lore.                      331
who preserves cattle from harm, and on whose day, therefore, the
flocks and herds are for the first time after the winter sent out into
the open fields. On the Thursday of the seventh week after Easter is
held the feast called Semik (from Seni = Seven). In heathen times a
number of rites used to be performed during May, in honour of the
goddess of the spring ; a portion of these rites were eventually trans
ferred with altered names to the festivals of Ascension Day and
"Whitsuntide. In that way many of them have become attached to
the Semik holiday, when the young people go into the woods and
 there cut down a birch tree and dress it in female attire, or adorn it
 with ribbons (much as we used to deck on May poles), singing the
while a special set of songs in which some remains of tree worship
 make themselves clearly apparent.
       Midsummer brings with it certain festivals evidently of the same
 origin as those of which some traces are still found in so many
 countries of Western Europe, and on them the Russian peasants sing
 the class of songs called Kupalskiya, the epithet referring to a my
 thological being called Eupalo, whose image is in some parts of
  Russia burnt or thrown into a stream on St. John's night. The Mid
  summer bonfires, and the various ideas connected with the eve and
  the day of St. John, form strong links in the chain of evidence which
  hinds together the modern Russians with the rest of the members of
  the Aryan family.
       The 29th of July forms, in the popular Ealondar, the first au
  tumnal festival. In olden times the day was consecrated to Perun,
  the Thunder-God. Since the introduction of Christianity it has been
  transferred to Ilya the Thunderer, as the Servians call the Prophet
  Elijah. The number of legends, strongly marked by heathen charac
  teristics, referring to the saint who has usurped the place of the pagan
  deity, is very great ; but, except among the Bulgarians, there are no
  special Slavonic songs devoted to his festival. At the time of the
  harvest many old customs are observed ; some of which are now said
  to be in honour of Elijah or of St. Nicholas, but which seem to havo
  originally referred to Perun, who at that season of the year was
  honoured under the name of Volos.
       During the interval between harvest - time and Christmas - tide
   many other popular festivals occur, several of which are marked by
   strange customs, such as the burying of insects in vegetable coifins
   on the first of September, and the expulsion of cockroaches on the
   eve of St. Philip's Fast ; but the poetry which is devoted to them is
   not for the most part of any great mythological or historical interest.
   The songs of modern date, which aro generally distinguished from
   those of old times by being rhymed, are in themselves by no means
   undeserving of study, but they are of little worth as compared with
   those invaluable records of the past, their elder brethren.
       Of tho songs of the Russian people various collections have been
   made at different times, but it is only recently that their stories havo
   been gathered together and edited in any scientific manner. This

    332           Mr. W. R. S. Rakton on Russian Folk-lore.         [May 5, I
    work has lately been performed by A. N. Afanasief, of Moscow, with       I
    as much patience and conscientiousness as Mr. J. F. Campbell has          1
    bestowed upon his edition of the ' Tales of the West Highlands,' the      |
    genuineness of the stories being guaranteed by the fact that the nanus
    of their narrators or transcribers are almost always set forth. The
   work, which is divided into eigbt parts, extends to as many as 2391
   pages, and contains 332 distinct stories, of some of which as many as
- five variants are given. If it were merely on account of the freshness
   and simplicity of their style, and of their, in many cases, supplying
   features which our Western versions of old Eastern tales have lost,
    these Skazki (so called from Skazat ' = to say, or tell) would be of
   great interest; but they derive a special value from the light they           |
   throw upon the question of the origin of European romance, and
   especially upon the theory upheld by Benfey in his erudite introduc
   tion to the Pantschatantra, that our fairy tales, fables, and the like,
   were first introduced into Europe during the Middle Ages through
   the agency of the Mahomedans and Mongols. For almost all the
   leading tales current in Western Europe it is possible to find s
   Russian counterpart, and in many cases the Slavonic rendering will
   be found to offer sense for what in the Teutonic or Celtic version of
   some Oriental expression has become mere nonsense.
       The origin of the Eussian popular fictions has lately excited much
   controversy in Russia, Mr. Stasof, of the Imperial Library of St.
   Petersburg, having broached a theory that they are not only of
   Oriental parentage—which is undoubtedly the case—but that they
   have been introduced into the country at a comparatively recent
   date, by the Turkish and Mongolian tribes of Central Asia. The
   Russians possess a great store of what they call Builinui, a word for       '
   which perhaps the best rendering is, " metrical romances," unrhymed
  epic poems, varying from a hundred to a thousand lines in length, in
  which are sung the doughty deeds of various national heroes, the
  greater part of whom are supposed to have been attached to the per
  son of Vladimir, Prince of Kief. There are many builinui about
  Novgorod, and there is also a "Moscow Cycle"; but by far the most
  important are included in what is known as the " Vladimir Cycle,"
  which is for Russia what the C&rlovingian and Arthurian Cycles of
  romance are for France and Britain. Into the nature of these poems,
  in which are sung the adventures in love and in war of Ilya Muromets,
  the most popular of the old heroes, of Dobruinya Nikitich, the Prince's
  nephew, the Roland of the Vladimir Cycle, and of Alyesha Popovich,
  the Priest's son, it is impossible to enter at present. It must suffice to
  state that in them Slavophile commentators are inclined to see a picture
  of Old Russia as it used to be before the Tartar invasion, while Mr.        .
  Stasof recognizes in them merely imitations, if not actual translations
  of such Tartar poems and tales as have been collected and translated
  (into German) by Professor Schiefner in his ' Heldensagen dor Minus-
  sinischen Tataren,' and by Professor Radloff in his admirable 'Proben
  dcr Volkslittoratur dor Tiirkischon Stamme Slid - Siberiens.' The           I

1871.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                     333
real truth seems to be, that while almost all the fragments of mythic
wood ritual song preserved among the Russian people are probably
x-elics of a great mass of poetry common to the Slavonic tribes at the
time when they first arrived in Europe, at least a great part of the
tales and " metrical romances " now current among the Russians have
most likely come to them at various times from different quarters,
traces of Scandinavian, of Finnish, of Mongol, and of other influences
 "being apparent in the forms of what seem to have originally been
 Indian and Persian fictions. But whatever else may be said of it,
 this much seems to be clear, that the Russian folk-lore forms a part of
 the rich mythological inheritance held in common by the various
 "branches of the great Aryan family.
                                                               [W. R. S. R.]
                      GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                               Monday, May 8, 1871.
          Sib Henby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. P.R.S. President,
                                     in the Choir.
       The following Vice-Presidents were nominated for the ensuing
  year :—
                  The Duke of Northumberland.
                  The Lord Lindsay.
                   Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart.
                   William Spottiswoode, Esq. the Treasurer.
                   William S. Burton, Esq.
                  Arthur Samuel Hobson, Esq. F.C.S.
                  Richard Liebreich, Esq. M.R.C.S.
                   Abraham De Mattos Mocatta, Esq.
                  Edward Stanhope Pearson, Esq.
   were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
       John Tyndall, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. was re-elected Professor of
   Natural Philosophy.
        The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
   table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
        FHOM
   Accademia Pontificia      Nuovi Lincei, Roma—Atti : anno XXII. 1868-9. 4to.
   Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 73. 8vo. 1871.
   Antiquaries, Society of—Archajologia, Vol. XL. Part 2. 4to. 1871.
   Asiatic Society of Bengal—Proceedings, 1870, Dec. 1871, Jan. 8vo.

334                          General Monthly Meeting.                     [May 8,
Astrimomical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XXXI. No 5. 1871.
Baxter, R. Dudley, Esq. M.R.I, (the Auther)—Nutioual Income. The United
     Kingdom. 8vo. 1868.
   The Taxation of the United Kingdom. 8vo. 1869.
   National Debts. 8vo. 1871.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1870-71, Nos. 6, 7, 8. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—List of Books of Beforenco in the Beading-room of the
     British Museum. 2nd ed. 8vo. 1871.
   Supplement to the Catalogue of Seals and Whales. 8vo. 1871.
Chemical Society—Journal for April, 1871. 8vo.
Clark, Latimer, and Sabine, Robert, Esqrs. (the Authors)—Electrical Tables and
      Formula). 16mo. 1871.
Davies, Lieut. A. M., R.A. M.R.I, (the Autlwr)—Meteoric Theory of Saturn's
      Rings ; and of the Sun. 8vo. 1871.
Editors—Academy for Feb. 1871. 4to.
   American Journal of Science, March, 1871. 8vo.
   Artizan for April, 1871. 4to.
   Athenaum for April, 1871. 4to.
   Chemical News for April, 1871. 4to.
   English Mechanic for April, 1871.
   Engineer for April, 1871. fol.
   Horological Journal for April, 1871. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for April, 1871. 4tw.
   Mechanics' Magazine for April, 1871. 8vo.
   Nature for April, 1871. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for April, 1871. 8vo.
   Photographic News for April, 1871. 4to.
   Scientific Review for April, 1871. fol.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 540, 541. 8vo. 1871.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, No. 15. 8vo. 1871.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jnhrbuch, 1870. No. 4. 8vo.
   Verhandlungen, 1870. No. 13. 8vo.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 106. 8vo. 1871.
Institution of Mechanical Engineers—Proceedings, Jan. 1871. 8vo.
London Institution—Journal, No. 4. 8to. 1871.
Meteorological Office.—Quarterly Weather Report, 1S69. rV. 4to. 1870.
Meteorological Society—Proceedings, Nos. 53, 54. 8vo. 1871.
N. A. V. (the Autfurr)—Patent Law and Practice. 16mo. 1871.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 224. 8vo. 1871.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Jan. Feb. Marz, 1871.
     8vo.
Roberts, W. Chandler, Esq. M.R.I.— First Annual Report of the Deputy-Master
     of the Mint. 8vo. 1871.
   Report on Brittle Gold, &o. 8vo. 1871.
Royal Society of London - Proceedings, Nos. 127. 8vo. 1871.
Squire, Peter, Esq. F.C.S. M.R.I, (tlie Author)—Companion to the British Phar
     macopoeia. 8th ed. 8vo. 1871.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXIV. Part 1. 8vo. 1871.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     April, 1871. ovo.
 Tyndall, John, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Fragments of Science for Un
     scientific People. 8vo. 1871.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Appendix. 8vo. 1871.
Zennaro, Dr. S.—Etude but le Chelera ; Constantinople, 1865. 8vo. 1870.

1871.]                 Col. Jervois on Defensive Policy.               335
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 12, 1871.
       Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.Il.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                Col. W. F. Drummond Jebvois, E.E. C.B.
                  On the Defensive Policy of Great Britain.
During the year 1869, tho total tonnage of British and foreign
vessels entered and cleared at ports of the United Kingdom was no
 less than 34,910,281, of the total value of 532,475,266Z. Of this
 enormous trade, a large proportion is of the last importance, not only
 to the prosperity, but to the very life of the country. Grain and
 flour to the value of thirty-seven millions sterling wero imported in
 1869. Whatever may happen, it is absolutely necessary that this
 trade should not be altogether stopped. Some millions' worth of
 foreign corn we must have, or we shall starve.
      There is a trade of about 98 millions with the northern and the
 western countries of Europe ; of 72J millions with the countries
 bordering the Mediterranean ; of 83 millions with India and the east,
 of which a portion also passes through the Mediterranean ; of 1 1
 millions with Africa and the Mauritius ; and of 25 millions with
 Australasia. Turning to the westward, wo have a trade of 51.V millions
  with the West Indies, Central and South America, and of no less
 than 80 millions with the United States and our Colonies in North
  America
      We must have swift and powerfully-armed vessels adapted to cope
 with the cruisers which would be launched against our trading ships,
  and armour-plated men-of-war to meet external attacks which might
  be made against foreign territories under British rule.
      In connection with the necessity for tho maintenance of naval
  squadrons abroad, it is of paramount importance to defend effec
  tually the foreign stations at which our cruisers must be coaled and
  repaired
      Malta and Gibraltar for the Mediterranean,—Halifax and Bermuda
  for the Atlantic, —Port Royal, Jamaica, from its position with reference
  to the West Indies and the Gulf of Mexico,—Bombay and Aden,—
  Simon's Bay, at the Cape of Good Hope,—Port Louis, Mauritius, —
  a harbour in Ceylon,—Singapore,—Hong Kong,—and some other
  ports, are, in military language, the strategical bases for our foreign
  squadrons.
      The defences of several of our important Colonial Stations are being
  provided for by the respective Colonies themselves. But they cannot

336                        Col. Drummond Jervois                  [May 12,
yet take part in their external protection, and this we acknowledge
that it is our duty to afford.
     One most important function the Navy has to perform is to keep
open the ports of the United Kingdom for the ingress and egress of
our merchant-ships. Unless the shipping of the Thames, the Mersey,
the Clyde, and numerous other ports bo free to come and go, it will
be of little avail to protect our foreign possessions. The measures
adopted sheuld of course be suited to the circumstances of each
locality. As regards fixed defences on shere, an idea is prevalent that
earthwork batteries could easily be extemporized for the protection
of our Commercial Ports, but to anyone whe is aware of the nature of
 the appliances of a modern battery, intended for defence against attack
by the powerful guns and ships of the present day, such proposals are
 known to be utterly delusive. Sometimes the defence of a port can be
 whelly provided for by shere batteries, supplemented by torpedoes ;
 sometimes it is best to provide for it partly by shere batteries and
 partly by turret-vessels and gunboats, aided by torpedoes ; and in other
 cases it may be desirable to employ floating batteries only in the defence.
     As regards garrisons for the works defending our Commercial
Harbours, besides the Militia, we have large bodies of Volunteer
 Artillery at most of our seaports. These, if trained to the service of
 heavy rifled guns, by a few experienced Royal Artillerymen who
 sheuld be stationed at each place, and whe sheuld have charge of the
 works and armaments, would be theroughly efficient for the service of
 the guns in the batteries. Witheut such batteries, these Artillerymen
 are like infantry witheut rifles, and are useless. On the other hand,
 if the batteries were provided, they would form a very important
 element in our arrangements for defence.
     Whilst these would man the land batteries, the gun-boats might
be manned by local seamen, under Naval Officers. A few Military
Engineers would be required for the working of torpedoes, the stores
for which do not deteriorate by keeping, and sheuld always be ready
on the spot. The Defence of the Commercial Ports would thus be
complete
     Our maritime frontier must be placed—it is to a great extent already
 placed—in a condition for defence. We have what I may call naval
 entrenched camps on the Southern Coast of the kingdom at Ports
 mouth and Plymouth, at Portland, at Pembroke, at Chatham, Dover,
 and Cork. A large fortified harbour on the Eastern Coast is still
 wanted. In the late discussions in Parliament, the proposal for a
 harbour at Filey Bay was discussed as if it were solely required as
 a refuge for the mercantile marine ; but such a harbour, if fortified,
 would be the Portland of the Eastern Coast. From these naval
 entrenched camps our squadrons for the Coast Defence would issue
 for the protection of the adjacent sheres ; upon them our fleet might
 retire in security if assailed by superior force. The fortifications of

- 1871.]            on the Defensive Policy of Great Britain.           337
  Buch places protect the basins, the docks, the factories, the stores, the
  coaling and victualling establishments, the magazines, the anchorages
  for our Navy, and when properly garrisoned they render them perfectly
  secure against attack.
       Some other harbours, such as Harwich and Newhaven, would also
  form valuable points d'appui for gun-boats and light-draught vessels,
  acting for the defence of the coast ; and for this as well as for another
  reason, viz. that they would be good bases of operation for an enemy,
  they are being fortified ; indeed a strong fort, which will completely
  protect the harbour at Newhaven, is just completed.
       The Humber, which in addition to its value as a commercial port
  is a harbour of strategical importance, should also be strongly de
  fended; and the several anchorages within certain limits, in which
  an enemy's fleet might lie, with a view to ulterior operations, should,
  where practicable, be denied to him, by some powerful guns placed in
  small secure forts;
       There are several minor harbours, viz. Poole, Chichester, Little-
  hampton, Shoreham, Folkestone, Eye, Ramsgate, the Blackwater, &c,
  which though only tidal, would form very convenient places for an
  enemy to land his artillery, horses, and stores. These ought to be
  defended by a small strong work at each, to prevent their seizure
  by an enemy, and thus the operations of an invading force would be
  restricted to the open beach, and rendered liable to interruption from
  bad weather
       As regards the Regular army, it is generally considered that
  we should maintain a comparatively small force, complete in all its
  branches, and that after having received a thorough training in this
  army, men should be passed to a Reserve, by means of which, on occa
  sion requiring, the available regular force may be largely increased.
  Some propose that the Militia shall be reorganized, and more or less
  connected with the regiments of the regular army. With regard to
  the Volunteers, every possible encouragement and assistance should
  be afforded to bring these forces up to such a standard of efficiency as
  will enable them to fulfil properly the role assigned to them in
  National Defence
      Let us consider the plan of operations which an invader would be
  likely to adopt. There can be no doubt but that his great object
  would be to march upon London, and with this view his main descent
  would be upon our Eastern or Southern shores. If Portsmouth and
  Plymouth were not fortified to landward, he might detach a corps to
  burn the ships and naval establishments at one of these places. The
  fortifications of these places, however, garrisoned by Auxiliary Forces,
  with a nucleus of well-trained troops, would render these great arsenals
  secure. The enemy might make a feint, perhaps an attack, by a corps
  directed upon Ireland. In any case we must leave a large body of
  troops there. Perhaps, instead of a descent upon Ireland, he might
  send a corps to the Yorkshire or Lincolnshire coast, in addition to the
     Vol. VI. (No. 55.)                                        2 a

338                      Col. Drummond Jervois                 [May 12,
main attack upon the Eastern or Southern coast. He would thus a;
least distract the attention of our defensive forces, and possibly this
subsidiary attack might turn out to be one of great importance.
    You will observe that if he succeeded in making good a landing
with a corps at or somewhere near the Humber, he would be in a posi
tion to march upon the great seats of manufacture, and a successful
advance against Manchester, Liverpool, Sheffield, and other places in
the same quarter, would probably result in enormous requisitions being
levied upon these seats of wealth and manufacturing industry.
    In view of an operation of this description, the defence of the
Humber, to which I have before adverted, and the establishment of a
" Central Arsenal," which should probably be somewhere near Shef
field (in preference to Cannock Chase, where it has hitherto been
proposed to place it), are both matters of very great importance.
    At the same time that an attack or a feint was made on the North-
Eastern Counties, the landing of the main invading force might be
effected on the Eastern or on the Southern coast with a view of march
ing upon London.
    Until it be clearly seen whether the attempt to the Northward
was a feint or a real attack, we must keep a force there to meet it
When the line of the attack from the Southward was fully de
veloped, we should concentrate upon it, and dispute the possession of
the soil, as far as practicable ; of course bringing down the force
from the north if not required there. The whole of the active army,
except the force in Ireland, and such portions as must be detached for
the nucleus of each of the garrisons of our Naval Arsenals and other
fortresses, should be brought together to oppose the advance on London.
    All railway arrangements for the ready transport of troops would
be made by the Military Staff, in concert with the managers of the
several lines. The telegraph lines are now in the hands of the
Government, and would therefore be worked by the same employes as
at present.
    Temporary works, on the probable or expected fields of battle,
would be thrown up between London and the Coast ; these would be
executed by bodies of workmen, organized under the Civil Engineer
Staff Corps, and under the direction of Military Engineers, by whom
the plans would have been previously prepared. The number of men
and tools, as well as the time required for forming each work, would
have been previously calculated.
    Roads would be broken up, obstacles across them created, railways
destroyed, and we should probably fight a pitched battle either on
the ranges of chalk hills in Kent or Surrey, near Chelmsford, or in
some chosen positions elsewhere.
    Fight, no doubt, we should with fury, but we might be beaten ! !
If so the enemy marches straight into London. Our army might
retire upon the fortified entrenched camp at Portsmouth, on the one
hand, or upon the fortified Central Arsenal, if we had one, on the
other ; but with London in the hands of the enemy, what then ?

1871.]             on the Defensive Policy of Great Britain.                     339
     Some say even if London were occupied by a hostile army, we
should still continue the struggle. Look, they say, at the case of
Madrid in the Peninsular War 1 Look at Moscow in 1812 ! Look
at Vienna in the wars of the beginning of this century.
     But it is almost besido the question to compare these cases, or
that of Berlin and other capitals, except Paris, with that of London.
The fall of London would render further resistance impossible. With
London in the hands of an enemy, then the seat of Government, the
heart of the Empire, the centre of all commerce, the focus of our
communications, our Government Factories at Woolwich for guns,
gun-carriages, munitions, stores (the only Government manufacturing
arsenal we possess), the great Naval Arsenal at Chatham, too (which
is unfortified to landward), all fall into his hands ! ! There would bo
a collapse of commerce, of government, and of order, from which
there might be no recovery.
     What shall the measures of precaution be ?
     The Duke of Wellington, in his memorable letter of January,
1847, said, " I know of no mode of resistance, much less of protection,
" from this danger except by an army in the field capable of meeting
" and contending with its formidable enemy, aided by all the means
" of fortifications which experience in war and science can suggest."
     As regards the Army, I believe that if the regular and other forces
which it is proposed to maintain, be trained, so as to be efficient for
the duties they may be liable to perform, and if, to use the Duke of
Wellington's words, they be " aided by all the means of fortifications
" which experience in war and science can suggest," the defence of
the country against invasion will be fully provided for.
     Without the aid of fortifications, I submit that it will not be pos
sible, unless compulsory service be resorted to, to organize and main
tain an army capable of affording that complete security, to obtain
which our military expenditure is incurred.
     In this country, on account of its expense and the withdrawal of
men from industrial pursuits, which it involves, there is great repug
nance to a large standing army.
     The cost of fortifications is very small when compared with that
of the maintenance of regular troops. The capital cost of an addition
of only 5000 men to our regular army may be stated as follows :—
       5000 men, with barracks and non-effective          £              £
          charges, at 601. per man per annum       . . 300 , 000
       Capitalized at 3| per cent                                  9 , 000 , 000
       Productive labour of 5000 men lost by their
          being converted into soldiers, say 30/. per
          annum                                        150,000
        Capitalized at 3$ per cent                                 i , 500 , 000
            Total cost of 5000 regular troops                    £13,500,000
     Now, an augmentation of 5000 men to our regular army is scarcely
                                                                      2 a 2

  340                 Col. Jervois on Defensive Policy.           |May 12,
 worth mentioning as a contribution to the increase of our defensive
  power, whereas the cost of this addition, if applied to fortification,
  would, with the forces already proposed to be maintained, for ever
 settle the question of the invasion of England
      The expense of the necessary permanent fortifications around the
 metropolis would be about eight millions sterling. Add to this the
 cost of the Central Arsenal and of the works required for the protec
 tion of the seaports at heme and abroad above referred to, and the
 whele expense, including armaments, would not be so great as the
 capital cost of 5000 regular troops. The expense of the mainte
 nance of fortifications is but trifling, and we already have more than
 an abundance of forces capable of manning them.
     The works for the defence of London sheuld be permanent ; and
 provided with plenty of bomb-proof cover and deep well-flanked
 ditches. They sheuld be impregnable against assault, and the ram
 parts sheuld be constructed so as to render the artillery therein secure
 against being silenced by the enemy's fire.
     As regards the question where the works sheuld be, there are two
 principles which have to be considered. One may be called the
 indirect, the other the direct system.
     The indirect plan is, to construct at a distance of 20 or 30 miles
from London, three or four fortified entrenched camps ; one at Chat
ham (where, in any case, the works proposed by the Defence Com
mission for the defence of the Naval Arsenal sheuld be carried out),
one west, another north, and another south of London. The direct
plan is, to construct a series of detached forts, crossing fire with each
other, and from about 2000 to 3000 yards apart, according to the
circumstances of the locality, all round London, at a distance of about
12 miles from its centre.
     The principle on which the indirect system is advocated is, that
each entrenched camp, or strategical fortress, would be capable of con
taining a large force which might act on the flank or rear of an enemy,
and threaten his communications if he passed it ; and that an invader
would therefore be obliged to sit down and besiege it, or to employ a
large force to mask it, before he could proceed on his march to London.
     A system of purely strategical fortresses, such as we are discussing,
would be inoperative unless the forces acting from them were fully
equipped, theroughly trained, and disciplined troops. Even admitting
that we had sufficient forces of this description capable of taking the
field, the safety of London would still be dependent on the result of
a general action
     Now, the direct system of defence would absolutely cover London ;
and the whele adult male population, as also the enormous resources
of all kinds within the line of the proposed forts, could be drawn upon
for the defence at any part of the circle. A ring of about fifty works
would at every point afford a strong fortified battle-field twelve miles
from the centre of London

 1871.]           Professor Huxley on Bishop Berkeley.                 341
     The perimeter of the line of fortifications being more than
 seventy-five miles in extent, it is impossible that it could be invested.
 The circle of the forts round Paris is less than thirty miles, and it
 took a quarter of a million of troops to invest it. To invest London,
 if defended as proposed, would require an army of 700,000 men.
 The distance of the works from London would bo greater than
 necessary to protect even tho suburbs from bombardment.
     Paris held out for five months, and then only gavo in from want
 of food,—the bombardment did not hasten the surrender for one heur.
 If Bazaine's army had retired upon Paris instead of remaining at
 Metz after the battle of Woerth ; if MacMahon had gone to Paris or
 to Orleans instead of to Sedan ; or if Metz had held out for a fort
 night longer than it did, the result of the late war would have been
 very different from what it was. Paris would have been relieved, and
 the Germans would have been in a most critical position. The works
 round London, if we were invaded, and the army defeated in the field,
 would enable us to retrieve the fortunes of England !
                                                         [W. F. D. J.J
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Monday, May 19, 1871.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. P.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                       Professor Huxley, F.R.S.
          On Bishop Berkeley and the Metaphysics of Sensation.
In his introductory remarks, Professor Huxley commended the new
edition of ' Berkeley's Works, with his Life,' by Professor Fraser, as
for the first time doing justice to the subtle and penetrating mind
of one of the noblest and purest figures of his time, and highly
esteemed by his illustrious contemporaries. Berkeley lived at a very
remarkable epoch in our intellectual history (1684-1753), when the
political fermentation of the preceding age was gradually working
itself out ; domestic peace gave men time to think ; and toleration
permitted great freedom of speech and writing. The great faculty
of our race for physical and metaphysical inquiry consequently
developed itself vigorously ; and two of its most permanently in
fluential products were—English Freethinking, and the Theory of
Gravitation : results of intellectual impulses which derived their
origin from Herbert, Hobbes, Bacon, and especially from Descartes.
The Cartesian doubt—the maxim that assent may properly bo giTen

 342                  Professor Huxley on Bishop Berkeley                   [May 19,
to no propositions but such as are perfectly clear and distinct—
 became incarnate, so to speak, in Anthony Collins, Toland, Tindal,
 and Pierre Bayle, and reached its final term in Hume.
     On the other hand, although the theory of Gravitation set aside
 the Cartesian vortices—yet the spirit of the ' Principes de Philosophic'
attained its apotheosis when Newton demonstrated all the host of
heaven to be but the elements of a vast mechanism, regulated by the
same laws as those which govern the falling of a stone to the ground.
 There is a passage in the preface to the first edition of the ' Principia'
 which shows that Newton was penetrated, as completely as Descartes,
 with the belief that all the phenomena of nature are expressible in
 terms of matter and motion. . . .
      But the doctrine that all the phenomena of nature are resolvable
 into mechanism is what people have agreed to call " materialism " ;
and when Locke and Collins maintained that matter may possibly be
able to think, and Newton himself could compare infinite space to the
sensorium of the Deity, it was not wonderful that the English philo
 sophers should be attacked as they were by Leibnitz in the famous
letter to the Princess of Wales, which gave rise to his correspondence
 with Clarke. . . . The phenomena of nature were held to be resolv
 able into the attractions and the repulsions of particles of matter ;
all knowledge was attained through the senses ; the mind antecedent
to experience was a tabula rasa. In other words, the character of
speculative thought in England at the commencement of the eighteenth
century was essentially sceptical, critical, and materialistic
     George Berkeley was destined to give the same kind of develop
ment to the idealistic side of Descartes' philosophy that the Free
thinkers hod given to its sceptical side and the Newtonians to its
mechanical side. He said to the materialists : " You tell me that aU
the phenomena of nature are resolvable into matter and its affections.
I assent to your statement, and now I put to you the further question,
' What is matter ? ' In answering this question you shall be bound
by your own conditions ; and I demand, in the terms of the Cartesian
axiom, that in turn you give your assont only to such conclusions as
are perfectly clear and obvious."
     It is this great argument which is worked out in the 'Treatise
concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge,' and in those ' Dia
logues between Hylas and Philonous,' which rank among the most
exquisite examples of English style, as well as among the subtlest of
metaphysical writings ; and the final conclusion of which is summed
up in a passage remarkable alike for literary beauty and for calm
audacity of statement.
    " Some truths there are so near and obvious to the mind that a man need only
open his eycx to see them. Such I take this important one to be, viz. that all the
choir of heaven and furniture of the earth—in a word, all those bodies whioh
compose tho mighty frame of the world—have not any substance without a mind :
that their being is to be perceived or known ; that consequently, so long as they
nre not actually perceived by me, or do not exist in my mind or that of any other
created spirit, they must either have no existence at all or else subsist in the mind

 1871.]                and the Metaphysics of Sensation.                     343
of some eternal spirit; it being perfectly unintelligible, and involving all the
absurdity of abstraction, to attribute to any single part of them an existence
independent of a spirit."—Treatise concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge,
Parti., §6.
     Doubtless this passage sounds like the acme of metaphysical
paradox, and we all know that " coxcombs vanquished Berkeley with
a grin " ; while common-sense folk refuted him by stamping on the
ground or some such other irrelevant proceeding. But the key to all
philosophy lies in the clear apprehension of Berkeley's problem—
which is neither more nor less than one of the shapes of the greatest
of all questions, " What are the limits of our faculties ? " And it is
worth any amount of trouble to comprehend the exact nature of the
argument by which Berkeley arrived at his results, and to know by
one's own knowledge the great truth which he discovered—that the
honest and rigorous following up of the argument which leads us to
materialism, inevitably carries us beyond it.
     Suppose that I accidentally prick my finger with a pin. I imme
diately become aware of a condition of my consciousness—a feeling
which I term pain. I have no doubt whatever that the feeling is in
myself alone; and if anyone were to say that the pain I feel is
something which inheres in the needle, as one of the qualities of the
substance of the needle, we should all laugh at the absurdity of the
phraseology. In fact, it is utterly impossible to conceive pain except
as a state of consciousness.
     Hence, so far as pain is concerned, it is sufficiently obvious that
Berkeley's phraseology is strictly applicable to our power of conceiv
ing its existence —" its being is to be perceived or known," and " so
long as it is not actually perceived by me, or does not exist in my
mind, or that of any other created spirit, it must either have no
existence at all, or else subsist in the mind of some eternal spirit."
.... So much for pain. And the same reasoning applies to all the
other simple sensations
    It is undoubtedly true that, as Berkeley says, their " esse is percipi "
—their being is to be " perceived or known." But that which perceives,
or knows, is mind or spirit ; and therefore that knowledge which the
senses give us is, after all, a knowledge of spiritual phenomena.
     All this was explicitly or implicitly admitted, and, indeed, insisted
upon, by Berkeley's contemporaries, and by no one more strongly
than by Locke, who terms smells, tastes, colours, sounds, and the like,
" secondary qualities," and observes, with respect to these " secondary
qualities," that " whatever reality wo by mistake attribute to them
 [they] are in truth nothing in the objects themselves." ....
     Thus far then materialists and idealists are agreed. Locke and
Berkeley, and all logical thinkers who have succeeded them, are of
one mind about secondary qualities— their being is to be perceived or
known—their materiality is, in strictness, a spirituality.
    But Locke draws a great distinction between the secondary quali
ties of matter, and certain others which he terms " primary qualities."

344                Professor Huxley on Bishop Berkeley            [May 19,
These are extension, figure, solidity, motion and rest, and number;
and he is as clear that these primary qualities exist independently of
the mind, as he is that the secondary qualities have no such existence.
.... He is as thoroughgoing a realist as St. Anselm. In Berkeley,
on the other hand, we have as complete a representative of the nomi
nalists and conceptualists—an intellectual descendant of Eoscellinus
and of Abelard. And by a curious irony of fate, it is the nominalist
who is, this time, the champion of orthodoxy, and the realist that of
heresy.
     Once more let us try to work out Berkeley's principles for our
selves, and inquire what foundation there is for the assertion that
extension, form, solidity, and the other " primary qualities," have an
existence apart from mind. And for this purpose let us recur to our
experiment with the pin.
     It has been seen that when the finger has been pricked with a pin,
a state of consciousness arises which we call pain ; and it is admitted
that this pain is not a something which inheres in the pin, but a
something which exists only in the mind, and has no similitude else
where.
     But a little attention will show that this state of consciousness is
accompanied by another, which can by no effort be got rid of. I not
only have the feeling, bHt the feeling is localized. I am j nst as
certain that the pain is in my finger, as I am that I have it at all. Nor
will any effort of the imagination enable me to believe that the pain
is not in my finger. And yet nothing is more certain than that it is
not, and cannot be in the spot in which I feel it, nor within a couple
of feet of that spot. For the. skin of the finger is connected by a
bundle of fine nervous fibres, which run up the whole length of the
arm, with the spinal marrow and brain, and we know that the feeling
of pain caused by the prick of a pin is dependent on the integrity of
those fibres. If they be cut through close to the spinal cord, no pain
 will be felt, whatever injury is done to the finger ; and if the ends
 which remain in connection with the cord be pricked, the pain which
arises will appear to have its seat in the finger just as distinctly as
 before. Nay, if the whole arm be cut off, the pain which arises from
 pricking the nerve stump will appear to be seated in the fingers, just
 as if they were still connected with the body.
     It is perfectly obvious, therefore, that the localization of the pain
at the surface of the body is an act of the mind. It is an extradition
of that consciousness, which has its seat in the brain, to a definite
 point of the body—which takes place without our volition, and may
 give rise to ideas which are contrary to fact. We might call this
 extradition of consciousness a reflex feeling, just as we speak of a
 movement which is excited apart from, or contrary to, our volition, as
 a reflex motion. Locality is no more in the pin than pain is ; of the
 former, as of the latter, it is true that " its being is to be perceived,"
 and that its existence apart from a thinking mind, is not conceivable.
     The foregoing reasoning will be in no way affected, if, instead of

1871.]                 and the Metaphysics of Sensation.                345
pricking the finger, the point of the pin rests gently against it, so as
to give rise merely to a tactile sensation. The tactile sensation is
inferred outwards to the point touched, and seems to exist there. But
it is certain that it is not and cannot he there really, because the
"brain is the sole seat of consciousness ; and, further, because evidence,
as strong as that in favour of the sensation being in the finger, can be
"brought forward in support of propositions which are manifestly
absurd.
      For example, the hairs and nails are utterly devoid of sensibility,
as every one knows. Nevertheless, if the ends of the nails or hairs
are touched, ever so lightly, we feel that they are touched, and the
sensation seems to be situated in the nails or hairs. Nay more, if a
walking-stick a yard long is held firmly by the handle and the other
end is touched, the tactile sensation, which is a state of our own con
 sciousness, is unhesitatingly referred to the end of the stick ; and yet
 no one will say that it is there.
      Let us now suppose that, instead of one pin's point resting against
 the end of my finger, there are two. Each of these can be known to
 me, as we have seen, only as a state of a thinking mind, referred out
 wards, or localized. But the existence of these two states, somehow
 or other, generates in my mind a host of new ideas, which did not
 make their appearance when only one state was present.
      For example, I get the ideas of co-existence, of number, of distance,
 and of relative place or direction. But all these ideas are ideas of
 relations, and imply the existence of something which perceives those
 relations. If a tactile sensation is a state of the mind, and if the
 localization of that sensation is an act. of the mind, how is it con
 ceivable that a relation between two localized sensations should exist
 apart from the mind ? It is, I confess, quite as easy for me to imagino
  that redness may exist apart from a visual sense, as it is to suppose
 that co-existence, number, and distance can have any existence apart
 from the mind of which they are ideas.
      Thus it seems clear that the existence of some, at any rate, of
 Liocke's primary qualities of matter, such as number and extension,
 apart from mind, is as utterly unthinkable as the existence of colour
 and sound under like circumstances.
      "Will tho-others, namely, figure, motion and rest, and solidity, with
  stand a similar criticism ? I think not. For all these, like the fore
  going, are perceptions by the mind of the relations of two or more
  sensations to one another
      If freedom to move in all directions is the very essence of that
  conception of space of three dimensions which we obtain by the sense
  of touch ; and if that freedom to move is really another name for the
  feeling of unopposed effort, accompanied by that of change of placo,
  it is surely impossible to conceive of such space as having existence
  apart from that which is conscious of effort.
      But it may be said that we derive our conception of space of three
  dimensions not only from touch, but from vision ; that if we do not

 346                   Professor Huxley on Bishop Berkeley                   |May 19,
 feel things actually outside us, at any rate we see them. And it was
 exactly this difficulty which presented itself to Berkeley at the outset
 of his speculations. He met it, with characteristic boldness, by deny
 ing that we do see things outside us ; and, with no less characteristic
 ingenuity, by devising that " New Theory of Vision " which has met
 with wider acceptance than any of his views, theugh it has been the
 subject of continual controversies.
       In the ' Principles of Human Knowledge,' Berkeley himself tells
 us hew he was led to these views which he published in the ' Essay
 towards the New Theory of Vision.'
     "It will be objected that we see things actually without, or at a distance from
 us, and which consequently do not exist in the mind ; it being absurd that these
 things which are seen at the distance of several miles, sheuld be as near to us as
 our own theughts. In answer to this, I desire it may be considered that in a
 dream we do oft perceive things as existing at a great distance off, and yet, for all
 that, these things are acknowledged to have their existence only in the mind.
      "But for the fuller clearing of this point, it may be worth while to consider how
 it is that we perceive distance and things placed at a distance by sight. For that
 we should in truth see external spaco and bodies actually existing in it, some
 nearer, others further off, seems to carry with it somo opposition to what hath been
 said of their existing nowhere witheut the mind. The consideration of this diffi
 culty it was that gave birth to my 'Essay towards the New Theory of Vision,'
 which was published not long since, wherein it is shewn that distance or outness
 is neither immediately of itself perceived by sight, nor yet apprehended or judged
 of by lines and angles or anything that hath any necessary connection with it ;
 but that it is only suggested to our thoughts by certain visible ideas and sensations
 attending vision, which, in their own nature, have no manner of similitude or
 relation either with distance, or with things placed at a distance ; but by a connec
 tion taught us by experience, they come to signify and suggest them to us, after
 the same manner, that words of any language suggest the ideas they are made to
 stand for ; insomuch that a man born blind and afterwards made to see, would not,
 at first sight, think the things he saw to be witheut his mind or at any distance
from him."
      The key-note of the Essay to which Berkeley refers in this passage
 is to be found in an italicized paragraph of section 127.
     " The extensions, figures, and motions perceived by sight are specifically distinct
from the ideas of touch called by the same names ; nor is there any such thing as an
 idea or kind of idea common to both senses."
      It will be observed that this proposition expressly declares that
 extension, figure, and motion, and consequently distance, are imme
 diately perceived by sight as well as by touch ; but that visual distance,
 extension, figure, and motion, are totally different in quality from the
 ideas of the same name obtained through the sense of touch. And
 other passages leave no doubt that such was Berkeley's meaning.
 Thus in the 112th section of the same Essay, he carefully defines the
two kinds of distance, one visual, the other tangible.
     "By the distance between any two poiuts nothing more is meant than the
number of intermediate points. If the given points are visible, the distance
between them is marked out by the number of interjacent visible points; if they
are tangible, the distance between them is a line consisting of tangible points."

1871.]                       and the Metaphysics of Sensation.                        347
          Again, there are two sorts of magnitude or extension :—
        *' It has been shown that there are two sorts of objects apprehended by sight,
each whereof has its distinct magnitude or extension : the one properly tangible,
« - e. to be perceived and measured by touch, and not immediately falling under
the sense of seeing; the other properly and immediately visible, by mediation of
which the former is brought into view."—§ 55.
          But how are we to reconcile these passages with others which will
lie perfectly familiar to every reader of the ' New Theory of Vision ' ?
 A_s, for example :—
        " It is, I think, agreed by all, that distance of itself, and immediately, cannot
be seen."—§ 2.                   ,
        " Spaco or distance, we have shown, is not otherwise the object of sight than of
 hearing."—§ 130.
        " Distance is in its own nature imperceptible, and yet it is perceived by sight.
 It remains, therefore, that it is brought into view by means of some other idea,
 that is itself immediately perceived in the act of vision."—§ 11.
         " Distance or external space."—§ 155.
          The explanation is quite simple, and lies in the fact that Berkeley
  uses the word " distance " in three senses. Sometimes he employs it
   to denote visible distance, and then he restricts it to distance in two
   dimensions, or simple extension. Sometimes he means tangible dis
   tance in two dimensions ; but most commonly he intends to signify
   tangible distance in the third dimension. And it is in this sense that
   he employs " distance " as the equivalent of " space." Distance in
   two dimensions is, for Berkeley, not space, but extension. By taking
    a pencil and interpolating the words " visible " and " tangible " before
    " distance " wherever the context renders them necessary, Berkeley's
    statements may be made perfectly consistent ; though he has not
    always extricated himself from the entanglement caused by his own
    loose phraseology, which rises to a climax in the last ten sections of
    the ' Theory of Vision,' in which he endeavours to prove that a pure
    intelligence able to see, but devoid of the sense of touch, could have
    no idea of a plane figure. Thus he says in section 156 :—
         " All that is properly perceived by the visual faculty amounts to no more than
    colours with their variations and different proportions of light and shade ; but the
     perpetual mutability and fleetingness of those immediate objects of sight render
     tliem incapable of being managed after the manner of geometrical figures, nor is it
     in any degree useful that they should. It is truu there be divers of them perceived
    at once, and more of some and less of others ; but accurately to compute their
    magnitude, and assign precise determinate proportions between things so variable
    and inconstant, if we suppose it possible to bo done, must yet be a very trifling and
     insignificant labour."
          If, by this, Berkeley means that by vision alone, a straight line
     cannot be distinguished from a curved one, a circle from a square, a
    long line from a short one, a large angle from a small one, his position
     is surely absurd in itself and contradictory to his own previously
    cited admissions ; if he only means, on the other hand, that his pure
     spirit could not get very far on in his geometry, it may be true or
     not ; but it is in contradiction with his previous assertion, that such a

348                   Professor Huxley on Bishop Berkeley                [May 19,
pure spirit could never attain to know as much as the first element
of plane geometry.
     Another source of confusion, which arises out of Berkeley's insnf-
ficient exactness in the use of language, is to be found in what he say*
about solidity in discussing Molyneux's problem, whether a man bore
blind, and haying learned to distinguish between a cube and a sphere,
could, on receiving his sight, tell the one from the other by viaus-
Berkeley agrees with Locke that he could not, and adds the following
reflection :—
    " Cube, sphere, table are words he has known applied to things perceivable by
touch, but to things perfectly intangible he never knew them applied. Tbsx
words in their wonted application always marked out to his mind bodies or sjoc
things which were perceived by the resistance they gave. But there is no solidiry.
no resistance or protrusion perceived by sight."
     Here " solidity " means resistance to pressure, which is appre
hended by the muscular sense ; but when in section 154 Berkeley
says of his pure intelligence—
    " It is certain that the aforesaid intelligence could have no idea of a solid or
quantity of three dimensions, which follows from its not having any idea of
distance"—
he refers to that notion of solidity which may be obtained by the tac
tile sense, without the addition of any notion of resistance in the solid
object ; as, for example, when the linger passes lightly over the surface
of a billiard ball.
     Yet another source of difficulty in clearly understanding Berkeley
arises out of his use of the word " outness." In speaking of touch he
seems to employ it indifferently, both for the localization of a tactile
sensation in the sensory surface, which we really obtain through
touch ; and for the notion of corporeal separation, which is attained
by the association of muscular and tactile sensations. In speaking of
 sight, on the other hand, Berkeley employs " outness " to denote
corporeal separation.
     When due allowance is made for the occasional looseness and
ambiguity of Berkeley's terminology, and the accessories are weeded
out of the essential parts of his famous Essay, his views may, I believe,
be fairly and accurately summed up in the following propositions :—
     1. The sense of touch gives rise to ideas of extension, figure,
magnitude, and motion.
     2. The sense of touch gives rise to the idea of " outness," in the
sense of localization.
     3. The sense of touch gives rise to the idea of resistance, and
thence to that of solidity, in the sense of impenetrability.
     4. The sense of touch gives rise to the idea of " outness," in the
sense of distance in the third dimension, and thence to that of space,
or geometrical solidity.
     5. The sense of sight gives rise to ideas of extension of figure,
magnitude, and motion.
     6. The sense of sight docs not give rise to the idea of " outness,"

1871.]               and the Metaphysics of Sensation.                349
in the sense of distance in the third dimension, nor to that of geo
metrical solidity, no visual idea appearing to be witheut the mind, or
at any distance off (§§ 43, 50).
      7. The sense of sight does not give rise to the idea of mechanical
solidity.
      8. There is no likeness whatever between the tactile ideas called
extension, figure, magnitude, and motion, and the visual ideas which
go by the same names ; nor are any ideas common to the two senses.
      9. When we think we see objects at a distance, what really happens
is that the visual picture suggests that the object seen has tangible
distance ; we cotffound the strong belief in the tangible distance of
the object with actual sight of its distance.
      10. Visual ideas, therefore, constitute a kind of language, by
which we are informed of the tactile ideas which will or may arise
in us.
      Taking these propositions into consideration seriatim, it may be
assumed that everyone will assent to the first and second ; and that
for the third and fourth we have only to include the muscular sense
under the name of sense of touch, as Berkeley did, in order to make it
quite accurate. Nor is it intelligible to me that anyone sheuld ex
plicitly deny the truth of the fifth proposition, theugh some of Berke
ley's supporters, less careful than himself, have done so. Indeed, it
must be confessed that it is only grudgingly, and as it were against
his will, that Berkeley admits that we obtain ideas of extension, figure,
and magnitude by pure vision, and that he more than half retracts the
admission ; while he absolutely denies that sight gives us any notion
of outness in either sense of the word, and even declares that " no
proper visual idea appears to be witheut the mind, or at any distanco
ofif." By " proper visual ideas," Berkeley denotes colours, and light,
and shade ; and, therefore, he affirms that colours do not appear to be
at any distance from us. I confess that this assertion appears to me
to be utterly unaccountable. I have made endless experiments on this
point, and by no effort of the imagination can I persuade myself, when
looking at a colour, that the colour is in my mind, and not at a " dis
tance off," theugh of courso I know perfectly well, as a matter of
reason, that colour is subjective. It is like looking at the sun setting,
and trying to persuade oneself that the earth appears to movo and not
the sun, a feat I have never been able to accomplish. Even when the
 eyes are shut, the darkness of which one is conscious, carries with it
 the notion of outness. One looks, so to speak, into a dark space.
 Common language expresses the common experience of mankind in
this matter. A man will say that a smell is in his nose, a taste in his
mouth, a singing in his ears, a creeping or a warmth in his skin ; but
if he is jaundiced, he does not say that he has yellow in his eyes, but
that everything looks yellow ; and if he is troubled with miiscce voli-
 lantes, he says, not that he has specks in his eyes, but that he sees
specks dancing before his eyes. In fact, it appears to me that it is the
 special peculiarity of visual sensations, that they invariably give rise

350                 Professor Huxley on Bishop Berkeley         [May 19.
to the idea of remoteness, and that Berkeley's dictum onght to be
reversed. For I think that anyone whe interrogates his consciousness
carefully will find that " every proper visual idea " appears to be with
out the mind and at a distance off.
     Not only does every visibile appear to be remote, but it has a
position in external space, just as a tangibile appears to be superficial
and to have a determinate position on the surface of the body. Every
visibile, in fact, appears (approximately) to be situated upon a line
drawn from it to the point of the retina on which its image falls. It
is referred outwards, in the general direction of the pencil of light
by which it is rendered visible, just as, in the experiment with the
stick, the tangibile is referred outwards to the end of the stick.
     It is for this reason that an object, viewed with both eyes, is seen
single and not double. Two distinct images are formed, but each
image is referred to that point at which the two optic axes intersect ;
consequently, the two images exactly cover one another, and appear
as completely one as any other two exactly similar superimposed
images would be. And it is for the same reason, that, if the ball of
the eye is pressed upon at any point, a spot of light appears apparently
outside the eye, and in a region exactly opposite to that in which the
pressure is made.
     But while it seems to me that there is no reason to doubt that the
extradition of sensation is more complete in the case of the eye than
in that of the skin, and that corporeal distinctness, and hence space,
are directly suggested by vision, it is another, and a much more
difficult question, whether the notion of geometrical solidity is at
tainable by pure vision ; that is to say, by a single eye, all the parts
of which are immovable. However this may be for an absolutely
fixed eye, I conceive there can be no doubt in the case of an eye that
is movable and capable of adjustment. For, with the movable eye,
the muscular sense comes into play in exactly the same way as in the
movable hand, and the notion of change of place, plus the sense of
effort, gives rise to a conception of visual space, which runs exactly
parallel with that of tangible space. When two movable eyes are
present, the notion of space of three dimensions is obtained in the
same way as it is by the two hands, but with much greater precision.
     And if, to take a case similar to one already assumed, we suppose
a man deprived of every sense except vision, and of all motion except
that of his eyes, it surely cannot be doubted that he would have
a perfect conception of space ; and indeed a much more perfect con
ception than he whe possessed touch alone witheut vision. But of
course our tout-bless man would be devoid of any notion of resistance ;
and hence space, for him, would be altogether geometrical and devoid
of body.
     And here another curious consideration arises, what likeness, if
any, would thero be between the visual space of the one man, and
the tangible space of the other ?
     Berkeley, as we have seen (in the eighth propesition), declares

1871.]                and the Metaphysics of Sensation.              351
that there is no likeness between the ideas given by sight and these
given by touch ; and one cannot but agree with him, so long as the
term ideas is restricted to mere sensations. Obviously, there is no
more likeness between the feel of a surface and the colour of it, than
there is between its colour and its smell. All simple sensations,
derived from different senses, are incommensurable with one another,
and only gradations of their own intensity are comparable. And
thus so far as the primary facts of sensation go, visual figure and
tactile figure, visual magnitude and tactile magnitude, visual motion
and tactile motion, are truly unlike, and have no common term.
But when Berkeley goes further than this, and declares that there
are no "ideas" common to the "ideas" of touch and these of sight,
it appears to me that he has fallen into a great error, and one which
is the chief source of his paradoxes about geometry.
     Berkeley in fact employs the word "idea" in this instance to
denote two totally different classes of feelings, or states of conscious
ness. For these may be divided into two groups, the primary feelings
 which exist in themselves and witheut relation to any other, such as
 pleasure and pain, desire, and the simple sensations obtained through
 the sensory organs ; and the secondary feelings, which express theso
 relations of primary feelings which are perceived by the mind ; and
 the existence of which, therefore, implies the pre-existence of at least
 two of the primary feelings. Such are likeness and unlikeness in
 quality, quantity, or form ; succession and contemporaneity; contiguity
 and distance ; cause and effect ; motion and rest.
     Now it is quite true that there is no likeness between the primary
 feelings which are grouped under sight and touch ; but it appears to
 me whelly untrue, and indeed absurd, to affirm that there is no like
 ness between the secondary feelings which express the relations of
 the primary ones.
      The relation of succession perceived between the visible taps of a
 hammer, is, to my mind, exactly like the relation of succession between
 the tangible taps ; the unlikeness between red and blue is a mental
 phenomenon of the same order as the unlikeness between rough and
 smooth. Two points visibly distant are so, because one or more units
 of visible length (minima visMlia) are interposed between them ;
 and as two points tangibly distant are so, because one or more units
 of tangible length (minima tangibilia) are interposed between them,
 it is clear that the notion of interposition of units of sensibility, or
 minima sensibilia, is an idea common to the two. And whether I see
 a point move across the field of vision towards another point, or feel
 the like motion, the idea of the gradual diminution of the number
 of sensible units between the two points appears to me to be common
 to both kinds of motion.
      Hence I conceive that theugh it be true that there is no likeness
 between the primary feelings given by sight and these given by
  touch, yet there is a complete likeness between the secondary feelings
  aroused by each sense.

  352               Professor Huxley on Bishop Berkeley           [May 19,
      Indeed, if it were not so, hew could logic, which deals with these
 forms of theught which are applicable to every kind of subject-matter,
 be possible ? How could numerical proportion be as true of visibilia,
 as of tawjibilia, unless there were some ideas common to the two ?
 And to come directly to the heart of the matter, is there any more
 difference between the relations between tangible sensations which we
 call place and direction, and these between visible sensations which go
 by the same name, than there is between these relations of tangible and
 visible sensations which we call succession ? And if there be none,
 why is geometry not just as much a matter of visibilia as of tangibilia t
      Moreover, as a matter of fact, it is certain that the muscular
 sense is so closely connected with both the visual and the tactile senses,
 that, by the ordinary laws of association, the ideas which it suggests
 must needs be common to both.
      From what has been said it will follow that the ninth proposition
 falls to the ground ; and that vision, combined with the muscular
 sensations produced by the movement of the eyes, gives us as com
 plete a notion of corporeal separation and of distance in the third
 dimension of space, as touch, combined with the muscular sensations
 produced by the movements of the hand, does. The tenth proposition
 seems to contain a perfectly true statement, but it is only half the
 truth. It is no doubt true that our visual ideas are a kind of language
 by which we are informed of the tactile ideas which may or will arise
 in us ; but this is true, more or less, of every sense in regard to every
 other. If I put my hand in my pocket, the tactile ideas which I
 recoive prophesy quite accurately what I shall see—whether a bunch
 of keys or half-a-crown—when I pull it out again ; and the tactile
 ideas are, in this case, the language which informs me of the visual
 ideas which will arise. So with the other senses ; olfactory ideas tell
me I shall find the tactile and visual phenomena called violets, if I
look for them ; taste tells me that what I am tasting will, if I look
at it, have the form of a clove ; and hearing warns me of what I
shall, or may, see and touch every minute of my life.
     But while the ' New Theory of Vision ' cannot bo considered to
possess much value in relation to the immediate object its auther had
in view, it had a vastly important influence in directing attention to
the real complexity of many of these phenomena of sensation, which
appear at first to be simple. And even if Berkeley was, as I imagine
he was, quite wrong in supposing that we do not see space, the contrary
doctrine makes quite as strongly for his general view, that space can
be conceived only as something theught by a mind.
     The last of Locke's " primary qualities " which remain to be con
sidered is mechanical solidity or impenetrability. But our conception
of this is derived from the sense of resistance to our own effort, or
active force, which we meet with, in association with sundry tactile or
visual phenomena; and, undoubtedly, active force is inconceivable
except as a state of consciousness. This may sound paradoxical ; but
let anyone try to realize what he means by the mutual attraction of

3.871.]                      and the Metaphysics of Sensation.                      353
two particles, and I think he will find, either, that he conceives them
simply as moving towards one another at a certain rate, in which case
lie only pictures motion to himself, and leaves force aside ; or, that
lie conceives each particle to be animated by something like his own
-volition, and to be pulling as he would pull
         To sum up. If the materialist affirms that tho universe and all its
phenomena are resolvable into matter and motion, Berkeley replies,
True ; but what you call matter and motion are known to us only as
forms of consciousness ; their being is to be conceived or known ; and
the existence of a state of consciousness, apart from a thinking mind,
is a contradiction in terms.
        I conceive that this reasoning is irrefragable. And therefore, if I
 ¦were obliged to choose between absolute materialism and absolute
 idealism, I should feel compelled to accept the latter alternative. And
 indeed, upon this point Locke does, practically, go as far in the
 direction of idealism as Berkeley, when he admits that " the simple
 ideas we receive from sensation and reflection are the boundaries of
 our thoughts, beyond which the mind, whatever efforts it would make,
 is not able to advance one jot."—Book II., chap, xxiii., § 29.
         But Locke adds, " Nor can it make any discoveries when it would
  pry into the nature and hidden causes of these ideas."
         Now, from this proposition, the thorough materialists dissent as
  much, on the one hand, as Berkeley does, upon the other hand.
         The thorough materialist asserts that there is a something which he
  calls the " substance " of matter ; that this something is the cause of
  all phenomena, whether material or mental ; that it is self-existent,
  and eternal, and so forth.
         Berkeley, on the contrary, asserts with equal confidence that there
  is no substance of matter, but only a substance of mind, which he
  terms spirit ; that there are two kinds of spiritual substance, the one
  eternal and uncreated, the substance of the Deity, the other created,
  and, once created, naturally eternal ; that the universe as known to
  created spirits, has no being in itself, but is the result of the action of
   the substance of the Deity on the substance of those spirits.
         In contradiction to which bold assertion Locke affirms that we
   simply know nothing about substance of any kind.*
        " So that if anyone will examine himself concerning his notion of pure substance
   in general, he will find he has no other idea of it at all, but only a supposition of
   he knows not what support of such qualities, which are capable of producing simple
   ideas in us, which qualities are commonly called accidents.
        "If anyone should be asked, what is the subject wherein colour or weight
   inheres ? he would have nothing to say but the solid extended parts ; and if he
   were demanded what is it that solidity and extension inhere in ? ho would not be
   in much better case than the Indian before mentioned, who urging that the world
   was supported by a great elephant, was asked what the elephant rested on? to
        * Berkeley virtually makes the same confession of ignorance, when he admits
    that we can have no idea or notion of a spirit (' Principles of Human Knowledge,'
    § 138); and the way in which he tries to escape the consequences of this admission,
    is a splendid example of the floundering of a mired logician.
                                                                            2 B

354                   Profesaor Huxley on Bishop Berkeley.                  [May 19,
which his answer was, a great tortoise. But being again pressed to know what
gave support to the broad-backed tortoise ? replied, something, he knew not what.
And thus here, as in all other cases when we use words without having clear and
distinct ideas, we talk like children, who, being questioned what such a thing is,
readily give this satisfactory answer, that it is something ; which in truth signi
fies no more when so used either by children or men, but that they know not what,
and that the thing they pretend to talk and know of is what they have no dis
tinct idea of at all, and are, so, perfectly ignorant of it and in the dark. The idea
then, we have, to which we give the general name substance, being nothing but
the supposed but unknown support of those qualities we find existing, which we
imagine cannot exist line re substmtte, witheut something to support them, we call
that support substantia, which, according to the true import of the word, is, in plain
English, standing under or uphelding." *
      I cannot bnt believe that the judgment of Locke is that which
philosophy will accept as her final decision.
      Suppose that a piano were conscious of sound and of nothing else?
It would become acquainted with a system of nature entirely composed
of sounds, and the laws of nature would be the laws of melody and of
harmony. It might acquire endless ideas of likeness and unlikeness, of
succession, of similarity and dissimilarity, but it could attain to no con
ception of space, of distance, or of resistance, or of figure, or of motion.
      The piano might then reason thus : All my knowledge consists of
sounds and the perception of the relations of sounds ; now the being
of sound is to be heard ; and it is inconceivable that the existence of
the sounds I know, sheuld depend upon any other existence than that
of the mind of a hearing being.
      This would be quite as good reasoning as Berkeley's, and very
sound and useful, so far as it defines the limits of the piano's faculties.
But for all that, pianos have an existence quite apart from sounds, and
the auditory consciousness of our speculative piano would be depen
dent, in the first place, on the existence of a " substance " of brass,
wood, and iron, and, in the second, on that of a musician. But of
neither of these conditions of the existence of his consciousness would
the phenomena of that consciousness afford him the slightest hint.
      So that while it is the summit of human wisdom to learn the limit
of our faculties, it may be wise to recollect that we have no more right
to make denials, than to put forth affirmatives about what lies beyond
that limit. Whether either mind, or matter, have a " substance " or
not, is a problem which we are incompetent to discuss ; and it is just
as likely that the common notions about the matter sheuld be correct
as any others. Indeed, Berkeley himself makes Fhilonous wind up
his discussions with Hylas in a couple of sentences which aptly express
this conclusion :—
    -' You see, Hylas, the water of yonder fountain, hew it is forced upwards in a
round column to a certain height, at which it breaks and falls back into the basin
from whence it rose ; its ascent as well as its descent proceeding from the same
uniform law or principle of gravitation. Just so, the same principles which, at
first view, lead to scepticism, pursued to a certain point, bring men back to
common sense."
                                                                        [T. H. H.]
           * Locke, ' Human Understanding,' Book H., chap, xxiii., § 2.

1871.]              Dr. Macquorn Sankine on Sen Wave$.                   355
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 26, 1871.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
             W. J. Macquorn Rankine, C.E. LL.D. F.R.S.
                               On Sea Waves.
The speaker in the first place gave a summary, illustrated by diagrams
and machines, of existing knowledge of the mode of motion of water
in waves, and of the geometrical and dynamical laws which govern the
relations between the depth of disturbance of the water, the velocity of
advance of waves, their periodic time, and their length. He referred
to the experimental and theoretical researches of previous authers on
the subject, such as the Webers, Airy, Scott Russell, Caligny, &c.
     He then explained the principle, of which Mr. Froude was the first
to point out the importance, that the action of water agitated by waves
upon a ship tends to make her perform the motions which would have
been performed in her absence by the mass of water that she displaces.
In still water, the forces of gravity and of buoyancy tend to keep the
ship upright, and if she has been heeled over, to restore her to the upright
position, and that tendency constitutes the statical stability or stiffness
of the ship. Amongst waves the same forces, combined with the
reactions due to the heaving motions of the water and of the ship, tend
to place her in the position called upright to the wave surface ; that is,
with her originally vertical axis normal to the wave surface. If the
ship yielded passively to that tendency, like a broad and shallow raft,
she would accompany the waves in their rolling ; and thus, a ship
having great stiffness may be very deficient in steadiness. Every ship
has, like a pendulum, a natural period of rolling, depending on her
stillness, or tendency to right herself, and her moment of inertia, being
a quantity depending on the distribution of her mass. Stifmess tends
to sherten, and inertia to lengthen, the period. It was shewn in 1862,
by Mr. Froude, that the greatest unsteadiness and the greatest danger
 of being overturned take place when the periodic times of rolling of
 the ship and of the waves are equal ; for then each successive wave
 adds to the extent of roll ; and if the coincidence of the periods were
 exact, the ship would inevitably be overturned in the end.
     In the course of the present spring it has been pointed out that in
 well-designed ships a safeguard exists against the occurrence of such
 disasters. It is well known that no pendulum is absolutely isochronous ;
 but great oscillations occupy a longer time than small oscillations. In
 like manner, no ship is absolutely isochronous in her natural rolling ;
                                                              2 r 2

356                                Dr. Andrews                           [Jane %
but groat angles of roll occupy longer periods than smalL* Hence, gup-
posing a ship to encounter waves of a period equal or nearly equal to
her own natural period for small angles of roll, her angle of rolling
is at first progressively increased ; but at the same time her natural
periodic time of rolling is increased, until it is no longer equal or
nearly equal £o the periodic time of the waves ; and thus she in i
manner eludes the danger arising from coincidence of periods. Ia
order, however, that this safeguard may act efficiently, it is essential
that the natural period of the ship for the smallest angles of roll should
not be less than the period of the waves ; otherwise the first effect of
the progressive increase of angle will be, not to destroy, bat to pro
duce coincidence of period ; and the result will be great unsteadiness
of motion, and possibly great danger.
    The speaker described the above principles as being the latest
additions to our knowledge of the theory of the relations betweeo
ships and sea-waves ; and he illustrated them by means of experiments
on a machine so constructed as to imitate the" dynamical condition of
a ship rolling amongst waves.
                                                                 [W. J. M. B.]
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, June 2, 1871.
     Sra Henby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
                       Thomas Andrews, M.D. F.R.8.
                     VICE-PRESIDENT OF QUEEN'S COLLEGE, BELFAST,
               On the Gaseous and Liquid States of Matter.
The liquid state of matter forms a link between the solid and gaseous
states. This link is, however, often suppressed, and the solid passes
directly into the gaseous or vaporous form. In the intense cold of an
Arctic winter hard ice will gradually change into transparent vapour
without previously assuming the form of water. Carbonic acid snow
passes rapidly into gas when exposed to the air, and can with diffi-
   * Note (added 2nd Jnne).—An exception to this role exists in the case of that
form of ship known as the " Symondite," in which the sides flare ont at and near
the water-line, so as to make the stiffness increase faster than the angle of heel.
In such ships the period of rolling shortens when the angle increases ; and thus
the well-known unsteadiness of large vessels of that model is accounted for. In
a small boat, whose natural periodic time for the smallest angle of roll is shorter
than that of any of the waves which she encounters, the Symondite model does
not promote unsteadiness; for the shortening of the natural period of rolling
removes it farther from coincidence with the period of the waves.

1871.]            on the Gaseous and Liquid States of Matter.           357
cnlty be liquefied in open tubes. Its boiling point, as Faraday has
shown, presents the apparent anomaly of being lower in the ther-
mometric scale than its melting point ; a statement less paradoxical
than it may at first appear, if we remember that water can exist as
vapour at temperatures far lower than those at which it can exist as
liquid. Whether the transition be directly from solid to gaseous, or
from solid to liquid, and from liquid to gaseous, a marked change
of physical properties occurs at each step or break, and heat is
absorbed, as was proved long ago by Black, without producing
elevation of temperature. Many solids and liquids will for this
reason maintain a low temperature, even when surrounded by a white
hot atmosphere, and the remarkable experiment of solidifying water,
and even mercury, on a red-hot plate, finds thus an easy explanation.
The term spheroidal state, when applied to water floating on a
cushion of vapour over a red-hot plate, is however apt to mislead.
The water is not here in any peculiar state. It is simply water
evaporating rapidly at a few degrees below its boiling point, and all
its properties, even those of capillarity, are the properties of ordinary
water at 96-5 C. The interesting phenomena exhibited under these
conditions are due to other causes, and not to any new or peculiar
 state of the liquid itself. The fine researches of Dalton upon
vapours, and the memorable discovery by Faraday of the liquefaction
 of gases by pressure alone, finished the work which Black had begun.
 Our knowledge of the conditions under which matter passes abruptly
 from the gaseous to the liquid, and from the liquid to the solid state,
 may now be regarded as almost complete.
      In 1822 Cagniard de La Tour made some remarkable experiments,
 which Btill bear his name, and may be regarded as the starting-point
 of the investigations which form the chief subject of this address.
 Cagniard de La Tour's first experiments were made in a small
 Papin's digester, constructed from the thick end of a gun-barrel, into
 which he introduced a little alcohol and also a small quartz ball, and
 firmly closed the whole. On heating the gun-barrel with its contents
 over an open fire, and observing from time to time the sound pro
  duced by tho ball when the apparatus was shaken, he inferred that
  after a certain temperature was attained the liquid had disappeared.
  He afterwards succeeded in repeating the experiment in glass tubes,
  and obtained the following results :—An hermetically-sealed glass
  tube, containing sufficient alcohol to occupy two-fifths of its capacity,
  was gradually heated, when the liquid was seen to dilate, and its
  mobility at the same time to become gradually greater. After attain
  ing to nearly twice its original volume, the liquid completely disap
  peared, and was converted into a vapour so transparent that the tube
  appeared to be quite empty. On allowing the tube to cool, a very thick
  cloud was formed, after which the liquid reappeared in its former state.
      It is singular that in this otherwise accurate description, Cagniard
  de La Tour should have overlooked tho most remarkable appearance
  of all, the moving or flickering strife, which fill tho tube when, after

358                           Dr. Andrews                         [June 2,
heating it considerably, the temperature is quickly lowered. This
phenomenon was first described by myself in 1863, as it is seen in
carbonic acid, which has been partially liquefied by pressure, and
afterwards heated a little above 31°. It may be observed on a larger
scale and to great advantage by heating such liquids as sulphurous
acid or ether in hermetically-sealed tubes.
     The experiments whese results I am about to describe have
occupied me for a period of fully ten years ; they involved the con
struction of novel forms of apparatus, in which the properties of
matter might be studied under varied conditions of temperature and
pressure, such as had never been realized before. In my earlier
attempts I endeavoured, as others had already done, to use the
expansive force of the mixed gases which are disengaged in the
electrolysis of water ; and I was able in this way to obtain pressures
 of 150 atmospheres and even more in glass tubes ; but the methed
 was in many respects defective, and more than one dangerous
 explosion occurred, so that I eventually abandoned it.
     In the apparatus finally adopted, the gas to be compressed is
enclosed in a long glass tube, of which the greater part of the length,
or about 450 millimetres, has a capillary bore, and the remainder,
about 150 millimetres, an internal diameter of 2 millimetres. The
free capillary end is sealed, while the gas in a pure and dry state is
passing through; while at the other end the gas is confined by a
movable column of mercury. The details of the methed by which
this is accomplished will be found in the Bakerian lecture for 1869,
to which I must also refer for an account of the process by which
the original volume of the gas at the freezing point of water and
under one atmosphere of pressure was determined, and also the
volumes of the same gas deduced from the observed measure
ments when it was compressed at different pressures in the capillary
tube.
     A conical protuberance on the capillary part of the tube, a little
 above its junction with the wider part, corresponded as nearly as pos
 sible with a hellow cone in a stout brass flange, the joint being
 rendered perfectly tight by careful packing. The body of the apparatus
 consisted of two cold-drawn copper tubes of great strength, to the ends
 of which four massive brass flanges were firmly attached. Two cor
 responding flanges or end pieces, each carrying a fine steel screw packed
 with great care, were bolted on the lower flanges. The success of the
 experiments depended greatly on the packing of this screw. It was
 effected by means of a number of leather washers, tightly pressed down
 and saturated in vacuo with melted lard. The apparatus was now filled
 with water ; the flanges with the glass tubes, one containing the gas to
 be examined, the other air or hydrogen to act as a manometer or
 measure of the pressure, were bolted down upon the upper flanges of
 the copper tubes. The joints had always leather washers intorposed ;
 and when sufficiently tightened, they resisted any pressure which could
 be applied, even for an indefinite time. The two copper tubes were

1871.]             on the Gaseous and Liquid States of Matter.          359
connected by a fine horizontal tube, bo that the whole of the interior of
the apparatus was in free communication. The pressure was obtained
by screwing one or other of the steel screws into the water. I have
recently had the apparatus constructed of iron and filled with mercury.
As mercury is much less compressible than water, the same length of
screw produces a greater pressure on the interior of the apparatus, even
with a larger cavity. There are other advantages in this form of the
apparatus which I hope will facilitate future research. The objection
to it is its extreme sensitiveness to changes of temperature, so that a
variation of y^th of a degree alters the internal pressure by several
atmospheres.
      In the actual experiments the gas under examination does not come
 into view till it has entered the capillary tube, and is exposed to a
 pressure of thirty or forty atmospheres. The limit of the pressure
 •which can be obtained has hitherto been the capacity of resistance of
 the glass tubes to bursting. Fine thermometer glass tubes of white
 glass will frequently burst when exposed to a pressure of little more
 than 100 atmospheres ; but green glass tubes of good quality are much
 stronger, and will easily bear a pressure of 300 atmospheres. One
 of the strongest forms of glass capillary tube for resisting internal
 pressure is obtained by drawing out a thick green glass tube, heated to
 softening, till it becomes so fine as to be flexible. Tubes of this kind
 can easily be drawn out at the blowpipe table, and obtained of very
 uniform bore. I have compressed air in such tubes to i^jth of its
  ordinary volume without bursting the tubes.
       Two rectangular brass cases, closed before and behind with plate-
  glass, surround, one the manometer, and the other the tube containing
  the gas to be examined, and allow them to be maintained at any
  required temperature by the flow of a stream of water. The manometer
  was maintained as nearly as possible at the temperature of the apart
  ment ; the tube containing the gas, on the contrary, was maintained at
  different temperatures, according to the object in view. The following
  observations, published in 1863, contain the results of my earliest
  experiments on this subject :—" On partially liquefying carbonic acid
  by pressure alone, and gradually raising the temperature at the same
  time to 88° Fahr., the surface of demarcation between the liquid and
   gas becomes fainter, loses its curvature, and at last disappears. The
   space is then occupied by a homogeneous fluid, which exhibits when the
   pressure is suddenly diminished or the temperature slightly lowered, a
   peculiar appearance of moving or flickering strife throughout its entire
   mass. At temperatures above 88° no apparent liquefaction, or separa
   tion into two distinct forms of matter, could be effected, even when a
   pressure of 300 or 400 atmospheres was applied. Nitrous oxide gave
   analogous results."
       The flickering strite referred to can be admirably shown, as I
   mentioned before, in hermetically-sealed tubes of strong glass, par
   tially filled with such liquids as sulphurous acid or ether. The liquid
   must in the first instance be heated a few degrees above what I have

300                             Dr. Andrews                         [June 2,
designated the " critical " point. The appearances exhibited by the
ascending and descending sheets of matter of unequal density are
most remarkable, but must be seen in order to be understood. They
only occur in this striking form in fluids heated a little above the
critical point, and are produced by the great changes of density which
slight variations of pressure or temperature produce in this case.
They are always a clear proof that the matter in the tube is hemo
geneous, and that we have not liquid and gas in presence of one
another. These striae are in shert only an extraordinary development
of the movements seen in ordinary liquids' and gases when they are
heated from below. The experiments to be immediately described
will explain their great intensity above the critical point.
    When the temperature falls below the critical point, the formation
of a cloud indicates that we have now heterogeneous matter in the
tube, fine drops of liquid in presence of a gas. We must take care,
hewever, not to suppose that a cloud necessarily precedes the forma
tion of true liquid. If the pressure be sufficiently great no clond of
any kind will form.
    I now proceed to describe the general results of the experiments
upon carbonic acid. If a certain volume of carbonic acid at the tem
perature of 13° -1 and under a pressure of one atmosphere be exposed,
to a gradually-increasing pressure, its volume will steadily diminish,
but at a faster rate than according to Boyle's law, till at the pressure
of 48 - 9 atmospheres its volume is reduced to about ^T of the original
volume at one atmosphere. Liquefaction now begins and continues
with very slight augmentation of pressure, the necessity for which I
traced to the presence of a minute quantity of air (about -j-^th part)
in the carbonic acid. On augmenting the pressure after liquefaction,
the volume slowly diminished, but at a much faster rate than in the
case of ordinary liquids. Later experiments carried to much higher
pressures have fully confirmed this result. At 21° -5 similar results
were obtained, but a pressure of nearly 60 atmospheres was required
before liquefaction began.
    At 30° -9 C, or 87° -7 Fohr., the critical point of temperature is
reached. It is the temperaturo at which liquid ceases to be formed
under any pressure. At a temperature a little below this point the
surface of separation between liquid and gas becomes very faint and
loses its curvature, the density and other physical properties of the
liquid and gas being now identical and the tube filled with hemo
geneous matter. If the temperature and pressure be kept steady, no
evidenco of heterogeneity wUl be obtained by optical tests under the
most varied conditions of volume.
    If we now follow the course of a given volume of carbonic acid gas
at 31° - 1, or 0°- 2 above the critical point, we shall find that its course
resembles that of the gas at lower temperatures till the volume is
reached at which liquefaction might be expected to begin. A rapid
but not (as in the caso of the formation of liquid) abrupt fall then
supervenes, after which the carbonic acid undergoes a slow diminution

1871.]               on the Gaseous and Liquid States of Matter.                   361
of volume as the pressure augments. The curves, which are here
exhibited as they were represented in the Bakerian lecture, illustrate
very clearly these statements. We have thus carbonic acid at 0°*2
above the critical point, and at a pressure of 73 atmospheres behaving
very nearly as if it liquefied. At this pressure an augmentation of
only             of the entire pressure diminishes the volume of the carbonic
acid to about one half. Yet during the whole of this fall, no evidence
of heterogeneity, or of two states of matter present together in the tube,
could at any period be obtained. Carbonic acid at this temperature
of 31° • 1, and under a pressure of 75 atmospheres, behaves much more
 as a liquid than as a gas when the pressure is either augmented or
 diminished; yet it never exhibits under any conditions the charac
 teristic properties of the liquid state ; that is to say, no surface of
 separation is formed by change of pressure, nor will it collect into
 drops and form a cloud.
        At 32° -5 the fall, when liquefaction might be expected, is less
 abrupt than at 31°-1; and at 35° -5, although still manifest, it is
 further reduced. At 48° ¦ 1 the fall shown at lower temperatures can
 no longer be distinctly observed, and the curve representing the
 change of volume approximates to that of a perfect gas. There can
 be little, if any, doubt that at a higher temperature carbonic acid
 would behave under augmenting pressures nearly as nitrogen or
  hydrogen.*
       * These different modes of passing from the gaseous to the liquid state are
  admirably illustrated by a solid model constructed by Prof. J. Thomson, which was ¦
  exhibited at the lecture. I have been favoured by Prof. Thomson with the follow
  ing description of this model :—
       "The model combines Dr. Andrews' experimental results in a manner tending
  to show clearly their mutual correlation. It consists of a curved surface referred
  to three axes of rectangular co-ordinates, and formed so that the three co-ordinates
  of each point in the curved surface represent, for any given mass of carbonic acid,
  a pressure, a temperature, and a volume, which can co-exist in that mass.
        " In Dr. Andrews' diagram of curves, published in his paper in the ' Transac
  tions of the Royal Society for 1869,' p. 583, the experimental results, for each
   of several temperatures experimented on, are combined in the form of a plane
   curved line referred to two axes of rectangular co-ordinates. The curved surface
   in the model is obtained by placing these curved lines with their planes parallel to
   one another, and separated by intervals proportional to the differences of the tem
   peratures to which the curves severally belong, and with the origins of co-ordinates
   of the curves situated in a straight line perpendicular to their planes, and with the
   axes of co-ordinates of all of them parallel in pairs to one another, and by cutting
   the curved surface out so as to pass through those curved lines smoothly or evenly.
        " The curved surface so obtained exhibits in a very obvious way the remarkable
   phenomena of the voluminal conditions at and near the critical point of tempera
   ture and pressure in comparison with tho voluminal conditions throughout other
   parts of the indefinite range of gradually varying temperatures and pressures.
   This curved surface also helps to afford a clear view of the nature and meaning of
   the continuity of the liquid and gaseous states of matter. It does so by its own
   obvious continuity throughout the expanse to which it might bo extended round
   the outside of the critical point in receding from the range of the points of pres
    sure and temperature where an abrupt change of volume can occur by gasification
    or condensation. On the curved surface in the model, Dr. Andrews' curves for the

362                               Dr. Andrews                         [June 2,
     I have frequently exposed carbonic acid, without making precise
 measurements, to much higher pressures than any of the foregoing,
and have made it pass without break or interruption from what is
 regarded by every one as the gaseous state, to what is, in like manner,
universally regarded as the liquid state. Take, for example, a given
volume of carbonic acid gas at 50° C, or at a higher temperature, and
 expose it to increasing pressure till 150 atmospheres have been
reached. In this process its volume will steadily diminish as the
pressure augments, and no sudden diminution of volume, without the
application of external pressure will occur at any stage of it. When
the full pressure has been applied, let the temperature be allowed
to fall till the carbonic acid has reached the ordinary temperature
of the atmosphere. During the whole of this operation no breach of
continuity has occurred. It begins with a gas, and by a series of
gradual changes, presenting nowhere any abrupt alteration of volume
or sudden evolution of heat, it ends with a liquid. The closest
observation fails to discover anywhere indications of a change of
condition in the carbonic acid, or evidence, at any period of the pro
cess, of part of it being in one physical state and part in another.
That the gas has actually changed into a liquid would, indeed, never
have been suspected, had it not shown itself to be so changed by
entering into ebullition on the removal of the pressure. For con
venience, this process has been divided into two stages, the com
pression of the carbonic acid and its subsequent cooling; but these
operations might have been performed simultaneously, if care were
taken so to arrange the application of the pressure and the rate of
cooling, that the pressure should not be less than 76 atmospheres
when the carbonic acid had cooled to 31°.
    We are now prepared for the consideration of the following
important question. What is the condition of carbonic acid when it
passes, at temperatures above 31°, from the gaseous state down to the
volume of the liquid, without giving evidence at any part of the pro
cess of liquefaction having occurred ? Does it continue in the gaseous
state, or does it liquefy, or have we to deal with a new condition
of matter? If the experiment were made at 100°, or at a higher
temperature, when all indications of a fall had disappeared, the pro
bable answer which would be given to this question is that the gas
preserves its gaseous condition during the compression; and few
would hesitate to declare this statement to be true, if the pressure
were applied to such gases as hydrogen or nitrogen. On the other
hand, when the experiment is made with carbonic acid at tempera
tures a little above 31°, the great fall which occurs at one period of
temperatures 13°1, 21°-5, 31°-1, 35°-5, and 48°-l centigrade, from which it was
constructed, are shown drawn in their proper places. The model admits of easily
exhibiting in due relation to one another a second set of curves in which each
curve would bo for a constant pressure, and in which the co-ordinates would re
present temperatures and corresponding volumes. It serves generally as an aid
towards bringing the whole subject clearly before the mind."

1871.]          on the Gaseous and Liquid States of Matter.             363
the process would lead to the conjecture that liquefaction had actually
taken place, altheugh optical tests carefully applied failed at any time
to discover the presence of a liquid in contact with a gas. But
against this view it may be urged with great force, that the fact of
additional pressure being always required for a further diminution
of volume, is opposed to the known laws which held in the change of
bodies from the gaseous to the liquid state. Besides, the higher the
temperature at which the gas is compressed, the less the fall becomes,
and at last it disappears.
     The answer to the foregoing question, according to what appears
to me to be the true interpretation of the experiments already de
scribed, is to be found in the close and intimate relations which
subsist between the gaseous and liquid states of matter. The ordi
nary gaseous and ordinary liquid states are, in shert, only widely
separated forms of the same condition of matter, and may be made to
pass into one another by a series of gradations so gentle that the pas
 sage shall nowhere present any interruption or breach of continuity.
From carbonic acid as a perfect gas to carbonic acid as a perfect
 liquid, the transition we have seen may be accomplished by a conti
 nuous process, and the gas and liquid are only distant stages of a long
 series of continuous physical changes. Under certain conditions of
 temperature and pressure, carbonic acid finds itself, it is true, in what
 may be described as a state of instability, and suddenly passes, with
 evolution of heat, and witheut application of additional pressure or
 change of temperature, to the volume, which by the continuous process
 can only be reached through a long and circuitous route. In the
 abrupt change which here occurs, a marked difference is exhibited,
 while the process is going on, in the optical and other physical pro
 perties of the carbonic acid which has collapsed into the smaller
 volume, and of the carbonic acid not yet altered. There is no difficulty
 here, therefore, in distinguishing between the liquid and the gas. But
 in other cases the distinction cannot be made ; and under many of the
 conditions I have described it would be vain to attempt to assign car
 bonic acid to the liquid rather than the gaseous state. Carbonic acid,
  at the temperature of 350,5, and under a pressure of 108 atmospheres,
 is reduced to        of the volume it occupied under a pressure of one
  atmosphere ; but if anyone ask whether it is now in the gaseous or
  liquid state, the question does not, I believe, admit of a positive reply.
  Carbonic acid at 35°-5, and under 108 atmospheres of pressure, stands
  nearly midway between the gas and the liquid ; and wc have no valid
  grounds for assigning it to the one form of matter any more than to
  the other. The same observation would apply with even greater force
  to the state in which carbonic acid exists at higher temperatures and
  under greater pressures than these just mentioned. In shert, the
  passage under great pressures from the liquid to the gaseous state
  may be effected by the application of heat witheut break or breach of
  continuity. That a marked change in the physical properties of the
  substance occurs during this process is no objection to its being con

 364                          General Monthly Meeting.                   [June 5,
 tinuous. If mercury as a liquid is opaque and as a gas is transparent,
 the red and translucent bromine, on the other hand, when heated above
 the critical point, becomes so opaque as almost to resemble a mass of
 resin. Frankland has shewn that the flame of hydrogen becomes con
 tinuous when the gas is burned under a pressure of 20 atmospheres,
 and these experiments have been since extended by the same able
 chemist and Lockyer. We must not, hewever, suppose that one inter
 mediate state exists between liquid and gas ; on the contrary, an infinite
 succession of intermediate states may truly be said to connect the liquid
 proper and the gas proper ; in other words, the passage is continuous.
 When the critical point is attained, the density of the liquid and gas
 becomes the same, and the tube is filled with hemogeneous matter.
      As regards the question of the continuity of the solid and liquid
 states, it would be necessary, in order to establish this continuity, to
 obtain, by the combined action of heat and pressure, the solid and
 liquid of the same density and of like physical properties. To accom
 plish this result will probably require pressures far beyond any which
 can be reached in transparent tubes ; but it may be possible to shew
 by experiment that the solid and liquid can be made to approach to the
 required conditions.
                                                                       [T. A.]
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, June 5, 1871.
       Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                     in the Chair.
                Silas Komball Cook, Esq.
               Miss Elinor Martin,
               Charles Bland Radeliffe, M.D.
               Mrs. Radcliffe,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The special thanks of the Members were returned for the fol
lowing Donation to " The Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Researches " :—
          Sir Henry Holland, Bart. (13& Annual Donation) . . . . £40
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FIIOM
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 160. 8vo. 1871.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XXXI. No. 6. 1871.
British Architects, ftoyal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1870-71. No. 9. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1871. 8vo.

1871.]                Professor Tyndall on Dust and Smoke.                   365
Editors—Academy for May, 1871. 4to.
    American Journal of Science, April, 1871. 8vo.
    Artizan for May, 1871. 4to.
    Athenroum for May, 1871. 4to.
    Chemical News for May, 1871. 4to.
    Engineer for May, 1871. fol.
    Food Journal for May, 1871. 8vo.
    Horological Journal for May, 1871. 8vo.
    Journal of Gas-Lighting for May, 1871. 4to.
    Mechanics' Magazine for May, 1871. 8vo.
    Nature for May, 1871. 4to.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for May, 1871. 8vo.
    Photographic News for May, 1871. 4to.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 542, 543. 8vo. 1871.
Medical and Chirurgieal Society, Royal—Proceediugs, Part 32. 8vo. 1871.
 Macpherson, John, M.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—Our Baths and Wells. 16mo. 1871.
 Markham, Clements R. Esq. (the Author")—Memoir on Indian Surveys. 8vo. 1871.
Murchison, Sir Roderick I., K.C.B. M.R.I, (the Author)—Address to the Boyal
       Geographical Society, May 22, 1871. 8vo. 1871.
 Photographic Society—Journal, No. 225. 8vo. 1871.
 Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, April, 1871. 8vo.
    Verzeichniss der Ahhandlungen, 1710-1870. 8vo. 1871.
 Royal Society of Tasmania—Proceedings, 1868, 1869. 8vo. 1869-70.
  Vereins zur Be/Srderung dee Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Jan.-
       Peb. 1871. "
  Wilkinson, F. C. Esq.—The Gospel according to St. Mark (translated by J. Ivatt
       Briscoe). 4to. 1870.
 Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. VII. Parts 3, 4, 5. 4to. 1871.
    Proceedings for 1870. 8vo. 1871.
                      WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, June 9, 1871.
       Sib Henby Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
                      John Tyndall, Esq. LL.D. F.E.S.
                   PROFESSOR 07 NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, ROYAL INSTITUTION,
                                On Dust and Sinolce.
  After a few preliminary experiments illustrative of the polarization
  of light, Professor Tyndall adverted to the polarization of light by
  fine dust, by the sky, and by the coarser particles of smoke. In the
  former the direction of maximum polarization, as in the case of the
  sky, is at right angles to the illuminating beam. In the latter,
  according to the observations of Govi, the maximum quantity of
  polarized light was discharged obliquely to the beam. Govi's obser
  vation of a neutral point in such beam, on one side of which the
  polarization was positive and on the other side negative, was also

 366                         Professor Tyndall                    | June 9,
 referred to. The additional fact was then adduced that the position
 of the neutral point varied with the density of the smoke. Beginning,
 for example, with an atmosphere thickened by the dense fames of
 incense, resin, or gunpowder, and observing the neutral point, its
direction was first observed to be inclined to the beam toward* the
source of illumination. Opening the windows so as to allow the
smoke to escape gradually, the neutral point moved down the beam,
passed the end of a normal drawn to the beam from the eye, and
gradually moved forward several feet down the beam. The speaker
did not halt at these observations ; they were introduced as the starting-
point of inquiries of a different nature, and after their introduction
the discourso proceeded thus :—
     But what, you may ask, is the practical good of these curiosities?
And if you so ask, my object is in some senses gained, for I inteoded
to provoke this question. I confess that if we exclude the interest
attached to the observation of new facts, and the enchancement of that
interest through the knowledge that by-and-by the facts will become
the exponents of laws, these curiosities are in themselves worth nothing.
They will not enable us to add to our stock of food, or drink, or clothes,
or jewellery. But though thus shorn of all usefulness in them
selves, they may, by leading the mind into places which it would
not otherwise have entered, become the antecedents of practical conse
quences. In looking, for example, at this illuminated dust, we may
ask ourselves what it is. How does it act, not upon a beam of light,
but upon our own lungs and stomachs ? The question at once
assumes a practical character. We find on examination that this dust
is organic matter—in part living, in part dead. There are among it
particles of ground straw, torn rags, smoke, the pollen of flowers, the
spores of fungi, and the germs of other things. But what have they
to do with the animal economy? Let me give you an illustration
to which my attention has been lately drawn by Mr. George Henry
Lewes, who writes to me thus :—
     " I wish to direct your attention to the experiments of Von
Becklingshausen should you happen not to know them. They are
striking confirmations of what you say of dust and disease. Last
spring, when I was at his laboratory in Wurzburg, I examined with
him blood that had been three weeks, a month, and five weeks, out of
the body, preserved in little porcelain cups under glass shades. This
blood was living and growing. Not only were the Amoeba-like move
ments of the white corpuscles present, but there were abundant
evidences of the growth and development of the corpuscles. I also
saw a frog's heart still pulsating which had been removed from the
body (I forget how many days, but certainly more than a week).
There were other examples of the same persistent vitality or absence
of putrefaction. Yon Becklingshausen did not attribute this to the
absence of germs— germs were not mentioned by him,; but when I
asked him how he represented the thing to himself, he said the whole
mystery of his operation consisted in keeping the blood free from dirt.

1871.]                        on Dust and Smoke.                        367
The instruments employed were raised to a red heat just before use,
tlie thread was silver thread and was similarly treated, and the porce
lain cups, though not kept free from air, were kept free from currents.
He said he often had failures, and these he attributed to particles of
dust having escaped his precautions."
       Professor Lister, who has founded upon the removal or destruction
of this " dirt " great and numerous improvements in surgery, tells us
the effect of its introduction into the blood of wounds. He informs us
what would happen with the extracted blood should the dust get at it.
 The blood would putrefy and become fetid ; and when you examine
more closely what putrefaction means, you find the putrefying sub
stance swarming with organic life, the germs of which have been
derived from the air.
       Another note which I received a day or two ago has a bearing
 particularly significant at the present time upon this question of dust
 and dirt, and the wisdom of avoiding them. The note is from Mr.
 Ellis, of Sloane Street, to whom I owe a debt of gratitude for advice
 given to me when sorely wounded in the Alps. " I do not know,"
 •writes Mr. Ellis, " whether you happened to see the letters, of which
 I enclose you a reprint, when they appeared in ' The Times.' But I
  want to tell you this in reference to my method of vaccination as here
  described ; because it has, as I think, a relation to the subject of the
  intake of organic particles from without into the body. Vaccination
  in the common way is done by scraping off the epidermis, and thrust
  ing into the punctures made by the lancet the vaccine virus. By the
  method I use (and have used for more than twenty years) the epi
  dermis is lifted by the effusion of serum from below, a result of the
  irritant cantharadine applied to the skin. The little bleb thus formed
  is pricked, a drop of fluid let out, and then a fine vaccine point is put
  into this spot, and after a minute of delay it is withdrawn. The epi
  dermis falls back on the skin, and quite excludes the air—and not the
   air only, but what the air contains.
       " Now mark the result—out of hundreds of cases of re-vaccination
   which I have performed, I have never had a single case of blood-
  poisoning or of abscess. By the ordinary way the occurrence of
  secondary abscess is by no means uncommon, and that of pyremia is
   occasionally observed. I attribute the comparative safety of my
   method entirely, first, to the exclusion of the air and what it contains ;
   and, secondly, to the greater size of the apertures for the inlet of
  mischief made by the lancet."
       I bring these facts forward that they may be sifted and challenged
  if they be not correct. If they are correct it is needless to dwell upon
  their importance, nor is it necessary to say that if Mr. Ellis had
   resigned himself wholly to the guidanco of the germ theory he could
   not have acted more in accordance with the requirements of that theory
   than he has actually done. It is what the air contains that does the
   mischief in vaccination. Mr. Ellis's results fall in with the general
   theory of putrefaction propounded by Schwann, and developed in this

368                          Professor Tyndatt                   [June 9,
country with such striking success by Professor Lister. They point, if
true, to a cause distinct from bad lymph for the failures and occasional
mischief incidental to vaccination ; and if followed up they may be the
means of leaving the irrational opposition to vaccination no ground to
stand upon, by removing even the isolated cases of injury on which
the opponents of the practice rely.
     We are now assuredly in the midst of practical matters. With
your permission I will recur once more to a question which has re
cently occupied a good deal of public attention. You know that as
regards the lowest forms of life, the world is divided, and has for a
long time been divided, into two parties, the one affirming that you
have only to submit absolutely dead matter to certain physical condi
tions to evolve from it living things ; the other, without wishing to
set bounds to the power of matter, affirming that in our day no life has
ever been found to arise independently of pre-existing life. Many of
you are aware that I belong to the party which claims life as a deri
vative of life. The question has two factors : the evidence, and the
mind that judges of the evidence ; and you will not forget that it may
be purely a mental set or bias on my part that causes me throughout
this discussion from beginning to end, to see on the one side dubious
facts and defective logic, and on the other side firm reasoning and a
knowledge of what rigid experimental inquiry demands. But judged
of practically, what, again, has the question of Spontaneous Generation
to do with us ? Let us see. There are numerous diseases of men and
animals that ore demonstrably the products of parasitic life, and such
diseases may take the most terrible epidemic forms, as in the case of
the silkworms of France in our day. Now it is in the highest degree
important to know whether the parasites in question are spontaneously
developed, or are wafted from without to those afflicted with the disease.
The means of prevention, if not of cure, would be widely different in
the two cases.
    But this is by no means all. Besides these universally admitted
cases, there is the broad theory now broached and daily growing in
strength and clearness—daily, indeed, gaining more and more of assent
from the most successful workers and profound thinkers of the medi
cal profession itself— the theory, namely, that contagious disease
generally is of this parasitic character. 1£ I had heard or read any
thing since to cause me to regret having introduced this theory to
your notice more than a year ago, I should here frankly express that
regret. I would renounce in your presence whatever leaning towards
the germ theory my words might then have betrayed. Let me state
in two sentences the grounds on which the supporters of the theory
rely. From their respective viruses you may plant typhoid fever,
scarlatina, or small-pox. What is the crop that arises from this
husbandry? As surely as a thistle rises from a thistle seed, as
surely as the fig comes from the fig, the grape from the grape, the thorn
from the thorn, so surely does the typhoid virus increase and multiply
into typhoid fever, the scarlatina virus into scarlatina, the small-pox

1871.]                      on Z)««i and Smoke.                      369
virus into small-pox. What is the conclusion that suggests itself
here ? It is this :—That the thing which we vaguely call a virus is to
all intents and purposes a seed : that, excluding the notion of vitality,
in the whole range of chemical science you cannot point to an action
which illustrates this perfect parallelism with the phenomena of life—
this demonstrated power of self-multiplication and reproduction. The
germ theory alone accounts for the phenomena.
     And here you see the bearing of the doctrine of Spontaneous
Generation upon this question. For if the doctrine continues to be
discredited as it has hitherto been, it will follow that the epidemics
which spread havoc amongst us from time to time are not sponta
neously generated, but that they arise from an ancestral stock whose
habitat is the human body itself. It is not on bad air or foul drains
that the attention of the physician will primarily be fixed, but upon
disease germs which no bad air or foul drains can create, but which
may be pushed by foul air into virulent energy of reproduction. You
may think I am treading on dangerous ground, that I am putting
forth views that may interfere with salutary practice. No such thing.
If you wish to learn the impotence of medical science and practice
in dealing with contagious diseases, you have only to refer to a recent
 Harveian oration by Dr. Gull. Such diseases defy the physician.
 They must burn themselves out. And indeed this, though I do not
 specially insist upon it, would favour the idea of their vital origin.
 For if the seeds of contagious disease be themselves living things,
 it will be difficult to destroy either them or their progeny without
 involving their living habitat in the same destruction.
      And I would also ask you to be cautious in accepting the state
 ment which has been so often made, and which is sure to be repeated,
 that I am quitting my own metier when I speak of these things. I
 am not dealing with professional questions. I am writing no pre
 scription, nor should I venture to draw any conclusion from the con
 dition of your pulse and tongue. I am dealing with a question on
 which minds accustomed to weigh the value of experimental evidence
 are alone competent to decide, and regarding which, in its present
 condition, minds so trained are as capable of forming an opinion as
 on the phenomena of magnetism and radiant heat. I cannot better
 conclude this portion of my story than by reading to you an extract
 from a. letter addressed to me some time ago by Dr. William Budd,
 of Clifton, to whose insight and energy the town of Bristol owes so
 much in the way of sanitary improvement.
      " As to the germ theory itself," writes Dr. Budd, " that is a
  matter on which I have long since made up my mind. From the day
  when I first began to think of these subjects, I havo never had a
  doubt that the specific cause of contagious fevers must be living
  organisms.
      " It is impossible, in fact, to make any statement bearing upon
  the essence or distinctive characters of these fevers, without using
  terms which are of all others the most distinctive of life. Take up the
     Vol. VI. (No. 55.)                                        2 c

370                         Professor Tyndall                    [June 9,
writings of the most violont opponent of the germ theory, and, ten
to one, you will find them full of such terms as ' propagation,' ' self-
propagation,' ' reproduction,' ' self-multiplication,' and so on. Try as
he may—if he has anything to say of these diseases which is charac
teristic of them—he cannot evade the use of these terms, or the exact
equivalents to them. While perfectly applicable to living things,
these terms express qualities which are not only inapplicable to com
mon chemical agents, but as far as I can see actually inconceivable
of them."
    Onco then established within the body, this ovil form of life, if
you will allow me to call it so, must run its course. Medicine as
yet is powerless to arrest its progress, and the great point to be
aimed at is to prevent its access to the body. It was with this
theught in my mind that I ventured to recommend, more than a
year ago, the use of cotton-wool respirators in infectious places. I
would here repeat my belief in their efficacy if properly constructed.
But I do not wish to prejudice the use of these respirators in the
minds of its opponents by connecting them indissolubly with the
germ theory. There aro too many trades in England where life is
shertened and rendered miserable by the introduction of matters into
the lungs which might be kept out of them. Dr. Greenhew has
shewn the stony grit deposited in the lungs of stonecutters. The
black lungs of colliers is another case in point. In fact, a hundred
obvious cases might be cited, and others that are not obvious might
be added to them. We sheuld not, for example, think that printing
implied labours whero the use of cotton-wool respirators might come
into play ; but I am told that, the dust arising from the sorting of the
type is very destructive of health. I went some time ago into a manu
factory in one of our large towns, where iron vessels are enamelled by
coating them with a mineral powder, and subjecting them to a heat
sufficient to fuse the powder. The organization of the establishment
was excellent, and one thing only was needed to make it faultless.
 In a large room a number of women were engaged covering the
vessels. The air was laden with the fine dust, and their faces ap
peared as white and bloodless as the powder with which they worked.
 By the use of cotton-wool respirators these women might be caused
 to breathe air more free from suspended matters than that of the
 open street. Over a year ago I was written to by a Lancashire seeds
 man, whe stated that during the seed season of each year his men
 suffered herribly from irritation and fever, ro that many of them left
 his service. He asked me could I help him, and I gave him my
 advice. At the conclusion of the season this year he wrote to me
 that he had simply folded a little cotton-wool in muslin, and tied it
in front of the mouth; that he had passed through the season in
 comfort and witheut a single complaint from one of his men.
     The substance has also been turned to other uses. An invalid
tells me that at night he places a little of the wool beforo his mouth,
slightly moistening it to make it adhere ; that he has thereby pro

1871.]                       on Dust and Smoke.                           371
longed his sleep, abated the irritation of his throat, and greatly miti
gated a hacking cough from which he had long suffered. In fact,
there is no doubt that this substance is capable of manifold useful
applications. An objection was urged against the use of it : that it
became wet and heated by the breath. While I was casting about
for a remedy for this, a friend forwarded to me from Newcastle a
form of respirator invented by Mr. Carrick, an hotel-keeper at Glas
gow, which meots the case effectually, and by a slight modification
may be caused to meet it perfectly. The respirator, with its back in
part removed, is shown in Fig. 1. It consists of the space under the
partition of wire gauze q r,
intended by Mr. Carrick for                              Fib. 1.
    medicated substances," and
which may be filled with cot
ton-wool. The mouth is placed
 against the aperture O, which
 fits closely round the lips, f»
 and the air enters tho mouth
 through the cotton-wool by a
 light valve V, which is lifted by
 tho act of inhalation. During
 exhalation this valve closes ;
 another breath escapes by a
 second valve, V, into the open
 air. The wool is thus kept
 dry and cool ; the air in pass
 ing through it being filtered of everything it holds in suspension.*
      We have thus been led by our first unpractical experiments into
 a thicket of practical considerations. In taking tho next step, a per
 sonal peculiarity had some influence upon me. The only kind of
 fighting in which I take the least delight, is tho conflict of man with
 nature. I like to see a man conquer a peak or quench a conflagration.
 I remember clearly the interest I took twenty years ago in seeing
 the firemen of Berlin contending for mastery with a fire which had
 burst somewhere near tho Brandenburger Thor ; and I have often
 experienced the same interest in the streets of London. Admiring
 as I do the energy and bravery of our firemen, and having heard that
 smoke was a greater enemy to them than flame itself, the dosire arose
 of devising a fireman's respirator. But before I describo what has
 been done in this direction, let me draw your attention to the means
 hitherto employed to enable a man to live in dense smoke. Thanks
 to tho courtesy of Capt. Shaw, I am enabled to show you the action
 of the " smoke-jacket," known abroad as the " Appareil Paulin," from
 its supposed inventor. The jacket is of pliable cowhide. It has
 arms and a hood, with eye-glasses. With straps and buckles tho
 jacket is tied round the wrists and waist, and a strap which passes
               * Mr. Ladd, of Beak Street, sells these respirators.
                                                                    2 c 2

372                             Professor Tyndall                       [June 9,
between the legs prevents it from rising. On the left side of the
jacket is fixed a screw, to which the ordinary hese of the fire-engine is
attached, and through the hese air instead of water is urged into the
space between the fireman's body and the jacket. It becomes partially
inflated, but no pressure of any amount is attainable, because the air,
theugh somewhat retarded, escapes with tolerable freedom from the
wrists and waist. Henco the fireman, when his hese is long enough,
can deliberately walk into the densest smoke or foulest air. But you
see the use of the smoke-jacket necessitates the presence of several
men j it also implies the presence of an engine. A single man could
make no use of it, nor indeed any number of men witheut a pumping
engine. Its uses are thus summed up in a communication addressed
to me by Captain Shaw :—
     " This smoke-jacket is very useful for extinguishing fires in vaults,
stopping conflagrations in the helds of ships, and penetrating wells,
quarries, mines, cesspools, &c.—any places, in shert, where the air has
become unfit for respiration.
     " The special advantages of this jacket are its great simplicity, its
facility for use, and the rapidity with which it can be carried about
and put on ; but its drawback is that it requires the use of an engine
or air-pump, and consequently is of no service to one man alone. For
this latter reason smoke-jackets, altheugh very effective for enabling
us to get into convenient places for extinguishing fires, have very
rarely proved of any avail for saving life."
     Now, it is that very want that I theught ought to be supplied by a
suitable respirator. Our fire-escapes are each in charge of a single
man, and I wished to be able to place it in the power of each of these
men to penetrate through the densest smoke into the recesses of a
heuse, and there to rescue these whe would otherwise be suffocated or
burnt. I theught that cotton-wool, which so effectually arrested dust,
might also be influential in arresting smoke. It was tried; but, theugh
found soothing in certain gentle kinds of smoke, it was no match for
the pungent fumes of a resinous fire, which we employ in our experi
ments in the laboratory, and which, I am gratified to learn from Cap
tain Shaw, evolves the most abominable smoke with which he is ac
quainted. I cast about for an improvement, and in conversing on the
subject with my friend Dr. Debus, he suggested the use of glycerine
to moisten the wool, and render it more adhesive. In fact, this very
substance had been employed by the most distinguished advocate of
the doctrine of spontaneous generation, M. Pouchet, for the purpose
of catching the atmospheric germs. He spread a film of glycerine on
a plate of glass, urged air against the film, and examined the dust
which stuck to it. The moistening of the cotton-wool with this sub
stance was a decided improvement ; still the respirator only enabled us
to remain in denso smoke for three or four minutes, after which the
irritation became unendurable.* Reflection suggested that in combus-
    * The nose, with its hairs and mucus, acts, theugh imperfectly, the part of tho
moistened cotton wool respirator.

1871.]                        on Dust and Smoke.                              373
tion so imperfect as the production of dense smoke implies, there
must be numerous hydrocarbons produced, which, being in a state of
vapour, would be very imperfectly arrested by the cotton-wool. These
in all probability were the cause of the residual irritation ; and if
these could be removed, a practically perfect respirator might possibly
be obtained.
      I state the reasoning exactly as it occurred to my mind. Its result
will be anticipated by many present. All bodies possess the power of
condensing in a greater or less degree gases and vapours upon their
surfaces, and when the condensing body is very porous, or in a fine
state of division, the force of condensation may produce very remark
able effects. Thus, a clean piece of platinum-foil placed in a mixture
of oxygen and hydrogen so squeezes the gases together as to cause
them to combine ; and if the experiment be made with care, the heat
of combination may raise the platinum to bright redness, so as to cause
the remainder of the mixture to explode. The promptness of this
action is greatly augmented by reducing the platinum to a state of fine
division. A pellet of " spongy platinum," for instance, plunged into
a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen, causes the gases to explode in
stantly. In virtue of its extreme porosity, a similar power is possessed
by charcoal. It is not strong enough to cause the oxygen and hydro
gen to combine like the spongy platinum, but it so squeezes the more
 condensable vapours, and also acts with such condensing power upon
 the oxygen of the air, as to bring both within the combining distanco,
 thus enabling the oxygen to attack and destroy the vapours in the pores
 of the charcoal. In this way, effluvia of all kinds may be virtually
 burnt up ; and this is the principle of the excellent charcoal respi
 rators invented by Dr. Stenhouse. Armed with one of these, you may
 go into the foulest-smelling places without having your nose offended.
 Some of you will remember Dr. Stenhouso lecturing in this room with
 a suspicious-looking vessel in front of the table. That vessel contained
a decomposing cat. It was covered with a layer of charcoal, and
 nobody knew until told of it what the vessel contained.*
      I may be permitted in passing to give my testimony as to the
 efficacy of these charcoal respirators in providing warm air for the
 lungs. Not only is the sensible heat of the breath in part absorbed
 by the charcoal, but the considerable amount of latent heat which
 accompanies the aqueous vapour from the lungs is rendered free by the
 condensation of the vapour in the pores of the charcoal. Each particle
 of charcoal is thus converted into an incipient ember, and warms the
 air as it passes inwards. This is in entire accordance with the thcrmo-
 metric observations of Dr. Marcet.
      But while powerful to arrest vapours, the charcoal respirator is
 ineffectual as regards smoke. The particles get freely through tho
     * Dr. Stenhouse lias recently shown me a respirator, invented by him many
  years ago, in which, by means of a single valve, tlie inhaled air passes through
 charcoal to the lungs, while that exhaled escapes, without passiDg through the
 charcoal, into the open air.

374                          Professor Tyndall                      [June 9,
respirator. In a series of them tested downstairs, from half a minute
to a minute was the limit of endurance. This might be exceeded by
Faraday's methed of emptying the lungs completely, and then filling
them before going into a smoky atmosphere. In fact, each solid smoke
particle is itself a bit of charcoal, and carries on it, and in it, its little
load of irritating vapour. It is this, far more than the particles of
carbon themselves, that produces the irritation. Hence two causes of
offence are to be removed : the carbon particles which convey the irri
tant by adhesion and condensation, and the free vapour which accom
panies the particles. The moistened cotton-wool I knew would arrest
the first, fragments of charcoal I heped would stop the second. In the
first fireman's respirator, Mr. Carriole's arrangement of two valves,
the one for inhalation, the other for exhalation, are preserved. But
the portion of it which helds the filtering and absorbent substances is
prolonged to a depth of four or five inches (see Fig. 2). On the parti
tion of wiro gauze qr at the bottom of the space which fronts the
mouth is placed a layer of cotton-wool, C, moistened with glycerine ;
then a thin layer of dry wool, C ; then a layer of charcoal fragments ; a
second thin layer of dry cotton-wool, succeeded by a layer of fragments
of caustic lime. The succession of the layers may be changed witheut
prejudice to the action. A wire-gauze cover, shewn in plan below Fig. 2,
keeps the substances from falling out of the respirator. In the densest
smoke that we have hitherto employed, the layer of lime has not been
found necessary, nor is it shewn in the figure ; in a flaming building,
indeed, the mixture of air with the smoke never permits the carbonic
acid to become so dense as to be irrespirable ; but in a place where the
gas is present in undue quantity, the fragments of lime would materially
mitigate its action.
    In a small cellar-like chamber downstairs, with a stono flooring and
stone walls, the first experiments were made. We placed there furnaces
containing resinous pine-wood, lighted the wood, and placing over it a
lid which prevented too brisk a circulation of the air, generated dense
volumes of smoke. With our eyes protected by suitable glasses, my
assistant and I have remained in this room for half an heur and more,
when the smoke was so dense and pungent that a single inhalation
through the undefended mouth would be perfectly unendurable : and
we might have prolonged our stay for heurs. Having thus far perfected
the instrument, I wrote to Captain Shaw, the chief officer of the Metro
politan Fire Brigade, asking him whether such a respirator would be
of use to him. His reply was prompt ; it would be most valuable. He
had, hewever, made himself acquainted with every contrivance of the
kind in this and other countries, and had found none of them of any
practical use. He offered to come and test it here, or to place a room
at my disposal in the City. At my request he came here, accompanied
by throe of his men. Our small room was filled with smoke to their
entire satisfaction. The throo men went successively into it, and
remained there as long as Captain Shaw wished them. On coming out
they said that they had not suffered the slightest inconvonience ; that

1871.]                       on Dust and Smoke.                       375
they could have remained all day in the smoko. Captain Shaw then
tested the instrument with the same result. From that hour the
greatest interest has been taken in the perfecting of the instrument
                                     Fin. a.
               PLAN OP BOTTOM COVRS
by Captain Shaw himself. He has attached to the respirator suitable
hoods. The real problem is practically solved, and I cau only say that
if a tithe of the zeal, intelligence, and practical skill were bestowed on
the cotton-wool respirator that Captain Shaw has dovoted to the fire

37G                 Professor TyndaU on Dust and Smoke.                [June 9,
man's respirator the sufferings of many a precious life might be spared
and its length augmented.*
    The discourse was concluded as follows :—" Thus have we been led
from the actinic decomposition of vapours through the tails of comets
and the blue of the sky to the dust of London, from the germ theory
of disease down to this fireman's respirator. Instead of this trivial
example, I could, if time permitted, point to others of a more con
siderable kind in illustration of the tendency of pure science to lead to
practical applications. Indeed those very wanderings of the scientific
intellect which at first sight appear utterly unpractical, become in the
end the wellsprings of practice. Yet I believe there is a philosophy
embraced by some of our more ardent thinkers (who I fear on many
points commit the well-intentioned, but fatal mistake of putting their
own hopeful fancies in the place of fact) that would abolish these
wanderings of the intellect and fix it from the outset on practical ends
alone. I do not think that that philosophy will ever make itself good
in the world, or that any freedom-loving student of nature could or
would tolerate its chains."
    A short time before the discourse I had an opportunity of inspect
ing the apparatus of Mr. Sinclair, which has been tested and highly
spoken of by the superintendent of the Manchester Fire Brigade. The
original idea is due to Von Humboldt, who proposed it for the Hartz
mines. Galibert constructed the apparatus in an improved form, and
it has been still further improved by Mr. Sinclair, who has purchased
Galibert's patent. It consists of an air-tight bag, from which issue two
tubes that unite on a single one with a respirator mouth-piece. The
bag is filled with air, and the wearer inspires through one valve and
expires through another. The expired breath is carried to the bottom
of the bag, and is stated to remain there in consequence of the chilling
experienced in its passage downwards. A bag of not inordinate size is
said to be sufficient to supply a man with air for twenty minutes. Mr.
Sinclair's apparatus was exhibited during the discourse.
                                                                     [J. T.]
   * Mr. Ladd has also proposed a form of mouth-piece which promises well, and
Mr. Cottrell has attached to it an ordinary fencing-mask. Tliis will probably be
the form of apparatus finally adopted.

 1871.]                Mr. Bradford on Greenland.                    377
                   EXTEA EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, June 16, 1871.
           The Lord Lindsay, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                       William Bradford, Esq.
                On the Esquimaux and lee of Greenland.
Me. Bradford gave an account of an Arctic expedition in which he
¦was engaged in the autumn of 1869, illustrated by about seventy
photographs, magnified and thrown upon the screen by means of the
camera and electric lamp.
     He began by alluding to the influence which the exuberant energies
and awful manifestations of nature on the western continent had had
upon the American school of landscape-painters, inducing them to
choose for their subjects the greatest cataracts, the highest mountain
chains, and similar stupendous phenomena, as represented in the
works of Church and Bierstadt. Like these painters, Mr. Bradford
said that he had been impelled to study nature in some of her most
vast and strange aspects; and, being a native of New Bedford, in
Massachusetts (a seat of the whale fishery), his imagination was
naturally directed northward. After several times engaging a sailing-
vessel for a four months' voyage to the coast of Labrador, in order to
study the scenery of the northern seas, he was enabled, by the liberal
aid of his countryman, Mr. Legrand Lockwood, of New York, to fit out
a steamer in order to go as far north as possible. His friend Dr. J. J.
Hayes consented to command the expedition, which sailed from New
foundland on July 3, 1869, in an English steamer expressly built for
Arctic navigation, the ' Panther,' Captain John Bartlett.
    Mr. Bradford commenced his narrative by referring to his illus
trations, representing the dangers of the navigation met with in
approaching the coast of Greenland, through the great masses of field
and hummock ice and icebergs brought down by the great Spitzbcrgen
current. After sailing many miles in calm water the vessel encoun
tered a heavy gale, from which it escaped by weathering under the lee
of an iceberg. From Cape Desolation, a barren rock about 2000 feet
high, they made their way south to Julianeshab, one of the largest and
most thriving settlements in South Greenland, inhabited by about
300 Esquimaux, many of whom are half Danes in blood and habits.
Numerous illustrations were given of these people, and their costumes,
houses, boats, &c. ; and among the representations of the relics of the
ancient Northmen were the remains of an old church or cathedral, at
the head of Erick's Fiord, about fifteen miles from Julianeshab. The
walls of this church and some of the houses are still in a good state
of preservation, although the date of the settlement according to the
   Vol. VI. (No. 55.)                                       2 d

378                   Mr. Bradford on Greenland.              [June 16,
Iceland Sagas is about 980-1000 a.d. Fragments of a wall which
surrounded the whele of the buildings still remain.
    Passing up the coast, they came to the great Sermitsilialik glacier,
about three miles wide, in which is seen, when coming up the fiord,
what appears to be a bridge of silver-like crystal, connecting it with
the shere, its front rising perpendicularly from 250 feet to 275 feet
above the water, and extending downwards 500 feet beneath the
surface. This glacier rises above the highest mountains, and loses
itself finally in the great Mer de Glace, in the unknown interior.
Large caverns and tunnels have been formed in the glacier by the
action of currents of water, which carry down immense quantities of
sand; and it once forced itself down the fiord, ploughing up a
moraine of earth above 30 feet high, and throwing out huge boulders
of rock. The party witnessed the rare sight of a stupendous discharge
from the glacier front, giving birth to eight huge icebergs, with
several smaller ones ; and the debris so filled and packed the waters
of the fiord in a few minutes, that it was almost impossible to get a
boat 10 ft. long through the mass.
    Leaving the glaciers, the expedition passed on to the island of
Disco, and entered the harbour of Godhaven, the rendezvous of the
whalers sailing northward. Here they were hespitably entertained by
the Inspector, Mr. Smith, and the Governor, Hansen, whe had shewn
great kindness to Dr. Kane, Dr. Hayes, and others. The party soon
after entered the awfully magnificent scenery of Earsut Fiord, with
perpendicular cliffs, between throe and four theusand feet high.
About fifteen miles from this, Upernavik is the most northern settle
ment in the world, peopled by about two hundred Esquimaux, ruled
by the hespitable Governor Rudolph.
    The expedition then proceeded to Melville Bay, the terror of
Arctic voyagers, the scenery of which was illustrated by numerous
phetographs, exhibiting the passage of the steamer through the fields
of ice ; the landmark termed " The Devil's Thumb," rising about
1200 feet above the plateau of a mountain ; the beautiful opalescent
appearance of the ice produced by the midnight sun ; polar bears in
search of food, &c.
    fIn the library were placed several hundred phetographs shewing
the varied appearances of the ice and icebergs, and the Esquimaux
and their heuses; together with several oil-paintings, the largest
being " Summer in the Arctic Begions, or Boring through the Pack
in Melville Bay, August, 1869."]
                                                            [W. B.]

1871.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                           379
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, July 3, 1871.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
          William Amhurst Tyssen Amhurst, Esq. F.S.A. M.R.S.L.
          Lawrence Trent Cave, Esq. F.R.G.8.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The special thanks of the Members were returned to the Lord
Lindsay for his present of a valuable spectroscope, employed by
Dr. Huggins in his researches into the Physical and Chemical Con
stitution of the Stars and Nebulae.
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
         FBOM
The Spanish Government—Eatadistica Itinera correspondiente al alio de 1868.
      4to. 1870.
   Memoria sobre el Ensayo coinparativo del Sistema de Distllacion de los
      Minerales de Mercuric- proposto por M. Emile Pellet, &c. 4to. 1871.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings. 1870. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XXXI. No. 7. 1871.
Auther—Sketches of the House of Commons. By a Silent Member. (t) 14) 16mo.
      1871.
Chemical Society- Journal for June, 1871. 8vo.
Comitato Oeologico d'Italia—Bollettini. 1871. No. 3, 4. 8vo. Firenze.
Cornwall Pdyteclinic Society, Royal—Thirty-third, thirty-fifth, thirty-seventh, and
      thirty-eighth Beports. 8vo. 1865-71.
Editors— Academy for June, 1871. 4to.
   American Journal of Science for May and June, 1871. 8vo.
   Artizan for June, 1871. 4to.
   Atheneeum for June, 1871. 4to.
   Chemical News for June, 1871. 4to.
    Engineer for June, 1871. fol.
   Horological Journal for June, 1871. 8vo.
    Journal of Gas-Lighting for June, 1871. 4to.
    Mechanics' Magazine for June, 1871. 8vo.
    Nature for June, 1871. 4to.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1871. 8vo.
    Photographic News for June, 1871. 4to.
   Scientific Beview for June, 1871. fol.
 Ellis, George E. Esq. (tiie Author)—Memoir of Sir Benjamin Thompson, Count
      Rumford, with Notices of his Daughter. 8vo. <U+FFFC>   1871.

380                          General Monthly Meeting.         [July 3, 1871.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 544. 8vo. 1871.
IAnnean Society—Journal, Nos. 51, 56. 8vo. 1871.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—General Index to the Transactions.
     Vol. I.-LIH. 8vo. 1871.
Meteorological Society—Proceedings, No. . 8vo. 1871.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 226. 8vo. 1871.
Symons, O. J. Etq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     June, 1871. 8vo.
TyndaU, John, Esq. LL.D. F.RJ3. (the Author)—Houra of Exercise in the Alps.
     16mo. 1871.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 62. 8vo. 1871.

            l&ogal Institution of GHxtat iSritain
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, Nov. 6, 1871.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
                Sir John Conroy, Bart.
                Dr. J. Hall Davis.
                Ralph Henry Christopher Nevile, Esq.
                Henry Rigg, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Managers reported that they had reappointed William
Odlino, M.B. F.R.S. Fullerian Professor of Chemistry on July 10
last.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
        FROM
Governor-General of India—Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India, Vol. VII.
      Parts 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1869-70.
   Records, Vol. II. 2-4 ; Vol. III. ; Vol. IV. 1, 2. 8vo.
   Pahcontologia Indica, Series VI. Part-i 1-8. fol. 1870-1.
 The Lords of the Admiralty—The Nauticd Almanack for 1875. 8vo. 1871.
 Commissioners in Lunacy—25th R port. 8vo. 1871.
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, Nos. 84, 85. 8vo. 1871.
Agricultural Soeiety of England—Journal. New Series, No. 14. 8vn. 1871.
Airy, G. B. Esq. F.Ii S. Astronomer Royal—Hal ley's Magnetic Chart.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. VIII. Nos. 18-37.
      8vo. 1869-70.
   Complete Works of Count Bumford. Vol. I. 8vo. 1S70.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings. Nos. 83-85. 8vo. 1870.
   Transaction's, Vol. XIV. P;irt 1. 4to. 1870.
Anti<fuaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 1. 8vo. 1871.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 167. 8vo. 1871.
   Proceedings, 1871. Nos. 3, 4, 5. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Iloyal—Proceedings, Vol. XXXI. Nos. 8. 9. 1871.
Bartholomew s Hospital, St. [the Tieasurer)— Reports, Vol. VII. 8vo. 1871.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, lloyal—Sitzungsberielite. 1870. II. Heft 3, 4.
      1871 ; Helt 1. 8vo.
Baxter, R. D. Esq. M.R.I.—M. Nicolas, Etudes sur les Evangiles Apocrvphes.
      8vo. Paris, 1866.
   M. Nicolas, Le Symbole des Apotrcs. 8vo. Paris, 1867.
Behlique, Acwlemie Hoyale des Sciences de—-Bulletins, Tomes XXIX. XXX.
     8vo. 1870.
   Annuaire. 1871. 16to.
   Anuales Meteorologiques de 1'Observutoiro do Belgiqun. 4me Anne'e. 4to.
      1870.
   Vol. VI. (No. GO.)                                               2 k

   382                         Qeneral Monthly Meeting.                   [Not. 6,
   Best, Hon. and Rev. S. M.A. M.B.I, (the Author)—Sermons on the Beginning of
         All Things. 16to. 1871.
  Boston Society of Natural History, U.S.—Memoirs, Vol. EL Part 11. 4to. 1870.
      Proceedings, Vol. XIII. Nos. 15-23. 8vo. 1870.
  British Association for the Advancement of Science—Report of the 40th Meetisg.
         held at Liverpool in Sept. 1870. 8vo. 1871.
  British Museum Trustees—Catalogue Codioum JdSS. Orientalium, Par* 2, Codices
         Arabicos complecteiis. fol. 1871.
      Hand List of Birds, Port 3. 8vo. 1871.
      Catalogue of Derraaptera Saltatoria, Part 5. 8vo. 1871.
      Guide to First Vase Koom. 8vo. 1871.
      Catalogue of Meteorites. 8vo. 1871.
      Catalogue of Syriac MSS. Part 2. 4to. 1871.
  Chemical Society—Journal for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871.' 8vo.
  Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. IV. 8vo. 1871.
  Comitate Geologico cTItalia—Bollettini. 1871. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. Firenze.
  Connecticut Academy of Arte and Sciences—Transactions, Vol. II. 8vo. 1869-71.
  Courtemanche, M. R. (the Author}—Description d'un Navire Aerien. (L 15"
         8vo. Paris, 1871.
  Cox, E. T. Esq. (the Author)—First Annual Report of the Geological Survey of
         Indiana. 8vo. 2 vols. 1863.
  De la Rive, M. A. (the Author)—Notice sur E. Verdet. (L 15) 8vo. 1871.
  Editors—Academy for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 4to.
     American Journal of Science for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 8vo.
     Artizan for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 4to.
     Athenreum for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 4to.
     Chemical News for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 4to.
     Engineer for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. fol.
     Horological Journal for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 8vo.
     Journal of Gas-Lighting for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 4to.
     Mechanics' Magazine for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 8vo.
    Nature for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 4to.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 8vo.
    Photographic News for July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 4to.
 EUiol, The Lady—Memoirs on the History, Folk Lore, and Distribution of the
        Races of the North-Western Provinces of India. By Sir H. M. Elliot.
        Edited by J. Beames. 2 vols. 8vo. 1869.
 Essex Institute. U.S.—Proceedings, Vol. VI. Part 2. 1868-71. 8vo.
    Bulletin, Vol. II. 8vo. 1870.
    Greenwich Observations for 1869. 4to. 1871.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 545, 546, 547, 548, 549. 8vo. 1871.
 Gexxjraphical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XV. Nos. 2, 3, 4. 8vo. 1871.
    Journal, Vol. XL. 8vo. 1870.
 Geological and Polyleclmic Society of the West Riding of Yorkshire—Report of Pro
       ceedings for 1870. 8vo. 1871.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1871. No. 2. 8vo.
    Verhandlungen, 1871. No. 1. 8vo.
    Abhandlungen, Band V. Heft 1, 2. 4to. 1871.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 107. 8vo. 1871.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VII. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. 1868-71.
Harben, H. Esq. (the'Author)—Mortality Experience of the Prudential Assurance
       Company, 1867-70. 8vo. 1871.
Institution of Civil Engineers—Minnte3 of Proceedings, Vols. XXXI. XXXII. and
       Index to Vols. XXI.-XXX. 8vo. 1871.
Kavanagh, Morgan, Esq. (the Author)—Origin of Language and Myths. 2 vols.
       8vo. 1871.
Levitloux, M. H. (the Author)—Philosophic de la Nature. 8vo. Paris, 1871.

1871.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                         383
Linnean Society—.Journal, Nos. 52, 53, 65. 8vo. 1871.
   Proceedings, 1870-1. 8vo.
   Transactions, Vol. XXVII. Part 3. 4to. 1871.
Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Nos. 23, 24. 8vo.
      1869-70.
Lubbock, Sir John, Bart. M.P. F.R.S. (the Author}—On the Development of
      Relationships, and on Stone Implements from Africa and Syria. (From Jour.
      Anthrop. Inst. I.) 8vo. 1871.
Mears, T. Laml>ert, Esq. LL.D. M.R.I.—Dr. G. B. Halford, On the New Treatment
      of Snake Bite. (K 98) 8vo. 1869.
Mechanical Engineers^ Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, April, 1871 ; July,
      Part 1. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Part 33. 8vo. 1871.
Meteorological Committee of the Royal Society—Report for 1870. 8vo. 1871.
    Contributions to the Meteorology of Cape Horn. 4to. 1871.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Report, 1870, Purts 1, 2. 4to. 1871.
Musee Teyler, Haarlem—Archives Vol. III. Fascicule 2. 4to. 1871.
Peacock, R. A. F.G-S. (the AuOior)—Changes in the Earth's Physical Geography,
      Ac. (K 98) 8vo. 1871.
Pearson, C. H. Esq. (the Editor)—The Barons' War, including the Battles of
      Lewes aml Evesham. By W. H. Blaauw, M.A. 2nd ed. 1871. 8vo.
Preussische Akademie der Wisscnscliaften—Monatsberichte, Mav, June, July, Aug.
       1871. 8vo.
 Royal Colleqe of Surgeons—Descriptive Catalogues of Calculi and of Dermatolo-
      gical Specimens. 2 Parts. 4to. 1870-1.
 Royal Society of London— Proceedings, No. 129. 8vo. 1871.
    Philosophical Transactions for 1871, Part 1. 4to. 1871.
    Catalogue of Scientific Papers, 1800-63. Vol. V. 4to. 1871.
 Sargent, F. Esq. (the Author)—Compendium of Biblical Criticism. New edition.
       8vo. 1871.
 Scott, F. Surtees, Esq. (the A uthor)—Merlin and Arthur. (K 98) 8vo. 1871.
 Smithsonian Institution, f/jS.—Annual Report, 1869. 8vo. 1871.
    Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge. Vol. XVII. 4to. 1871.
 SocieW Hollandaise des Sciences—Natuurkundige Verhandelingen, 3me Serie,
       Tome I. 3. 4to. 1870.
    Archives Ne'erlandaises, Tome V. 4, 5. Tomo VI. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1870-1.
 St. I'etersbourg, Academie Impe'riale des Sciences—Me'moires, Tome XVI. Nos. 1-8.
       4to. 1870.
    Bulletins, Tome XV. Nos. 3-5 ; Tome XVI. No. 1. 4to. 1870-71.
 Stanley, The Hon. Wm. Owen, M.P. F.S.A. (the Author)—Memoirs on Remains of
       Ancient Dwellings in Holyhead Island. With Supplementary Notices by
       A. Way. 8vo. 1871.
 Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXIV. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1871.
 Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
       July.'Aug. Sept. Oct. 1871. 8vo.
  United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Nos. 63, 64. 8vo. 1871.
  Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Marz
       bis June, 1871. 4to.
  Victoria Institute—Journal of Transactions, Vol. V. Nos. 18, 19. ftvo. 1871.
  Wild, M. H. (the Director)—Annales do l'Observatoire Physique Central de
       Russie, 1866. 4to. 1870.
    Repertorium fur Meteorologie. Band I. Heft 2. 4to. 1869-70.
  Wiirzburg PhysikalcMedecin. Gesellschaft—Vorhandlungen, Band II. Heft 3.
       8vo. 1871.
 Yorkshire Archozological and Topographical Association—Journal, Part 5. 8vo.
       1871.
 Ziological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. VII. Part 6. 4to. 1871.
    Proceedings, 1871, Part 1. 8vo.
                                                                    2 K 2

384                         General Monthly Meeting.                  [Dec. 1,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, Dec. 4, 1871.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                  in the Chair.
                            Edward Rowe Fisher, Esq.
                            John Fleming, Esq.
                            Mrs. G. H. Gibb.
                            Alfred North, Esq.
                            John Penn, jnn. Esq.
                            Col. Edward Webb.
 wero elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     His Majesty Dom Pedro II. d'Alcantara, Emperor of Brazil,
                                KG. F.R.S. &c. &c.
 was elected an Honorary Member of the Royal Institution.
      The following Lecture Arrangements for the ensuing Season were
 announced : —
                 Christmas Lectures (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory).
 Prof. Tyndall, LL.D. F.R.S.—Six Lectures, On Ice, Water, Vapour, and Air, nn
       December 28, 30, 1871 ; January 2, 4, 6, 9, 1872.
                                 Be/ore Easter, 1S72.
 Dr. W. Rutherford, F.R.S.E.—Ten Lectures, On the Nervous ami Circulatory
       Systems, on Tuesdays, January 16 to March 19.
  Prof. Oduno, F.R.8.—Ten Lectures, On the Chemistry of Alkalies and Alkali
       Manufacture, on Thursdays, January 18 to March 21.
  W. B. Donne, Esq.— Six Lectures, On the Theatre in Shakespeare's Time, on
       Saturdays, January 20 to Feb. 24.
  Monocrk D. Conway, Esq.—Four Lectures, On Demonology, on Saturdays,
       March 2 to 23.
                                  After Easter, 1872.
  Dr. Wm. A. Guy, F.R.S.—Three Lectures, On Statistics, Social Science, and
       Political Economy, on Tuesdays, April 9, 16, and 23.
  Edward B. Tylor, Esq. F.R.S.—Six Lectures, On the Development of Belief and
        Custom amongst the Lower Races of Mankind, on Tuesdays, April 30 to
       June 4.
  Prof. Tyndall, LL.D. F.R.S.— Nine Lectures, On Heat and Light, on Thursdays,
        April 11 to June 6.
  R. A. Proctor, Esq. B.A. F.R.A.S.—Five Lectures, On the Star Depths, on
       Saturdays, April 13 to May 11.
   Prof. RoecoE, F.R.S.— Four Lectures, On the Chemical Action of Light, on
        Saturdays, May 18 to June 8.

1871.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                          385
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
        FROM
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 86. 8vo. 1870.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Proceedings, Nos. 6, 7, 8. 8vo. 1871.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—-Sessional Papers, 1871-2. Nos. 1, 2. 4to.
British Museum Trustees— Guide to the Bronze Room. 8vo. 1871.
Chemical Society—Journal for Nov. 1871. 8vo.
Comitato Geologico aVItalia—Bollettini. 1871. Nos. 7-10. 8vo. Firenze.
Dawson, J. IF. Esq. LL.D. (the Author)—The Fossil Plants of the Devonian and
     Upper Silurian Formations in Canada. 8vo. 1871.
Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science—Report and Transactions.
     Vol. IV. Part 2. 8vo. 1871.
Editors—Academy for Nov. 1871. 4to.
   American Journal of Science for Nov. 1871. 8vo.
   Artizan for Nov. 1871. 4to.
   Athenaeum for Nov. 1871. 4to.
   Chemical News for Nov. 1871. 4to.
   Engineer for Nov. 1871. fol.
   Horological Journal for Nov. 1871. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-lighting for Nov. 1871. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for Nov. 1871. 8vo.
   Nature for Nov. 1871. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Nov. 1871. 8vo.
   Photographic News for Nov. 1871. 4to.
Franks, A. W. E*q. (on behalf of the lute Felix Slade, Esq.)—Catalogue of the Col
     lection of Glass formed by F. Slade, Esq. F.S.A., with Notes on the History
      of Glass-making by A. Nesbitt. fol. 1871.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal. No. 108. 8vo. 1871.
Jones, H. Bence, Esq. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. Sec. R.I. (the Author)—The Royal
     Institution, its Founder, and its first Professors. Kito. 1871.
Leeds Philosophical Society—Annual Report, 1870-1. 8vo.
IACrnno, J. Ksq. (the Author)—Investigations Cientificas. (K 98) 8vo. Bogota,
     1871.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings. Vol. XI. Nos. 2, 3.
     8vo. 1871.
Photographic Society—Journal. No. 227. 8vo. 1871.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons" Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      Nov. 1871. 8vo.
 Vereins tur BefSrderung des Gewerl>fleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Juli—
      Sept. 1871. 4to.
 Wild, M. H. (the Director)—Annales de l'Observatoire Physique Central de
     Russie, 1867-C8. 4to. 1871.
   Jahresbericht, 1870. 4to. 1871.
   Repertorium fur Meteorologie. Band II. Heft I. 4to. 1871.
 Yorkshire Philosophical Society—Communications, 1870. 8vo.

386                           Professor Odlituj                  [Jan. 19,
                                   1 8 7 2.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, January 19, 1872.
      8ie Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                   William Odling, Esq. M.B. F.R.S.
                       TCIXEBIAN PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTBT, B.I.
                       On the last new Metal, Indium.
 The word " element " is used by chemists in a peculiar and very
limited sense. In calling certain bodies elements, there is no inten
tion on the part of chemists to assert the undecomposable nature or
essence of the bodies so called. There is not even an intention on
 their part to assert that these bodies may not suffer decomposition in
 certain of the processes to which they are occasionally subjected ; but
 only to assert that they have not hitherto been proved to suffer decom
 position ; or, in other words, to assert that their observed behaviour
 under all the different modes of treatment to which they have been
 exposed, is consistent with the hypothesis of their not having under
 gone decomposition.
      The entire matter of the earth then, so far as chemists are yet
 acquainted with it, is composed of some sixty-three different sorts of
 matter that are spoken of as elementary; not because they are conceived
 to be in their essence primitive or elementary, but because, neither in
 the course of nature nor in the processes of art, have they been
 observed to suffer decomposition. No one of them has ever been
 observed to suffer the loss of any substance different from the sub
 stance of its entirety, so as to leave a residuary substance different
 from the substance of its entirety. Thus chemists are incapable of
 taking away from iron, for example, a something that is not iron ; or
 of taking away from it anything whatever, so as to leave a residue
 that is not iron ; whereas they are capable of taking away from iron-
  pyrites a something which is not iron-pyrites but is sulphur, so as to
 leave a residue which is not iron-pyrites but is metallic iron.
      The notion of all other material bodies being constituted of, and
  decomposable into a limited number of elementary bodies, which could
  not themselves be proved to suffer decomposition or mutual trans
  formation under any circumstances whatever, but could, on the con
  trary, be traced respectively through entire series of combinations,
  and be extracted at will from each member of the series, is a notion
  which, undergoing in course of time a gradual development, was first

1872.]                  on the last new Metal-, Indium.               387
put forward in a definite form by Lavoisier ; until whoso time, some
residue of the great alchemical doctrine of the essential transmuta-
bility of all things—that the substance of all things was the same,
while the form above was different—still prevailed. To Lavoisier is
due the enunciation of the principle,—departed from, however, in a
few instances by himself,—that all bodies which cannot be proved to
be compounded, are in practical effect, if not in absolute fact, ele
mentary, and are to be dealt with accordingly.
     Of the many definite substances known to chemists before tlio
discovery of hydrogen gas, the following were afterwards recognized
 by Lavoisier and his colleagues as elementary. First, the seven
 metals known to the ancients, namely, gold, silver, mercury, copper,
 iron, tin, and lead, distinguished respectively by the signs of the sun,
 moon, and planets ; and each conceived to have some mystic connection
 with the particular orb or planet of which it bore the sign, and not
 unfrequently the name. Then three metals which became known at
 the latter end of the fiftepnth or beginning of the sixteenth century,
 namely, antimony, discovered by Basil Valentine in 1490 ; bismuth,
 mentioned by Agricola, 1530 ; and zinc, mentioned by Paracelsus,
 ob. 1541. An elementary character was also assigned to the non-
 metals carbon and sulphur, which had been known from the earliest
 times ; to phosphorus, discovered by Brandt, of Hamburg, in 1669 ;
 and to boracic acid, now known to be a hydrated oxide of boron, first
 discovered by Homberg in 1702, and still occasionally spoken of as
 Homberg's sedative salt. The list was further swelled by four metals
 which, in Lavoisier's time, had been but recently discovered, namely,
 cobalt and arsenic, identified simultaneously in 1733 by Gcorgo
 Brandt, of Stockholm ; platinum, discovered in 1741 by Woods,
 assay-master at Jamaica ; and nickel, discovered in 1751 by Cronstedt.
      The only other bodies known before 1766, and afterwards included
 in the class of elements, namely, the alkalies and earths, had during
 the quarter of a century immediately preceding been made the
  subjects of especial study. The differentiation of potash from soda,
 both previously known by the common name of alkali, was indicated
  by Duhamel in 1736, and more completely established by Marggraf
  in 1758. The differentiation from one another of lime or calcareous
  earth, silex or vitrefiable earth, alumina or argillaceous earth, and
  magnesia or bitter earth, was accomplished by the labour of many
  chemists, more particularly Marggraf, Borgmann, and Scheele ; prior
  to whose researches silex, alumina, and magnesia, together with their
  different combinations and commixtures with each other and with lime,
  were held to be but impure varieties of lime. The nature of the
  difference between the caustic alkalies and earths and their respective
  carbonates, was made known by Black in 1756 ; while the real consti
  tution of the alkalies and earths, as metallic oxides, though suspected
  by Lavoisier, was not established until the beginning of the present
  century, by Davy and his cotemporaries and followers.

 388                            Professor Odling                      [Jan. 19,
               Tarle I.—Elements, &c, in Order of Discovery.
  ..    Gold ..              0          ,774 Manganes* .     iGahn.
        Silver               J>               Baryta -ium.  jScheele.
        Mercury ..           5          1778 Molyrdenum
        ColTEll              s          1781 Tungsten ..
        Iron                 <J         1782 Tellurium ..
        Tin .. ..            V          1789 Uranrm         jKIaproth.
        Lead ..                               ZiRCONIA -IUM
1400 Antimony ..       B. Valentine.    1791 Titanium ..      Gregor.
1530 Bismuth           Agricola ?       1793 Strontia -ium    Hope.
1541 Zinc              Paracelsus ?     1794 Yttria -ium.     Gadolin.
                                        17:>7 Chromium ..   }Vauqueliu.
        Carron.                         1798 Glucina -um
        Sulphur.                        1802 Tantalum ..      Hatchett.
1669    Phosphorus     Brandt.          1803 Cerium           Rluproth.
1702    Borax -on . .  Hornberg.          jj  Palladium . .
                                          jj  Khodium       |\Vollaston.
1733 Arsenic          }g. Brandt.         M   Iridium       \Descotils & Siuith-
  »     Coralt                            t!  Osmium        J son Teunaut.
1741 Platinum .. Woods.                 1811 Iodine..         Oourtois.
1751 Nickel            Cronstedt.       1817 Lithium          Arfwedson.
                                              Selenium ..     Berzelius.
        Soda-ium .. 1 Dulmmel.          IMS Cadmium . .       Strorueyer.
                                        1826 ItROMINE         Balard.
1736 | Potash
        Lime ..        Margi;raf.       IS'JS TlIORlNUM ..    Berzt lins.
  to                   Ber^'inann,      1830 Vanadium ..      Sefstroui.
1758 Alumina             and            1839 Lanthanum .
       \Magnesia . . / Scheele.         1841 DlDYMlUM ..    jlffosander.
                                        1843 Errium
                                        1844 Ruthenium .      Clans.
1766    Hydrogen   ..  Cavendish.       1846 Niorium          H. Rose.
1771    Fluor -ine ..  Scheele.         1859 Cesium
1772    Nitrogen   ..  Rutherford.            Ruridium ..   >Bunsen.
1774    Chlorine   ..  Scheele.         1861 Thallium ..      Crookes.
        Oxygen         Priestley.       1863 Indium           Reich and Richter.
     The successive recognition of the elementary gases, quickly follow
ing Black's remarkable discovery of carbonic acid gas, began with the
identification of hydrogen by Cavendish in 1766. This was succeeded
by the discovery of nitrogen by Rutherford in 1772 ; of chlorine and
 fluoric acid, the latter now held to be a fluoride of hydrogen, by
 Scheele in 1774 ; and of oxygen by Priestley in the same year.
     Thus prior to the discovery of the first of the elementary gases,
twenty-three kinds of solid matter, and one liquid body, mercury,
 were known, which afterwards became recognized as elements.
 Between then and the present time, thirty-three kinds of solid matter,
 and one liquid body, bromine, have been added to the list—the
 discovery of the earliest of them occurring almost simultaneously
 with, or even just preceding, that of the last discovered of the
 elementary gases.
     Among the number of bodies discovered prior to 1803, when
 Davy effected the decomposition of the alkalies, several, at first

187 2.J                 on the last new Metal, Indium.                  389
thought to be elementary, aro now known to be compounds of oxygen
with other bodies still regarded as elements ; and conversely, two
bodies, namely, chlorine and fluorine, at one time thought to be
oxides, have since become regarded as elementary ; but in none
of these cases did the discovery of what is now considered to be
the real constitution of the bodies add or subtract an element to or
from the list.
       From the period of the modern or Lavoiserian conception of
 elements and compounds down to the beginning of the nineteenth
 century, the recognition of new elements occurred with much fre
 quency, at short but varied intervals. After then, the discoveries
 became somewhat less frequent; but even within the last fifty years,
 no fewer than twelve new elements have been added to the list, being
 at the rate of one new element every four years. Throughout, the
 periods of discovery have been somewhat irregular in thoir occurrence.
 Thus in the years 1802 and 1803, six new elements were discovered,
 namely, tantalum, cerium, palladium, rhodium, iridium, and osmium ;
  within the succeeding fourteen years only one new clement, but that
  a very important one, namely, iodine ; and in the fifteenth and six
  teenth years, three new elements, namely, lithium, selenium, and
 cadmium. The longest barren interval, one of thirteen years' dura
  tion, took place between the discovery of niobium, by Kose, in 1846,
  and that of caesium and rubidium, by Bunsen, in 1859. The last
  discovered of the elements, namely indium, being fully seven years
  old, and there being no reason to consider our present list as anything
  like complete, or to apprehend any cessation of additions thereto, it is
  now quite time for some other new element to be made known. For
  we may reasonably anticipate the discovery of new elements to take
  place at irregular intervals possibly for centuries to come, and our list
  of the elements to be increased at ieast as much in the future as in the
  past.
       The fresh discovery, however, of any abundant elementary con
   stituent of the earth's crust would seem scarcely now to be oxpected,
   seeing that of the thirty-two elements which have become known
   since the year 1774, —the year of the discovery of chlorine and
   oxygen and manganese and baryta,—the great majority belong to the
   class of chemical curiosities ; while even the four or five most abundant
   of the since discovered elements are found to enjoy but a sparing
   although wide distribution in nature, as is the case, for example, with
   bromine and iodine ; or else to be concentrated but in a few specially
   localized minerals, as is the case, for example, with strontium and
   chromium, and tungsten. Of courso it is difficult to appraise the
   relative abundance in nature of different elements ; more especially
   from the circumstance of those which aro put to- commercial uses
   being everywhere sought for, and those not put to commercial
   uses being habitually neglected,—save indeed by tho man of science,
    to whom tho peculiar properties of some of the less familiarly known

390                            Professor Odling                          [Jan. 19,
elements, as palladium, osmium, erbium, didymium, uranium, and
thallium, render them objects of the highest interest.
     A very notable point with regard to the last-discovered four ele
ments, namely, rubidium, caesium, thallium, and indium, is their
successive discovery within a few years of each other, by one and the
same process, namely, that of spectrum analysis. This process, in
vented and made available as a moans of chemical research by Bunsen
and Kircheff in 1859, consists simply in allowing the light given off
by different ignited gases and vapours, limited by means of a fine
slit, to pass through a prism or succession of prisms ; and in observing
the so-produced, brightly-coloured, widely-extended image of the slit.
It has been known from the days of Newton, that by the passage of
heterogeneous light through a prismatic highly-dispersive medium, its
differently refrangible constituents become widely separated from each
other, so as to furnish an elongated coloured spectrum. But whereas
the spectra of incandescent solid and liquid bodies are continuous,
and not distinctive of the particular luminous bodies yielding them,
the spectra of incandescent gaseous or vaporized bodies are found to
be discontinuous, and to consist of one or more bright lines of different
colour, thickness, and position, according to the nature of the par
ticular incandescent gases or vapours from which the light through
the slit is proceeding. In this way it is found that the spectra of the
different chemical elements, alike when free and in combination, are
perfectly definite, and characteristic of the particular elements vapor
ized and made incandescent.* And in many cases, the spectra or
portions of the spectra of particular elements, even when present in
the most minute proportion, are so extremely well marked and dis
tinctive, that the presence or absence of these elements is determinable
with the greatest ease and certainty, by a mere inspection of the
emission spectra yielded by the incandescent gases or vapours under
examination. Moreover, gases and vapours are further capable of
affecting heterogeneous light which is passed through them ; and
of thus yielding absorption spectra, in which the characteristic lines of
the above-described emission spectra are reversed, so as to appear,
unaltered in position, as black lines or intervals in an otherwise
continuous band of colour.
     Now the salts of the alkali-metals, lithium, sodium, and potassium,
and certain of the salts of the alkaline-earth metals, calcium, strontium,
and barium, being very readily volatile, upon hoating these salts,
in the non-luminous flame of a Bunsen gas-burner for example, they
undergo vaporization, and their vapours become incandescent and
capable of yielding the characteristic emission spectra of the par
ticular metals. In examining in this way the alkali-salt residuo of a
 * For some qualifications of tliis statement, tide Roscoe's ' Spectrum Analysis.'

1872.]                  on the last new Metal, Indium.                   391
mineral water from Durkheim, Bunscn observed in the spectrum
before him certain coloured lines not belonging to any one of the
then known alkalies, potash, soda, or lithia ; and yet necessarily be
longing to some substance having the general characters of an alkali,
since all other bodies than alkalies had been previously removed from
the residue under examination. In full reliance upon the certainty
of this conclusion, Bunsen evaporated some forty tons of the water
in question ; and from the alkali-salt residue, succeeded in extracting
and separating salts of two new alkali-metals, each characterized
by a well-marked pair of lines in the blue or indigo, and one of
 them having in addition a pair of well-marked lines of extremely
 small refrangibility in the red of the spectrum. From its yielding
 those red lines, the one metal was named rubidium ; the other, of
 which the bright blue lines were especially characteristic, being called
 caesium.
      The very general distribution in nature of these two elements was
 speedily established, and salts of each of them were, with much
 labour, eventually prepared in a state of purity and in reasonable
 quantity. From certain of their respective salts the metals them
 selves were obtained by the usual processes, and together with their
 salts, were submitted to detailed chemical examination. And no sooner
 was this examination made, than the position of the newly-discovered
 elements, as members of the alkali-metal family, at once became
  apparent. Bubidium and caesium were found in all their properties
  to present the most striking analogy to potassium, and evidently to
  stand to this metal in the same relation that strontium and barium
  respectively stand to calcium ; while they differed from sodium,
  much as strontium and barium respectively differ from magnesium.
  This relationship in obvious properties was further borne out by the
  relationship of their atomic weights, thus :—
            Mg   24           Na   23          F   19 ..        O    1G
          rCa    40         IK     39          CI  35-5..       S    32
          I Sr   87         I Bb   85          Br  80 ..        Se   79
            Ba  137           Cs  133          I  127 ..        Te  129
       It is observable that the sequence of atomic weight -in the thus com
   pleted alkali-metal family, is strictly parallel to the previously well-
   known sequences in the alkali-earth metal family, and in the halogen
   and oxygen families respectively. Moreover, just as the basylity of
   the alkaline-earth metals increases in the order of their several atomic
   weights—calcium being less basylous than strontium, and far less
   basylous than barium—so also is the basylity of potassium inferior to
   that of rubidium, and the basylity of rubidium inferior to that of
   cesium, which is indeed the most powerfully basylous, or oxidizable,
   or electro-positive element known.
       Since 1860, both rubidium and cresium have been recognized as
   minute constituents of a considerable number of minerals and mineral

 392                         Professor Odling                     [Jan. 19,
waters, rubidium having been met with for the most part in a larger
proportion by weight than caesium. Unlike potash, originally known
as vegetable alkali, caesium Las not been recognized in the vege
table kingdom ; but rubidium has been found as a very common
minute constituent of vegetable ashes, as these of beetroot, oak-wood,
 tobacco, grapes, coffee, tea, &c. On the other hand, cassium, free
from rubidium, has been found in a tolerably well-known, theugh
rare, mineral from the Island of Elba, to the extent of 32 per cent, by-
weight of the mineral. The history of this mineral is curious : from
 the circumstance of its always occurring in association with another
mineral, a variety of petalite, the two were called Castor and Pollux.
Castor was found to be substantially a silicate of alumina and lithia;
pollux a silicate of alumina, and, as it was theught, of potash. The
constituents of pollux, namely, silica, alumina, and potash, with small
proportions of ferric oxide, lime, soda, and water were duly estimated ;
but the quantities of these constituents, found in 100 parts of the
mineral, instead of amounting to 100 parts or thereabouts, amounted
only to 88 parts, there being somehew a loss of 12 per cent, in the
analysis. After Bunsen's discovery of the new alkali-metals, pollux
was analyzed afresh by Pisani, whe soon perceived that what had
formerly boon taken for potash, and estimated as potash, was not
potash at nll, but caesia. Then calculating out his own analysis with
caesia instead of potash, substituting the one for the other in the
proportion of 133 -j- 8, or 141 parts of caesia, for 39 -f- 8, or 47 parts
of potash, he found that the quantities of the different constituents
furnished by 100 parts of the mineral yielded by their addition the
full sum of 100 parts required.
    In submitting to spectroscopic examination a certain residue left
by the distillation of some impure selenium, Mr. Crookes, early in
1861, recognized in the spectrum beforo him a brillinnt green line,
from which ho inferred the presence in the above residue of a new
element ; and by the end of the same year, he had succeeded in
establishing the tolerably wide distribution of this element, to which
he gave the name of thallium ; in procuring it, theugh but in small
quantity, in a separate state ; and in satisfying himself of its metallic
character. Soon afterwards, and witheut knowledge of Mr. Crookes'
later results, the metal was obtained by M. Lamy on a comparatively
large scale, and was exhibited by him in the form of small ingots at
the London Exhibition of 1862. He procured it from the fine dust
met with in some oil of vitriol factories, as a deposit in the flues
leading from the pyrites burners to the leaden chambers. In these
deposits, the minute proportion of thallium contained originally in the
pyrites becomes concentrated, so as to form in some instances as
much as 8 per cent, by woight of the dust. Independently, moreover,
of its occurrence in iron pyrites, thallium, theugh never forming
more than a minute constituent of the different minerals and mineral
waters in which it occurs, is now known to be capable of cxtrac

1872.]                   on the last new Metal, Indium.                  393
tion from a great number and variety of sources. But from no other
source is it so advantageously procurable as from the above-men
tioned flue deposit ; and so early as the autumn of 1863, at the meet
ing of the British Association in Newcastle, the then mayor, Mr. J.
Liowtbian Bell, exhibited several pounds, and Mr. Crookes no less
than a quarter of a hundredweight of thallium obtained from this
 comparatively prolific source. In one respect, the discovery of
 thallium presented even a greater degree of interest than attached to
 the discovery of caesium and rubidium. For whereas these two
 elements were at once recognized as analogues of tho well-known
 metal potassium, thallium can hardly be said, even at tho present
 time, to be definitely and generally recognized by chemists as tho.
  analogue of any particular metal, or as a member of any particular
  family of elements. With each of such differently characterized
  elements as potassium, lead, aluminum, silver, and gold, it is associated
  by certain marked points of resemblance ; while from each of them it
  is distinguished by equally well-marked points of difference. Hence
  the necessity for subjecting thallium and its salts to a thorough
  chemical examination, so as to accumulate a well-ascertained store of
   facts with regard to it. And thanks to the careful labours of many
   chemists, more particularly of Mr. Crookes in London, and of Messrs.
   Lamy and Willm in Paris, our knowledge of the properties of
   thallium and of its salts may compare not unfavourably with our
   similar knowledge in relation to even the longest known of the
   metallic elements. Still it was not until our knowledge of indium
   had culminated in the determination of its specific heat only last year,
    that the position of thallium as an analogue of indium, and a member
    of the aluminum family of elements became unmistakably evident.
         Indium was first recognized in 1863, by Drs. Reich and Eichter,
    in the zinc blende of Freiberg in Saxony, and by reason of the very
    characteristic spectrum afforded,—consisting of two bright blue or
    indigo bands ; the brightest of them somewhat more refrangible than
    the blue line of strontium, and tho other of them somewhat less
    refrangible than the iudigo line of potassium. Since its first discovery,
    indium has been recognized in one or two varieties of wolfram, and
    as a not unfrequent constituent of zinc ores, and of the metal obtained
     therefrom, but always in a very minute proportion. Indeed, indium
     would appear to be an exceedingly rare element, far more rare than
     its immediate predecessors in period of discovery. Its chief source
     is metallic zinc,—that of Freiberg, smelted from the ore in which in
     dium was first discovered, containing very nearly one-half part of
     indium per 1000 parts of zinc. A considerable quantity of indium
     extracted from this zinc, was shown in the Paris Exhibition of 1867 ;
     and an ingot from the Freiberg Museum, weighing 200 grammes, or
      over 7 ounces, has within the last few days been kindly forwarded by
      Dr. Eichter himself, for inspection on the present occasion. To
      Dr. Schuchaidt, of Gocrlitz, also, the members of the Institution are

394                             Professor Odling                     [Jan. 19,
                        t
indebted for his loan of nearly 60 grammes of metallic indium ; and
of fino specimens of other rare chemical products, prepared with his
well-known skill, in a state of great purity and beauty.
    When zinc containing indium is dissolved not quite completely in
dilute sulphuric or muriatic acid, the whele of the indium originally
present in the zinc is left in the black spongy or flocculent residue of
undissolved metal, with which everyone whe has prepared hydrogen
gas by means of zinc and acid is so well acquainted. Besides some
zinc, this black residue is found to contain lead, cadmium, iron, and
arsenic, less frequently copper and thallium, and in some cases, as
that of the Freiberg zinc, a small proportion of indium. From the
solution of this residue in nitric acid, the indium is separated by
ordinary analytical processes, based chiefly on the precipitability of
its sulphide by sulphuretted hydrogen from solutions acidulated only
with acetic acid ; and on the precipitability of its hydrate both by
ammonia and carbonate of barium. From its soluble salts, metallic
indium is readily thrown down in the spongy state by means of zinc.
The washed sponge of metal is then pressed together between filtering
paper, by aid of a screw press, and finally melted under a flux of
cyanide of potassium.
    Thus obtained, indium is a metal of an almost silver-white colour,
apt to become faintly bismuth-tinted. It tarnishes slowly on exposure
to air, and thereby acquires very much the appearance of ordinary
load. Like lead, it is compact and seemingly devoid of crystalline
structure. Moreover, like lead and thallium, it is exceedingly soft,
and readily capable of furnishing wire, by the process of " squirting "
or forcing. The specific gravity of indium, or 7-4, is very close to
that of tin, or 7 - 2 ; and much above that of aluminum, 2 - 6, and
below that of lead, 11 - 4, and that of thallium, 11 - 9r In the lowness of
its melting point, namely 176° C, indium occupies an extreme position
among the metals permanent in air; the next most fusible of these
metals, namely tin and cadmium, melting at 228° ; bismuth at 264° ;
thallium at 294° ; and lead at 235°. Theugh so readily fusible, indium
is not an especially volatile metal. It is appreciably less volatile than
the zinc in which it occurs, and far less volatile than cadmium.
Heated as far as practicable in a glass tube, it is incapable of being
raised to a temperature sufficiently high to allow of its being vaporized,
even in a current of hydrogen.
    Indium resists oxidation up to a temperature somewhat beyond its
melting point. but at much higher temperature it oxidizes freely ; and at
a red heat, it takes fire in the air, burning with a characteristic blue flame
and abundant brownish smoke. It is readily attacked by nitric acid,
and by strong sulphuric and muriatic acids. In diluted sulphuric and
muriatic acids, hewever, it dissolves but slowly, with evolution of hydro
gen. Oxide of indium is a pale yellow powder, becoming darker when
heated, and dissolving in acids with evolution of heat. The hydrated
oxido is thrown down from indium solutions by ammonia, as a white,
gelatinous, alumina-like precipitate, drying up into a herny mass. The

  1872.]               on the last new Metal, Indium.                    395
 sulphide is thrown down by sulphuretted hydrogen as an orange-yellow
 precipitate, insoluble in acetic but soluble in mineral acids. The
 hydrate and sulphide of indium, in their relations to fixed alkali solutions
 more particularly, seem to manifest a feebly-marked acidulous character.
 Chloride of indium, obtained by combustion of the metal in chlorine
 gas, occurs as a white micaceous sublimate ; and is volatile at a red heat,
 witheut previous fusion. The chloride itself undergoes decomposi
 tion when heated in free air, and the solution of the chloride upon
 brisk evaporation, with formation in both cases of an oxichloride.
      But the chief point of chemical interest with regard to any newly-
 discovered element, and consequently with regard to indium, is the
 establishment of its atomic weight ; which, in the case of a metallic
 element, is based primarily upon the determination of the ratio in
 which it combines with oxygen and chlorine. Now the quantity of
 indium which unites with 8 parts by weight of oxygen and with
 35 - 5 parts by weight of chlorine, has been found by Winkler to bo
 37 - 9, and by Bunsen to be 37 - 8 parts. But this determination of
 combining ratio falls far shert of the definite establishment of the
 atomic weight of the metal. For example, the quantities of silver,
mercury, bismuth, tin and tantalum, which exist in the best-known
chlorides of these metals combined with 35 - 5 parts of chlorine, are
 108, 100, 70, 29, and 37 parts respectively. Nevertheless, the atomic
weights of these metals are taken to be not 108, 100, 70, 29, and 37,
but 108, 200, 210, 118, and 184 respectively, the chlorides of the
several metals being expressed by the formulae Ag Cl„ Hg Clj, Bi Clj,
Sn CI,, and Ta CIj, respectively. Accordingly, in order to deduce the
atomic weight of indium from the ascertained composition of its
chloride, we require first to know whether its chloride is a mono-, di-,
tri-, tetra-, or penta-chloride. Now, in the case of a metal forming
only one definite chloride, the constitution of the chloride as a mono-
or poly-chloride, may frequently be determinated by a consideration of
the analogies presented by the metal and its compounds to some other
metal and its compounds, of which the atomic weight and molecular
formal® respectively are well established. But it is obvious that
analogy can afford but little help in the caso of a newly-discovered
element, of which the analogies have still to be determined.
      Failing analogy, a more sure guide to the establishment of the
molecular formula of a metallic chloride is afforded in some instances
by a determination of its vapour density,—tantamount to a determina
tion of the quantity of chlorine by weight, contained in a given
volume of the gas or vapour of the chloride experimented on. Thus,
having estimated the quantity of chlorine contained in a given volume
of heated muriatic acid gas, the quantities of chlorine contained in
the samo volume of the vaporized chlorides of mercury, bismuth, tin,
and tantalum, under the same circumstances of pressure and tempera
ture, are found to be 2, 3, 4, and 6 times as great, whence the formulae
H Cl„ Hg Cls, Bi Cl„ Sn Cl„ and Ta Cl5, respectively. Now indium
chloride being volatile at a red heat, there is no reason, save that re

396                         Professor Odling                     [Jan. 19,
suiting from the rarity and value of the body, why the density of
its vapour should not be ascertained. As a matter of fact, however,
no estimation of the vapour density of indium chloride has yet been
made, and any evidence that might bo deducible from it, is conse
quently not forthcoming.
     Lastly, a most important guide to the establishment of the atomic
weight of a metal is the determination of its specific heat. In cool
ing through the same fall of temperature, different bodies, as is well
known, give out exceedingly different quantities of heat. In the case
of a pound of bismuth and a pound of brass for instance, both raised
to the temperature of boiling water, and then immersed in an excess
of ice, the quantity of ice melted by the pound of brass in cooling
down to the freezing point, will be found to be more than three times
as great as the quantity of ice melted by the pound of bismuth. Now
the determination of the specific heats of most of the metals, compared
with the specific heat of an equal weight of water as uuity, has been
made with extreme care and exactitude by Itegnault ; and on looking
at the following list of specific heats, mostly of his determination,
it is evident, almost at a glance, that the specific heats of the metallic
elements are inversely as their respective atomic weights. Thus,
taking the first and last elements on the list for example, it is observ
able that the specific heat of lithium, or 0"94, is weight for weight
thirty times greater than the specific heat of bismuth, 0-03 ; but then
the atomic weight of bismuth is thirty times greater than that of
lithium. And throughout, the product of the specific heat into the
atomic weight of one metal, divided by the product of the specific heat
into the atomic weight of another metal, is approximatively equal to 1,
as shown in the fourth column of the following Table, in which the
product of the specific heat into the atomic weight of silver is taken as
the standard dividend. Now, only last year, concordant estimations
of the specific heat of indium were made by Bunsen and a Russian
chemist, Mendelejcff; the mean of Bunsen's two estimations being
           which it will bo observed is very close to Regnanlt's esti
mations of the specific heats of silver, cadmium, and tin. Accordingly,
the atomic weight of indium must approximate to the atomic weights
of silver, cadmium, and tin ; or, in other words, it cannot be 37 8 >< 1,
or 37 • 8 x 2, but must be 37 - 8x3 = 1135; and the quantity of chlo
rine combined with this weight of indium being three times 35*5
parts, indium chlorido will necessarily appear as a trichloride, and be
expressed by the formula In Cl3. The determination of specific heats
being a matter of direct experiment, with scarcely any ratiocination
whatever, it seems impossible for anyone to observe the relationship
subsisting between the accepted atomic weights of the metals, deduced
from experiment by a highly complex train of reasoning, and their
directly ascertained specific heats, without recognizing that in the case
of the metals, at any rate, the atomic weights of the chemist are some
thing more than vain imaginings, but that they are beyond question
the terse expression of a fundamental truth in nature.

1872.]                    on the last new Metal, Indium.               397
                        Tarle II.—Atomic Heats of Metals.
        Chloride*.           Atomic                      Swciftc Atomic
                            Welghu.                       Beats.  Heats.
 Li CI                          7     Lithium             -9408   107
 NaCl                          23     Sodium              -2934   109
 MgCl,                         24     Magnesium ..        -2499   0-97
 Al CI,                        275    Aluminum            -2143   095
 K CI                          39     Potassium ..        -1695   1-07
 CaCl,                         40     Calcium             -1686   109
 Mn CI,                        55     Manganese           -1217   1-08
 FeCl„ FeCl,          ..       56     Iron                -1138   103
 Ni CI,                        59     Nickel               1075   1-03
 Co CI                         59     Cobalt              -1067   102
 CuCL, CuCl,                   63-5   Copper              -0955   0-98
                               65     Zinc                 0955   101
                               75     Arsenic             -0814   0-99
 Mo CI,                        96     Molybdenum          -0722   112
 BuCl„ RuClt ..               104     Ruthenium ..        -0611   103
 Ko CI,                       104     Rhedium              0580   0-98
 PdCl,                        106     Palladium            0593   102
 AgCl                         108     Silver ..           -0570   1-00
 CdCl,                        112     Cadmium             -0567   103
                              113-5   Indium              -0569   105
 SnCl,, SnCl,                 118     Tin                 -0562   1-07
 8bCl„ SbCL,          ..      122     Antimony            -0508   100
                              129     Tellurium ..         0474   103
 WC1„     WC1,                184     Tungsten             0334   100
 AuCL     An CI,              196-5   Gold                -0325   103
 IrCl,,   IrCl,..     ..      197     Iridium             -0326   104
 PtCl„    PtCl,       ..      197     Platinum . .         0324   104
 OsCl,,    OsCI,              199     Osmium               0311   1-00
 HgCl,    HgCl,       ..      200     Mercury              0319   103
 T1Cl,   T1C1,..      ..      203     Thallium            -0325   107
 PbCl,                        207     Lead                 0314   105
 BiCl,                        210     Bismuth    ..  ..   -0308   105
   Vol. VI.        (No. 56.)

398                            Professor Odling                    [Jan. 19,
     The most important chemical characters of indium being thus
established, there remains for consideration only the question of its
affinities to certain of the previously-known elements. And seeing
that the atomic weights of the elements range from 1, the atomic
weight of hydrogen, up to 240, the atomic weight of uranium, there
opens out the further question, whether the more obvious chemical
properties of the different elements are seriated in any way with their
atomic weights ; or to put this last question in another form, whether
the varied chemical properties of the elements are distributed among
them haphazard, or according to some definite system of which the
relationship subsisting between their several atomic weights may pos
sibly serve as a key. Now the atomic weights, as distinguished from
the combining proportions, of yttrium, erbium, cerium, lanthanum,
and didymium, must be regarded for the present as quite unknown.
Out of the fifty- eight elements, hewever, of which the atomic weights
have been more or less well determined, forty-six have their several
atomic weights ranging from 1 to 137, in an almost unbroken succes
sion. Ten of the other twelve have atomic weights ranging from 184,
that of tantalum, to 210, that of bismuth; while the remaining two,
            Tarle III.—Elements, in Order of Atomic Weight.*
     1.     2.       3.        4.       5.     6.      7.       8.   Type.
  I. HI Li 7 Na 23          K 39        ..  Rb 85    AglOS Cs 133    RC1
  II.      G 9 Mg24         Ca 40     Zn65 Sr 87-5 Cd 112 Ba 137     RCL.
  III.     B 11 Al 27 5         --      ..  X'       In 113 A'«>     BO,
  IV.      0 12 Si 28       Ti 50           Zr 89    Sn 118 J'       RCL.
  V.       N 14 P 31        V 51      As 75 Nb 94    Sb 122     ..   RCla
  VI.      0 16 S 32        Cr 52-5 Se 79 Mo 96      Te 129     -.   RCL,
  VII.     F 19 CI 35-5 Mn55 Br 80                   I 127      ..   RCL
  VIII.                     Fe 56 i         Ru 104 1                 RC1,
                            Co 59 [         Ro 104 V
                            Ni 59)          Pd 106 1
           Na 23            Cu 63 5         Ag 108
namely, therium and uranium, have the closely-approximating atomic
weights 238 and 240 respectively. In the above Table, the symbols of
the forty-six elements having atomic weights ranging from 1 to 137,
    * This Table is based on one published by the author in 1864-5. Similar
tables have been constructed by Newlands, Meyer, Meudelejeff, and others.
The positions marked X', Xh, and X", are assigned by Mendelejuff to yttrium,
didymium, and cerium, respectively. The recognition of the atomic weight of
uranium as 240, is also duo to Mendelejeff.

1872.]                 on the last new Metal, Indium.                 399
are set down in the order of the atomic woights of the elements sym
bolized,—save only in the caso of tellurium, of which the symbol is
placed immediately above, instead of below that of iodine, and of
which the atomic weight may not improbably have been somewhat
over-estimated. And violating the order of numerical seriation in
this small particular only, it is remarkable with what facility the
symbols of the forty-six elements may bo arranged in parallel lines
and columns, corresponding to a natural classification of the elements
themselves into analogous groups and series. Indeed, a study of the
entire number of elements at present known, would seem to indicate
that they are one and all associated with each other by a certain com
munity of relationship; of which the well-known gradation and
parallelism in properties and atomic weights, of the members of the
alkali and earth-alkali, and of the halogen and oxygen families of
elements afford only the most prominent examples.
     Taking the second lino of the Table as an illustration, it is observ
able that the seven metals symbolized thereon are distinguished from
all the others by their common property of forming one chloride only,
and that a di-chloride ; further, that the metals figuring in the uneven-
numbered columns of this line, namely, magnesium 24, zinc 65, and
cadmium 112, are permanent in the air, are volatilizable in the direct,
and basylous in the inverso order of their atomic weights, and are
 otherwise specially associated with one another; while the similarly
associated metals of the altornate or even-numbered columns, namely,
calcium 40, strontium 87 - 5, and barium 137, are quickly oxidizable in
 the air, are practically non-volatile, and are basylous in the direct
 instead of in the inverso order of their atomic weights ; and similarly,
 on the other lines of the Table, the elements symbolized are divisible
 into sub-groups, according to their odd and even positions respectively.
     Such being the relationship of the elements placed on the same
 line, the relationship of these in the same column is of a different
 kind. Taking the third and seventh columns by way of illustration,
 it is observable that the consecutive elements in each column have
 closely consecutive atomic numbers ; that the element on the first line
 forms a mono-chloride ; that on the second line, a di-chloride ; that
 on the third line, a tri-chlorido ; and that on the fourth line, a tetra
 chloride ; while these on the fifth, sixth, and seventh lines form oxides
 or oxichlorides, corresponding to a penta-, hexa-, and hepta-chloride
 respectively.
      By reason of its atomic weight, 113-5, indium is observed to figure
 on the third line and seventh column of the above Table ; but its posi
 tion among the elements is better recognizable by a glance at the Table
 below, containing a portion only of the preceding one, supplemented
  by an additional column of elements of higher atomic weight than
  any of these included previously.
      In respect of its atomic weight, then, triad indium occupies a posi
  tion exactly intermediate between the positions of diad cadmium and
  tetrad tin, to both of which metals it presents a most marked re
                                                             2 r 2

 400                          Professor Odling                    [Jan. 19,
 semblance in properties. They all three have the same extreme
 degree of fusibility, and much the same oxidizability and reducibility.
 Their sulphides are alike characterized by a yellow colour, that of
 cadmium, Cd S, being neutral ; that of tin, Sn S2, being acidulous ;
 aud that of indium, Iu4 Ss, being strictly intermediate.
                       3.            7.            10.           Type,
    I               Na 23         Ag  108           mf          BC1
   II               Mg 21         Cd  112        Hg 200         K CI,
  in                Al 27-5       In  1135       Tl 203         BC1,
  IV                Si 28         Sn  118        Pb 207         B CI,
   v                P 31          Sb  122        Bi 210         BCI,
  VI                S 32          Te  129           ¦•          BC1.
      Viewed in another aspect, triad indium occupies a position inter
 mediate between the positions of its remote triad congeners, aluminium
 and thallium. The mean atomic weight of the three metals being
 114 "3, the atomic weight of indium is 113 ¦ 5. The mean specific
 gravity of the three metals being 7 • 3, the specific gravity of indium
 is 7 • 4. And in respect of purely chemical habitudes, hydrated alumina
 and hydrated india might easily be mistaken for one another. It is
 interesting, moreover, to remark that the last-discovered two metals
 indium and thallium—discovered, it will be remembered, by the same
 process, that of spectrum analysis—should bear to one another much
 the same sort of relation that is borne to one another by the jovian and
 saturnine metals of the alchemical or even pre-alchemical era. Just,
for example, as the unstable and least-known chloride of lead, Pb Cl„,
 corresponds to the stable chloride of tin, Sn Cl4, so does the unstable
 and least-known chloride of thallium, Tl Cls, correspond to the stable,
 and as yot only known, chloride of indium, InCl8, as suggested,
 indeed, by the lecturer some six or seven years ago.
     The study of such relationships necessarily suggests many inquiries.
Arranging the entire fifty-eight elements of which the atomic weights
are known, in a table similar to the preceding one for the forty-six
elements having atomic weights not exceeding 137, some twenty or
five-and-twenty new elements would be required to fill up the gaps in
the different series ; but why should not new elements be discovered
having atomic weights as much above that of uranium, 240, as its
atomic weight is above that of barium, 137 ?
     Again, dt>cs it seem probable that bodies capable of being arranged
in such a well-marked numerical series, are really elementary and
mutually independent ; or is it more likely that the gradation of
properties aud atomic numbers manifested by these bodies, depends on
their possession of different increments of common material ?

1872.]                  on the last new Metal, Indium.                 401
     May it not be that the numerical ratio between the atomic numbers
of proximate elements, - = approximatively j , is really absolute ; and
that it will herenfter be proved to be so by a better determination of
atomic weights. Seeing that a shert time back, caesium with the atomic
weight 133, and rubidium with the atomic weight 85, both occurred as
nnrecognized impurities in potassium with its atomic weight 39, who
shall answer for the absolute accuracy of even the best established of
our present atomic weights ?
     Again, the mean difference in atomic weight between consecutive
 analogous elements, is, in the case of the nine following pairs of
elements, lithium and sodium, glucinum and magnesium, boron and
 aluminum, carbon and silicon, nitrogen and phespherus, oxygen and
sulphur, fluorine and chlorine, sodium and potassium, magnesium and
 calcium, 16 - 1 ; the lowest difference being 15, and the highest 17. The
 mean difference in the case of the four following similar pairs of
 proximate elements, phespherus and vanadium, sulphur and chromium,
 chlorine and manganese, arsenic and niobium, is 19-25; the lowest
 difference being 19, and the highest 20 - 5. Lastly, the mean difference
 in the case of the seven following similar pairs of proximate elements,
 calcium and zinc, vanadium and arsenic, manganese and bromine,
 rubidium and silver, strontium and cadmium, silver and caesium,
 tantalum and bismuth, is 24-6; the lowest and highest differences, even
 in the case of these elements of such high atomic weight, being 23
 and 26 respectively. Are these differences in atomic weight only
 approximatively, or are they indeed absolutely, 16, 20, and 24
 respectively ; and if so, why sheuld the numorical difference between
 proximate associated elements be 16 in one set of cases, 20 in another
 set, and 24 in a third ?
                                                                 [W. 0.]

402                       The Archbishop of Westminster                  [Jan. 2f>,
                      WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, January 26, 1872.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.O.L. F.R.8. President,
                                   in the Chair.
                Henry Edward Archrishop op Westminster,
                            On the Dcemon of Socrates.
At the outset I must plead guilty to a misnomer, for which, hewever,
I am not responsible. It has become a tradition to speak of the
Daemon of Socrates; but I hepe to shew that the term is witheut
warrant and incorrect.
     The Daemon of Socrates has been treated so ofton, and by so
many authers, historians, philosophers, and critics, both in classical
and Christian times, that I, at least, cannot hepe to say anything now
upon it. I may, hewever, roview the judgments of others, and then
offer what seems to me to be the true interpretation of this singular
fact in the history of philosophy.
      It will, I think, be found to be no mere intellectual eccentricity,
no mere superstition, still less an unmeaning record of Greek history,
 but a fact in the psychelogy of the greatest philosophical mind of the
 ancient world, full of significance for us, and throwing much light
 upon the analysis of our moral nature.
      The life of Socrates extended over a tract of seventy years, that
 is from 469 to 400 B.C., and embraced the most critical and splendid
 period of Athenian history                 In the midst of all the splendours
 of imperial greatness, intellectual culture, excessive refinement,
 luxurious self-indulgence, public and private immorality, Socrates
 aroso as a cross-questioner of men, a seeker after moral truth, an
 oxample and a teacher of temperance and justice. There is some
 thing majestic and melanchely in his account of himself, and of his
 mission, as he declared it in his Apology bofore his judges. He was
accused by Meletus and Anytus of corrupting the youth of Athens by
philosophical paradoxes, and of introducing new gods, or of denying
all gods. In answer he- spoke as follows :—
     " If you sheuld say to me, ' O Soorates, we will not believe Anytus. We will
 let you off; but on this condition, that you no longer go on with this questioning
 and philosophizing ; and if you sheuld be caught again doing this, you shall
 die'
     " If, as I said, you should acquit mo on these conditions, I sheuld sny to you.

1872.]                           on the Daemon of Socrates.                          403
O men of Athens, I reverence you and I love you, but I shall obey God rather
than you. As long as I breathe, and am able, I shall not cease to philosophize,
and to exhort you, and to demonstrate (the truth) to whomsoever among you I
may light upon, saying, in my accustomed words, ' How is it, O best of men, that
you, being an Athenian, and of a city the greatest and noblest for wisdom and
 power, are not ashamed to be careful of money, studying how you can make the
 most of it ; and of glory also and of honour : but of prudence, and truth, and of
 the soul, how you may make the best of that, have neither care nor thought ? '
 And this I will do, to young and old, whomsoever I may meet ; both to alien and
 citizen, and, above all, to the men of this city, inasmuch as you are nearer to me
 in kindred. For this is the command of God, as you well know ; and I think
  that no greater good ever yet came to the State, than this service which I render
 to God. For I go about doing nothing else than to persuade you, both young and
  old, to be careful in the first place neither of the body, nor of money, nor of any
  thing so earnestly as of the soul, how you may make it as perfect as possible. I
  tell you that virtue does not spring from money, but that from virtue money
  springs, and all other goods of man, both to the individual and to the common
  wealth. If, then, to teach these things be to destroy our young men, that would
  be mischievous in me indeed. But if anyone should say I teach anything other
  than these truths, he speaks falsely. Moreover, I say, O Athenians, whether you
  believe Anytus or not, and whether you let me go or not, I shall never do any
  thing else, even though I were to die many times.*
         " Do not clamour, O Athenians, but abide by the request I made to you, that
   is, not to clamour at what I am saying, but to hear me. For you will be benefited,
   I believe, by hearing me. I am about to say to you some things at which, per
   haps, you will cry out ; but I pray you not to do so. For you know well, if you
   should kill me, being such a one as I say I am, you will not hurt me so much as
   you will hurt yourselves. Neither Meletus nor Anytus can any way hurt me.
   This cannot be. For I do not think that it is ever permitted that a better man
   should be hurt by a worse. Perhaps, indeed, he may kill him or drive him into
    exile, or disfranchise him ; and these things perhaps he and others may think to
    be great evils. But I do not think so : much rather the doing that which he
    (Meletus) is now about—the laying hands on a man to kill him unjustly, is a
    great evil. But, O Athenians, I am far from making now a defence for myself,
    as some may think ; [I am making it] in your behalf ; lest by condemning me
    you should in anything offend in the matter of this gift which God has given you.
    For if you Bhould kill me, you will not easily find another man like me, who, to
    speak in a comic way, is so precisely adapted by God to the State ; which is like
    a horse, large and well-bred, but from its very size sluggish, and needing to be
    roused by some gad-fly. For so it seems to me, that the God has applied me,
    such as I am, to the State, that I may never cease to rouse you, and persuade and
    shame everyone, fastening upon you everywhere all day long. Such another will
    not easily come to you, O men of Athens ; and if you will listen to me, you
     will spare me. But perhaps, as those who awake in anger when they are stung,
     yon will, at the instigation of Anytus, kill me at once with a slap ; then you will
     end the rest of your life in sleep, unless God shall send some other gad-fly to be
     mindful of you. But that I am such a one, given by God to the State, you may
     know from this fact. It is not like the way of men that I, now for so many years,
     should have disregarded all my own concerns and should have endured the
     neglect of my own domestic affairs, and should have been ever busied about your
      interests ; going about to each of you privately, as a father or an elder brother,
      persuading you to be careful of virtue. If indeed I had derived any enjoyment
      from these things, and for these exhortations had received any reward, there
      would have been some reason in it. But now you yourselves see that the accusers,
      charging me as they do, without shame, of other things, of this at least have not
      been able to bring a witness against me ; as if I had ever either exacted or asked
          * Apologia Socratis, s. 17. Platonis Opp., vol. i. 114. Ed. Stallbaum,
       Gothe, 1858.

404                       The Archbishop of Westminster                    [Jan. 26,
any reward. I think, moreover, that I adduce a sufficient witness that I speak
the truth—I mean my poverty.*
    " It may perhaps appear strange that I sheuld go to and fro, giving advice,
and busying myself about these things in private, but that in public I should net
venture to go up (i.e. to the Pnyx) to give counsel to the State before your
assembly. But the cause of this is what you have heard me say often and ;n
many places ; that a voice is present with me—a certain agency of God, sorae-
what divine (Satin6viov)—which indeed Mcletus has caricatured and put into the
indictment. Now this began with me from my childhood ; a certain voice, wh.ch
always, when it comes, turns me aside from that which I am about to do, fcut
never impels me to do anything. It is this which opposed my mixing in politics,
and I think very wisely. For you well know, O Athenians, that if I had been
hitherto mixed in political matters, I sheuld have perished long ago ; and should
have done no good, either to you or to myself. Do not be angry with me for
speaking the truth ; for there is no man whe will save his life if he shall cou
 rageously oppose either you or any other populace, by striving to hinder the
 multitude of unjust and lawless things which are done in the State. It is neces
 sary, therefore, that anvone whe really combats for the sake of justice, if be
 would survive even for a little while, sheuld live a private and not a public
life."t
     When Socrates had ended his defence, the votes were*taken :' first,
he was condemned as guilty of the charges laid against him ; and,
secondly, he was sentenced to die. He then once more addressed the
court.
    " I would wish to speak kindly with those who have voted for me, in respect
to what has now happened ; while the archens are occupied, and before I go to
the place where I must die. Bear with me, therefore, O Athenians, for such
time as we have. While it is so permitted, nothing forbids our conversing to
gether. I wish to shew to you, as my friends, what is the meaning of that which
has now befallen me. O my judges—for in calling you judges I sheuld call
you rightly—something marvellous has happened to me. Hitherto, the Oracle
of the hauuLvvw, which is familiarly about me, with great frequency has opposed
itself, even in very little things, if I were about to act in any way not rightly.
But now there has befallen me, as you yourselves see, that which men may think,
and most men do account, to bo the greatest of evils. And yet this morning,
neither when I came from hemo did the sign from the God oppose itself, nor when
 I came up hither to the court of judgment, nor anywhere during the defence I
 was about to make ; altheugh in other speeches it has often restrained me in the
 very midst of speaking. But now in this affair it has not anywhere opposed me,
 either in any deed or word. What, then, do I suppose to be 'the cause ? I will
 tell you. That which has happened to me seems to be a good thing ; and if we
 think death to be an evil, we are in error. Of this I have a sure evidence ; for it
 cannot be that the accustomed sign would not have opposed itself to me, if I were
 not about to do something which is good.J
     " Wherefore, O my judges, you ought to be of good hepe about death ; and to
 know this to be true, that no evil can happen to a good mnn, whether in life or
in death ; nor are his affairs neglected by the gods. Nor are my affairs at this
 time the result of chance. But this is clear to me, that it were better for me
now to die, and to be set free from troubles. Wherefore the sign has in nothing
opposed mo. I am, therefore, in no way angry with these whe have condemned
me, nor with these whe have accused me; theugh they have condemned and
 accused me with no good will, but rather with the thought to hurt me. This,
 indeed, in them, is worthy of blame." §
           * Apologia Socratis, s. 18, p. 118.         t Ibid. s. 19, p. 123.
           X Ibid. s. 31, p. 164.              § Ibid. s. 33, p. 172.

1872.]                        on the Damon of Socrates.                          405
       Such was his general defence against his accusers. He stood up
as a man conscious of something in him higher than himself; of a
calling and a mission to his countrymen. He had laboured to recall
them from luxury, self-indulgence, ambition, civil 6trife, political
profligacy, and private corruption. He told them roundly that no
man could serve them who mixed in their politics— that no man could
rebuke their corruptions and live. Therefore it was that Meletus and
Anytus accused him ; and their accusation was the expression of a
wide-spread enmity in Athens.
       The charges laid against Socrates were chiefly two : the ono, that
 of corrupting the youth of the day by his philosophy ; the other,
 that of impiety, and of introducing new gods, inpa nawa Sai/^oVia,
 or of denying the existence of gods. It is with the latter we have
 chiefly to do, because it connects itself with the belief of Socrates in
 respect to the Diemonion, or voice, or sign, which? from his childhood
 had been with him as a monitor and guide.
       In answer to the charge of atheism, Socrates asked his accuser :—
      " Is there any man who believes that there are human affairs, but does not
 believe in the existence of men ; or that there are certain rules for managing
 horses, and yet believes that there is no such thing as a horse ? There is no such
  man. But pray answer me this point : is there any man who believes divine
  things and yet denies the being of a God ? " Meletus answered, " No, certainly."
  Then Socrates replied : " You acknowledge, then, that I believe and teach the
  existence of Deities. So that, whether they be new or old, you still own that I
  believe in divinities or divine agencies. Now if I believe that there are divinities
  or divine agencies, I must necessarily suppose that there are Gods." *
        In these passages of Plato we have the fullest and most explicit
  declaration of Socrates respecting the Deenion by which he was ad
  monished. He tells us that it was a " familiar sign ; an oracle ; a
  divine voice : " that this sign had been with him from his infancy :
  that its office was to take him off from certain lines of action ; that it
  did not impel him to any.
        With such declarations before him, it is not wonderful that Plutarch
   should have supposed this D»mon to be a personal being, and that he
   should have written a book, ' De Genio Socratis,' on the 'Familiar
   Spirit of Socrates;' and that Apuleius should have written 'De Deo
   Socrates,' of ' The God of Socrates : ' and that the Neoplatonists and
   certain of the Christian Fathers should have understood this Deemonion
   to be a personal being or genius : whether good or bad, they did not
   determine.
        Plutarch has not promoted either the perspicuity or the gravity of
   the subject by telling us that " a voice in the cave of Trophonius ex
   pounded to Timarchus the philosophy of daemons in the following
   words :—
       * Every soul partakes of reason. It cannot be without reason and intelligence.
    But so much of each soul as is mixed with flesh and passions is changed, and
    through pain or pleasure becomes irrational. Every soul does not mix itself in
    the same manner. For some plunge themselves altogether into the body, and so
                            * Apologia Socratis, s. 15, p. 105.

406                       The Archbishop of Westminster                        [Jan. 2P,
in this life their whele fmme is corrupted by appetite and pnssion ; others are
mixed only in part, but the purer part still remains out of the body. It is not
drawn down into it ; but it floats above, and touches the upper part of a man's
head. It is like a cord to hold up and direct the part of the soul which is sinking,
as long as it proves obedient,' and is not overcome by the passions of the flesh.
The part that is plunged into the body is called the soul ; but the uncorruptfd
part is called the mind, and people think that it is within them : as likewise they
imagine the image reflected from a glass is in the glass. But the more in
telligent, whe know it to be external, call it a daemon."*
    " Such was the soul of Hermodorus the Clazomenian, of which it is reported
that for nights and days it would leave his body, travel over many countries, and
return, after it hud seen things and talked with persons at a great distance ; till
at last, by the treachery of his wife, his body was delivered to his enemies : and
they burnt it in his own house while the soul was abroad." Plutarch considerately
adds : " It is certain that this is not true : " but he goes on to say : " The soul never
went out of the body, but it loosened the tie that held the dajmon, and gave it
range nnd freedom." t
     Plutarch then relates the following anecdote :—
    "More and greater things you may learn from Simias, and other companions
of Socrates ; but once, when I was present, as I went to Euthyphron the sooth
sayer, it happened, Simias, as you remember, that Socrates was going up to
Symbolum, and the house of Andocides, all the way asking questions, and play
fully attacking Euthyphron. When, suddenly standing still, and making us to
do the same, he pondered with himself for some time. Then, turning about, he
walked through Trnnkmakers' Street, calling back his friends that walked before
him, affirming' that it was because of his dromon. Many turned back, amongst
whem I, holding Euthyphron, was one ; but some of the youths, keeping on the
straight road, in order, as it were, to disprove the dsomon of Socrates, took along
with them Charillus the piper, who came with me to Athens to see Cebes. Now.
as they were walking through Sculptors' Street, near the court houses, a herd of
pigs, covered with mud, met them ; and, being too many for the street, nnd
running against one another, they upset some that could not get out of the way,
and dirtied others ; and Charillus came heme with his legs and clothes very
muddy; so that often, in merriment, they would remember Socrates' daemon,
wondering at its constant care of the man, and that Heaven kept such a particular
watch over him." X
    " I myself, Galaxidorus, have heard a Megarian, whe had it from Terpsion, say
that Socrates' dromon was nothing else but the sneezing either of himself or of
others ; for if another sneezed, either before, behind him, or on his right hand,
then he went on to do what he was about ; bnt if on the left hand, he refrained
from acting. One sort of his own sneezing confirmed him, whilst deliberating and
not fully resolved ; another stopped him when already about to act. But indeed
it seems strange that if he used sneezing as his sign, he should not have told this
to his friends, but sheuld have said that it was a dromon that hindered or enjoined
him."§
     The following passage is more to our purpose. Plutarch says : —
    " The resolute impulses of Socrates seem to be both vigorous and firm, as
springing from right principles and strong judgment. Therefore he, of his own
will, lived in poverty all his life, though he had friends who would have been glad
and willing to give to him ; he would not give up philosophy, notwithstanding all
the discouragements he met with; and at last, when his friends endeavoured and
skilfully contrived his escape, he would not yield to their entreaties, nor with-
    * Plutarch, De Genio Socratis, sect. xxii.           Moralia. Tom. i. 713.        Ed.
Doehner, Paris, 1841.
    + Ibid.                 I Ibid. seot. x.                 § Ibid. sect. xi.

1872.]                      on the Dmmon of Socrates.                      407
draw from death, but maintained nn inflexible mind in the lust extremity. And
surely these are not the actions of a man whose designs, when once fixed, could
be altered by omens or sneezings ; but of one who, by some higher guidance and
principle, is directed to do right."*
      Plutarch then says that Socrates foretold the overthrow of tho
Athenians in Sicily ; and that in tho pursuit at Delium ho, with Alci-
biades and Laches, escaped by Begiste, while others who would not
follow him were overtaken and slain. This caused the dremon of
Socrates to be much talked of in Athens.
      We may now dismiss these speculations, and come back to Socrates,
and learn from himself what he understood and intended us to under
stand by his Daemon or Da?monion.
      But here again we are brought to a standstill. We cannot inter
rogate Socrates himself. Wo can only get to him by hearsay.
 Between him and us stand Xenophon and Plato. It is, after all,
 Xenophon and Plato, not Socrates, who speak to us. Worse than
 this, Xenophon and Plato do not agree in what they tell us; and,
 worst of all, what they tell us evidently takes form and colour from
 their own minds               The Socrates of Xenophon stands out clear,
 hard, definite ; a matter of fact description, a photograph with few
 after-touches, with little sense that anything needs explanation, or
 could have any meaning but the letter of the text. The Socrates of
 Plato comes to us through the prisms of his marvellous imagination ;
 so as to create a misgiving whether it be a conscientious likeness or a
  portrait by tho hand of an artist and a friend, too creative and too
  fond to be faithful. Nevertheless, we are reduced to those two bio
  graphers. They are the only full and trustworthy witnesses in close
  personal contact with the man whom they describe.
      We will endeavour, then, to ascertain what they understood by
  the daemon of Socrates. This will at least give the best approxima
  tion to what Socrates understood by it himself.
      In order to do this, we will first take down their evidence as they
  gave it, and next compare the two testimonies ; and, lastly, make an
  estimate of their differences. When this is done we may use our own
  criticism : for it is one thing to ascertain what Socrates may have
  understood, it is another to ascertain what we may understand by the
   psychological facts narrated by him or by them. It is not to be too
  hastily assumed that Socrates was an adequate interpreter of the
   internal facts even of his own mind. It is not unreasonable to
   believe that tho philosophical and other profounder experience of two
   thousand years may have enabled us more truly than he could to
   analyze and to appreciate tho facts and phenomena of moral and
   mental philosophy. The heart has beat, and the blood has circulated,
   from the beginning of time ; yet we take the physiology of Harvey
   as to the blood, rather than that of Hippocrates. The Ethics even of
   Aristotle are, in analytical depth and precise delineation, conspicuously
                        * Plutarch, De Genio Soeratis, sect, ix

408                      The Archbishop of Westminster                         [Jon. 26.
in advance of the method and teaching of Socrates. In this the dis
ciple is abovo his master, and we may be above both.
     Let us begin then with Xenophon. The chief passages in which
he describes the Daemonion are as follows :—
    " It was in the months of men that Socrates declared that the Deity, or
Daemon ion (t& Sai/iirior) made things known to him, or gave him s>igns by which
to know them."
    " He used to say that the Dtemonion signified (things) to him ; and that h*
often advised those who were with him to do some things, and not to do otfceo,
as the Daemonion forewarned him."*
    " For he thought that the Gods (touj Bfovs) had care of men in a way unlit
that whicli most men imngine : for they suppose that the Gods know indeed srsr?
tilings, and do not know others. But Socrates believed the Gods to know ill
things ; whatsoever things are said, or done, or purposed in secret ; and that they
are everywhere present: and that they make known human tilings to men.'"t
    " When Hermogenes sorrowfully upbraided hira for not defending himself more
elaborately, and for even provoking his judges against him, Socrates answered:
Of a truth, Hermogenes, when I set to work to think out my defence before tbe
judges tho D.-cmonion hindered me.' " %
    Finally, Xenophon says of him that he was " so pious that he would do nothic;
without the counsel of the Gods."§
     Such then is the evidence of Xenophon: upon which these
remarks may be made.
    1. That Xenophon carefully distinguishes between the Daemon of Socrates,
which lie calls rb Saifiovioy, and the Gods, whom he calls rovt Scovs.
    2. That ho describes tho Daemonion as showing beforehand what things are
to be done, and what not to be done : that is to say, that the action of this monitor
 was both to enjoin and to forbid.
    3. That he refers this admonition and direction to the Gods, without whose
counsel (yv<!>nri) Socrates would never act.
    4. That nothing in Xenophon is to be found which invests the Daemonion
 with personality, or with any other character than that of a divine influence or
 agency, or a counsel or direction of the Gods acting upon the reason of man.
      We will now proceed to our other witness.
      The chief passages of Plato bearing on the Dtemonion are those
 which we have already quoted from the Apology. They need not be
 repeated.
     To these may bo added what follows.
     In the Euthydemus, Socrates says : " I happened to be providentially eittine
 alone in the place where you saw me, in the dressing room (of the Lycseum), and
 I had in my mind to be gone. When I got up, the accustomed sign, the
 Daemonion, came ; I therefore again sat down." || Soon after came Euthydemus
 and his companions.
     Again, in the Phaedrus : " When I was about to cross the river, the Dtemonion,
 the accustomed sign, came, which restrains me when I am about to do anything:
 and I seemed to hear a certain voice, which did not suffer me to proceed until I
 Bhould have expiated myself, as having in some way offended against God." »J
                                                Oxon. 1785.            t Ibid. s. 4.
                                                  § Ibid. lib. iv. c. 8, a. 4.
          || Euthydemus, 273, vol. vi. p. 80.). Ed. Stallbaum, Gothie, 1836.
          i Fhtadrua, 242, vol. iv. 72.

1872.]                       on the Dcemon of Socrates.                             409
     And in the Alcibiades, he says : "The cause of this was nothing human, but
a certain divine hindrance, the power of which you shall hereafter hear ; but now,
as it no longer hinders me, I am therefore come, and I am in good hope that for
the future it will not hinder me." *
     In the Thesetetus, he says : " The Dtemonion which comes to me hinders my
intercourse with some, and not with others."t
     And in the Republic : " It is not worth while to speak of the divine sign which
comes to me : whether it have occurred to any other or not." I
      I do not quote from tho Theages, in which there is much on tho
point, for two reasons. First, doubts have been raised as to its
authenticity : and secondly, the statements contained in it may be
found also in other dialogues of which there is no doubt.
      Now in these passages we have the following points :—
     1. That tho Dscmonion is spoken of as Seiov rt, Saifi6rioy, tnnutor, tpwfi* and
 cutOvTa rod Saifwrlov pamiKr\ ; something divine, something of the Deity, a sign,
 a voice, the accustomed divination or oracle of the Deity. It is evident, there
 fore, that Plato represents it as an agency, or a voice, not as an agent or a person ;
 and if the agent or person from whom this agency or voice proceed be sought for,
 it is to be found in God or in the Gods.
     2. That the function of this agency or voice was to check, to hinder, and to
 restrain, not to suggest or to prompt to any line of action.
     3. That it manifested itself in such apparently fortuitous events as the
 hindering the departure of Socrates from the Lycsoum till Euthydemus came ;
 and Kin M tr/uKpo7s. even in the least things : that is to say, its function was to
 forewarn or to check in matters not so much of right and wrong as of safety, or
 of expediency, or of good fortune.
       Comparing these two testimonies of Xenophon and Plato we find—
      1. That they agree as to the impersonal nature of the Daemonion. The termB
  used by them signify at the utmost a divine agency or a divine voice ; they do
  not signify the presence or attendance of a divine person, or of a familiar spirit.
       It is, perhaps, not wonderful that some of the ancients should have
  so misunderstood their language, and that Socrates should have been
  accused of introducing new deities. The same charge was in like
  manner made against the Apostle at Athens, because ho preached the
  Eesurrection, Trjv, avdoracriv. Nevertheless Cicero understood Plato's
  language, and translated the Dasmonion by " divinum aliquid."
       It is to be borno in mind that both Xenophon and Plato speak,
  not as we do, of the Aat/uDv of Socrates, but of the Sai/ioviov. They
  never speak of the Saifioviov as 8t6s ; but observe strictly the known
  distinction between these terms. Aai/xoVioi' signifies the abstract or
  neuter idea of Divine power, the Deity, or the Divinity. As Aristotle
   says, it implies jj ©cos tj 0eo5 epyor,§ either the presence or the power,
   not of a Saifitav or inferior divinity, but of God. Aai/wov is so far
   used convertibly with ©eos, that it is sometimes used for ©to's, but
   ©tds is never used for Aai/iwv. ©eos and Aot^w are sometimes used
   together ; but Aai/x<oi/ signifies a divinity of lower rank.
        * Alcibiades, 103, vol. v. 221.           t Theostetus, 151, vol. viii. 71.
        X De Bepublica, lib. vi. s. 496.          § Arist. Knot ii. xxiii. 8.

410                       The Archbishop of Westminster                     [Jan. 26,
     In the Apology, Socrates tolls his judges that when he was coming
out of his heuse, to tov 6tov orj/idov, the sign of the God, dis
tinguishing the agency from the person, hindered him. Xenophen
also makes Euthydemus say that the Gods shewed a special friendship
to Socrates. And again he says, speaking of voices, signs, and divina
tions, that by those things, tous 0£ous arlixalvtiv, the Gods signified
things to man. The haxfiavvov was one of these signs : impersonal,
derived from a divine agent.
    2. That they disagree as to the function or office of the Daemonion. Xenophon
ascribes to it the twofold office of suggestion and restraint. Plato ascribes to it
expressly that of restraint only. Plutarch agrees with Xenophen, and describes
its office as either restraining or enjoining; KuKimv, ti KtKtiaiv*
    3. That they further disagree, inasmuch as Xenophon recognizes the action of
the Doanonion in matters of right or wrong, as well as in matters of expediency ;
whereas Plato seems to restrict it to the latter.
     The sum of the evidence, therefore, may bo thus stated. Socrates
believed himself to be assisted from his childheod by a diving agency,
 whereby he was forewarned and guided in matters of his own personal
 conduct, both towards himself, as in his escape after the defeat at
 Dclium, and his waiting in the Lycaeum ; and towards others, as in
judging what disciples to receive or to reject, and in his whele mission
as cross-examiner of his fellow-countrymen.
      Such is the judgment of ancient writers. I will quote only a few
 of the many modern critics on this subject.
     Bishop Thirlwall says : " Socrates, whe was used to reflect profoundly on the
 stote of his own mind, had, it seems, gradually become convinced that he was
 favoured by the Gods with an inward sign, which he described as a voice." t
     In like manner, Mr. Grote says : " We have also to note that marked feature
 in the character of Socrates, the standing upon his own individual reason, and
 measure of good and evil ; nay, even perhaps his confidence in it so far as to
 believe in a divine voice informing and moving him.''$ Mr. Grote further refers
 in a note to a curious passage from the Life of Coriolanus by Plutarch, where he
 says that the Gods do not infuse into men new volitions ; but they work upon
 the principle of association in the mind, suggesting ideas which conduct to the
 appropriate volitions. Plutarch's words are—" Not infusing the motive powers,
 but the ideas which call these motive powers into activity ; not making the act
 involuntary by constraint, but giving an outset to the will, and inspiring it with
 courago and hepe."
       According to both these estimates it would appear that the
  groundwork of this divine action, as Socrates believed it to be, was
 the intellectual and moral activity of his own mind.
      Zeller, in his work on Socrates and the Socratic Scheols, gives his
 estimate of the Daemonion in the following words :—
     " The t<ufi6vioy is therefore an internal oracle, and as such it is by Xenophen
 and Plato included under the more general notion of divination, and placed on a
 par with divination by sacrifice and the flight of birds. In attemptiug to bring
       * De Genio Socratis, sect. xi.            t Hist, of Greece, vol. iv. p. 290.
                             % Grote's Plato, vol. i. p. 295.

1872.]                           on the Demon of Socrates.                            411
this inward revelation of Socrates into harmony with the facts of psychology, it
may be laid down in the first place that the dasmonium must not be confounded
with the voice of conscience, as many ancient and modem critics have done."
. . . . " The tatit6mor has nothing to do witli the universal moral standard, which,
 according to Socrates, is a matter for pure intelligence to determine." . . . . " For
 these [that is, actions in prospect] Socrates either has recourse to /uutikJ) in
 peneral, or to his taipinmr, leaving moral conduct to be determined by clear
 knowledge." *
         "We aro here approaching to the estimate which appears to me to
 be both adequate and true.
         Mr. Riddcll, of Balliol, after carefully analyzing the evidence we
  have hitherto examined, says :—
        " If, then, declining Socrates' account, we are disposed to refer the phenomenon
  to ordinary psychological causes, we can do so satisfactorily, provided we confine
  our attention to Xenophon's account alone. All Xenophon's notices of it
  encourage the view that it was a quick exercise of a judgment, informed by
  knowledge of the subject, trained by experience, and inferring from cause to
  effect, without consciousness of the process. In a mind so purified by temperance
  and self-knowledge, so single of purpose, and unperturbed by lower aims, endowed
  with such powerful natural faculties, especially those of observation and of causality,
   the ability to forecast and forejudge might become almost an immediate sense.
        " As to the reconcilement of authorities, when Plato makes Socrates say, &«!
  iiroTptirci fit, lie describes it by its most perceptible act. For its coincidence with
   an existing purpose would bo superfluous and little noticeable               The voice
   was no impulse : it did not speak to the will, but had a critical or reflexive
   function."
         Mr. Biddell goes on to say, that the tauix6viov was " an unanalyzed act of
   judgment ; " that it was Kpniieii, not ^jtitoktik^, that it was Socrates' substitute
   for iiavTitcii, and that, where men are wont to have recourse to external preter
   natural aids, Socrates went by a guide within himself : that to this guide he, in
    all good faith, gave a religious name. " His mental nets, so far as he could unravel
    them, were his own, were human : beyond his ken, they were divine ; and what
    really was of the nature of an immediate critical sense, seemed to him an
    immediate inspiration."!
          This appears to me to be in outline an explanation both true
    and adequate.
          If I were asked to add my own judgment as to what the Dromon of
     Socrates was, in the estimate of Socrates himself, I should answer as
     follows :—
          It was a belief of a divine assistance, granted, as he says, to all
     men in some things, and in some special circumstances ; of which
     most men are hardly, if at all, conscious : but in his case it was con
     sciously recognized from his childhood, and it acted upon him in and
     through the intellectual and moral operations of his own mind : so
     that he ascribed to the action of the Dromonion much that was
     undoubtedly the normal activity of his own intellectual and moral
      state.
           Such, I think, Socrates believed it to be.
          * Zeller's Socrates and the Socratio Schools, pp. 76-78. Longman, 1868.
          t BiddeU's Apology of Plato, pp. 105-8. Oxford, 1867.

 112                   The Archbishop of Westminster                         [Jan. 26,
     If, hewever, I were asked what we may believe it to have been, I
 would answer :—
     1. That, helding altogether with Lord Bacon, when he says in his
' Essay on Atheism,' " I had rather believe all the fables of the
Legend, and the Talmud, and the Alcoran, than that this universal
frame is witheut a mind "—wo may well believe in a divine provi
dence surrounding the life, and a divine action present to the mind,
of any man whe, according to the testimony of ono that knew him by
closest intimacy, was " so pious as never to do anything witheut the
counsel of the Gods ; so just as never to hurt anyone even in
the lightest thing : but full of the greatest benefit to all who con
versed with him : so temperate as never to prefer what was pleasant
to what was best : so prudent as never to err in discerning the better
from the worse ; and never to need the judgment of any other in this
discernment, being sufficient in himself." * That a divine providence
and a divine help are over the whele intellectual and moral world, is
an axiomatic truth in the relation of God to man : that they may be
looked for in a special degree in just and prudent men, follows as a
 corollary from that axiom. But as this lios beyond our analysis, we
 will confine ourselves to the subject as a matter of psychelogy.
     I will therefore add a further proposition, namely :—
     2. That the statements of Xenophen and Plato may be, not only
harmonized, .but brought under the same psychelogical explanation,
resting on the laws of the speculative and the practical reason. It
would indeed be too narrow an explanation, as Zeller objects, to refer
the signs of this monitor to the action of conscience alono ; for con
science is only one office, or one function, of the reason of man.
Nevertheless it is certain, that in a large part of that which Socrates
referred to the Daemonion, conscience was directly present and per
ceptibly in action. It is no objection to this to quote, as Zeller does,
the declaration of Socrates that, " It is idle to consult the Gods about
things which may be known by deliberation," ^ or to say that Socrates
" referred morals to the judgment of reason." | This is precisely the
philosophical definition of conscience. Conscience is dictamen rationis.
It is reason acting upon right and wrong with a view to practice :
just as apprehension is the reason acting upon truth and falseheod
with a view to science. In matter of speculative truth, as in physical
science, geometry, and the like, the intellect acts witheut any response
from the passions or affections of the moral nature. Aristotle in the
' Rhetoric ' says that mathematics have no ethical character, but that
the teaching of Socrates has.§ In matter of practical truth, the
discernments of the intellect are followed by a response of the moral
nature by way of approval or disapproval. But the primary judge is
the reason, the response of tho moral nature is secondary. It is,
therefore, most true that morals are subject to the jurisdiction of
        * Xenopb. Memorabilia, lib. iv. o. 1, 8. 5.               t Ibid. p. 78.
                    X Ibid.                   § Rhet. iii. 16, 8.

1872.]                     on the Damon of Socrates.                        413
reason ; but that does not prove that this monitor of Socrates was not
in great part the action of conscience.
     And here it may be well to make more clear and precise the philo
sophical definition of conscience.
     Scientia is the simple knowledge of things by the reason. Con-
scientia is the self-knowledge of the reason or mind. " Nil conseire
sibi, nulla pallescere culpa." Now this conscience in its first inten
tion is consciousness, as we commonly call it. It extends over all
the internal acts of the reason or mind, over the whele inner world
of our personal identity. Conscience, in the second intention of
common parlance, signifies the reason judging of moral action, and
discerning of right from wrong, with an approval or disapproval of
the moral sense following upon its decisions. Metaphysicians, there
fore, distinguish the operations of conscience into two kinds, and
speak of a psychological conscience, by which we reflect upon internal
acts of the mind in general, and a moral conscience, by which we
reflect upon and judge of the ethical character of actions, whether
internal or external. And this conscience they again distinguish into
habitual and actual. The habitual conscience is the permanent dis
position of the mind in relation to its own moral state; the actual
conscience is the exertion of its attention and judicial discernment
on its own moral acts. The habitual conscience is spontaneous, and
 therefore unconscious ; the actual conscience is reflex, deliberate,
 and therefore conscious.
     Such is the language of schelastic philosophy; and this seems
 with great preoision to account for the fact which Socrates appears to
 have observed in himself, and Plato has recorded ; namely, that the
 Daemonion seemed to act only by way of check and restraint. The
 spontaneous action of conscience was habitual and unperceived ; the
 actual aroused attention and conscious effort.*
     In saying, then, that this internal monitor of Socrates is the
 reason, including the conscience, I intend expressly to include what
 is here described as the psychelogical as well as the moral conscience,
 and also the distinction between the habitual or spontaneous, and the
 actual or deliberate conscience. The application of this will be
 further seen when we answer an objection which may be anticipated.
 This comprehensive view includes all the mental judgments, whether
 of expediency or of morality, that is, both of prudence and of rectitude.
      As to the examples given by Xenophen and Plato, in almost every
 one of them may be traced a moral element and a moral discernment.
      For instance : The decision of Socrates to keep out of politics,
 that he might better serve the public good. This is surely a high
 moral judgment, involving the noblest motives of relative duty. The
 discernment as to what disciples to retain, or what persons to receive
 back again among them after they had once left him, unless it were a
 blind and capricious act, which in Socrates is incredible, must have
        * Prisco. Filosofia Speculativa, tom. i. pp. 208-10. Napolis, 1864.
    Vol. VI. (No. 56.)                                                2 a

414                    The Archbishop of Westminster             [Jan. 26-,
 been founded upon such a discernment of moral qualities and distinc
 tions, both in his own character and in that of others, as to demand
the exercise of the moral reason. When we say that one man is it'n-
patico and another antipatico, we are exercising a moral sense and
discrimination of an intimate and explicit sort; and this determines
us in receiving or refusing to receive men to our confidence.
     In deciding that he would not defend himself so as to escape death,
the action of conscience, sustaining the highest aspirations and the
noblest intrepidity, is clearly revealed.
     I admit that in the escape after the flight and pursuit at Delium,
and in the waiting in the Lycaoum, and in the matter of Plutarch's
pigs, there is to bo discerned rather the activity of prudence than of
conscience. But on the supposition that the monitor of Socrates was
a mature and experienced reason, the action of both prudence and
 conscience would be alike included.
     To this it may be objected, that Plato distinctly declares that the
monitor of Socrates told him, not what tllings to do, but what things
not to do ; that inasmuch as conscience has a twofold office towards
both good and evil, the Desmonion could not be conscience.
     But to this objection two answers may bo made.
     The first, that Xenophen and Plutarch directly say that the
Daemonion both enjoined and forbade, that is, prouounced for or against
certain lines of action.
     The other answer has been anticipated by the statements of our
Schelastic Philosophy. It has been shewn that the action of con
science, when it suggests or approves anything, is less preceptible
than when it disapproves or forbids. This may be seen by analogies.
We aro insensible of our continuous respiration, but distinctly sensible
of the act of helding the breath ; it is an actus imperalus requiring a
conscious exertion of the will. Again, in walking, we are unconscious
of the momentum of our pace, but conscious of any hindrance, and
even of the act of stopping. The moral reason or conscience is
always in activity, but with little or no reflex action upon itself, until
something offonds it. We are then conscious of a change of attitude,
and of a recoil. For instance, the reason and conscience of Socrates
permitted him freely to mix among men to cross-examino them, but
not to enter into politics. In the former, he followed his own spon
taneous inclination ; in the latter, he imposed a conscious restraint
upon himself. This is what Aristotle describes as prudence, or
tyronpne. He distinguishes it from science, as being an intellectual
habit conversant with practical and contingent matter; and from
intuition, as being of details rather than of principles. He says that
&povr)<ri<;, or prudence, is an intellectual virtue conversant about
moral action. And he ascribes to it a power of sight, which is so
trained and perfected by experience as to discern with an intuitive
rapidity what is right or expediont in practice. He says that prudent
men have a faculty which men call (Scivdr^s) skill, or ability, or
resource, " the naturo of which is to do—and to do correctly—the

 1872.]                         on the Demon of Socrates.                          415
¦fcliiiigs which conduce to the end proposed. If this aim be good, the
 tskill is praiseworthy ; but if it be bad, it becomes craft." Wherefore
  Ajistotle says, " we call prudent men skilful, and not crafty. But
  prudence is not the same as this faculty (t. e. Savory's, or skill. But
  the habit of prudence grows upon this eye, as it were, of the soul."*
  Tliis is a precise description of the prompt and provident intuition,
  a. eort of iyxlvoia, and eiftovXia, presence of mind, rapidity of counsel,
  with which Socrates discovered the useful, or the expedient in matters
  of practice. But the nature of this intellectual faculty is, in the
  main, distinctly moral ; and belongs to the region of conscience, or the
   discernment of right and wrong.
         This instinct or faculty of moral discernment is traceable through
   out the whole history of the ancient world. St. Paul only affirms
   what all records of antiquity demonstrate in saying, " When the
   Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things contained in
   the law, these, having not Jhe law, are a law unto themselves, which
   show the works of the law written in their hearts, their conscience
   also bearing witness (oT^/ia/w-upovo-iys avruiv rrji o-w£i8i;<rta)s), and their
    thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another."!
         Once more : it may be objected that it is not for us to theorize as
    to what Socrates ought to have understood of his own inward life,
    but to take things as he expressed them.
         To this I have already by anticipation made one sufficient answer.
    But I will add another. Socrates refused to be classed with the
    philosophers or teachers of Athens. He delivered no system of phi
    losophy. He framed to himself no moral or mental science. He
    found philosophy in the hands of Physicists, or physical theorists, and
    Sophists. He thought the Physicists to be vainly curious, if not
    impious, in trying to discover what the Gods kept secret : he thought
    the Sophists to be venal, superficial, and immoral. He was the
     founder, not of a new philosophy, but of a new era in philosophy.
     He extricated the conceptions of God and of morality from the region
     and philosophy of matter, and set them in the sphere of mind. He
     brought down philosophy, as Cicero says, from heaven to earth, to the
     market-place, and the streets, and the homes and the hearts of men.
     He cross-examined every man he met with, politicians, philosophers, rhe
     toricians, painters, private citizens, artisans : but he framed no system,
     and laid down no theories ; he made no analysis of the human mind.
     Lord Bacon is 6aid to have created a Novum Organum in philosophy
     by questioning Nature. This Socrates certainly did by questioning
     man. His method was one of universal questioning, whereby he
     heaped up materials for his disciples, one of whom afterwards gave
 • to them a scientific order and precision of expression which has formed
     the imperishable basis of mental and moral philosophy to this day.
     The Ethics of Aristotle analyze, lay out, distinguish, and define the
             * Arist. Eth. N. L. vi. xii. t$ Hfifiart rolntf ' 7(«toi t^j tjivxv'-
             t Rom. ii. 14, 15.
                                                                          2 0 2

416 The Archbishop of Westminster on the Dwmon of Socrates. [Jan. 2(5,
intellectual and moral processes of the human mind—modern meta
physicians must bear with me—with a truth which has never been
surpassed. What Socrates felt, Aristotle has fixed by exact analysis.
The character of Socrates is the <f>povifios of Aristotle, the prudent
man ; but prudenco is etymologically and essentially far-seeing,• the
perfection of the moral reason. " All men," he says, " seem to testify
that such a habit which is according to prudence is virtue. But it is
necessary to make a slight difference, for virtue is not only a habit
according to right reason, but inseparably joined with right reason ;
and prudence is the same as right reason on these subjects. Socrates
therefore," Aristotle says, " theught the virtues to bo reasons or
rational habits, for he theught them all to be sciences, but we think
them to be intellectual habits joined with reason. It is clear, however,
from what has been said, that it is impossible for a man to be properly
virtuous witheut prudence, or to be prudent witheut moral virtue."'!'
Aristotle seems to me to give in this passage the psychelogical
analysis of the intuition and providence with which Socrates was emi
nently endowed. His prudence or <£povjj<ris constituted the avrapKtia,
or self-dependence of reason in all questions of morality, of which
Xenophen speaks.
                Nullum numen abest si sit Frudentia, nos te
                Nos facimus, Fortuna, deam coeloque locaiuus.J
    The prudence of Socrates was his own moral state, and yet non
sine Numine, for we may well believe that to him was granted no
common share in the " Light that lighteth every man that cometh
into this world."
    In saying this, I am not rejecting the supposition that the par
ticular providence which never suffers even a sparrow to fall to the
ground witheut its Creator's will, may have in a special way encom
passed the life of a man whe witnessed in a corrupt world to the
lights of nature and to the laws of right. In the midst of an
intellectual frivolity and a moral degradation never surpassed in the
history of mankind, made all the guiltier by reason of the refined
culture and luxurious civilization of Athens, Socrates bore witness,
until seventy years of age, to the supremacy of prudence, justice,
fortitude, and temperance, the four perfections of man in the order of
nature.
    Whether .the estimate I have given of the Daemonion of Socrates
be truo or not, the inquiry in which wo have been engaged is mani
festly not a barren speculation. It sets before us a great moral
example, it teaches us a great moral law, necessary to men at all
times, vital to us in these declining days. I mean, that there is no
way for men to attain their true dignity, nor to serve their age and
             * Pnidens futuri temporis exitum
               Caliginosa nocte premit Dens.—//or. Od. iii. 29.
         t Eth. N. L. vi. xiii.          J Juvenal, lib. iv. sat. x. 365-6.

1.872.] Professor Tyndall an the Identity of Light and Radiant Heat. 417
country, but to be upright in conscience, and even at the cost of life
fco be both in public and private duty prudent and temperate, just and
"brave. It tells us with a thrilling human voice, and in the accents of
our common humanity, that man's, supreme rule of right is the moral
x-eason or conscience ; that the cultivation of the mere intellect, while
the moral life and powers lie fallow, is the work of sophists, deceivers,
ocr deceived, or both ; that the education of man is his moral forma
 tion ; that intellectual culture without moral goodness is a wildfire
and a pestilence which makes havoc of men and states ; that know
 ledge is virtue, and virtue knowledge ; for that, unless we would
maim and mutilate our being, the intellectual and moral powers of
 man must be simultaneously and equably unfolded and matured.
 These are axioms of the moral life ; vital, I say, at all times and in
 all lands, but nowhere more in season and more wholesome than to us
 who, in the sudden growth of a vast maritime empire, splendid and
 unstable from its very greatness, in the refinements of luxury, and the
 inundation of a stupendous prosperity, seem to be developing some of
 the moral and intellectual evils which went before the fall of imperial
  Athens ;—political factions, licentious freedom, sophistical education,
  a relaxation of moral and religious traditions, a growing scepticism,
  an unstable public opinion swayed to and fro by nameless hands, and
  by irresponsible voices. In such a public state Socrates lived
  and died, bequeathing to us this lesson—that Conscience is the Voice
  of God.
                      WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, February 2, 1872.
       Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.B.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
                       Professor Tyndall, LL.D. F.B.S.
                  On the Identity of Light and Radiant Heat.
  Whether we regard its achievements in the past, or its promise and
   tendency in the future, all that we know of physical science—every
   bent and bias which we receive from its pursuit—tends to confirm the
   dictum of the poet regarding this universe :—
                     " All are but parts of one stupendous whole,
                       Whose body Nature is." *
       If I halt here, and omit the next clause of the couplet, it is not
   because physical science has arrived at any conclusion hostile to that
                * "All are but parts of one stupendous whole,
                    Whose body Nature is, and God the soul."
                                      Pope's Eitay on Man, Kpintle L, line 207.

418                           Professor Tyndall                   [Feb. 2,
clause, at all events in its profoandest signification, but simply because
what the poet goes on to affirm lies outside the sphere of science.
We, as physical students, have to do with "Nature" only, and oar
view of nature could not be more happily expressed than by the figure
employed by the poet. For our vdcation, and the delight and disci
pline that it confers, do not consist in the registration of unrelated
facts and phenomena; but in the searching out and discovery of
relationship in a system," whose parts we hold to be as closely and
definitely related to each other as are the various organs and functions
of the living body itself.
    It was this spirit of search, this capacity and desire, developed
amid natural agencies, to detect the lines of connection between these
agencies, that gave for a time such keen interest to the discussion,
whether light and heat were essentially different things, or whether a
substantial identity subsisted between them. It is not so very many
years Bince that most excellent experimenter and philosophical in
quirer, Melloni, isolated from a solar beam a brilliant light, and
finding it incompetent to affect his most sensitive thermoecopie
apparatus, concluded that light and heat were essentially distinct.
But in drawing this conclusion, Melloni forgot that he was implicitly
dealing with an instrument of almost infinitely greater delicacy than
his thermoscopic apparatus ; he forgot that the human eye, and the
consciousness connected with the eye, arc capable of being vividly
excited byan amount of force which when translated into heat might
defy all the thermometers in the world to detect it. Melloni himself
subsequently modified his conclusion.
    It is not so very long since the late Principal Forbes was eagerly
engaged in establishing the important point that radiant heat, like
light, is capable of being polarized. Since that time Knoblauch,
Foucault, Fizeau, and Seebeck have applied their refined experimental
skill to this question of identity ; and those excellent investigators
De la Provostaye and Desoins, pushed the analogy between light and
heat so far as to prove that tlie magnetization of a ray of light, in
 Faraday's sense of the term, has its parallel in the magnetization of
a ray of heat.
    It was, however, in their private cabinets that these experimenters
obtained thoir results, which were in most cases so small, as to
require attention on the part of a skilled observer to detect them.
But science grows, and our experimental means augment as our know
ledge expands. Becent discoveries and improvements will, I trust,
enable me to make evident to you, to-night, effects which have been
hitherto confined to far more limited circles ; some of which indeed
have only been seen by the observers who first noticed and described
them. And if those accidents which often hold sway over lecture-
experiments of a delicate character should prove favourable, we may be
able to push the subject a hair's breadth beyond the limits which
observation has hitherto assigned to it.
    Heat is presented to us in two aspects : sometimes associated with

 1872.]          on the Identity of Liyht and Radiant Heat.           419
ordinary matter, through which it creeps by the process of conduction ;
tsometimes not associated with ordinary matter, but, like light, flying
*hrough space with immense velocity. In this latter form it is called
wadiant heal,- Radiant heat obviously and palpably comes to us from
*he Sun, but here it is entangled with light. Let me, in the first
place, endeavour to unravel this entanglement.
      When white light is refracted, it is unravelled and the spectrum
is produced. A spectrum of the electric light was thrown upon a
screen; and red, green, and black ribbons about an inch wide were
successively moved along it. The red placed in the red light ap
peared a brilliant red ; when moved into the green it became black.
In like manner the green ribbon moved from the green, where it
shone vividly green, into the red, became an intense black. The black
xibbon was black in every part of the spectrum.
      Now the red ribbon is not heated in red, and the green is not
lieated in green; but red is heated in green, and green in red. We
liavo heating only where we have absorption ; and the heat generated
is the equivalent of the light absorbed. Black absorbs all the rays
of light, hence, indeed, its blackness ; and if it could speak, it might
tell us the warmth of every colour. But warmth exists outside the
colours. Beyond the red, where nothing is seen, the force acting on
the retina is far greater than when the eye is plunged in the red.
The objective here is entirely out of proportion to the subjective.
     The existence of this heat was thus proved. All the colours but
the red were cut off by a red glass, and with a diaphragm having a
circular opening, a well-defined red circle was produced. This was
refracted by a prism, still remaining a circle. A thermo-pile with its
¦face towards the lamp was then caused to approach the path of the
beam. It would have been seen by its shadow on the screen if the
light had been at all invaded; but with a considerable interval be
tween the pile and the light, a large deflection of the galvanometer
testified to the presence of heat beyond the luminous circle. An
opaque solution* was substituted for the red glass. A circle re
mained, but it was an invisible circle of radiant heat instead of a
circle of light, and the needle of the galvanometer did not fall,
though the visible image had vanished.
     Thus, as regards refraction, wo have radiant heat behaving like
light. And now for reflexion. A horizontal beam of light was re
flected upwards by a plane mirror, and when the light was cut off by
the introduction of the opaque cell, a powerful beam of reflected heat
was proved still to remain. The luminous beam was then totally
reflected by a prism to a horizontal direction ; the light was again cut
off, and a powerful deflection of the galvanometer needle was obtained
by the residual heat-beam. Thus, in respect to common and total
reflexion the behaviour of light and heat is the same.
                        Iodine in bisulphide of carbon.

420                          Professor Tyudall                     [Feb. 1 1
    The action of lenses on light and heat was then denionstrai*!
the invisible heat-rayB being brought to a focus as readily as the
rays of light.
    A beam of light was then made to strike a concave mirror, and »
the focus, which was strikingly visible in the dust of the room, fist
thermo-pile was placed, having its face covered. The light being est
otf by the dark cell, and the covering screen drawn away, the needk
of the galvanometer at once flew to its stops.
    Double refraction by Iceland spar was next described and ex
plained. It was illustrated by passing through the spar a circular
beam of light, which, on the screen, gave two images. The plats*
on the screen where these two images fell were marked, and fise
light was cut off by the iodine cell. On introducing the thermo
pile with its face towards the lamp, when it occupied the position
of either light-image, a deflection of the needle was obtained. Of
the two images, one is the ordinary, the other the extraordinary.
Is tho same true of the heat ? Placing the pile in the place of the
ordinary image, cutting off the light, and turning the spar, the deflec
tion of tho needle remained unchanged ; but when the spar was turned
round, while the pile occupied the place of the extraordinary image,
the needle instantly fell. Why ? Removing the dark cell and rotating
the spar, the extraordinary light-image was seen to rotate round the
ordinary ono, which remained fixed. The heat-beam did the same and
thus quitted the pile. Here then we prove that the heat-beam also
has its ordinary and extraordinary image. This, it was believed, was
the first time the effect had been obtained with purely invisible heat.
Knoblauch had demonstrated the double refraction of heat, using the
total beam, luminous and non-luminous, of the Sun.
    Some of the phenomena of polarization were next touched on.
Light is propagated by the undulations of an etherial medium, the
direction of vibration being perpendicular to the direction of propaga
tion. A crystal of tourmaline has the property of quenching all vibrations
except those which are parallel to the axis of the crystal ; hence, a
plate of tourmaline cut parallel to the axis will allow all vibrations in
that direction to pass through it, but will stop all others. A beam of
light which has passed through one plate of tourmaline is therefore
unable to pass through another placed transversely to it, whereas, if
the axes are parallel, the light is but little dimmed by the second plate.
The black space due to the superposition of the crossed plates of tour
maline was shown, as also the abolition of tho darkness by a thin film
of mica introduced between the plates.
    A beam with all its vibrations reduced to tho same plane is called
a beam of plane polarized light.
    The two beams emergent from double-refracting spar are thus
polarized. Nicol got rid of one. Ho cut a parallelopiped of spar
into two by a very oblique section, polished the two surfaces, and united
 them by Canada balsam. The ordinary or more powerfully refracted
ray, at tho surface of the balsam is, in consequence of its obliquity,

J872.J         on the Identity of Light and Radiant Heat.              421
totally reflected, and the extraordinary ray passes on alone. In this
'way we obtain an intense beam of polarized light.
     A beam of light was sent through two large Nicol prisms, and
shown to be entirely extinguished when the principal sections of the
prisms crossed each other. The introduction of a plate of mica
"between them caused, as in the case of the crossed tourmalines, the
instant reappearance of the light. The opaque cell was then placed
in front of the lamp, all visible rays being thus intercepted. The
thermo-pile was next placed so as to receive the beam after leaving
the second Nicol prism. Causing one of the crossed prisms to rotate,
a path was opened for the heat exactly as for the light, the deflection
of the needle speedily bearing witness to the fact. The prisms being
again crossed, the heat-beam was again quenched ; but as in the case
of light, the introduction of a piece of mica restored the heat and
caused a large deflection of the galvanometer.
     Faraday's great experiment was next performed. A beam of light,
polarized by one Nicol's prism, was made to pass through a piece
of heavy glass placed between the perforated poles of an electro
magnet, and afterwards through another Nicol, so placed that the
beam was extinguished. When the magnet was excited the plane of
 polarization was caused to rotate and a luminous image flashed in
 stantly out upon the scene.
     The effect of magnetization is greatly augmented by adopting the
 device of MM. De la Provostaye and Desains, of causing the principal
 sections of the Nicol's prism to enclose, not a right angle, but an angle
 of 45°. This was done, the heat falling on the pile being neutralized
 by the method of compensation. On sending a current round the
 magnet a considerable deflection of the needle was obtained, the direc
 tion of the deflection depending on that of the magnetizing current.
     De la Provostaye and Desains thus obtained with luminous solar
 heat a deflection of two or three degrees. With the iodine filter and
 the electric lamp a deflection equivalent to 150 of the lower degrees
 of the galvanometer was obtained from purely non-luminous heat.
                                                                 [J. T.]

 42-2                            General Monthly Meeting.                  | Fein 5,
                        GENEEAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                Monday, Tebruary 5, 1872.
    Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                         Alexander Brodio, Esq.
                         John Cleghorn, Esq. F.R.G.S.
                          Edward John Gayer, Esq. M.R.C.S.
                         Arthur Edward Griffiths, Esq.
                         William Grogan, Esq.
                         The Hon. Frederick H. North.
                         Samuel Wagstaff Smith, Esq.
                         W. Soames, Esq.
                         Henry Virtue Tobbs, Esq.
                         Burney Yeo, M.D.
                         Henry Yool, Esq.
 were elected Members of the Eoyal Institution.
      The following Letter from the Emperor of Brazil to Dr. Benee
Jones, the Honorary Secretary, was read :—
 Sin,
         In requesting yon to offer my best thanks to the Members of the Eoyal
Institution of Great Britain, for the mark of distinction that they have been good
enough to confer upon me, I hope I may be permitted to say, in justice to otlier
Brazilians, that I feel conscious the choice might have fallen on one more worthy
than myself of the kindly feeling shown to me. The duties that my position
impose upon me hardly allow me time to avail myself of the advantages of science,
or properly to appreciate the merits of its expounders, but I can assure you that
our Society may rely upon the zeal whioh I shall display in its cause, and the
sincerity with which I shall ever subscribe myself,
                                                  Its constant admirer,
   Paris, the 1st January, 18Y2.                          D. Pedko d'Alcantara.
      Tho special thanks of the Members were returned for the fol
lowing Donations to " the Fund for the Promotion of Experimental
Researches " :—
               Professor Tyndall (3rd Donation)                      £30
               Arthur Giles Puller, Esq. (5lh Donation)     .. .. 21
      The Presents received sinco tho last Meeting were laid on tho
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FROM
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 2. 8vo. 1871.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Nos. 170, 171. 8vo. 1871.
    Proceedings, 1871. Nos. 9, 10, 11. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Eoyal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXII. Nos. 1-3. 1871-2.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Eoyal—Abbandlungen ; Band X. Abtheilung 3.
      4to. 1870.
    Sitzungsberichte. 1871 : Heft 1. 8vo.
    Annalen der Hon. Stcrnwarto bei Miinchcn. Bande XVII. XVIII., und Sup-
      plement-bande IX. XI. 8vo. 1869-71.

1872.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                        423
Hotel Nalurforschende Gesettschaft—Verhandlungen : Theil V. Heft 3. 8vo.
       1871.
Uritish Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1871-2. No. 3. 4to.
    General Conference of Architects. 1871. 4to.
Mritish Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Hemiptera Heteroptera. Part 4. 8vo.
       1871.
Chemical Society— Journal for Dee. 1871. 8vo.
Church, Arthur H. Esq. M.B.I.—Catalogue of Pottery in the Collection of A. H.
       Church. 16mo. 1870.
    Corinium Museum Guide. 16mo. 1871.
Comitate Geologico aVltalia—Bollettini. 1871. Nos. 11, 12. 8to. Firenze.
Cox, Edward W. Esq. S.L. MJt.I. (the Author)—Spiritualism answered by Science.
       8vo. 1871.
Dawson, J. W. LL.D. F.R.S. (the Auther)—Report on the Geological Structure
       and Mineral Resources of Prince Edward Island. (L 15) 8vo. 1871.
Editors—Academy for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 4to.
    American Journal of Science for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 8vo.
    Artizan for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 4to.
    Athenaeum for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 4to.
    Chemical News for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 4to.
    Engineer for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872.
    Horological Journal for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 8vo.
    Journal of Gas-Lighting for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 4to.
    Mechanics' Magazine for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 8vo.
    Nature for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 4to.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 8vo.
    Phetographio News for Dec. 1871', Jan. 1872. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 550, 551, 552. 8vo. 1871.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1871. No. 3. 8vo.
    Verhandlungen, 1871. No. II. 8vo.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 109. 8vo. 1871.
Haughlon, A. B. M.D. (the Auther)—Laws of Vital Force in Health and Disease.
       16mo. 1869.
Holland, Sir Henry, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.B£. Pres. B.I. (tlie Author)—Recollec
       tions of Past Life. 12mo. 1872.
Institution of Civil Engineers—Address of T. Hawksley, Esq. the President. 8vo.
       1872.
 Ijee, Bobert, M.D. F.B.S. (the Author)—Treatise on Hysteria, &c. 8vo. 1871.
 Linnean Society—Journal, No. 54. 8vo. 1871.
    Proceedings, 1871-2. 8vo.
  . Transactions, Vol. XXVII. Part 4; Vol. XXVIH. Part 1. 4to. 1871-2.
 London Institution—Journal, No. 10. 8vo. 1872.
 Longmans <t Co. Messrs. —Public School Atlas of Modern Geography. Edited by
       the Rev. George Butler. 4to. 1872.
 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings. Vol. XI. Nos. 4-8.
       8vo. 1871-2.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, 1871: July, Part 2.
       8vo.
 Newdigate, A. L. Esq. M.A. M.R.I.Sc&les for the Ready Comparison of British
       and Metric Weights and Measures.
 Odontological Society—Transactions. 8 vols. 8vo. 1856-71.
 Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Sept. Oct. 1871. 8vo.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 130. 8vo. 1871.
 Socie'le Hollandaise des Sciences — Natuurkundige Verliandelingen, 3me Serie,
       Tome 1. Specieller Theil. 4to. 1871.
    Archives Neerlandaises, Tome VI. 4, 5. 8vo. 1871.
 Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXIV. Part 4. 8vo. 1872.
 Symons, G. J. Esq. (die Author) —Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
       Dec. 1871, Jan. 1872. 8vo.

424                       Professor Humphry on Sleep.               [Feb. 9,
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 65. 8to. 1871.
Watts, Henry, Esq. F.RJ3. (the Author)—Dictionary of Chemistry—Supplement
    8vo. 1872.
Yorkshire Archaeological and Topographical Association—Journal, Part 6. 8r«
     1871.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, February 9, 1872.
      Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.B.S. President,
                                ' in the Chair.
                         Professor Humphry, F.K.S.
                                    On Sleep,
The Professor first gave a brief account of some of the changes that
take place in the tissues when their function is active, and explained
that during this time a slight deterioration of structure takes place,
 which, affecting the voluntary system—the muscles and the hemi
spheres of the brain—causes the sense of tiring, and necessitates a
period of rest for the restoration of the tissue to its former condition.
In the case of the muscles this rest is provided for by periods, quickly
alternating periods, of action and cessation of action. But in the case
of the brain, the actions upon which consciousness, volition, &c., de
pend cannot be thus frequently suspended. Their continuance is
needed for the safety of the body during long periods, through the
whole day for instance ; and longer periods are therefore required for
repair. These are the periods of sleep.
    He next took a cursory glance at the different parts of the nervous
system, explaining that the upper regions of the brain are those which
minister to consciousness and volition, the intellectual operations, &c.
He showed that the functions of these regions not only can long be
suspended without interfering with the action of the lower parts of
the brain which are more immediately necessary to life, but that they
are very easily suspended, slight causes, such as a jar or a shock, or
an alteration in the blood current, being sufficient to stop the action
of these parts, and deprive the person of consciousness. The spon
taneous stoppage of their action, consequent on the slight deterioration
of their structure from the continuance of their functions during the
day, is the proximate cause of sleep during the night ; and the periodic
recurrence of sleep is in accordance with the periodicity observed in
several of the nutritive functions, and indeed witnessed in many of
the other operations of nature.
    After observations upon the condition of the brain during sleep,
the circumstances that conduco to sleep, the time that should be
allotted to it, and other points, tho Professor entered at some length

1872.]            Dr% J. H. Gladstone on Crystallization of Metals.        425
into the subject of dreams. These he regarded not, as has been sup
posed by some, to be a necessary attendant on, or feature of, sleep, but
rather to be the result of an abnormal condition. In the natural stato
wo should pass from wakefulness to complete unconsciousness, and
vice versa, quickly, almost instantaneously ; and many persons habitu
 ally do so. But the transition period is sometimes prolonged, and
 stages are observable. The first thing that occurs is the lowering or
 cessation of that control over the mental processes which is the
 highest of our powers, the one requiring the greatest effort and the
 one most easily lost. In this condition the thoughts ramble unchecked,
  chase one another confusedly over the mental field, and give rise to all
  sorts of incongruities of the imagination. At the same time being
  unrestrained, they are excited, and evince efforts of memory and even
  of combination which in the regulated state of wakefulness they are
  quite incapable of. In this way the images of persons and places, of
   events and items of knowledge long forgotten in the ordinary state, are
   recalled with distinctness ; and we fancy that new information has been
   acquired, when it is only forgotten facts that are recalled. He did
   not agree with the physiologists who conceive that dreaming depends
   upon an inequality in the condition of different parts of the brain,
   some being excited or wakeful, while others are quiescent or asleep.
   He rather took the view that all the parts of the cerebral hemispheres
    combine in each of the efforts of control, consciousness, memory, and
    other mental acts, that all suffer alike from these effects, alike need
    the restoring changes which take place in sleep, and togethor, pari
    passu, pass through the stages on the way to and from sleep in which
    dreaming, sleep-walking, &c, occur.
                                                                  [G. M. H.]
                        WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, February 16, 1872.
           Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.O.L. F.R.S. President,
                                     in the Chair.
           John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. F.C.8. M.R.I.
               On the Crystallization of Silver, Gold, and other Metals.
      These are few chemical experiments so well known as the growth of
      the " lead tree," a specimen of which is on the table, together with a
      " silver tree " that is said to have been made by the late Professor
      Faraday. These carry our minds back to the time of the alchemists,
      who called the first " arbor Saturni," and the second " arbor Dianse ;"
      and they may be looked upon as the types of a large number of

-126              Dr. J. H. Gladstone on Crystallization            [Feb. 16,
phenomena, in which the salt of one metal in solution is decomposed
by some other metal. My assistant, Mr. Tribe, and myself have been
lately examining these replacements, the metallic crystals which are
thus produced, and the forces that act through the liquid.
     Our more special attention has been given to the mutual action of
copper and nitrate of silver. If these two substances be brought into
contact by the intervention of water, there grow upon the rod metal
what may be well called " trees," and theugh the analogy between
crystals and plants is a very superficial one, yet the resemblances of
external form are striking enough, and a nomenclature drawn from
the garden seems the most expressive.
     I-t is very beautiful to watch the growth of these silver crystals
round a piece of copper under the microscope ; a blue glass underneath
adds to the effect, and they are best seen when they reflect a strong
light thrown upon them. They may be also thrown upon a screen as
opaque objects, but the beauty and lustre of their surface is in this
way lost.
     The crystals of silver thus produced differ both in colour and
form, according to the strength of the solution. If it be very weak—
say one per cent.—the copper is fringed with black bushes of the
metal, which, in growing, change their colour to white without any
alteration of crystalline form that can be detected by a powerful
microscope. A stronger solution gives white crystals from the com
mencement, which frequently assume the appearance of fern-leaves ;
while the growth from a still stronger liquid reminds us rather of a
furzo bush. If the nitrato of silver amount to 15 per cent., or there
abouts, there occurs a steady advance of brilliantly white moss ; and
if the solution be saturated, or nearly so, say 40 per cent., this moss
is very sturdy, often ending in solid crystalline knobs, or stretching
out into the liquid as an arborescent fringe.
     In all these cases, hewever, when the solution in front of the
growing crystals has been somewhat exhausted, certain prominent or
well-circumstanced crystals seem to monopolize the power, and to
push forward through the remaining portions of the liquid. This
gives rise to beautiful branches which assume a variety of graceful
forms, which it is hepeless to attempt to pourtray by diagrams, but of
which the subjoined figures givo some of the more characteristic
outlines greatly magnified. The weak solutions produce feathery
crystals somewhat as in Tig. 1, consisting of a straight central stem
from which grow on either side crystalline rays that terminate in a sharp
point, and frequently becomo themselves the centre stems of a similar
crystallino structure. In the outlying growth of a moderately strong
solution the apparent regularity of the crystalline form is lost ; the main
stem is built up of a confused mass of hexagonal plates, while the side
branches are an agglomeration of minute pointed crystals turning in
every direction, and producing such jagged outlines as are drawn in
Fig. 2. In stronger solutions still the branches lose every appearance
of straightness, and they are built up of hexagonal plates so studded

1872.]                 of Silver, Gold, and other Metals.              427
with orystalline specks that the whole has the rounded appearance
depicted in Fig. 3. The arborescent crystals that succeed the fringes
from a saturated solution, are smaller in their foliage than the last,
and end in little spherical or botryoidal knobs.
      Beside these various forms, there occur all kinds of crystallino
  combinations, as, for instance, the spray sketched in Fig. 4, where
  the rough branches have terminated each in a large hexagonal plate,
  and the flowing past of a weakened solution has afterwards caused the
  growth of delicate fern-leaves. Often, too, a large expansion will take
  place in every direction, though joined to the parent stem by an
  almost invisible thread ; or from the point of a long crystal there will
  branch out to right and left crescent-shaped structures, a process the
  commencement of which is seen in one of the side rays of Fig. 1. Tho
  last traces of silver in the liquid will frequently give rise to delicate
  crystalline filaments wandering over the surface of tho glass, as in
       If a piece of zinc be placed in a solution of neutral terchloride of
   gold, containing about 9 per cent, of salt, there is an immediate out

 428              Dr. J. H. Gladstone on Crystallization       [Feb. 1G,
 growth of black gold, which speedily changes to an advancing mass
of yellow, or perhaps lilac metal in lichen-like forms, from which
 proceed beautiful fringes of yellow or black, ending generally in such
arborescent forms as are represented in Fig. 7. As these branches
                                   Fio. 7.
push into the yellow liquid, it becomes colourless even in advance of
their points, and it frequently happens that yellow crystals of some
salt sheot out in front of the crystallizing metal, which follows them
and builds up its advancing fronds at their expense. This is shewn
in the figure. The gold will generally sheot its yellow branches
rapidly round the margin of the drop. Such a running branch has
been seen to stop on touching at one point a loose piece of gold, which
immediately in its turn became active, and commenced to sprout on
its farther side.
     Copper salts give round nodules, which have no crystalline ap
pearance when deposited from moderately weak solutions, but a very
strong solution of the chloride—about 40 per cent. —yields with zinc
first a black thick growth, then arborescent fringes of red metal,
terminating in crystals of very appreciable size.
     The fringes referred to in the case of these three metals are still
more characteristically developed by bismuth. When a solution of
terchloride of bismuth acts on zinc there is an immediate outgrowth
of black fringes, such as Fig. 8, where they are seen on an illumi
nated field. These as they advance become more and more arbo
rescent, and as the crystalline character develops itself more they
change from black to grey. Sometimes bismuth presents itself in

1872.]                  of Silver, Gold, and other Metals.             429
laotryoidal masses, but the tendency to form those fringes is very
strong.
                                       Fio. 8.
       Chloride of antimony with zinc also gives these black fringes.
       Lead salts yield crystals resembling those of silver ; but leaves of
  irregular hexagonal plates prevail, and often grow to a large size.
        A solution of acetate of thallium, containing 20 per cent, of salt,
  quickly gives a beautiful forest of thorny crystals.
        Sulphate of cadmium gives rise to a small leaf-like growth on
  zinc ; but a strong solution of the chloride produces an appearance
  of sticks covered with small spines or knobs.
        The new metal indium is thrown down upon zinc in the form of
  thick white crystals. The deposition is promoted by touching the
  zinc with a piece of iron.
        Tin gives beautiful results. If zinc be placed in a solution of
   stannous chloride it is quickly surrounded with an outgrowth of pro
  longed octohedra, and as these advance into the liquid it is easy to
  observe that the additions of new metal commence at the apex, and
  that the wave of chemical change proceeds down the lateral edge,
  occupying some seconds of time in depositing the new layer of
   material. Frequently, also, there is a luxuriant growth of largo flat
   leaflets, or of symmetrical structures resembling fern-leaves, but with
   the fronds arranged at right angles, or combinations of these with
   octohedra, as shown in Fig. 6. These fern-leaves often begin of a
   dull grey colour ; but, as they advance, suddenly change to a brilliant
   white.
         The particular form of these crystalline growths depends, there
    fore, primarily, on the specific character of the metal ; but this is
    greatly modified by the strength of the solution.
         The forms assumed by native metals resemble those produced by
    this process of substitution. In some cases, indeed, it seems almost
    certain that the deposition of these minerals was effected in the same
       Vol. VI. No. 56.)                                        2 h

430               Dr. J. H. Gladstone on Crystallization       [Feb. 16,
way, as, for instance, the silver which occurs sometimes in tufts,
sometimes in largo crystals, on the native copper of the Lake Superior
district. Gold is frequently found in cubes more or less rolled, but
the leaf gold from Transylvania bears a striking likeness to the
crystals that form in our laboratory experiments. Silver is often
found native as twisted hairs or wires of metal— a form that never
occurs in the decomposition of its nitrate by copper, but which can be
artificially produced in another way.
    There has been noticed a singular tendency in old silver orna
ments and coins to become crystalline and friable. Here is an ancient
fibula from the island of Cyprus, supposed to be at least 1500 years
old, which, through the greater portion of its substance, presents a
fracturo something like that of cast iron, and its specific gravity has
been reduced in round numbers from 10 to 9. It contains a little
copper. This property of certain metals, or their alloys, to change in
condition and in volume, is worthy the attention of these whese duty
it is to make our standards. Experiments sheuld be instituted for
the purposo of learning what metals or combinations of metals are
least subject to this secular change.
    These metallic crystals are Nature's first attempt at building.
The material is the simplest possible —in fact, what chemists look
upon as elementary. But how is the building carried on ? What are
the tools employed ? Where are the bearers of burdens that bring
the prepared pieces and lay them together according to the plan of the
Great Architect ? We must try to imagine what is taking place in
the transparent solution. The silver, of course, existed at first in
combination with the nitric element, and for every particle of silver
deposited on the growing tree, an equivalent particle of copper is
dissolved from the surface of the plate. The nitric element never
coases to be in combination with a metal, but is transferred from the
one metal to the other. On the " Polarization Theory," the positive
and negative elements of the salt constantly change places and enter
into fresh combinations, one consequence of which would be a gradual
passage of the nitric element from the growing silver to the copper
plate. This actually takes place, and there is a diminution of the salt
at the ends of the silver branches, giving rise to an upward current,
and a condensation of nitrate of copper against the copper plate, which
gives rise to a strong downward current. These two currents are
seen in every reaction of this nature. In the case of silver and
copper, hewever, it has been proved that the crowding of the salt
towards the copper plate is more rapid than would follow from the
usual polarization theory. The instrument employed for determining
this point was a divided cell in which two plates, one of silver and
the other of copper, connected together by a wire, are immersed each
in a solution of its own nitrate, contained in each division of the cell,
and separated from one another merely by parchment paper. The
crystals of silver deposited on the silvor plate in this experiment are
very brilliant.

 872.]                 of Silver, Gold, and other Metals.                431
      There are other indications of the liquid being put into a special
tondition by the presence of the two metals which touch one another.
Thus zinc alone is incapable of decomposing pure water ; but if copper
>t platinum be deposited on the zinc in such a manner that the water
tan have free access to the junction of the two metals, a decomposition
s effected ; oxide of zinc is formed, and hydrogen gas is evolved. At
;lie ordinary temperature the bubbles of gas rise slowly through the
 iquid, but if the whole be placed in a flask and heated, pure hydrogen
s given off in large quantity. Wo have also found that iron or lead
nimilarly brought into intimate union with a more electro-negative
raetal, and well washed, will decompose pure water.
      As might be expected, the action of magnesium on water may be •
greatly enhanced by this method ; and a pretty and instructive
sxperiment may be made by placing a coil of magnesium in pure
water at the ordinary temperature, when there will be scarcely any
effect visible, and then adding a solution of sulphate of copper. The
magnesium is instantly covered with a growth of the other metal, and
at the same time the liquid seems to boil with the rapid evolution of
hydrogen bubbles from the decomposed water.
      When, however, the force of the two metals in contact has to
traverse a layer of water, the resistance offered by the fluid prevents
its decomposition. This must also be an important element in the
decomposition of a metallic salt dissolved in water, and in fact we
have found that the addition of some neutral salt, such as nitrate of
potassiuin, increases the action—apparently by diminishing the resist
ance of the liquid. If, too, we increase tho quantity of the dissolved
 metallic salt, we get more than a proportional increase of deposited
 metal. Thus, in an experiment made with the different strengths of
 nitrate of silver on the table, the following results were obtained in
 ten minutes, all the circumstances being the same except the strength
 of the solution : —
                  1 per cent, solution dissolved -025 grm. copper.
  In fact it has been found that in solutions not exceeding 5 per cent.,
  twice the amount of nitrate of silver dissolved in water gives three
  times the amount of chemical action ; and this is true with other
  metals also in weak solution. It may be that this is not tho precise
  expression of a physical law, but it agrees at least very closely with
  the results of experiment.
       The power arising from this action of two metals on a binary
  liquid may bo carried to a distance and produce similar decomposi
  tions there. This is ordinary electrolysis. Metals have often been
  crystallized from their solutions in this way, and Mr. Braham has
   made excellent preparations of crystalline silver, gold, copper, tin,
   platinum, &c, by using poles of the same metal as that intended to
                                                                   2 h 2

432                         Mr. Henry Leslie                    [Feb. 23,
be deposited upon them. The forms thus obtained are precisely
analogous to. these produced by the simple immersion of one metal
into the soluble salt of another, and illustrate still further the essen
tial unity of the force that originates the two classes of phenomena.
                                                            [J. H. G.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 23, 1872.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.B.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                          Henry Leslie, Esq.
                     On the Social Influence of Music.
In these days of railways and telegraphs, and of that general high
pressure to which they have brought us, it is necessary to utilize every
calming and soothing influence, and to find rational mental employ
ment for the peoplo as recreation after their heurs of work. Such a
course cannot fail to be productive of increased strength to the ties
of social and family life, and consequently of powerful good to the
national life.
     Numerous examples taken from the various strata of society which
form the national life of the kingdom are cited to shew hew great the
social influence of music is at the prosent time, both as a means of
education and recreation, and hew refining and elevating are its
results.
     The Sacred Harmonio Society, which has just entered the fortieth
year of its existence, has, by its noble efforts in the cause of musical
art, gained a most distinguished position. It is an institution of
which this country has reason to bo proud, for its- reputation extends
througheut the whele civilized world. It has some theusands of
pounds invested in Government securities ; it possesses a fine library,
and there is, in immediate connection with it, a Benevolent Fund, out
of which help is given to cases of distress. But its claims to our
admiration are not yet exhausted, for to the Sacred Harmonic Society
do we owe the establishment of the Handel Festivals, which have had
a great educating influence upon the whelo kingdom from so many
cheirs and cheral societies taking part in them, and having thus had
their standard of performance considerably raised. The Sacred Har
monic Society distributes annually many hundreds of pounds in the
engagement of artistes, thus doing good service to these whe, pos
sessed of natural talent and genius, have had sufficient perseverance
to qualify themselves for the higher positions in the world of art.
     After the example of a town society, the proceedings of an

372.J                    on the Social Influence of Music.               433
.xnateur Society in the country shall be considered. The Hereford-
aire Philharmonic Society, established in 1863, consists of performing
tad non-performing members. There is an orchestra of about forty,
ight or nine of whom are professional assistants, and a chorus of 120.
? wojconcerts are annually given, and for each of these there are five
ehearsals. Performing members are not allowed to take part in the
•erformance unless they have attended at least three of these
ehearsals, and when it is known that the distances to be travelled
brm a circle of which the diameter exceeds 100 miles, it will bo
inderstood that some zeal is displayed, and that some social good
las been derived from the institution of the Society, otherwise the
Lttendanco of members would flag. The fact that a long list of names
awaits election as vacancies occur is the best proof of the diligence
      the members.
       That the standard of the society is not a low one will be apparent
from the programmes, each of which contains a symphony, a selection
from an oratorio, or cantata, madrigals, part-songs, choruses, overtures,
&c. All the solos and concerted pieces are sung by members, and
there are four ladies who have respectively played, with orchestral
accompaniments, Beethoven's Choral Fantasia, Mendelssohn's Andante
 and Eondo, Weber's Court-stuck and Beethoven's Concerto in C minor ;
 and at the next concert a gentleman is to play the first and second
 movements of Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto. The practical experience
 gained by the members in the preparation of classical works of this
 standard for public performance has enormously developed the musical
 capabilities of the district. Another important consideration is, that
 work such as the members do renders them far better qualified ta
  enjoy and appreciate a purely professional performance when thej
  have the opportunity of hearing one. Thus does the Herefordshire
  Philharmonic Society promote an extremely beneficial influence upon
  art, while the means of achievement are pleasantly social.
        No doubt many who are present have heard of Welsh Eisteddfods,
   which are national gatherings in honour of the fine arts. The pro
   ceedings ordinarily consist of competitions by poets, solo singers,
   harpists, pianists, volunteer and other bands, and choral societies,
   but occasionally an oratorio or cantata is performed. Painting and
   sculpture are but seldom represented, but orators are highly appre
   ciated.
        Although ' things are done which, from their quaintness, are
    almost ludicrous, and the mistaken zeal of ardent supporters of the
    nationality causes the offering of prizes for subjects which raise a
    smile, still there is such unmistakable appreciation of all that is good,
    and such hearty enjoyment of it amongst the thousands who come
    from great distances to attend these Eisteddfods, that at once the
    thought comes uppermost, "What might not such a people do in art ?"
    The soil exists, and all that is required is good cultivation.
        If the Welsh only knew the musical strength they possess they
     would not fritter it away at these Eisteddfods as they do at present.

434                          Mr. Henry Leslie                    [Feb. 23,
A strong permanent council and staff are wanted to supersede local
jealousies, ro that the whele national strength sheuld be put forth.
Just on the same principle that obtains when the Royal Agricultural
Society of England visits any town for its annual meeting, so should the
council take absolute command of the proceedings in order to carry out
the Eisteddfod from a national point of view. If such a system as this
could bo adopted, the musical portion would, in a very few years,
become quite as interesting, from an art point of view, as any of the
smaller festivals of England. And this might easily be done without
superseding aught that is deemed essential to an Eisteddfod by the
 Welsh.
     The Chief Constable of Chester, in his Report for the year ending
Sept. 29, 1870, thus speaks of the Saturday Evening Concerts :—" I
may perhaps be allowed to repeat here, what I stated three years ago,
namely, that with the opening of the Saturday Evening Entertain
ments a considerable decrease in the amount of drunkenness takes
 place. The temporary improvement is, I feel sure, due to no merely
accidental coincidence, but rather directly owing to the fact, that
large numbers of young men spend their Saturday evenings at the
Music Hall, whe otherwise would probably bo found at the public-
 heuse. "
     The same result attended the establishment of Saturday Evening
 Concerts in Glasgow by a temperance association, called " The
 Glasgow Abstainers Union." The magistrates recognize these con
certs as a most valuable auxiliary in keeping the streets quiet on a
 Saturday night, in the prevention of drunkenness and brawls, and in
 the improvement of that healthy moral tono which is the great desi
deratum of all whe are in autherity. Glasgow presents the most
 forcible example that can possibly be given of the social influence of
 music, for, previous to the establishment of the concerts, pulpit, plat
form, and press had vainly endeavoured to stem the tide of the drink
 ing habits of the people, which were associated with all their ordinary
 amusements and enjoyments. Spaco does not allow the details, which
 are most interesting, of this most successful experiment.
     In that wonderful colony, Saltairo, music is used as a recreation for
 the mill-workers. In the Penrhyn slate quarries, where I once heard
 the cheruses of " The Messiah " sung by the workmen and their wives
 and children, music exercises its refining influence. In Florence the
 same movement has been started, and is working with excellent
 results : in fact, the difficulty lies, not in securing examples of the
 good effects of music, but in the enormous number which present
 themselves for illustration.
     While these efforts have been made by the people themselves, the
 higher interests of art have been fostered by such institutions as
 the Festivals of Birmingham, Norwich, Hereford, Gloucester, Wor
 cester, Bradford, and Leeds, the Philharmonic Society, the Italian
 Operas, the Sacred Harmonic Society, the Crystal Palace Concerts, the
 Handel Festivals, the National Cheral Society, the New Philharmonic

872.]                       on the Social Influence of Music.          435
'oeiety, the Musical Union, the Oratorio Concerts, the Monday Popular
Concerts, Mr. Henry Holmes's Musical Evenings, Mr, Halle's Concerts
ta Manchester and other northern cities, the Liverpool Philharmonic
»oeiety, and numherless choral and other societies of more or less fame.
Che mere fact that such associations exist speaks volumes for the
leartmess of tho people in their appreciation of music, and the great
nfluence that art is exercising in almost every direction throughout
.lie United Kingdom.
      Municipal corporations and school boards should take advantage
>f such an influence, when, by the examples already quoted, it is proved
iaow much may be done in the making of better citizens by the
3inployment of such an innocent means of amusement as the cultivation
of music presents.
      With facts such as have been brought forward it can hardly be said
that England is not a musical nation ; but when it is said that English
taste requires elevating, ono feels that such an assertion is unfortu
nately only too true. This being the case, to whose fault must be laid
the charge that English taste is not what it should be, considering the
 natural genius of the nation? Undoubtedly our Government is in
 fault, for it does next to nothing for an art which has the power of
 refining the people by its refining influence. What help Government
 does afford will presently appear.
       In the grants made by Parliament for the year ending March 31st,
  1872, the total amount voted was 233,179?. Tho following aro
  items in the account :
                                                                 £
              Schools of Science and Art                      87,830
               School of Mines and Geological Museum .. .. 10,403
               Colli ge of Chemistry                             680
               Royal College of Science (Duhlin)               6,913
              Edinburgh Museum                                 8,824
       In face of the above figures, it may well be asked why Music does
   not receive a like support ? And why a system which works so well
   in other arts could not, with equally good results, be applied to
   music? Can it be that all our politicians are men who "have no
   music in their souls," and do not class Music amongst the Fine Arts ?
   It is more than probable, considering the persistent neglect with
   which it is treated by them, that their only knowledge of it is as an
   accessory of pageants, an illustrator of toasts, or an accompaniment
   to dancing !
        Tho principal domand of musicians is, that in tho metropolis a
    National Institution should be established, which should be tho heart
    of musical England ; which should enable all who desire to follow
    music as a profession, to obtain a thorough theoretical and practical
    education ; and which should have, ns its governing body, such an
    array of our best men, that a musical degree conferred by it would be
    the greatest honour a musician could obtain.
        With such a Central Institution, purely elementary musical edu

436                          Mr. Henry Leslie                  [Feb. 23,
cation might bo left to the local scheol boards, and to such academies
as might be formed by municipal autherities or by individuals.
     Left to themselves and their own resources, the people of Great
Britain are endeavouring to solve the problem of musical education,
for, fully appreciating the benefits to be derived therefrom, musical
education they are determined to have.
     Mr. Hullah and Mr. Curwen have done great service to the cause
by their steady endeavours to improve the present state of affairs, and
have obtained satisfactory results. But official help is required, that
the various isolated efforts which are being made should be concen
trated into one great endeavour to improve the existing state of affairs.
 Our church services ought to be far better than they are, and the
 authorities of our cathedrals must be made sensible that apathy will
never organize even                             If music is to form an
 adjunct to the services, it ought to be the best of its kind.
      Some persons imagine that music has an enervating influence, but
 where are the proofs ? Do our scheolboys deteriorate because they
 have a knowledge of crotchets and quavers ? are they less manly ?
 or are they less gentlemen? And do their masters complain that
 music destroys their capacity for scheol work ? An emphatic nega
 tion to such insinuations is given by experience ; for the boys are, by
 a knowledge of music, brought more under the beneficial effects of
 female society and heme influence, while the masters are anxious for
 still further musical development in their scheols.
      For more than half a century Germany has had elementary
  musical education in the national scheols, while conservatories, more
  or less connected with the Government, have attended to the higher
  musical education of its people, and Germany is justly entitled to be
  considered the most musical nation in the world ; but no one will
  venture the proposition that, in the late lamentable war, enervation
  was one of the national failings. On the contrary, intense vigour was
  the chief characteristic of the German tactics, and Song had much to
  do in knitting together their national bonds, for the poet and the
  musician whe were the authers of the " Wacht am Rhein " rendered
  enormous service to their country by the enthusiasm roused whenever
  that poetic embodiment of national ideas was sung by the German
  troops.
      We ourselves, the inhabitants of these happy isles, have also
  lately found that Song could do something for us, as the frequent
  performance of " God Save the Queen," and " God Bless the Prince of
  Wales," on every possible opportunity, has amply testified.
      And now, a Central Institution being required, hew is it to be
  formed ? Witheut the slightest trouble. For one exists with com
  plete organization, ready at a moment's notice to be utilized—and
  that institution is the Royal Academy of Music. Established in 1822,
  it has done much to elevato the standard of music in this country.
  It continued in flourishing circumstances until 1847, when it possessed
   10,000Z. in Government securities. From this prosperous condition

1872.]                 on the Social Influence of Music.                437
it gradually declined until 1868, when, in March, the committee of
noblemen and gentlemen who managed the institution, and who had
clone their best, willingly giving up their time in its interests, resigned
their functions, all the investments having been absorbed in the gene- '
ral expenditure, and a balance on the wrong side being left as a legacy
 to the future directors.
       In this dire extremity, without a management and with a debt of
 2O0I. weighing heavily upon them, the Professors of the Institution
 came to the rescue, Sir W. S. Bennett retaining the post of Principal,
 to which he had been appointed in 1866.
       They cleared off the debt, and closed the proceedings of 1869 with
 a balance of 650Z. in hand, and an increase of twenty-five pupils. But to
 do this, the Professors took only 45 per cent, of their usual fees, thus
 virtually making the Academy a present of the remaining 55 per cent.
       In continuous prosperity have affairs progressed up to the present
  time, when the students number 144, and the balance in hand is some
  2000Z. There is no intention of hoarding this balance, for the greater
  part of it will be immediately applied to the restoration of those
  scholarships which had become extinct under the former committee,
  iu consequence of the application of the funds set apart for them to
  the general requirements.
       Comment is needless. An institution that has been restored by
  the energy and self-abnegation of its professors, when the working of
  it had failed in tho hands of men of the highest social position, can
   not but be deemed worthy of national support.
        To a limited extent the Academy has received that support ; for
   a grant of 500Z. from Government was made to it in 1864, and was
   continued for 1865, 6, and 7. In 1868 it was withdrawn, but, thanks
   to Mr. Gladstone (and the earnest thanks of all musicians are due to
   him for that timely help), the grant was renewed in 1869, and has
   since then been continued.
        The Academy, having its certificated pupils in every town of any
   consideration, might bo of considerable use to school boards in
   supplying examiners where musical education has been established.
        If Government would only assist the development of the Academy
   by help (which might be given on the principle of proportion to
    results) and active official recognition by the appointment of its
   representatives on the acting committee, a National Institution might
   be established which would be of immense service to art, a great
    stimulus to musical education, and which would elevate the taste of
    the great body of the people through the length and breadth of the
     kingdom.
                                                                  [H. L.]

 438                          Mr. C. W. Siemens                   [March 1,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 1, 1872.
       Sir IIenry Hollamd, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.8. President,
                                 in the Chair.
               C. William Slsmews, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                 On Measuring Temperatures by Electricity.
 The truth revealed to us by one of the younger branches of physical
 science, which has been cultivated and expounded nowhere more
 effectually than within these walls, has divested heat and electricity
 of their mysterious character, and has taught us to regard them simply
 as " modes of motion."
      Light also has been shewn to bo identical in its nature with heat, and
the only remaining physical agency, " chemical affinity," has been recog
nized as a forco differing only in " quality of action" from the others.
According to these views, force, in whichever type of action it presents
 itself, is as indestructible as matter itself, and is therefore capable of
being stored up and measured with the same certainty of result. We
have a unit of force or the foot lb., and a unit of heat, or the heat
 necessary to raise the temperature of 1 lb. of water through one degree
 Fahr., and it has been already proved that 772 units of force are the
equivalent value of one unit of heat. Again, the chemical force residing
in 1 lb. of pure coal is equal to about 14,000 heat units, or 14,000 x
772 = 10,808,000 ft. lbs. = 4825 tons lifted ono foot high.
     Questions regarding the quantitative effects of heat present them
selves, hewever, much less frequently for our consideration than
questions regarding its intensity, upon which depends the nature of the
phenomena surrounding us at every step, both in science and in
ordinary life. The instrument at our command for determining
moderate intensities or temperatures, the mercury thermometer, leaves
little to bo desired for ordinary use ; but when we ascend in the scalo
of intensity, we soon approach a point when mercury boils, and from
that point upward we aro left witheut a reliable guido. The result
is, that wo find in scientific books on chemical processes, statements to
the effect that such or such reaction takes place at a dull red heat,
such another at a bright red, a cherry red, a blood red, or a uhiie heat—
expressions which remind one rather of the days of alchemy than of
chemical science of the present day.
     There aro pyrometers, it is true, but these are either of a complex
nature, or little reliance can be placed on them.
     It is my purpose this evening to placo before you an instrument

1872.]            on Measuring Temperatures by Electricity.         439
by which I hepo to fill up to some extent the existing gap. It is the
result of occasional experimental research, spread over several years,
and it aims at the accomplishment of a double purpose, that of
measuring high temperatures, and of measuring with accuracy the
temperatures of inaccessible or distant places.
     But before entering upon the details of my subject, I propose to
place before you an instrument which fulfils, in principle, all the
conditions essentially necessary in thermometry, and is at the same
time the very first instrument that was ever proposed for measuring
temperatures. I speak of the air thermometer by Galileo ! It can be
shown on theoretical grounds, that the expansion of a permanent gas
at constant pressure is the most perfect index of temperature. It is
in fact, the degree of energy of the atomical motion in an elastic fluid
 which determines its volume, and which constitutes at the same time
its temperature.
     The air thermometer consists simply of a bulb of glass with a long
tubular stem, open to the atmosphero at its extremity. If I heat the
bulb (by dipping it for instance into
boiling water) and put it into a helder,
 with the hellow stem reaching down
 ward into a cup of mercury, the air
 within the bulb will no longer com
 municate directly with the atmosphere,
 because the mercury is interposod. If
 now I cool the air within the bulb, by
 the external application of iced water
 its heat motion will diminish, and its
 volume would bo reduced proportion
 ally, if the external atmosphere could
 entor freely to fill up the vacancy thus
 created. But inasmuch as the external
 air cannot enter, a reduction of pressure
 will take place, which, according to tlie
 law of elasticity by Boyle, must be pro
 portionate to the reduction of volume at
 constant pressure. The difference of
 pressuro thus created between the bulb
 and the external atmosphere will be
 balanced by the column of mercury
 rising up into the tube, and the eleva
 tion to which the mercury attains is a true index of the temperature
 to which the air in the bulb had been previously heated. This is truo
 with regard to all temperatures, from the lowest to the highest, and
 the instrument may be termed a universal thermometer. If the bulb
 could be cooled down to 273° Centigrade below the zero point, it
 would follow by the law of Charles that the elastic pressure of air
 would bo reduced to nothing, that is to say, the motion of the par
 ticles of air, which we call heat, would have ceased, and we sheuld

440                          Mr. C. W. Siemens                     [March 1,
have reached the point of absolute zero, a point which has been theo
retically established also by other means.
    Practically, such an instrument would be most inconvenient ; its
indications would have to be corrected by calculation for barometrical
variations ; the capacity of the descending tube, which contains air not
subjected to variation of temperature, would have to be taken into
account, and no reliable observations could be arrived at, without
taking special precautions, such as are only within reach of the experi
mental physicist.
     [The other known metheds of measuring ordinary and furnace
temperatures were here passed in review, and the limits of their
application pointed out. They were classified into :
       Thermometers, by expansion of liquids.
       Thermometers, by the expansion of solids.
       Pyrometers, by chemical decomposition of solids, comprising
          Wedgwood's and Deville's pyrometers.
       Pyrometers, by observing the melting-point of metals.
       Pyrometers, by thermo-electricity.                        c
       Pyrometers, by exposing a copper or platinum ball of known
          heat capacity to the heat to be ascertained, and of quenching
          it in a measured quantity of water.]
     The instrument which forms the subject matter of my discourse
presents many points of analogy with the air thermometer, if we
substitute " electrical resistance in conductors " for " expansion of gases " !
Both these effects are functions of temperature, increasing with the
temperature according to progressive laws, which in the case of
the gases we call the law of Charles, and in the case of con
ductors, the law of " increase of electrical resistance with temperature.'''
The latter law, which is of recent origin, had already been par
tially developed by Arudsen, Swanberg, Lenz, and Werner Siemens,
when my attention was directed, in 1860, towards an application of
the same to the measurement of temperatures at places inacces
sible to the ordinary thermometer. By means of the contrivance which
I shall describe presently, I was enabled to tell, in the testing cabin of a
cablo ship, the increasing temperature of the interior of the mass cable
in the held, and to prove the necessity of transhipment of the same
into a vessel fitted with water-tight tanks, which have been resorted to
over since, to avoid the clanger of softening the gutta-percha covering.
     I have arranged an apparatus for proving to you in the first instance
that the conductivity of a wire of platinum or other metal is greatly
influenced by its temperature ; for this purpose I direct the current of
a galvanic battery at will through two branches of equal resistance,
each branch comprising a free spiral wire of platinum and one of the
coils of a differential galvanometer. By throwing the powerful light
of an electric lamp upon the face of the differential galvanometer, and
by throwing the image by means of a mirror and lens upon the screen,
the audience will sec any movement of the needle to the right or the
left that may take place whon I complete the battery connection. Tho

1872.]            on Measuring Temperatures by Electricity.        441
resistance of both branch circuits being the same, no deflection of the
needle is observable on depressing the key, but when I pass the flame
of a spirit-lamp under the one platinum coil the needle is thrown im
mediately over to the right, because the electrical resistance of the
heated wire is increased, and consequently a larger proportion of the
current is passing through the cooler circuit, exercising a prepon
derating influence upon the galvanic needle. -When I withdraw the
spirit flame from the wire the needle rapidly returns to its zero posi
tion, but in passing it under
the other spiral wire the                         Fio. 2.
needle immediately deflects
in the opposite direction.
     If instead of using the
open spirals I were to wind
thin insulated wire of any
 pure metal upon two small
cylindrical pieces of wood,
 and were to enclose the tiny
 spirals in small silver cas
 ings, as shewn in view and
in section by Fig. 2, taking
 care that the extremities
of the spiral wires were
 soldered to thicker insu
 lated wires leading respec
 tively to the battery and
 differential galvanometer
 before mentioned, it follows
 that no deflection of the
 needle ensues when both
 the protected and equal
 spirals are dropped into a
jar containing iced water.
 But if I take one of the
 spirals from the water, and
 place it, for instance, by his
 kind permission, into the
 hand of our President with
 out disconnecting the same
 from its leading wires, the
 balance of resistance will no
 longer take place, and a de
 flection of the needle
                   takes to the
 right actually          place.                   u
 I will now endeavour, hewever, to re-establish the equilibrium by
 adding warm water to the iced water surrounding the comparison
 coil near me until no deflection of the needle is observable. This
 result being obtained, it follows that the temperature of the water

 442                        Mr. C. W. Sicmenn                   [March 1,
 surrounding tho ono coil must be identical with the temperature of
 our President's hand, and the delicate mercury thermometer which
I have placed in my solution must give me the temperature of the
distant place which I intended to measure. The temperature here
observod is 89 • 5° Fahrenheit, which is at this moment that of Sir
Henry Holland's hands. This result is independent of the ratio in
which the electrical resistance increases with temperature in the
similar coils, and considering that the silver casings containing the
coils are not larger than small pencil-cases, this method might be
advantageously employed in physiological research. The one coil
would only have to bo placed within the cavity to be measured to
enablo the observer to read the temperature from time to time, with
out disturbing the patient, with the accuracy of which the mercury
or spirit of wine thermometer employed is capable. But the same
method is applicable for measuring the temperatures of distant or in
accessible places, such as the interior of stores or cargoes of materials
liablo to spontaneous combustion ; of points elevated above the surface
of the ground ; or of great depths below for meteorological purposes ;
or for measuring the temperature of the sea continuously in attaching
such a coil to the mariner's sounding lead. An error would in such
cases arise, however, through the uncertainty of the resistance of long
leading wires, if a complete remedy of error from such a source had
not suggested itself. This consists in uniting three separate insulated
leading wires, into a cable by which the distent coil is connected with
the measuring instrument. One galvanic circuit passes from the bat
tery through one of the leading wires, through the distant spiral and
back again through the second leading wire to the differential galva
nometer and the battery, and the second passes from the same battery
through the near coil, and through the third leading wire up to the
distant coil without traversing the same, and bock again through the
second leading wire to the galvanometer and battery. Thus both
galvanic circuits comprise the leading wires up to the distant coil, and
all variations of resistance by temperature to which the leading wires
may bo subjected, affect both sides of the balance equally. In con
structing coils for measuring deep-sea temperatures a large quantity
of insulated copper or iron wire is wound upon a metallic tube open
at both ends to admit the sea-water freely in order to impart its tem
perature to the innermost layers of tho insulated wire. The coil of
wire is protected externally by drawing a tube of vulcanized india-
rubber over it, which in its turn is bound round by a close spiral
layer of copper wire, whereby tho sea-water is effectually excluded
from the sensitive coil. By these arrangements the temperature of
distant or otherwise inaccessible places can be accurately ascertained ;
but the method is limited to the range of temperature which can be
obtained and measured in the comparison bath. In order to realize
a pyrometer by electrical resistance, it is necessary to rely upon the
absolute measurement of the electrical resistance of a coil of wire
which must bo made to resist intense heats without deteriorating

 1872.]          on Measuring Temperatures by Electricity.            443
 through fusion or oxidation. Platinum is the only suitable metal
 for such an application, but even platinum wire deteriorates if
exposed to tho direct action of the flamo of a furnace, and requires
an external protection. Tho platinum wiro used has, moreover,
to be insulated and supported by a material which is not fused or
rendered conductive at intense heats, and the disturbing inflnenco of
leading wires had in this case also to be neutralized. These various
conditions are very fully realized by tho arrangemont represented on
 tho following diagram, Fig. 3.
      Thin platinum wire is coiled upon a cylinder of hard-baked porce
 lain, upon the surface of which a double-threaded helical groove is
formed for its reception, so as to prevent contact between the coils of
 wire. The porcelain cylinder is pierced twice longitudinally for tho
passage of two thick platinum leading wires, which are connected to
the thin spiral wire at the end. In tho upper portion of the porcelain
cylinder the two spiral wires are formed into a longitudinal loop, and
aro connected crossways by means of a platinum binding screw, which
admits of being moved up or down for the purpose of adjustment of the
electrical resistance at tho zero of Centigrade scale. The porcelain
cylinder is provided with projecting rims, which separate the spiral
wire from the surrounding protecting tube of platinum, which is
joined to a longer tube of wrought iron, serving the purpose of a
handle for moving tho instrument. If tho temperatures to be mea
sured do not exceed a moderate white heat, or say 1300° Centigrado
 = 2372° Fahr., it suffices to make tho lower protecting tube also of
wrought iron, to save expense. This lower portion only, up to tho
conical enlargement or boss of iron, is exposed to the heat to be mea
sured. Three leading wires of insulated copper united into a light
cable connect the pyrometer with the measuring instrument, which
may be at a distanco of some hundred yards from the same. They
are connected by means of binding screws at tho end of the tube to
three thick platinum wires passing down the tube to tho spiral of thin
platinum wire. Hero two of tho leading wires aro united, whereas the
third traverses the spiral, and joins itself likewise to one of the two
former, which forms the return wire for two electrical circuits, the ono
comprising the spiral of thin wire, and the other returning immediately
in front of the same, but traversing in its stead a comparison coil of
constant resistance. Tho measuring instrument may consist of a
differential galvanometer as bofore, if to tho constant resistance a
variable resistance is added. If the pyromoter coil were to be put

444                          Mr. C. W. Siement                  [March 1,
into a vessel containing snow and water, the balance of resistance
between the two battery circuits would be obtained without adding
variable resistance to the coil of constant resistance, and the needle of
the differential galvanometer would remain at zero when the current
is established. But on exposing the pyrometer to an elevated tem
perature the resistance of its platinum coil would be increased, and
resistance to the samo amount would have to be added to the constant
resistance of the measuring instrument, in order to re-establish the
electrical balance. This additional resistance would be the measure
of the increase of temperature, if only the ratio in which platinum
wire increases in electrical resistance with temperature is once for all
established. This is a question which I shall revert to after having
completed the description of the pyrometric instrument.
     Although I have explained that by means of a differential galvano
meter and a variable resistance (constituting in effect a Wheatstone
bridge arrangement) the increasing resistance of the platinum spiral
may be measured, it was found that the use of a delicate galvanometer
is attended with considerable practical difficulty in iron-works and
other rough places where it is important to measure elevated tempe
ratures, or on board ship for measuring deep-sea temperatures. I was
 therefore induced to seek the same result by the conception of an
 instrument which is independent in its action from tremulous motion,
 or from magnetic disturbance caused by moving masses of iron, and
 which requires no careful adjustment or special skill on the part of
 the operator. This instrument is represented by Fig. 4 on page 446,
 and may be termed a chemical resistance measurer or "differential
 voltameter." The immortal Faraday has proved that the decompo
 sition of water in a voltameter expressed by the volumes of gases V,
 is proportionate in the unit of time to the intensity I of the decom
 posing current, or that
     According to Ohm's general law, the intensity I is governed by the
 electro-motive force E, and inversely by the resistance E, or it is
                                  "5-
     It is therefore
                           V                ET
                           T
 or the volume V would give a correct measure of the electrical resist
  ance E if only the electro-motive force E and time T were known and
  constant quantities. But the electro-motive force of a battery is very
  variable ; it is influenced by polarization of the electrodes, by tempe
 rature, and the strength and purity of the acid employed. The
  volume of gases obtained is influenced, moreover, by the atmospheric

1872.J            on Measuring Temperatures by Electricity.             445
pressure, and it is extremely difficult to make time observations
correctly. It occurred to me, however, that these uncertain elements
might be entirely eliminated in combining two similar voltameters in
such a manner that the current of the same battery was divided between
the two, the one branch comprising the unknown resistance to be
measured, and the other a known and constant resistance. The volume
of gas V produced in this second voltameter, having a resistance B"
in circuit, would be expressed by
                                         E'
and we should have the proportion of
                                      ET ET.
                                        E     E1'
 or E and T, being the same in both cases, may be struck out, and the
 expression will assume the simple form
                              V : V = E1 4- E.
The constant resistance E of the one circuit being known, it follows
                                                    Ev
 that the unknown resistance E" is expressed by y-t ; that is to say, by
 a constant multiplied by the proportion of gas produced in the two
 voltameters irrespective of time, or strength of battery, or temperature,
 or the state of the barometer.
      The resistance E and R' are composed each of two resistances,
 namely, that of the principal coils, which we may term E or E', and
 of the voltameter and leading wires, which is the same in both cases,
 and may be expressed by y. The expression should therefore be
 written as follows :
                         V : V = E' + yx : E + y,
 E' being the unknown quantity.
      The mechanical arrangement of the instrument will be understood
 from the diagram, Fig. 4 ; and the whole arrangement of the pyro
 meter, with its leading wire and resistance measurer, from the general
 view given in Fig. 5. The voltametric resistance measurer consists of
 two calibrated vertical tubes of glass of- about 3 millimetres diameter,
 which are fixed upon a scale showing arbitrary but equal divisions.
 The upper ends of the tubes are closed by small cushions of india-
 rubber pressed down upon the openings by means of weighted levers,
 whereas the lower portions of the tubes are widened out and closed by
 plugs of wood, through which the electrodes in the form of pointed
 platinum wires penetrate to the depth of about 25 millimetres into the
 widened portions of the tubes. By a side branch the widened portion
  of each vertical tube communicates by means of an india-rubber con
 necting pipe to a little glass reservoir containing acidulated water, and
 supported in a vertical slide. In raising the weighted cushions closing
    Vol. VI. (No. 56.)                                          2 i

446                        Mr. C. W. Siemens                    [March 1,
the upper ends of the vertical tubes, and in adjusting the position of
the small reservoirs, the acidulated water will rise in both tubes to the
                                          zero line of the scale. In
                      *-                  turning a button in front of
                                          the tubes the battery current
                                          is passed through both pairs
                                          of electrodes, the one circuit
                                          comprising the permanent re
                                          sistance B and the leading
                                          wires up to the pyrometer,
                                          and the other the leading
                                          wires and the pyrometer coil.
                                          If the resistance of the pyro
                                          meter coil sheuld be equal to
                                          the permanent resistance R,
                                          the R1 -f- y will be equal to
                                          R -j- y, and therefore V = V,
                                          but as the resistances differ,
                                          so will the volumes. Neces
                                          sary conditions are : that both
                                          reservoirs are filled with the
                                          same standard solution of
                                          pare water with about 10 per
                                          cent, of sulphuric acid, that
                                          all the electrodes are of the
                                          same form and size, and that
                                          their polarity is reversed fre
                                          quently during the progress
                                   Fk> 5.
of each observation, in order to avoid unequal polarization. With these
precautions, which involve no particular skill or knowledge of eleo-

1872.]           on Measuring Temperatures by Electricity.             447
trical observation on the part of the operator, very accurate results are
obtained ; but in order not to incur considerable error of observation
it is advisable to continue the current, reversing the same say twice,
until at least forty divisions of gases are produced in the least activated
tube, which operation will occupy from 2 to 3 minutes ; if a battery,
of from 4 to 6 Daniell elements is employed. The volumes V and
V being noted, after having allowed half a minute for the gases to
collect after the current has ceased, the weighted cushions upon the
tubes are raised in order to allow the gases to escape, when the water
levels will immediately return to their zero position, to make ready
for another observation. By inserting the observed values for V and
V into the expression above given, the unknown resistance E1 can be
easily calculated ; but in order to facilitate the use of the instrument
I have prepared a Table which gives at a glance the resistance due to
any two observed volumes, the volumes V governing the vertical, V
the horizontal columns, and the resistance being read off at the point
of intersection. At each point of intersection the resistance is marked
in black, and the corresponding temperature in red ink.
     It now remains only to be shown what is the relation between the
resistance and temperature in heating a platinum wire. The researches
 of Dr. Matthiesen, who has made the latest investigations on the
effect of temperature upon electrical resistance, are restricted to the
 narrow range of temperatures between 0° and 100° Centigrade, nor do
 they comprise platinum. He adopted the following general expression
 for the pure metals :
                            R _         ' R.
                              '    l + xt + yf'
 which, in determining the specific values of x and y for each metal,
 gives a close agreement with observation between the narrow limits
 indicated, but is wholly inapplicable for temperatures exceeding
 200° Centigrade, when the value P commences to predominate and
 to produce absurd values for B(.
     It was necessary for my purpose to undertake a series of elaborate
 experiments with a view of finding a ratio of general application.
 Coils of thin wire, of platinum, iron, copper, and some other metals,
 were gradually heated and cooled in metallic chambers containing the
 bulbs of mercury thermometers, and for higher temperatures of air
 thermometers, and the electrical resistances were carefully noted.
 The progressive increase of electrical resistance was thus compared
 directly with the increasing volume .of a permanent gas (carefully
 dried) between the limits of zero and 470° Centigrade and a ratio
 established, which is represented by tbe formula
                           B, ==aTi + 0T + y,
 in which T signifies total temperature counting from the absolute zero,
 and a fi and y specific coefficients for each metal. According to this
 formula the electrical resistance is a constant at the absolute zero, and
                                                              2 i 2

448          Mr. C. W. Siemens cm Measuring Temperatures. [March 1,
progresses in a ratio represented graphically by a tippod-up parabola,
approaching more and more toward a uniform ratio at elevated tempe
ratures. Altheugh the comparison with the air thermometer could
only be carried up to 470° Centigrade, the general correctness of the
ratio of increase just stated has been verified by indirect means in
measuring progressive heats, and by comparison with the platinum
ball pyrometer.
     It is important to mention here that great care must be exercised
in the selection of the platinum wire for the measuring spiral, plati
 num wire having been mot with conducting only 4-7 times better than
 mercury at zero, Centigrade, and others-; conducting 8- 2 times better
 than mercury, altheugh both samples had been supplied by the same
 eminent makers, Messrs. Johnson and Mathey. The abnormal elec
 trical resistance of some platinum wire is due chiefly to the admixture
 of iridium or other metals of the same group, and it appears that the
 platinum prepared by the old welding process is purer and therefore
 better suited for electrical purposes than the metal consolidated by
 fusion in a Deville furnace.
      In conclusion, I shall shew'some working results of the pyrometer
 in measuring by means of the same protected coil a mixture of ice and
 water, boiling water, molten lead, and the fire itself by which the lead
 is melted, the readings produced being 2° Centigrade, 98° Centigrade,
 330° Centigrade, and 860° Centigrade respectively. The latter
 temperature signified a cherry red heat, as may be judged by the
  appearance of the tube when withdrawn from the fire. The instru
  ment which I have had the henour to bring before you this evening
  has already received several useful applications. Through its first
  application an important telegraph cable was saved from destruction
  through spontaneous generation 'of heat. Prof. Bolzani, of Easan, has
  made some interesting applications of it for recording the tempera
  ture at elevated points and at points below the earth's surface.
  Mr. Lowthian Bell has used it in his well-known researches on blast
  furnace economy ; and at several iron-works pyrometer tubes are
  introduced into the heating stoves, and permanently connected with
  the oflice, where the heat of each stove can at all times be read
  off and recorded. These and other applications are sufficiently self-
  evident, if the soundness of the principles upon which I rely is con
  ceded ; but I feel that the shertness of time at my command has hardly
  enabled me to do more than to pass these in review, while endeavour
  ing to demonstrate the results obtained of recording the temperatures
  of distant or inaccessible places, including furnace temperatures.
                                                             [C. W. S.J

 1872.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                        449
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, March 4, 1872.
           Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
Sir Reginald Barnewall, Bart.                Henry Grissell, Esq.
 Francis Darwin, Esq. B.A.                   Albert Hovenden, Esq.
Thomas Andros De la Rue, Esq.                Alfred Bray Kempe, Esq. B.A.
    B.A.                                     Henry Robert Kempe, Esq.
Francis Dutton, Esq. F.R.G.S. I              Falconer Lockworthy, Esq.
Charles Elam, M.D. F.R.C P.               !  George Lockyer, jun. Esq.
J. Kennedy Esdaile, Esq. M.A                 Mrs. E. H. Moscrop.
Charles Few, Esq!                            Sir Thomas Pycroft, K.Q,S.I.
 Hugh Ferguson, Esq.                         Charles Harley Savory, Esq.
Sir Donald Friell M'Leod, C.B.               Mrs. Basil Woodd Smith.
    K.C.S.I.                                 Charles Edward Seth Smith, Esq.
Wm, Belgor Gibbs, Esq. F.R.A.S.
were elected Members of the Royal           Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
         FROM
Actuaries, Institute o/—-Journal, No. 86. 8vo. 1872.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1871-2. Nob. 4, 5. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for Jan. 1872. 8vo.
Dublin Society, Royal—Journal, No. 40. Svo. 1872.
Edinburgh Royal Observatory—Scottish Meteorology, 1856-71. (Edin. Astron.
     Obs.) Vol. XIII. 4to. 1872.
Editors—Academy for Feb. 1872. 4to.
   American Journal of Science for Jan. 1872. 8vo.
   Artizan for Feb. 1872. 4to.
   Athens3um for Feb. 1872. 4to.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1872. 4to.
   Engineer for Feb. 1872. fol.
   Horological Journal for Feb. 1872. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Feb. 1872. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for Feb. 1872. 8vo.
   Nature for Feb. 1872. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb. 1872. 8vo.
   Photographic News for Feb. 1872. 4to.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1871. No. 3. 8vo.
   Verhandlungen, 1871. Nos. 14, 15. 8vo.
London University—Calendar for 1872. 16to.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings. Vol. XI. Nos. 9, 10.
     8to. 1871-2.
Mann, W. Wilberforce, Esq. (the Author)—The Linn-base Decimal System.
     (O 14) 16to. 1872.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, Oct. 1871. 8vo.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Beport, 1870, Part 3. 4to. 1872.

 450                              Mr. R. Liebreich                         [March 8,
 Photographic Society—Journal, No. 230. 8vo. 1872.
 Preuitische Akademie der Wistentchaften—Monatsberichte. Nov. 1871. 8to.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 130. 8vo. 1872.
 Wedgicood, Hensleigh, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Origin of Language. 8vo. 1372.
 Wurzburg Phy$ical and Medical Society—Verhandlungen, Neue Folge. Band I.
      Band IL 1, 2. 8vo. 1868-71.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, March 8, 1872.
   William Spottirwoode, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Treas. RS. and B.L
                          Vice-President, in the Chair.
                           R. Lierreich, Esq. M.R.I.
               Ol'HTHALMIC 8URORON AND LRCTUlttR AT ST. THOMAS'S HCAPITAL,
 Turner and Mulready— On the Effect of certain Faults of Vision on
              Painting, unth especial Reference to their Works.
When I arrived in England about eighteen months ago, little thinking
that a shert vacation tour would end in my permanent residence here,
I at once paid a visit to the National Gallery. I was anxious to see
Turner's pictures, which on the Continent I had had no opportunity of
doing. How great was my astonishment when, after having admired
his earlier works, I entered another room which contained his later
paintings ! Are these really by the same hand ? I asked myself on first
inspecting them ; or have they suffered in any way ? On examining
them, hewever, more closely, a question presented itself to my mind
which was to me a subject of interesting diagnosis. Was the great
change which made the painter of " Crossing the Brook " afterwards
produce such pictures as " Shade and Darkness," caused by an ocular
or cerebral disturbance ? Researches into the life of Turner could not
afford an answer to this question. All that I could learn was, that
during the last five years of his life his power of vision as well as his
intellect had suffered. In no way, hewever, did this account for the
changes which began to manifest themselves about fifteen years before
that time. The question could therefore only be answered by a direct
study of his pictures from a purely scientific, and not at all from an
aesthetic or artistio point of view.
     I chese for this purpose pictures belonging to the middle of the
period which I consider pathelogical, i. e. not quite healthy, and
analyzed them in all their details, with regard to colour, drawing,
and distribution of light and shade.
     It was particularly important to ascertain if the anomaly of the
whele picture could be deduced from a regularly recurring fault in its
details. This fault is a vertical streakiness, which is caused by every
illuminated point having been changed into a vertical line. The
elongation is, generally speaking, in exact proportion to the brightness

1872.]                  on Turner and Mulready.                     451
of the light; that is to say, the more intense the light which diffuses
itself from the illuminated point in nature, the longer becomes the
line which represents it on the picture. Thus, for instance, there
proceeds from the sun in the centre of a picture a vertical yellow
streak, dividing it into two entirely distinct halves, which are not
connected by any horizontal line. In Turner's earlier pictures, the
disk of the sun is clearly denned, the light equally radiating to all
parts ; and even where through the reflexion of water a vertical streak
is produced, there appears, distinctly marked through the vertical
streak of light, the line of the horizon, the demarcation of the land in
the foreground, and the outline of the waves in a horizontal direction.
In the pictures, however, of which I am now speaking, the tracing of
any detail is perfectly effaced when it falls in the vertical streak of
light. Even less illuminated objects, like houses or figures, form con
siderably elongated streaks of light. In this manner, therefore, houses
that stand near the water, or people in a boat, blend so entirely with
the reflexion in the water that the horizontal line of demarcation
between house and water or boat and water entirely disappears, and
all becomes a conglomeration of vertical lines. Everything that is
abnormal in the shape of objects, in the drawing, and even in the
colouring of the pictures of this period, can be explained by this
vertical diffusion of light.
     How and at what time did this anomaly develop itself?
     Till the year 1830 all is normal. In 1831 a change in the colour
ing becomes for the first time perceptible, which gives to the works of
Turner a peculiar character not found in any other master. Optically
this is caused by an increased intensity of the diffused light proceed
ing from the most illuminated parts of the landscape. This light
forms a haze of a bluish colour which contrasts too much with the
surrounding portion in shadow. From the year 1833 this diffusion of
light becomes more and more vertical. It gradually increases during
the following years. At first it can only be perceived by a careful
examination of the picture, but from the year 1839 the regular vertical
streaks become apparent to everyone. This increases subsequently to
 such a degree, that when the pictures are closely examined they appear
 as if they had been wilfully destroyed by vertical strokes of the brush
 before they were dry, and it is only from a considerable distance that
 the object and the meaning of the picture can be comprehended.
 During the last years of Turner's life this peculiarity became so
 extreme that his pictures can hardly be understood at all.
     It is a generally-received opinion that Turner adopted a peculiar
 manner, that he exaggerated it more and more, and that his last works
 are the result of a deranged intellect. I am convinced of the in
 correctness, I might almost say of the injustice, of this opinion. The
 word " manner " has a very vague meaning. In general we under
 stand by it something which has been arbitrarily assumed by the
 artist. It may be the result of study, of reflection, of a development
 of principle, or the consequence of a chance observation, of an experi

452                          Mr. S. Liebreich                   [March 8,
ment, or of an occasional success. Nothing of all this applies to what
has been called Turner's manner. Nothing in him is arbitrary,
assumed, or of set purpose. According to my opinion, his manner is
exclusively the result of a change in his eyes, which developed itself
during the last twenty years of his life. In consequence of it the
aspect of nature gradually changed for him, while he continued in an
unconscious, I might almost say in a naive manner, to reproduce what
he saw. And he reproduced it so faithfully and accurately, that he
enables us distinctly to recognize the nature of the disease of his eyes,
to follow its development step by step, and to prove by an optical
contrivance the correctness of our diagnosis. By the aid of this con
trivance we can see nature under the same aspect as he saw and
represented it. With the same we can also, as I shall prove to you
by an experiment, give to Turner's early pictures the appearance of
those of the later period.
    After he had reached the age of fifty-five, the crystalline lenses of
Turner's eyes became rather dim, and dispersed the light more
strongly, and in consequence threw a bluish mist over illuminated
objects. This is a pathological increase of an optical effect, the exist
ence of which, even in the normal eye, can be proved by the following
experiment. If you look at a picture which hangs between two
windows, you will not be able to see it distinctly, as it will be, so to
speak, veiled by a greyish haze. But if you hold your hands before
your eyes so as to shade them from the light of tho windows, the veiling
mist disappears, and the picture becomes clearly visible. The dis
turbing light had been diffused by the refracting media of the eye, and
had fallen on the same part of the retina on which the picture was
formed. If we examine the eye by an illumination resembling that
by means of which Professor Tyndall, in his brilliant experiments,
demonstrated to you the imperfeet transparency of water, we find that
even the clearest and most beautiful eye is not so perfectly transparent
as we would suppose. • The older we get the more the transparency
decreases, especially of the lens. But to produce an effect equal to
that visible in Turner's pictures after the year 1831, pathological
conditions are required. In the years that followed, as often happens
in such cases, a clearly-defined opacity was formed in the slight and
diffuse dimness of the crystalline lens. In consequence of this the
light was no longer evenly diffused in all directions, but principally
dispersed in a vertical direction. At this period the alteration offers,
in the case of a painter, the peculiarity that it only affects the appear
ance of natural objects, where the light is strong enough to produce
this disturbing effect, whilst the light of his painting is too feeble to
do so : therefore, the aspect of nature is altered, that of his picture
correct. Only within the last years of Turner's life, the dimness had
increased so much, that it prevented him from seeing even his pictures
correctly. This sufficiently accounts for the strange appearance of
his last pictures, without its being necessary to take into account the
state of his mind.

1872.]                   on Turner and Mulready.                   453
    It may seem hazardous to designate a period as diseased, the be
ginning of which art-critics and connoisseurs have considered as his
climax. I do not think that the two opinions are in decided contra
diction to each other. To be physiologically normal is not at all a
fundamental condition in art ; and we cannot deny the legitimacy of
the taste which regards that which is entirely sound and healthy as
commonplace, trivial, and uninteresting, and which, on the contrary, is
fascinated by that which approaches the border of disease and even
goes beyond it.
    Many of the best musicians, for instance, and some of the greatest
admirers of Beethoven, prefer his latest works, and consider them the
most interesting, although the influence of his deafness upon them is
apparent to others.
    In poetry, we rank some poems among the highest productions of
art in which the imagination of the poet goes far beyond the normal
region of the mind :
         "The poet's eye, in a line frenzy rolling,
          Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven."
    Thus it seems to me perfectly natural that the peculiar poetical
haze which is produced by the diffusion of light in Turner's pictures
after 1831 should have a particular attraction for many of Turner's
admirers. On the other hand, passing over the faults, we discover in
these pictures peculiar merits, and we recognize that the great artist
continued in many ways to improve, even at a time of his life when his
failing sight began to deprive his works of general favour. I cannot,
however, defend the opinion of those who are enraptured with
Turner's pictures belonging to a still later period—"who consider a
picture beautiful which, in consequence of this optical defect, is
entirely disfigured and defaced, and who, calling this Turner's style,
would like to form it into a school and imitate it. They resemble
the porter of a certain dealer in works of art, who one day, when he
had to deliver the torso of a Venus at a gentleman's house, answered
the servant, who had expressed his astonishment that his master
should have bought a thing without head, arms, or legs, " You don't
understand ; that's just the beauty of it."
    I show you here first a picture which is copied from an oil-
painting in the South Kensington Museum. This picture was not
exhibited till the year 1833, but it was painted some time before, and
from sketches taken in Venice previous to any change in Turner's
sight. I shall now try so to change this picture, by an optical con
trivance, as to make it resemble the pictures he painted after 1839.
You must, of course, not expect to see in this rough representation,
which a large theatre necessitates, anything of the real beauty of
Turner's pictures. Our object is to analyze their faults.
    In order to show you in a single object what you have already
observed in the general aspect of a picture, I choose purposely a tree,
because there are no trees in the " Venice " you have just seen, and

454                         Mr. B. Liebreich                  [March 8,
more particularly because after the year 1833 Turner painted trees
that were unknown to any botanist, had never been seen in nature,
nor been painted by any other artist. I do not think it likely that
Turner invented a tree he had never seen ; it seems to me more pro
bable that he painted such trees because he saw them so in nature. I
searched for them with the aid of the lens, and soon discovered them.
Here is a common tree ; the glass changes it into a Turner tree.
    Let us now turn from the individual case of a great artist to *
whole category of cases, in which the works of painters are modified
by anomalies in their vision —I mean cases of irregularities in the re
fraction of the eye. The optical apparatus of the eye forms, like the
apparatus of a photographer, inverted images. In order to be seen
distinctly these images must fall exactly upon the retina.           The
capacity of the eye to accommodate itself to different consecutive dis
tances, so as to receive on the retina distinct images of objects, is
called accommodation. This faculty depends upon the power of the
crystalline lens to change its form. The accommodation is at its
greatest tension if we adapt our eye to the nearest point. It is, on
the contrary, in complete repose if we adapt it to the farthest point.
The optical state of the eye during its adaptation for the farthest
point, when every effort of accommodation is completely suspended,
is called its refraction.
    There are three different kinds of refraction : firstly, that of the
normal eye ; secondly, of the short-sighted eye ; thirdly, of the over-
sighted eye.
                                  Fio. 1.
    1. The normal eye, when the activity of its accommodation is per
fectly suspended, is adjusted for the infinite distance ; that is to say,
it unites upon the retina parallel rays of light (Fig. 1).
    2. The short-sighted eye has, in consequence of an extension of
its axis, a stronger refraction, and unites therefore in front of the
retina the rays of light which proceed from infinite distance. In
order to be united upon the retina itself the rays of light must be
divergent ; that is to say, they must come from a nearer point. The
more short-sighted the eye, the stronger must be the divergence ;
such an eye, in order to see distinctly distant objects, must make the
rays from a distant object more divergent, by aid of a concave glass.

1872.]                  on Turner and Mulready.                       455
We determine the degree of short-sightedness by the power of the
weakest concave glass that enables the eye to see distinctly at a great
distance (Fig. 2).
                                   Fig. 2.
    3. The over-sighted, or hypermetropic eye, on the contrary, has
too weak a refraction : it unites convergent rays of light upon the
retina ; parallel or divergent rays of light it unites behind the retina,
unless an effort of accommodation is made. The degree of hyperme-
tropy, or over-sightedness, is determined by the focal distance of the
strongest convex glass with which objects can still be distinctly seen
at a great distance (Fig. 3).
                                   Fia. 3.
    Hypennetropy has no essential influence upon painting; it only
reduces the power of application, and must therefore be corrected by
wearing convex glasses. This can never be avoided if the hypermetropy
is so great as to diminish the distinctness of vision. Short-sightedness,
on the contrary, generally influences the choice of the subject of the
artist and also the manner of its execution. As a very small hand
writing is an indication of short-sightedness, so we find that artists
who paint small pictures, and finish the details with great minuteness
and with fine touches of the brush, are mostly short-sighted.
    Sometimes the shape of the eye diverges from its normal spherical
form, and this is called astigmatism. This has only been closely in
vestigated since Airy discovered it in his own eye. Figure to yourself
meridians drawn on the eye as on a globe, so that one pole is placed

 456                         Mr. B. Liebreich                  [March 8,
 in front : then you can define astigmatiBm as a difference in the cur
 vature of two meridians, which may, for instance, stand perpendicularly
 upon each other ; the consequence of which is a difference in the
 power of refraction of the eye in the direction of the two meridians.
 An eye may, for instance, have a normal refraction in its horizontal
meridian, and bo short-sighted in its vertical meridian. Small differ
ences of this kind are found in almost every eye, but are not perceived.
Higher degrees of astigmatism, which decidedly disturb vision, are,
however, not uncommon, and ore therefore also found among painters.
I have had occasion to examine the eyes of several distinguished
artists which presented such an anomaly, and it interested me much
to discover what influence this defect had upon their works. The
diversity depends in part upon the degree and nature of the optical
anomaly, but its effect shows itself in different ways, according to the
subjects the artist paints. An example will explain this better. I
know a landscape-painter and a portrait-painter who have both the
same kind of astigmatism ; that is, the refraction of the vertical
meridian differs from the refraction of the horizontal one. The con
sequence is, that their sight is normal for vertical lines, but for
horizontal lines they are slightly short-sighted. Upon the landscape-
 painter this has hardly any disturbing influence. In painting distant
views sharp outlines are not requisite, but rather undefined and
blending tones of colour. His eye is sufficiently normal to see these.
I was struck, however, by the fact that the foreground of his pictures,
which generally represents water with gently-moving waves, was not
painted with the same truthfulness to nature as the middle and back
ground. There I found short horizontal strokes of the brush in dif
ferent colours, which did not seem to belong to the water. I
therefore examined the picture with a glass, which, when added to my
eye, produced the same degree of astigmatism as existed in the
painter's eye, and tho whole picture appeared much more beautiful,
the foreground being now as perfect as the middle and back ground.
In consequence of this artificially-produced astigmatism, I saw the
horizontal strokes of the brush indistinctly, and so mixed together,
that through them the colour and transparency of the water were most
exquisitely rendered.
     Upon the portrait-painter astigmatism had a very different influ
ence. He was held in high esteem in Paris, on account of his excellent
grasp of character and intellectual individuality. His admirers con
sidered even the material resemblance of his portraits as perfect ;
most people, however, thought he had intentionally neglected the
material likeness by rendering in an indistinct and vague manner
the details of the features and the forms. A careful analysis of the
picture shows that this indistinctness was not at all intentional, but
simply the consequence of astigmatism. Within the last few years
the portraits of this painter have become considerably worse, because
the former indistinctness has grown into positively false proportions.
The neck and oval of the face appear in all his portraits considerably

 1872.]                  on Turner and Muiready.                         457
 elongated, and all details are in the same manner distorted. What is
 the cause of this ? Has the degree of his astigmatism increased ?
 No ; this does not often happen : but the effect of astigmatism has
 doubled, and this has happened in the following manner :—An eye
 ¦which is normal as regards the vision of vertical lines, but short
 sighted for horizontal lines, sees the objects elongated in a vertical
 direction. When the time of life arrives that the normal eye becomes
 far-sighted, but not yet the short-sighted eye, this astigmatic eye will
 at short distance see the vertical lines indistinctly, but horizontal lines
 still distinctly ; and therefore near objects will be elongated in a
horizontal direction. The portrait-painter, in whom a slight degree
 of astigmatism manifested itself at first only by the indistinctness of
the horizontal lines, has now become far-sighted for vertical lines, and
therefore sees a distant person elongated in a vertical direction ; his
picture, on the contrary, being at a short distance, is seen by him
enlarged in a horizontal direction, and is thus painted still moro
elongated than the subject is seen : so tho fault is doubled. I shall
be able to show this more clearly by experiments.
     The vertical and horizontal lines of this diagram (Fig. 1) are
reflected with equal distinctness upon the screen by the spherical
apparatus. Those among my audience who have a decided form of as
tigmatism will, nevertheless, see them differently. Those whose sight
is normal will only observe a difference after I have added a cylin
drical lens to this apparatus, and thus made it astigmatical (Fig. 2).
Ordinary spectacle glasses are worked by a rotating movement on the
surface of a sphere ; cylindrical lenses are worked by moving the
glass backwards and forwards upon a cylindrical surface. Such
glasses produce an optical effect only in one direction. If instead of

458                         Mr. B. Liebreich                   [March 8,
¦white lines I make the experiment with coloured lines, it will show
the mixing of colours produced by astigmatism ; and if I now turn
the axis of the lens, you will observe the effect of different forms of
astigmatism.
    I show you here a square (Fig. 3) : if I added a cylindrical
concave glass, with its axis placed horizontally, the square becomes
an oblong.
    In order to show you how it is possible that the same eye may see
an object at too great a distance elongated in a vertical direction, and,
on the contrary, one that is too near enlarged in a horizontal direction,
I need only place this cylindrical glass before or behind the focus of
the apparatus without turning the axis, and you will then see the
square, first elongated in a vertical direction (Fig. 4), and then
enlarged in a horizontal direction.
    Lastly, I show you a portrait. Imagine to yourself that it repre
sents the person whom the astigmatical painter is painting ; then, by
aid of the cylindrical glass you can form an idea how the painter sees
this person.
    If I alter the position of the glass, the portrait assumes the form
in which the painter sees his own painting on the canvas. This will
explain to you why he paints the portrait still longer than he sees the
person.
    With regard to an anomaly of sight, which seems almost foreign
to the subject of painting—I mean colour-blindness—I will also say
a few words here, as the subject seems to be regarded with particular
interest in England.
    What we call colour-blindness is a congenital defect of vision,
which is characterized by the absence of one of the three primary
sensations of colour. The primary sensations of colour are red,
green, and violet, according to Thomas Young and Helmholtz ; or

1872.]                  on Turner and Mulready.            ¦          459
red, green, and blue, according to Maxwell. When, as may easily
happen, to this defect is joined a decided talent for painting, drawing
alone ought to be attempted, because so absolute a defect will soon
assert itself. But wo meet with slighter degrees of colour-blindness,
where the perception of red is not entirely wanting, but only consider
ably diminished ; so that, for instance, an intense or strongly-illumi
nated red can be perceived as such, while a less intense red appears
green. This moderate degree of colour-blindness does not always
deter people from painting. A proof of this I saw at the last year's
Exhibition, in a picture which represented a cattle-market. The roofs
of the surrounding houses were all painted red on the sunny side,
green in the shadow; but—what particularly struck me—the oxen
also were red in the sun, green in the shadow. The slighter degrees
of this anomaly, in the form of an insufficient perception of colours,
have probably been the real cause why several great artists, who have
become famous on account of the beauty of their drawing and the
richness of their compositions, have failed to attain an equal degree
of perfection in colouring.
     In opposition to these isolated cases, I have to draw your attention
to other cases which happen more frequently, and in advanced age, in
consequence of a change in the perception of colours. They do not
arise from a deficient function of the nervous apparatus of the eye,
 but in consequence of a change in the colour of the lens.
     The lens always gets rather yellow at an advanced age, and with
many people the intensity of the discoloration is considerable. This,
however, does not essentially diminish the power of vision. In order
to get a distinct idea of the effect of this discoloration, it is best to
make experiments with yellow glasses of the corresponding shade.
Only the experiment must be continued for some time, because at
first everything looks yellow to us. But the eye gets soon accustomed
 to the colour, or rather it becomes dulled with regard to it, and then
 things appear again in their true light and colour. This is at least
 the case with all objects of a somewhat bright and deep colour. A
 careful examination, however, shows that a palo blue, or rather a certain
 small quantity of blue, cannot be perceived even after a very pro
 longed experiment, and after the oyo has long got accustomed to the
 yellow colour, because the yellow glass really excludes it. This must
 of course exercise a considerable influence when looking at pictures,
 on account of the great difference which necessarily exists between
 real objects and their representation in pictures.
     These differences are many and great, as has been so thoroughly
 explained by Helmholtz. Let us for a moment waive the considera
 tion of the difference produced by transmitting an object seen as a
 body on to a simple flat surface, and consider only the intensity of
 light and colour. The intensity of light proceeding from the sun
 and reflected by objects, is so infinitely greater than the strongest
 light reflected from a picture, that the proportion expressed in num
 bers is far beyond our comprehension. There is also so great a

460                           Mr. B. Liebreich                 [March 8,
difference between the colour of light, or of an illuminated object,
and the pigments employed in painting, that it appears wonderful that
the art of painting can by the use of them produce such perfect
optical delusions. It can of course only produce optical delusions,
never a real optical identity ; that is to say, the image which is traced
in our eye by real objects is not identical with the image produced
in our eye by the picture. This is best observed by changing the
light. Whoever paints in London has but too frequent opportunities
of observing this. A little more or less fog, the reflexion of a cloud
illuminated by the sun, suffices to alter entirely the colouring of the
picture, while the colouring of natural objects is not changed in the
same manner.
     Let us now return to our experiment with the yellow glass, and
we shall find that it affects our eye very much in the same way as a
yellow tint in the light, and therefore modifies natural objects in
quite a different degree from pictures. If we continue the experiment
for a considerable time, the difference becomes more and more essen
tial. As I said before, the eye becomes dulled with regard to the
yellow light, and thus sees nature again in its normal colouring.
The small quantity of blue light which is excluded by the yellow
glass produces no sensible difference, as the difference is equalized by
a diminution of sensibility with regard to yellow. In the picture, on
the contrary, there is found in many places only as much blue as is
perfectly absorbed by the yellow glass, and this therefore can never
be perceived, however long we continue the experiment. Even for
those parts of the picture which have been painted with the most
intense blue the painter could produce, the quantity of blue excluded
by the yellow glass will nlake itself felt, because its power is not
so small with regard to pigments as with regard to the blue in
nature.
     Imagine now that in the course of years one of the transparent
media in the eye of a painter had gradually become yellowish, and
that this yellow had by degrees considerably increased in intensity,
and you will easily understand the influence it must exercise upon his
work. He will see in nature almost everything correctly ; but in his
picture everything will appear to him yellowish, and consequently he
will paint it too blue. Does he not perceive this himself ? Does he
not believe it if told of it ? Were this the case, it would be easy for
him to correct the fault, since an artist can paint in a yellower or
bluer tone, as he chooses. These are two questions which are easily
answered by psychological experience. He does not perceive it him
self, becauso he does not remember that he formerly saw in a different
way. Our remembrance with regard to opinions, sensations, percep
tions, &c, which have become gradually modified in the course of
years—not by any external influence or sudden impression, but by a
gradual change in our own physical or mental individuality—is
almost m7.
     He does not believe it —I would not say because an artist rarely

1872.]                   on Turner and Mulrealy.                          461
recognizes what others tell him with regard to his works, but because
with him as with everyone else, the impressions received through his
own eye have a stronger power of conviction than anything else.
" Sehen geht vor Sagen " (seeing is believing), says the old adage.
     We are almost always conscious of indistinct vision, be it in con
sequence of incorrect accommodation or insufficient power of sight,
especially if it is not congenital, but has gradually appeared. But it
is extremely difficult and in many cases impossible to convince those
of their defect who suffer from incorrect vision as to form and colour.
They never become conscious of it themselves, even if it is not con
genital, and the most enlightened and intelligent among them remain
incredulous, or become even angry and offended when told of it. In
correct perception of form may, however, easily be demonstrated. If
in consequence of astigmatism a square appears oblong to anyone, he
can measure the sides with a compass ; or, what is more simple still,
he can turn it so that the horizontal lines are changed into vertical
ones, and vice versa, and his own sight will convince him of his error.
It is more difficult to demonstrate whether a person sees colours cor
rectly or not. Such glaring mistakes as those produced by colour
blindness can be easily recognized, but faults produced by a diminished
sensation of small differences in the shades of colour can only be
recognized as such by the fact that the majority of persons with
normal vision declare them to be faults. Such, for instance, are devi
ations produced by an incorrect perception of pigments, which in
painting makes itself felt by a constantly recurring plus or minus of a
single colour in the whole picture. It may also show itself by small
faults in the rendering of every colour. In discussing this subject
with artists, they at once declare these anomalies to represent a school,
a taste, a manner, which may be arbitrarily changed. They most un
willingly concede that peculiarities of sight have anything to do with
it. It seems to me sometimes as if they considered it in a certain
measure a degradation of their art, that it should bo influenced by an
organ of sense, and not depend entirely upon free choico, intelligence,
imagination, and talent.
     Thus, to return to the point from which we started, if a painter
 whose lens becomes yellower begins to paint in a bluer tone, it is said
 that he has changed his style. The painter himself vehemently pro
 tests against this opinion ; he thinks that ho still paints in his old style,
and that he has only improved the tone of his colour. His earlier
works appear to him too brown. To convince him of his error it
would be necessary to remove his lens suddenly. Then everything
would appear to him too blue, and his paintings far too blue.
 This is no hypothesis, but a fact. Patients on whom I have operated
for cataract, very often spontaneously declared, immediately after the
 operation, that they saw everything blue ; in these cases I invariably
 found their crystalline lens to be of an intense yellow colour. In
 pictures painted after the artists were considerably over sixty, the
 effect of the yellow lens can often be studied. To me their pictures
    Vol. VI. (No. 56.)                                            2 k

 462                         Mr. B. Liebreich                   [March 8,
 have so characteristic a tone of colour, that I could easily point them
 out while passing through a picture-gallery. As a striking example
 I will only mention Mulready. It is generally stated that in his
 advanced age he painted too purple. A careful examination shows
 that the peculiarity of the colours of his later pictures is produced by
 an addition of blue. Thus, for instance, the shadows on the flesh are
 painted in pure ultramarine. Blue drapery he painted most un
 naturally blue. Bed of course became purple. If you look at these
 pictures through a yeUow glass, aU these faults disappear : what for
 merly appeared unnatural and displeasing is at once corrected ; the
 violet colour of the face shows a natural red ; the blue shades become
 grey ; the unnatural glaring blue of the drapery is softened. To
 make the correction perfect, the glass must not be of a bright gold
 colour, but rather of the colour of pale sherry. It must be gradually
 darkened in accordance with the advancing age of the painter, and
 wiU then correspond exactly with the colour of his lens. The best
 proof of the correctness of this statement is, that the yellow glass not
 only modifies the blue in Mulready's pictures, but gives truthfulness
 to all the other colours he employed. To make the proof complete, it
 would be necessary to show that by the aid of yellow glass we saw
 Mulready's pictures as he saw them with the naked eye ; and this can
 be proved. It happens that Mulready has painted the same subject
 twice,—first in 1836, when he was fifty years of age and his lens was
 in a normal state, and again, in 1857, when he was seventy-one, and
 the yellow discoloration had considerably advanced. The first picture
was called, when exhibited, " Brother and Sister; or, Pinching the Ear ;"'
the second was called " The Young Brother." In both pictures a girL
whose back only is visible, is carrying a little child. A young
peasant, in a blue smock-frock, stands to the right and seizes the
ear of the child. The background is formed by a cloudy sky and part
of a tree. Both pictures are in the Kensington Museum. The identity
of the composition makes the difference in the colouring more striking.
If we look at the second picture through a yellow glass, the difference
between the two almost entirely disappears, as the glass corrects the
faults of the picture. The smock-frock of the boy no longer appears
of that intense blue which we may see in a lady's silk dress, but never
in the smock-frock of a peasant. It changes into the natural tint
which we find in the first picture. The purple face of the boy also
becomes of a natural colour. The shades on the neck of the girl and
the arms of the child, which are painted in a pure blue, look now grey,
and so do the blue shadows in the clouds. The grey trunk of the tree
becomes brown. Surprising is the effect upon the yellowish green
foliage, which, instead of appearing still more yellow, is restored to its
natural colour, and shows the same tone of colour as the foliage in the
earlier picture. This last fact is most important to prove the correct
ness of my supposition. My endeavour to explain it became the
starting-point of a series of investigations to ascertain the optical
qualities of the pigments used in painting, and thus to enable us to

 1872.]                   on Turner and Mulready.                       463
recognize them by optical contrivances, when the vision of the naked
eye does not suffice to analyze the colours of a picture.
     When I had the pleasure of showing this experiment with
Mulready's pictures to Professor Tyndall, he drew my attention to the
fact that one single colour, namely, the blue of the sky, was not
affected by the yellow glass. The blue of the sky was almost the same
in both pictures. I could not at onco explain the cause of this, but I
discovered it afterwards. The fact is, it is impossible to change the
sky-blue of the first picture so as to form a colour that looks like it
when seen through a yellow glass. If more white is added, the sky
becomes too pale; if a deeper blue is used, it becomes too dark.
Mulready was thus forced to content himself by giving to the sky in
his later pictures the same colour as in the earlier ones.
     If we look at Mulready's earlier works through the same yellow
glass, they lose considerably in beauty of colouring : the tone appears
too weak ; the shadows brown ; the green, dark and colourless ; we see
them as he saw them, and understand why ho became dissatisfied with
them and changed his colouring.
     It would be more important to correct the abnormal vision of the
artist, than to make a normal eye see as the artist saw when his sight
had suffered. This unfortunately can only be done to a certain
extent.
     If it is the dispersion of light which, as in Turner's case, alters the
perception of nature, it can bo partly rectified by a kind of diaphragm
with a small opening (Donders' sthenopeical spectacles).
     In cases of astigmatism, the use of cylindrical glasses will com
pletely correct the aspect of nature, as well as of the picture. Certain
anomalies in the sensation of colour may also be counteracted to some
extent by the use of coloured glasses ; for instance, by a blue glass,
when the lens has become yellow, as in Mulready's case.
     If science aims at proving that certain works of art offend against
physiological laws, artists and art-critics ought not to think that by
being subjected to the material analysis of physiological investigation,
that which is noble, beautiful, and purely intellectual will bo dragged
into the dust. They ought, on the contrary, to make the results of
these investigations their own. In this way art-critics will often
obtain an explanation of the development of the artist, while artists
will avoid the inward struggles and disappointments which often arise
through the difference betweon their own perceptions and those of the
majority of the public. Never will science be an impediment to the
creations of genius.
                                                                  [E. L.]
                                                             2 k 2

464                          Mr. John Evans                 [March 15,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 15, 1872.
      Sib Hknby Holland, Bart. MD. D.CJi. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                  John Evans, Esq. F.B.S. F.SA. &c
                     On the Alphabet and its Origin.
The subject of the Alphabet and its Origin is one which has attracted
the attention of many observers, and must indeed at some time or
other have forced itself on the consideration of nearly all thoughtful
minds.
     What is the meaning of those six-and-twenty symbols which serve
to render our language visible ? Why have they assumed the forms
in which we now find them ? and whence have they been derived to
us ? These are questions which most of us must have asked, and
many of us may have attempted to answer.
     Gesenius, de Vogue, and Lenormant on the Continent ; Professor
Hewitt Key, Professor Bawlinson, and Mr. E. B. Tylor in England,
as well as others, have done much to throw light on this field of
research, and have left but little room for after-comers to add to the
 stock of information on the subject.
     The questions connected with it appear to divide themselves under
 three heads : —
     1. As to tho origin of writing and the method of its development
 in different parts of the globe.
     2. As to tho original Alphabet from which that in common use
 amongst us was derived : and
     3. As to the history and development of that original Alphabet.
     The art of writing is that by which, as Bacon says, " the images
 of men's minds remain in books for ever, exempt from the injuries of
 time, because capable of perpetual renovation." It is that by which
 human knowledge has become cumulative, so that the stores acquired
 during one generation are handed down to those which succeed ; and
 is indeed one of the most important characteristics which distinguish
 civilized from savage races of man.
     So mysterious does this power of conveying information to others,
 however remote, appear to savages, that they regard written documents
 as possessed of powers no less than magical, and have been known to

1872.]                on the Alphabet and its Origin.                  465
hide them at the time of committing a misdeed which they feared
might be discovered by their means. Yet many of those in the lower
stages of civilization have some ideas as to pictorial records.
    The cave-dwellers of the south of France at a time when the use
of metals was unknown, and when reindeer formed one of the princi
pal articles of food in that part of the world, possessed considerable
powers of drawing and of sculpture. On some of their bone instru
ments figures of animals are engraved, which possibly may to the
original owners have conveyed some reminiscences of scenes they had
witnessed when hunting. Among the Esquimaux such records are
frequently carved on their weapons, and the taking of seals and the
harpooning of whales are often depicted. Gapt. Beechey says that
he could gather from theso representations a better insight into the
habits of the people than could be obtained from any signs or other
intimations.
    Among the North American Indians the system of picture writing
has been more fully developed, and numerous instances are recorded
in Schoolcraft's ' Indian Tribes.' A census roll of 1849 gives the
details of 34 families comprising 108 souls, by means of symbols for
the names of families, such as Catfish, Beaverskin, &c, with marks
below showing the number of individuals in each. Records of the
events of a deceased warrior's life are often given on his tombstone
in much the same manner. The totem of his tribe, such as the Rein
deer or the Crane, is reversed to show that he is dead; there are marks
recording his war parties and wounds, the number of enemies he has
killed, or the eagles' feathers he has received for bravery. Even lovo
and war songs are symbolized by a kind of pictorial memoria technica,
and the record of a night's encampment with details of a party of
sixteen, how they had supped, and what they had for supper, has been
depicted on a small scrap of birch-bark.
    In Mexico, the art of pictorial representation had at the time of
the Conquest been carried to great perfection. The bulk of the
pictures, however, merely represent wars, migrations, famines, and
scenes of domestic life. They were, moreover, able to record dates by
means of an ingeniously-devised cycle, and had some idea of attach
ing a phonetic value to their symbols. Thus the name of Itz-coatJ,
the fourth king of Mexico, is found represented by a snake with knives
of obsidian issuing from its back—the reason being, that the word
Itzli meant knives of obsidian, and Coatl meant snake. The same
name was also symbolized by tho representation of a knife, a pot and
water, which shows an approach to a syllabic system of symbols.
For the names of the objects, if given at length, would form Itzli-
Comitl-Atl, so that the pot—Coniitl—would appear in composition
merely to have represented Co—. At a somewhat later date, we find
the words Pater Noster represented by a flag, a stone, a prickly pear, and
a stone. Pantli being a flag, Tetl a stone, and Nochtli a prickly pear.
Here also tho first and third symbols appear in composition to have
been monosyllabic, and the Aztec version of the Latin seems to have

4G6                           Mr. John Evans                    [March 15,
been Pan-tetl Noch-tetl. What might have been the results of the
development of such a system, we shall never know, as it was brought
to a close by intercourse with Europeans.
     In Peru, though some sort of hieroglyphic writing appears to have
been known, the chief substitute for writing was the Quipu or knotted
cord. This consisted of a main cord with strings of different colours
and lengths attached. The colour, the mode of making the loops,
knots, or tufts, their distance from the main cord or from each other,
had all of them their meaning. Each Quipu had its own keeper or
interpreter, and by their means all public accounts were kept. The
Wampum in North America was of somewhat similar character, and
in Polynesia also the same sort of Quipu is in use. One kept by the
principal tax-gatherer in Hawaii, is a knot of cord of 400 or 500 fathoms
in length, subdivided again and again for the different districts and
families.
     There is a tradition among the Chinese of a similar system of
recording events by means of a knotted cord having been in use among
them previous to the invention of writing. The Chinase system of
writing, though far superior to that of the Mexicans, is still not
alphabetical but syllabic. At the outset, the characters seem to have
been pictorial, but the representations of the objects have now become
so much conventionalized and changed, partly in consequence of the
method of writing by means of a brush, that there is much difficulty
in recognizing them. In the characters representing the words Sun
or Day, Moon, Door, Carriage, Boy, the original pictorial origin is
evident, as indeed it is in several other instances.
     In some cases compound characters are formed by the junction of
others of a simple kind. The Sun and Moon together represent the
word Ming, bright or clear ; Water and Eye together symbolize tears.
    With a monosyllabic language, tho words of which are of necessity
limited in number, one sound has often to represent more than one
sense, and the Chinese characters have therefore been divided into
phonetics or radicals—those- which give the sound,—and the claesifica-
tory or determinatives, or those which give the sense.
     Thus the sign for a door with the determinative an ear, means to
listen ; with that of a corpse or of the heart, means sorrow, &c.
     Tho Egyptian hieroglyphics present much analogy in character
with the Chinese method of writing. In their earliest form they seem
to have been principally pictorial, though also at the same time
symbolic. We find, for instance, that the representation of the vault of
heaven, with a star suspended from it, typifies darkness or night ; that the
arms of a man holding a spear and shield are the symbol of to fight, and
that thirst is typified by a calf running. The next stage would appear
to have been syllabic, when a certain sign represented a syllable, though
often with a second more truly literal sign affixed, denoting the final
consonant of the syllable. To prevent mistakes, the signs representing
words were often accompanied by other signs, which were merely
determinative of the meaning. Thus three horizontal zigzag lines

1872.]                 on the Alphabet and its Origin.                467
representing water, showed that the previous symbol designated some
thing connected with liquids— or two legs walking, that the word bore
reference to locomotion. Many hieroglyphics, however, appear to be
purely literal, though in the case of consonants often having some
vowel-sound implied. These literal hieroglyphics Btand for the initial
letters of the objects or ideas they represent. For instance, a goose
flying is the equivalent of P, the initial of Pai, to fly ; an owl stands
for M, the first letter of Mulag, the Egyptian name of the bird.
    The more careful pictorial representations of the objects such as are
to be seen in sculptured hieroglyphics and in formal inscriptions,
required, however, too much time for their execution to be adopted as
an ordinary means of writing. In consequence, the signs became
conventionalized, and the salient characteristics of the object were
seized on for the more cursive form of writing known as the hieratic.
From this again was derived the writing known as demotic, in which
many of the symbols have become so much changed and simplified,
that it is with difficulty that they can be identified as descendants of
originally pictorial forms.
    A modified form of hieroglyphic writing is still in use among us,
more especially in connection with the science of astronomy ; and the
conventional forms which now represent the signs of the Zodiac are
very instructive as to the amount of modification such symbols aro
liable to undergo.
    In Aries (<Y>) and Taurus ( 8 ) the heads of the ram and the bull
may still be recognized. Gemini is represented by the twin straight
lines, n ; Cancer by its claws, ss ; and Leo by its head and tail, SI-
In the symbol for Virgo there appears to have been some confusion
between Astrtea and the Virgin Mary, the sign being symbolized by
the letters mi) nj>. The scales of Libra, tho sting of Scorpio, and the
arrow of Sagittarius, can still bo traced in tho symbols, ^t, m, / .
The twisted tail of Capricornus survives in VS, and Aquarius is
represented by two wavy lines of water, ma. The remaining sign of
Pisces has been much metamorphosed, but the two fishes, back to back,
with head and tail alternating, can readily be reconstructed from the
symbol        .
    The gradual simplification of form exhibited in these signs, and in
the Chinese and hieratic systems of writing, must bo borne in mind
when studying the development of other systems.
    With regard to the origin of the alphabet in common use in
Europe there can be no doubt ; the testimony of classical historians,
as well as that of the letters themselves, being conclusive as to its
Phoenician source. The Greek myth of letters having been introduced
by Cadmus the Phoenician, seems simply to embody this truth, for
there is much probability in the view which connects the name of
Cadmus with the Semitic word Kedem, the East.
    At what date letters were first in use in Greece is by no means
certain, but Grote thought that they were absolutely unknown in the
days of Homer and Hesiod (b.c. 850 77G). It seems, however,

 468                          Mr. John Evant                  [March 15,
 probable that they were introduced at a somewhat earlier date. If the
 date which has been assigned to the famous "Moabite stone," of about
 900 B.C., be correct, the correspondence in form between the archaic
 Greek letters and these on the stone raises a strong presumption in
 favour of letters having been imported into Greece at the time when
 the Phoenician alphabet was in that stage of development in which it
 occurs on the stone.
     Even the name of the alphabet preserves the memory of its
 Phoenician origin, for Alpha and Beta, the names of the two letters
from which the word is derived, are not really Greek, but merely the
Hellenized forma of the Pheenician Aleph and Beth. The same is the
 case with the names of all the other Greek letters down to Tau; the
 last five letters, T, X, if, O, being of later introduction.
     The correspondence in form between the Roman, the Greek, and
the early Pheenician alphabet, as given on the Moabite stone, can
readily be traced. It must, hewever, be remembered that the letters of
the latter are written from right to left, or in the same manner as
Hebrew, and not, as is the case with us, from left to right. In the
 early Greek inscriptions it appears to have been a matter of indif
ference in which direction the letters were placed. In some the lines
are alternately in either direction, and this form of writing was known
aa Boustrophedon, or that which turned backwards and forwards like
an ox in ploughing.
     In tracing the correspondence between the Roman, Greek, and
Phoenician alphabets, but little need be said with regard to most of
the letters.
     A.—Alpha, or Aleph, was at the outset, like most of the letters
which have now become vowels, rather a representative of a vowel-
sound than of an absolute vowel.
     B —Beta, or Beth, has to a great extent preserved its sound,
theugh originally softer and more like V.
     C.—Gamma, or Gimel, affords an illustration of change in the
power of a symbol, the Greek r having become the Latin C. There
are indeed several words which until a comparatively late date were
written indifferently with a C or a G, as Caius and Gains ; Cneius and
Gneius.
     D,—Delta, or Daleth, requires no comment.
     E.—Epsilon, or He, was originally an aspirate, but, like some
other aspirates to which probably some vowel-sound was as it were
attached, it gradually softened into a vowel.
     F, or Vau. This letter has dropped out of the Greek alphabet,
but is found on coins and early inscriptions as the Bau or Digamma,
and as the representative of the numeral G.
     Q.—Zeta, or Zain. It may seem strange that the Greek Z is re
presented by the Latin G, a letter which is said to have been introduced
by Carbilius. The sound, hewever, of the Greek Z appears to have
boen somewhat like Ds, which readily slides into a soft G. One form
of the Greek Zeta, £, corresponds closely with an early form of G.

 1872.]                 on the Alphabet and its Origin.                  469
     H. —Eta or Cheth affords another instance of an aspirate becoming
a vowel in Greek, theugh it retains its aspirate character in Latin, as
indeed it did in some early Greek inscriptions.
     —Theta or Teth has disappeared in the Latin, theugh it was re
tained in the Etruscan alphabet, and moreover is found as a barred D B
on ancient British and Gaulish coins, and reappears in Saxon as ©;
     I. J.—Iota or Jod. This letter, from the name of which our word
jot is derived, theugh originally as large as any of the other letters,
becomes the smallest in some alphabets, such as theso in use on
Cilician coins of the fourth century, B.o., and on steles and papyri
from Egypt of the first three centuries r.o. It was about that timo
that the square characters in which Hebrew is now written were
gradually being developed from the older forms of letters.
     K. — Kappa or Caph. In Latin words this letter only occurs joined
with A, as if possibly the original form had been syllabic. In the
same manner Q occurs only with U.
     Li.—Lambda or Lamed.
     M. —Mu or Mem.
     N. —Nu or Nun, requires no comment. It has been supposed by
some that the word elementa, occasionally applied as the Latin name
for letters, was compounded from these L.M.N. Such a derivation is,
hewever, by no means certain.
     —Xi or Samech. This letter is unknown in the Latin alphabet.
The correspondence in form of the early Greek H and the Samech of
the Moabite stone shews their identity); theugh Gesenius theught that
fhe Greek Sigma was derived from the Samech, and that when the
Sigma coalesced with the Doric San—the equivalent of Shin, H was
put in the vacant place.
     O.— Omicron or Ain, like some other vowels, was originally an
aspirate, or rather a strong guttural.
     P.—Pi or Po are the same letter, theugh the second stroke of IT
 was lengthened to distinguish it from r and P.
     —Tsade appears never to have come over into the Greek or Latin
 alphabets.                                                            «
     Q. — Koppa or Koph has become obsolete in Greek, theugh found
 on coins and in inscriptions, and retained as the numeral for 90.
     E..— Rlio or Resh has in Greek retained the form of P, from which
in Latin it was necessary to distinguish it by a tail. The samo
 necessity did not exist in Greek, where the Latin P is represented
 by n.
     S.—Sigma or Shin. This letter has in Latin entirely lost its
 angularity, while in Greek the 2 was placed vertically instead of
 herizontally, as in the Phoenician, on account of its resemblance to M.
     T.—Tau or Tau. With this letter the original alphabet terminates.
     The other letters of our alphabet are in some cases, like X, almost
 superfluous, in others, like U and Y, different forms of the same Greek
 lotter ; and in the case of Z, an old form reintroduced with a fresh value.
     As to the original identity of the three alphabets which have been

 470                             Mr. John Evans                        [March 15,
 discussed, there can bo no doubt; neither can any exist as to the
 order in which the letters were originally arranged. For in the
 Hebrew Scriptures, the language of which may practically be regarded
 as the same as the Phoenician, there are several instances in which
 a succession of passages, each commencing with a different letter of
 the alphabet, present them in this order. A well-known example is
 afforded by the 119th Psalm, each of the twenty-two sections of which
 commences with a different letter, the name of which forms the head
 ing to each in the English version of the Bible.
      When, hewever, we come to consider the history and development
 of the Phoenician alphabet, we are no longer upon so sure a footing.
 The manner in which some other forms of writing, such as the
 Chinese and the Egyptian hieratic were developed, will have prepared
us for the probability of the Pheenician alphabet having also been
evolved from a pictorial source, and for finding in it a similar history
to that recorded in the nursery rhyme—
                      A was an Archer aml shot at a frog,
                      B was a Butcher and had a big dog.
     It is a by no means unimportant fact in reference to this view, that
the namos of the Phoenician or Hebrew letters are not arbitrary, but
each significant of some object; theugh the meaning of the names
cannot in all cases be recognized with absolute certainty. For instance,
Aleph, Beth, Gimel, and Daleth, mean Ox, Houso, Camel, Door, and if
we find that these and the succeeding letters, when in their most
primitive forms (so far as known) present similarities with the whole,
or a portion of the objects by the names of which they are distinguished,
there is a strong probability of a pictorial origin for the letters.
     Taking the forms of the letters, as given on the Moabite stone, in
conjunction with the meaning of their names, such a similarity can in
all cases be traced, theugh more certainly intentional in some letters
than in others. This will be best shewn in a tabular form. *
N Aleph .    An ox                      The head of an oar.—That this letter was
                                     known to embody this symbol is recorded by
                                     Hesych his about a.n. 380. The correspond
                                     ence of a small a or <i with the sign for
                                     Taurus when placed herizontally is worth
                                     notice, oc.
3 Beth..     A heuse, or possibly       A home, showing one wall and the ridged
                a tent.              roof.
J Gimel      A camel                    Hie head and neck of a camel.
1 Daleth     A door                     The triangular door of a lent.
H He ..      A lattice or window        A lutticel—The meaning of the name of
                                     this letter is somewhat doubtful.
1 Van ..     A peg or nail              A peg.
f Zain ..    A weapon                   An arm holding a spear i
n Cheth      An enclosure, or field     An enclosure.—Much like the Chinese
                                     figure for the same meaning.
    * Tho letters arc here given in the ordinary Hebrew character instead of the
older form.

 1872.]                on the Alphabet and its Origin.                        471
             A serpent                A coiled snake.—This letter does not occur
                                   on the Moabite stone.
             The hand                 TJie hand and wrist in profile, similar to
                                   what may be seen on some early Hindu
                                   coins.
             The palm of the          An open hand, as in some drawings of the
               hand.               North American Indians.
             An ox-goad               An ox-goad 1—-The meaning of the name
                                   somewhat doubtful.
             Water                    A wavy line.—Like the representation of
                                   water on early coins and sculpture, and as in
                                   the sign Aquarius j^S; .
             A fish ..                The head, gill, and back of a fish.
             A support                A kind of prop supporting a treUisfor vines.
                                   —Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood has pointed out
                                   the similarity of this letter to the figure of
                                   a sculptor's bench or easel in Egyptian
                                   pictures.
             The eye                  The pupil of the eye, as in Egyptian
                                   hieratics.
             The mouth                The two lips open at an angle, much like
                                   the mouth as represented on somo ancient
                                   British coins.
             A reaping hook          A reaping hook or scythe attached to its
                                   handle.
             The back of the          The head and neck 1
               head?
             The head                 The head in profile.
             A tooth ..               A tricuspid tooth.
             A mark . .              A cross, like the mark still made by those
                                  who cannot write.
    This correspondence in form can hardly be appreciated without
diagrams, but in many instances is striking, and in none absolutely
forced. There have, however, been numerous objections raised to such
a view of the derivation of the forms of the Phoenician letters.
    Lenormant and do Rouge would rather trace them to Egyptian
hieratic characters, but the resemblances they point out between them
are but slight, and in no instance does the Phoenician name of the
letter agree with that of the object represented by the Egyptian
hieratic. Moreover the resemblances, when traced, are rather with
later forms of Phoanician letters than with those on the Moabite stone.
    Mr. E. B. Tylor also considers that the theory maintained by
Gesenius of the Phoenician letters being pictorial, can be shown to be
unsafe. He thinks the resemblances between the letters and the
objects to be but small, and the bond which attaches the name to the
letter to be but slight ; that the coincidences are not primary and
essential, but secondary and superficial. In support of this view he
instances the old Slavonic alphabet, and the Runic Futhorc, in which
the letters have names unlike those of our alphabet, but each with a
meaning—the initials of the names giving the power of the letters.
He suggests that in a similar manner Hebrew words may have been

472                           Mr. John Evans                 [March 15,
chosen as names for letters derived from some extraneous source, such
names having the proper initial letter, and also some suitability to
describe its shape—the same as if in English we called
    A—Arch or Arrowhead.
    B—Bow or Butterfly.
    C —Curve or Crescent.
    This, however, is contrary to all analogy among methods of writ
ing of which we know the development, and moreover, several of the
names of the Hebrew letters are not actual words in common use in
the Hebrew writings, but words which have become obsolete, and of
which in one or two cases it is hard to recover the meaning. The
letters, moreover, cannot originally have been mere arbitrary signs, or
there would have been greater distinctions between some of them,
such as it was subsequently found desirable to introduce.
    If too, the Phoenician letters came from an extraneous source, we
may well ask whore it was, and how does it happen that no traces of
the original names of the letters have been preserved. In the Greek
alphabet, which is undoubtedly derivative, the names of the letters
would alone suffice to show the source from which it came ; and the
case of the Kunic alphabet, derived from the same source, though with
the letters rearranged and with new names given at a comparatively
recent date, seems hardly to apply. The Runic names, moreover,
exhibit no attempt to denote the forms of the letters, to which they
are as inapplicable as the names in one of the Irish alphabets, in
which each letter is called by the name of some tree.
    It seems, on the contrary, far more probable that the Phoenicians,
possibly in the first instance borrowing the idea from the Egyptians,
struck out for themselves a more purely literal and therefore a more
simple and useful alphabet. A classification of sounds once established,
and a system of syllabic symbols once invented, the transition to a
puro literal alphabet is comparatively easy, especially when once the
syllabic symbols have, from the introduction of foreign words or from
other causes, been employed for the initial sound only of the syllables
they represent.
    Such a change, involving a departure from old practice, might
perhaps more readily take place in an adjacent country to that in
which the syllabic system prevailed, than in the country itself; and
we may readily conceive a practical people like the Phoenicians im
porting from Egypt a system of pictorial writing thus modified.
    Certainly their alphabet, unlike the letters of the later class of
Egyptian hieroglyphics,, does not appear to consist of merely a few
survivors from a whole army of symbols. On the contrary, it seems
to present some traces of arrangement ; for the objects representing
the letters appear to be grouped in pairs, each comprising two objects
in some manner associated with each other; and between each pair
is inserted a third letter, represented by an object not so immediately
connected with those preceding it, but still not absolutely alien from
thom.

1872.]                 on the Alphabet and its Origin.                 473
    Thus the ox and the heuse are followed by the camel—an animal,
by the way, not represented in Egyptian hieroglyphics. The door
and the window are followed by the peg ; the weapon and enclosure
by the serpent ; the hand and the palm by the ox-goad ; the water and
the fish by the support ; the eye and the mouth by the reaping-heok ;
the head and the back of the head by the tooth ; and the alphabet
concludes with the final mark, x -
    It would be superfluous to attempt to point out the bearings of
this question of the origin and development of the Pheenician alphabet
on the history of civilization in Europe and Western Asia.
    Future discoveries may possibly bring us nearer the cradle of tliis
alphabet, but it seems probable that on the Moabite stone wo find the
letters still retaining enough of their original pictorial character to
justify a belief that they there occur in a comparatively early stage, and
not removed by many centuries from the time when they wero merely
delineations of the objects, the namos of which they have preserved.
Assuming this to have been the case, what is the stage of culture to
which the inventors of this alphabet appear to have attained ?
    They were not mere nomads or hunters, but a people with fixed
dwellings for themselves and enclosures for their cattle. They wero
acquainted with agriculturo, and had domesticated animals, and
employed the ox as a beast of draught to cultivate fields, the produce
of which they reaped with metallic sickles. In fact, their civilization
 would seem to have been at least equal to that of the bronze-using
 people of the Swiss lake-dwellings.
                                                                 [J. E.]
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 22, 1872.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                J. Norman Lockyer, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.
             On the Results of the latest Eclipse-Expedition.
                               [Abstract deferred.]

 474                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [April 1,
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, April 1, 1872.
    Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
                      Louisa Lady Ashburton,
                      Charles Balme, Esq.
                      Mrs. W. Clement Cazalet,
                      Francis Halhed Ward-Jackson, Esq.
                      Samuel Morley, Esq. M.P.
                      S. J. Smith, Esq. F.G.S. F.C.S.
                      Charles Whittingham, Esq.
 were elected Members of the Eoyal Institution.
     The following Address of Congratulation to Her Majesty the
Queen, to be signed by the President on behalf of the Members, was
 read and approved by the Meeting.
               " To the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty.
    " Madam,
          " We Your Majesty's most dutiful subjects, the President,
Managers, Visitors, Professors, and Members of the Royal Institution
or Great Britain for the Promotion, Diffusion, and Extension of
Science and Useful Knowledge, humbly offer our heartfelt congratula
tions to Your Majesty on the Recovery of His Royal Highness the
Prince of Wales from His dangerous illness, which caused such
universal and intense anxiety ; and we desire to express our earnest
wish, that the valuable life of His Royal Highness may be long pre
served for the happiness of Your Majesty and His family, and for
the lasting benefit of the nation."
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
        FKOM
Goi-ernor-General of India—Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India :—
  Palaeontologia Indica, Series VI. Parts 9-13. foL 1871.
   Records, Vol. IV. 3, 4. 8vo. 1871.
   W. T. Blanford, Observations on the Geology and Zoology of Abyssinia.
     8vo. 1871.
Director of the Geological Survey—Mineral Statistics for 1870. 8vo. 1872.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 87. 8vo. 1870.
  Transactions, Vol. XIV. Part 3. 4to. 1871.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXII. Nos. 3, 4. 1872.
Bacon, G. Maclienzie, M.D. {the Author)—On the Writing of the Insane (with
     Illustrations). 8vo. 1872.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1871-2. Nos. 6,7. 4to.
British Association for the Advancement of Science—Report of the Forty-first
     Meeting held at Edinburgh, August, 1871. 8vo. 1872.
British Museum Trustees—Guide to Greek Coins. 8vo. 1872.
Chemical Society—Journal for Feb. 1872. 8vo.

1872.]            Mr. John Motley on the Influence of Rousseau.              475
Editors—Academy for March, 1872. 4to.
   American Journal of Science for Feb. 1872. 8vo.
   Artizan for Feb. 1872. 4to.
   Athenreum for Feb. 1872. 4to.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1872. 4to.
   Engineer for Feb. 1872.
   Food Journal Jan.-March, 1872. 4to.
   Horological Journal for March, 1872. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for March, 1872. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for March, 1872. 8vo.
   Nature for March, 1872. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1872. 8vo.
   Photographic News for March, 1872. 4to.
Geographical Society, Boyal—Proceedings, Vol. XV. No. 5. Vol. XVI. No. 2.
       8vo. 1871-2.
Uayden, F. V. Esq. (the Author)—Hot Springs and Geysers of the Yellow-stone
      and Firehole Rivers (from American Journal of Science, Vol. III. 1 872).
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 60. 8vo. 1872.
 London Institution—Journal, No. 11. 8vo. 1872.
Macpherson. John, M.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—Annals of Cholera, from the earliest
      period to the year 1817. 8vo. 1872.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings. Vol. XI. No. 10.
      8vo. 1872.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, New Scries, No. 1. 8vo. 1872.
Nichols, J. Gough, Esq. F.S.A. (the Author)—On the three editions of Watson's
      Memoirs of the ancient Earls of Warren and Surrey. (From Herald and
      Genealogist.) 8vo. 1872.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaftmi—Mnnatsberiehte, Dec. 1871. 8vo.
Royal Society of Literature—Transactions, Second Series, Vol. X. Part 1. 8vo.
      1872.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 132. 8vo. 1872.
   Philosophical Transactions for 1871, Part 2. 4to. 1872.
St. Pe~tersbourg, Acadimie ImpCriale des Sciences—Memoires, Tome XVI. Nos. 9-14.
      Tome XVII. Nos. 1-9. 4to. 1870-1.
   Bulletins, Tome XVI. Nos. 2-6. 4to. 1871.
Symom, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      March. 1872. 8vo.
 Victoria Institute—Journal of Transactions, Vol. V. No. 20. 8vo. 1872.
 Wiirzhurg Phy»ikid.-Medecin. Gesellscha/t—Verhandlungen, Band I. Band II.
      Heft 1-2. 8vo. 1871.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, April 12, 1872.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                  in the Chair.
                              John Morlet, Esq.
                          On the Influence of Rousseau.
Eousseatj's teaching sowed the seeds of the restlessness which is so
manifest throughout modern Europe. The teaching itself was not in its
fundamental ideas possessed of great creative originality. Boussean
owed much to Geneva, where he was born, in the midst of public discon
tents and the discussion of the first principles of politics and theology :
for instance, the doctrine of the sovereignty of peoples, and the ten-

476     Mr. John Motley on the Influence of Bousseau.      [April 12, 1872.
dency towards natural religion and a puro deism. He owed much to
Montaigne, Plutarch, Hobbes, and Locke. His originality lay in the
temper and sentiment which he introduced into social discussions, and
which exactly suited the ripeness of the times. Until his memorable
diversion, the battle between the old and new in France had been between
the Church and the Encyclopaedists or Voltaireans. The latter were
rationalistic, critical, argumentative, believing enthusiastically in pro
gress by means of new intellectual acquisitions. Rousseau sided with
neither scheol, having no taste for dogmatic autherity on the one
hand, nor for mere knowledge or controversy on the other. His
influence took root in a new type of life, springing from the old appeal
away from the corruption and frivolity of artificial society, to simple
and pure individual life ; dogma being abandoned for spiritual theism,
and pride of intellect for health of feeling. Hence his writings enlarged
the attack which the philosophers had carefully restricted to the Church
and theology, so as to comprehend the whole social order in destructive
criticism. They touched the entire circle of life, and hence they
inspired not only the Jacobin Robespierre, or the transcendental deist,
George Sand, but the royalist Chateaubriand and the Christian
Lamenuais. They produced ultimately a magnificent expansion of
the literature of imagination. But if Rousseau had confined himself
to the presentation of a moral idea, his work would have taken a place
with the other Utopian visions by which men have been cheered
and elevated. He proceeded from man to the milieu, from the con
sideration of the right type of manheod and the means by which we
are to be prepared for the right type of life, to the conditions of society.
It was his methed in the latter aspect which has made him so mis
chievous. He cut off the whele past of the race, obliterating history
from memory and the old social ordering from sight, and inundating
the study of social truth with metaphysical a priori figments, such as.
Rights of Man, Laws of Nature, and the rest. The revolutionary dogma
of the equality of man, of the equality of material condition, were both
involved in his conception, theugh with respect to equality of material
condition he did not insist on it from any exaltation of the material
side of life ; on the contrary, his notion of democracy was truly
spiritualistic, and had its root in a moral revolt. His fundamental
merit was his protest against the stationary fatalism of these who
exaggerate the strength of social continuity and the grip of the past
over the present. His fatal error was his disregard of the intellectual
and moral endeavour of the past, and a blind ignorance of the experi
ence of the race. -What made his errors so baneful was the concurrence
of the economic and political conditions of France, which were so
devoid of all coherence, as to permit his anti-social speculations to
become violent explosive forces. He deserves, hewever, the gratitude
of mankind for the impulse which he gave to the motives for the study
of social truth, by pointing out hew shert a way we have gone towards
the admission of the bondsmen of society to the best advantages of
civilization.                                                    [J. M.]

           l&ogal Institution of (Kteat Britain.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 22, 1872.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                J. Norman Lockyer, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                      On the Eclipse Expedition, 1871.*
I understand my duty to-night to be to givo an account of the obser
vations made, not by all whe observed the eclipse of last December,
but by the members of the party which went out under the auspices
of the British Association, and it is extremely fortunate that nothing
more is required of mo : first, because most valuable work was done
by the other parties, which of itself would require moro time to state
than I have at my disposal; and secondly, because the amount of
material obtained by the members whe were sent out from England,
and by the friends whe met them at evory point, is so great, that it
would be impossible in one discourse to give anything like an ex
haustive account of it. Here are some of the records in this portfolio.
You will see at once that even
selection, and I am perfectly aware of the extreme responsibility
which attaches to anyone whe may venturo to make a selection out of
such an enormous mass of material as we have collected.
     Before I proceed to discuss the work done by the different parties,
it will be desirable to give an idea of the arrangements, and for this
purpose I have prepared soveral maps, which will enable you to see
what the British Association parties did.
     In the first instance I may remark that the weather conditions
were somewhat problematical. Another point of great importance
was that much of the ground was fortunately occupied, and it was
essential when placing the parties to bear these two considerations in
mind—the possibility of bad weather, and then the importance of so
arranging matters that if some of the observers were clouded out, be
longing to our parties, then the story might be continued by other
observers.
     Here we have a map of India, which gives you a general idea of
    * The chief results obtained by the expedition hove been taken from the
ml interim Report presented to tho British Association Meeting at Brighton.
The lecture itself dealt mainly with the metheds and instruments employed.—
J. N. L.
   Vol. VI. (No. 57.)                                            2 L

478                       Mr. Norman Lockyer                 [March 22,
the path of the shadow during the eclipse. The shadow, you see,
strikes India on the western coast, and it runs down in a south
westerly direction, and cuts the northern portion of Ceylon.
    When we arrived in India we found that the Indian observers,
consisting of these well-known men Tennant, Herschel, Hennessy,
Pogson, and others, had determined, from their knowledge of the
climatic conditions of India at that time of the year, to occupy the
central part of the lino, and also a station at a low level ; the emi
nent French physicist M. Janssen taking up his position at the top
of the Nielgherries. We were to station ourselves either east or west,
or both, of these parties. Whether east or west would depend upon
the monsoon, and the great question that was being discussed on our
arrival was, Was the monsoon favourable ?
    I have not timo to go into the many interesting points touching
the answer to this question ; but I may say shertly that what we heard
was, that if the weather was likely to be bad on the east side of the
hill range, generically called the Ghauts, there was a good chance for
anyone occupying a position west of these hills. What happened
was that we did occupy the positions marked by blue wafers on the
map, namely, Bekul on the west coast, Manantoddy on the western
slope of the Ghauts, Poodocottah in the eastern plain, and in the
island of Ceylon, first, Jaffna ; and secondly, Trincomalee.
    Such were our arrangements. The parties were stationed along
the line of totality. Very different were the arrangements of the
Sicilian party of the former year. In Sicily we were compelled to
throw ourselves across the lino of totality in the direction which I
havo indicated on this map of Sicily.
    Now what was the work we had to do ? If you will allow me to
refer to two or three results of the former Eclipse Expedition, I will
endeavour to put them before you witheut taking up too much of
your time.
    One of the most important among the results obtained in the
eclipse of 1870 was this : far above the hydrogen which we can see
every day witheut an eclipse—far above the prominences, the spectrum
of hydrogen had witheut doubt been observed by two or three of the
American observers, whe were more fortunate than we were. Among
them Professor Young stated, that the spectrum of hydrogen was
observed to a distance of 8 minutes from the sun ; he then adds, " far
above any possible hydrogen atmosphere." This is point number one.
    Another of the points was this : the unknown substance which gives
us a line coincident, according to Young, with a line numbered 1474
by Kirchheff, had been observed by the American observers to a height
of 20 minutes above the limb of the dark moon.
    Now, it was a very obvious consideration that if we got a spectrum
of hydrogen 8 minutes from the dark moon, when we theught we knew
that the hydrogen at the sun did not really extend more than 10
seconds beyond the dark moon, there was something at work which
had the effect of making it appear very much more extensive than it

1872.]                 on the Eclipse Expedition, 1871.              479
really was ; and it was fair to assurao that if this happened in the
cose of the hydrogen, it might also happen in the case of the unknown
stuff which gives us the line 1474.
      In support of this view we had one of the few observations which
were made in Sicily, in the shape of a drawing of the corona, as seen
by Professor Watson, who observed at Carlentini. He saw the corona
magnificently ; and being furnished with a powerful telescope, ho
made a most elaborate drawing of it, a rough copy of which I will
throw on the screen. You will see at once that we had in this drawing
something which seemed to militate against the idea that the 1474
stuff at the sun did exist to a height of 20 minutes. According to
Professor Watson the boundary of the real corona was clearly defined,
its height being far under that stated.
      Next, we had another observation of most important bearing on
our knowledge of the base of the corona. I refer to the announcement
 of the observation by Professor Young of a stratum in which all the
 Fraunhofer lines were reversed. It was asserted that there was un
 doubtedly a region some 2 seconds high all round the sun, which
 reversed for us all the lines which aro visible in the solar spectrum.
 We had in fact in a region close to the photosphere the atmosphere of
 the sun demanded by Kirchhoff at some distance above the photo
 sphere.
      Last, not least, we had the photographic evidence. There was in
 Sicily a photographic station at Syracuse, and tho Americans had
 another in Spain. I now show on the screen a drawing—it is not the
 photograph itself—but a drawing of a photograph made by the party
 in Sicily ; what we have on this photograph, is a bright region round
 the dark moon, which is, undoubtedly, solar, but stretching out right
 away from this, here and there are large masses of faint light, with
 dark spaces between them, which have been called rifts. Now tho
 question is, Is this outer portion solar ?
      Having thus brought rapidly before you some of the questions
 which we had principally to bear in mind, and, if possible, settle
 (though that is too much to hope for in any one Eclipse Expedition)
 in the work we had to do in India, I will next bring to your notice
 some new methods of inquiry which had been proposed, with tho
 object of extending former observations.
      I may here remark that the Eoyal Astronomical Society, in tho
 first instance, invited me to take charge of an expedition to India
  merely to conduct spectroscopic observations ; but although this
  request did me infinite honour, I declined it, because the spectro
  scope alone, as it had been used before, was, in my opinion, not
  competent to deal with all the questions then under discussion. I
  havo told you that some of the most eminent American observers had
  come to the conclusion that the spectrum of hydrogen observed in the
  last eclipse round the sun, to a height of 8 minutes, was a spectrum of
  hydrogen " far above any possible hydrogen " at the sun. Hence it

480                        Mr. Norman Lockyer               [March 22,
was in some way reflected. Now with our ordinary spectroscopic
methods it was extremely difficult, and one might say impossible, to
determine whether the light which the spectroscope analyzed was
really reflected or not ; and that was the whole question.
    It became necessary, therefore, in order to give any approach to
hopefulness, to proceed in a somewhat different way in the 1871
expedition ; and in order to guard against failure, to supplement such
new observations by photographs ; and fortunately we were not long in
coming to a conclusion that this might be done with some considerable
chanco of success.
    I have here a train of prisms. I will for one moment take one
prism out of the train, and we will consider what will happen if we
illuminate the slit of the lantern with a monochromatic light and
observe it through the prism. If wo render sodium vapour incan
descent, we know we get a bright yellow imago of the slit, due to
the vapour of the metallic sodium only giving us yellow light. But
why is it that we get a line ? Because we always employ a line for
the slit. But suppose we vary the inquiry. If, instead of a straight
line we .have a crooked line for- the slit, then we ought to see a
crooked line through the prism. Now, allow me to go one step
further : suppose that instead of a line, whether straight or crooked,
we have a slit in the shape of a ring, shall we see a ring through
the prism ? You will see that we shall. And then comes this
question : If, when we work in the laboratory we examine these
various slits, illuminated by these various vapours, why should it not
happen that if we observe the corona in the same way, we shall also
get a ring built up by each ray of light which the corona gives to us ;
since we know, from the American observations, that there were bright
lines in the spectrum of the corona, as observed by a line slit ? In
other words, the corona examined by means of a long train of prisms,
should give us an image of itself painted by each ray which the
corona iB competent to radiate towards us.
    Now let us pass to the screen, the screen merely replacing the
retina. We will first begin with the straight slit with which yon are
familiar—we now have our slit fairly focussed on the screen—wo then
in the path of the beam interpose one of these prisms, and there we
get on the screen a bright line.
    Now, to continue the argument, we replace the straight slit by a
crooked one, and you see we get a crooked image on the screen. "We
now replace this crooked slit by a ring. We have now a ring-formed
image on the screen. So that you seo wo can use any kind of narrow
aperture we choose, and as long as we are dealing with light which is
monochromatic, or nearly so, we got an image of tho aperture on the
screen.
    If we consider the matter further it will be evident that we may
employ a mixture of vapours, and extend this result.
    We will now, for instance, instead of employing sodium vapour,
employ a mixture of various vapours. You see now that each ray

•1872.]                on the Eclipse Expedition, 1871.                481
 given by these substances, instead of building up a line image, is
 building up for us a ring image—that we have now red, green, yellow,
 blue, and violet rings.
     Now that was the consideration which led to the adoption of one
 of the new attempts to investigate the nature of the corona used this
 time. It was, to use a train of prisms, pure and simple, using the corona
 as the slit, a large number of prisms being necessary to separate the
 various rings we hoped to see, by reason of their strong dispersion. On
 the screen the rings to a certain extent intersect each other ; and it
 would have been easier to show you the ring-form of the images if we
 could have used more prisms than one.
     If this is good for a train of prisms such as I have referred to, it
 is good for a single prism in front of the object-glass of a tele
 scope. Such was the method adopted by Professor Kespighi, the
 distinguished Director of the Observatory of the Capitol of Borne, who
 accompanied the expedition.
     Now you may ask how would this method, if it succeeded, be
 superior to the ordinary one? In this way. If we wero dealing
 merely with reflexion, then all the rings formed by vapours of equal
 brilliancy at the base of the chromosphere would be of the same
 height, while if reflexion were not at work the rings would vary
 according to the actual height of the vapours in the sun's atmosphere,
 and the question would be still further advanced if the spectrum did
 not contain a ring representing the substance which underlies the
 hydrogen.
     Our new spectroscopic equipment then was as follows : —
     1. A train of five prisms.
     2. A large prism of small angle placed before the object-glass of
 a telescope.
     3. Integrating spectroscopes driven by clockwork.
     4. A self-registering integrating spectroscope, furnished with tele
 scopes and collimators of large aperture, and large prisms. (This
 instrument was lent by Lord Lindsay.)
     Now a word about the polariscopic instruments, referring yon to
 my lecture given last year for a general notion of the basis of this
 class of observation.
     A new idea was that observations to determine the polarization
 of the corona might be made with the same telescope and eye, both
 with tho Biquartz and the Savart.
     By the kindness of Mr. Spottiswoode, who has placed his magnifi
 cent polarizing apparatus at our service, I hope to be able to show you
 on the screen the mode of examining the corona by means of those
 two instruments, so as to enable you pretty well to follow what was
 actually done.
     Let me begin with the Biquartz polariscope. In the first instance
 I will throw on the screen a representation of the corona itself, and
  we will thon insert a Biquartz, and sec its effect when I flood the

482                       Mr. Norman Locl-yer                  [March 22,
screen with polarized light. You now see an indication of what
would he observed supposing the polarization was due to polarized
light diffused in the region botween us and the dark moon and
eclipsed sun, in which caso the polariscopic effect would be observed
generally over tho dark moon, the corona and the region of the sky
outside the corona. But this is not all ; not only does this arrange
ment enable us to determine tho existence of such a general polariza
tion, but tho vertical line in the Biquartz called the lino of junction
indicates tho plane of polarization, when the colours on both sides
of it are the same ; so that we have two colours strongly contrasted
in cither half of tho field when wo aro away from the plane of
polarization, and a uniform colouring of the whole field when in or
at right angles to that plane. By turning this prism through
!)0 degrees, you seo I entirely change the colours.
     But we are not limited to the Biquartz in this inquiry. We can
apply the Savart polariscope. Having still our image of the corona
on the screen, I now replaco the Biquartz by a Savart.
    Wo now no longer see a line of junction with the similar or
different colours on either side of it, but lines of colour running across
the image. I turn the prism. Wo first seo the lines with a white
centre, then with a dark one ; while at times they are altogether
absent. And as a departure from the plane, when we use the Biquartz,
gives us tho strongest contrasts of colour, so you observe that with
tho Savart under theso circumstances all indications of polarization
vanish.
    Now, if wo assume polarization to bo general, and tho plane of
polarization vertical, we should got those coloured bands, as you
see them there, crossing the corona and dark moon, tho lines being
vertical and dark-centred. If tho plane of polarization were hori
zontal, we should find tho lines horizontal and the central one
white.
     But so far as wc have gone, we have been dealing with polarization
 which is general, and we have not attempted to localize polariza
tion at the corona itself. But I have here an apparatus, by means of
which, quietly, in this theatro one can see as admirable an example as
wc should desire, of polarization, assumed to be particular to the sun
and not general—I mean radial polarization. Wo have simply a
circular piece of mahogany, or something else which polarizes light
equally well, with a hole in the middle with sloping sides, cut as
you see this cut, and then we place behind it a candle, so that the
light of this candlo, after falling on oiled tissue paper stretched across
the aperture, can be reflected to the eye by the sides, the direct light
of the candle being stopped by a central metallic diaphragm. We
have now a source of polarized light of a different kind from the last.
The next tiling wo have to do is to introduce into a small telescope
exactly the same kind of apparatus wc have there, though of course
i>u a much smaller scale, and examine the ring of light seen when we
put the candlo behind tho aperture. On examining the ring of light

1872.]                 on the Eclipse Expedition, 1871.                 483
which is now visible by means of this telescope, which contains a
Biquartz and analyzer, I see the most exquisite gradations of colour
on either side the line of junction which cuts the field of view and
the bright ring in the centre into two.
      Now, instead of the candle, we will employ the electric lamp ;
and instead of the eye, the screen ; but I must inform you that the
great heat of the electric lamp prevents the appearance being perfectly
successful on the screen, as the reflecting varnish is melted.
      In this experiment we cannot work with an image of the corona.
We must make our corona out of the image of the ring we hope to get
 on the screen ; and then, by employing the Biquartz in the same way
 as before, instead of getting similar colours on either side of the lino
 of junction, as we did when we were working in the plane of polariza
 tion, and getting the greatest contrasts, as we did when we worked
 45 degrees away, you observe we get different colours in each part of
 the ring.
      On the screen we now have a highly-magnified image of the hollow
 cone of iron which I am compelling to reflect the light from the lamp ;
 and by inserting this Biquartz I throw various colours over different
 portions of that ring, which I beg you to consider for one moment as the
 solar corona, and the colours change as I rotate this prism. You will
 at once be able to explain the different actions of this Biquartz in this
 instance. The reflexion and therefore the plane of polarization is no
 longer general, but varies from point to point of the reflecting surface.
 It is in fact radial, and hence the delicate radiate arrangement of
  colour.
      Such then were some of the new methods and new instruments wo
  used for the first time in our researches. And I hope you will allow
  me to use this term, although our work was conducted a long way
 from the Royal Institution, the natural home of research in England.
      I must now state very briefly some of the results of our work ;
.and first, the certain results.
      We were able to make out the structure of the corona. Wo know
  all about the corona so far as the structure of its lower brighter strata,
  that portion, viz. which I referred to in my lecture last year as being
  visible both before and after totality, is concerned. You may define
  it as consisting of cool prominences ; that is to say, if you examine a
  prominence any day, without waiting for an eclipse, and then go to an
  eclipse and examine the lower portion of the corona you will find
  the same phenomena, minus the brightness. You find the delicate
  thread-like filaments which you are now all so familiar with in
  prominences—filaments which were first thrown on a screen in this
  theatre ; the cloudy light masses, the mottling, the nebulous structure,
  are all absolutely produced in the corona, as far as I could see it
   with a telescope with an aperture of 6J inches ; and I may add that
  the portion some five minutes round the sun, reminded me forcibly in

484                       Mr. Norman Lockyer                   [March 22,
parts of the nebula of Orion, and of that surrounding r, Argus, as
depicted by Sir John Herschel, in his Cape observations.
    We have shown that the idea that we did not get hydrogen above
10 seconds above the sun is erroneous ; for we obtained evidence that
hydrogen exists to a height of 8 or 10 minutes at least above the
sun ; and I need not tell you the extreme importance of this deter
mination. One of the proofs we have of that lies in this diagram,
showing the observations made by Professor Bespighi, armed with
an instrument, the principle of which I hope you are now familiar
with.
    Just after the sun disappeared Professor Eespighi employed this
prism to determine the materials of which the prominences which were
then being eclipsed were composed ; and he got the prominences shaped
out in red, yellow, in blue, and in violet light ; a background of im
pure spectrum filling the field, and then as the moon swept over the
prominences these images became invisible; he saw the impure spec
 trum and the yellow and violet rings gradually die out, and then three
bright and broad rings painted in red, green, and blue, gradually
form in the field of view of his instrument ; and as long as the more
brilliant prominences were invisible on both sides of the sun, he saw
these magnificent rings, which threw him in a state of ecstasy. And
well they might.
     These rings were formed by C and F, which shows us that
hydrogen extends at least 7 minutes high, for had we not been dealing
with hydrogen we should have got a yellow ring as well, because the sub
stance which underlies the hydrogen is more brilliant than the
hydrogen itself, and in addition to the red ring and the blue ring, which
indicate the spectrum of hydrogen, ho saw a bright green ring, much
more brilliant than the others, built up by the unknown substance
which gives us the KirchhofT line, 1474.
     Now at the timo that Professor Respighi was observing these
beautiful rings by means of a single prism and a telescope of some
four inches aperture, some 300 miles away from him—he was at ,
Poodocottah and I was at Bekul—I had arranged the train of prisms
which you see here so that the light of the sun should enter the first
prism, and after leaving the last one should enter my eye. And what
 I saw is shown, side by side with Eespighi's observations, in this
diagram, in which I have separated tho rings somewhat, so that
there Bhould be loss confusion than in tho actual observation. Here
 is Professor Eespighi's first observation. He gets indications of C,
D8, F, and the hydrogen line near G. Ho was observing the very
lowest, brightest region of all, and therefore 1474 was obliterated by
the brightness of the continuous spectrum ; but as tho eclipse went
on D8 was entirely obliterated, and afterwards he got C and F building
up rings together with 1474, which was not represented in the lower
regions of the prominence —not becauso it was not there, but because,
as I liavo already insisted, of the extreme brilliancy of tho back
ground. Now my observation was made intermediately, as it were,

1872.]                  on the Eclipse Expedition, 1871.                485
between the two observations of Professor Kespighi's. Let me show
the observations together.
         Eespighi .. CD3               F G Prominences at beginning of
                                                eclipse.
         Lockyer      .. C       1474 F G Corona at 80 seconds from
                                                commencement.
         Eespighi .. C 1474 F Corona at mid eclipse.
Note that I had no object-glass to collect light, but that I had more
prisms to disperse it ; so that with me the rings were not so high as
those observed by Respighi, because I had not so much light to work
with : but such as they were I saw them better because the continuous
 spectrum was more dispersed, and because, with my dispersion, tho
 rings—the images of the corona —therefore did not so much overlap.
 Hence doubtless Eespighi missed the violet ring which I saw, so faint,
however, that both that and 1474 were almost invisible, while C shot
 out with marvellous brilliancy, and D3 was absent.
      These observations thus tend to show, therefore, that instead of the
 element—the line of which corresponds with 1474—existing alone just
 above tho prominences, the hydrogen accompanies it to what may bo
 termed a great height above the more intensely heated lower levels of
 the chromosphere, including the prominences in which tho lower
 vapours are thrown a greater height. With a spectroscope of small dis
 persion attached to the largest mirror of smallest focus which I could
 obtain in England, the gaseous nature of the spectrum, as indicated by
 its structure, that is bands of light and darker intervals as distinguished
 from a continuous spectrum properly so called, was also rendered
 evident.
      These are results of the highest importance, which alono are worth
 all the anxiety and labour connected with the expedition.
      But there is more behind.
      The photographic operations (part of tho expense of which was
 borne by Lord Lindsay) wore most satisfactory, and the solar corona
  was photographed to a greater height than it was observed by tho
 spectroscope, and with details which were not observed in the spec
 troscope.
      Mr. Davis was fortunate enough to take an admirable series of
  five photographs at Bekul, and Captain Hogg also obtained some at
  Jaffiia; but I am sorry to say the latter lack somewhat in detail.
      I have prepared two lamps, because I am anxious to exhibit the
  photographs two at a time, that you may compare one with the other.
  [This was done.] You sec that so far as the camera goes—and mark
  this well—the corona was almost changeless during the whole period
  of totality ; this is true, not only for one place, but for all the places
  at which it was photographed.
       I now exhibit two other photographs—one taken at Jaflha and
  the other at Ootacamund. Actinically tho corona was the same and
  practically changeless at all the stations. You seo that, though not
   so obvious as in the other case, there is the same similarity.

•186                       Mr. Norman Lochjer                   [March 22,
     Before I leave the actinic corona, I am anxious to show you an
image of it, taken during the American eclipse of 1869 in a camera
exposed to the sun during tho whole of the totality ; to a certain extent
in our recent photographs we have reproduced what was photographed
in 1869.
     The solar nature of most, if not all, of the corona recorded on the
plates is established by the fact that the plates, taken in different places,
and both at tho beginning and end, of totality, closely resemble each
other, and much of the exterior detailed structure is a continuation of
that observed in the inner portion independently determined by the
spectroscope to belong to the sun.
     While both in the prism and the 6J inch equatorial the corona
seemed to form pretty regular rings round the dark moon, of different
heights according to the amount of light utilized by the instrument,
on tho photographic plates the corona, which, as I have before stated,
exceeds the limits actually seen in the instrument I have named, has a
very irregular, somewhat stellate outline, most marked breaks or rifts
{ignored by the spectroscope), occurring near the sun's poles, a fact
perhaps connected with the other fact that the most active and most
brilliant prominences rarely occur there.
     From the photographs in which the corona is depicted actinically
wo pass to the drawings in which it is depicted visually. I would first
call attention to two drawings made by Mr. Holiday, who formed part
of tho expedition, and in whose eye every one who knows him will
have every confidence.
     First there is a drawing made at tho commencement of the totality,
and then a drawing made at the end. There is a wonderful difference
between tho drawings ; the corona is in them very much more exten
sive than is represented actinically on our plates.
     Hero is another drawing, made by Captain Tupman, in which again
wo have something absolutely different from the photographs and from
Mr. Holiday's sketches, inasmuch as we get an infinite number of dark
linos extending down to the moon, and a greater extension than in the
photographs, though in radial places the shape of the actinic corona
and some of its details are shown.
     Now tho corona, as it appeared to me with the naked eye, was
nothing but an assemblage of bright and dark lines, it lacked all the
structure of the photographs and appeared larger ; and I have asked
myself whether these lines do not in some way depend on the size of
tho telescope, or tho absence of a telescope. It seems as if observations
of the corona with the naked eye, or with a telescope of small power,
may give us such lines ; but that when we use a telescope of largo
power, it will givo, close to the moon, the structure to which I have
referred, and abolish the exterior structure altogether, leaving a ring
round the dark body of the moon 6uch as Professor Bespighi and
myself saw in our prisms, and in the 6-inch telescope, in which the
light was reduced by high magnification so as to bring tho corona to
a definite ring somo 5 minutes high, whilo Professor ltespighi, using a

1872.]                  on the Eclipse Expedition, 1871.                487
4-inch telescope and less magnifying power, brought the corona down
to a ring something like 7 minutes high.
     And here we have an important connection between spectroscopic
and telescopic work. If we employ a telescope in which the light
is small or is reduced by high magnification, we bring the corona
to a definite ring, and perhaps here we have the origin of the ' ring-
formed ' coronas.
      Many instances of changing rays, like these seen by Plantamour in
 1860, were recorded by observers in whem I have every confidence. One
observer noted that the rays revolved and disappeared over the rifts.
      We have next to deal with the polariscopic observations.
      Mr. Lewis, in sweeping round the corona at a distance of 6' or 7'
 from the sun's limb, using a pair of compensating quartz wedges as an
 analyzer, which remained parallel to itself while the telescope swept
 round, observed the bands gradually change in intensity, then dis
 appear, bands of a complementary character afterwards appearing,
 thereby indicating radial polarization.
      Dr. Themson at Bekul saw strong traces of atmospheric, but none
  of radial polarization, with a Savart. With the same class of instru
  ment the result obtained by myself was precisely similar; while on
  turning in the Biquartz, at the top and bottom of the image of the
  corona, i. e. near the sun's equator, faint traces of radial polarization
  were perceptible for a shert distance from the moon's limb. Captain
  Tupman, whe observed with the polariscope after totality, announces
   strong radial polarization extending to a -very considerable distance
  from the dark moon.
       Leaving the extreme outside of the corona as a question to bo de
   termined at some future time—and it can well wait—lot us come to
  tho base of the corona, and deal with the region to which I have
  already referred, close to the sun.
       What was the general conclusion at which wo arrived on this im
   portant point ? Before I state it, let mo tell you the instrumental
   conditions of the inquiry. We can use such a spectroscope as the one
   with which you are all familiar, and so arrange matters that the slit
   shall bo carried by a clock, so that it may follow accurately the
   edge of the moon ; but if the least variation in the rate of motion
   takes place, the observation is rendered almost valueless. But if
   we employ a spectroscope, in which we sum up the light—do not
   localize the light, but throw it together— it does not matter whether
   your clock goes well or not, you aro certain to have a result worthy of
   credit. But if you employ such an instrument as Professor Respighi
   employed, and abolish the slit altogether, the weight of any observa
   tions made with such conditions is very great.
       Captain Maclear, whe was observing with me at Bekul, has un
   doubtedly shewn that when the light of our atmosphere is cut off by
   the interposition of the dark moon, we see very many more bright
   lines than wo do when this is not the case, the lines being of unequal
   height.
       Mr. Pringle, also at Bekul, shewed that, at the end of totality,

  488        Mr. Norman Lockyer on the Eclipse Expedition.    [March 22,
 many lines flashed into one of these instruments, carried under these
 difficult conditions.
      Captain Fycrs, the Surveyor-General of Ceylon, observing with a
 spectroscope of the second kind, saw something like a reversal of all
 the lines at the beginning, but nothing of the kind at the end.
     Mr. Fergusson, observing with a similar instrument, saw reversal
 noither at the beginning nor the end.
     Mr. Moseley, whese observations are of great weight, says that
 at the beginning of the eclipse he did not see this reversal of lines.
 Whether it was visible at the end he could not tell, because at the
 close the slit had travelled off the edge of the moon.
     Professor Respighi, using no slit whatever, and being under the
 best conditions for seeing the reversal of the lines, certainly did not
 see it at the beginning, but he considers he saw it at the end, theugh
 about this he is doubtful.
     From the foregoing general statement of the observations made on
 the eclipse of last year, it will be seen that knowledge has been very
 greatly advanced, and that most important data have been obtained to
 aid in the discussion of former observations. Further, many of the
 questions raised by the recent observations make it imperatively neces
 sary that future eclipses sheuld be carefully observed, as periodic
 changes in the corona may then possibly be found to occur. In these
 observations the instruments above described sheuld be considered
 normal, and they sheuld bo added to as much as possible.
     I had intended, if time had permitted me, to point out hew much
 better wo are prepared for the observation of an eclipse now than we
 were when we went to India, and hew a system of phetograph record
 sheuld be introduced into the spectroscopic and polariscopic work ;
 but time will not allow me to do more than suggest this interesting
topic. I am anxious, hewever, that you sheuld allow me one minute
more to say hew very grateful we feel for the assistance rendered
by all we met, to which assistance so much of our success must bo
ascribed. I wish thus publicly to express the extreme gratitude of
everyone of our Expedition to the autherities in India and in Ceylon
for the assistance wo received from them ; and our sorrow that
Admiral Cockburn, a warm and well-known friend to Science, whe
placed his flagship at the disposal of the expedition, and the Viceroy,
wheso influence in our favour was felt in every region of India whither
our parties went, and to whem wo gave up our ship, are now, alas !
beyond the expression of our thanks. We are also anxious to express
our obligations to the directors and officers of the Peninsular and
Oriental Company for the magnificent way in which they aided us.
If they had not assisted us as they did, Science would have gained
very much less than she has done from the observations of the last
eclipse.
                                                           |J. N. L.J

1872.]       Mr. A. V. Ilarcourt on the Impurity of Coal Gas.          489
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              April 19, 1872.
  Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President, in the Chair.
           A. Vernon Harcocrt, Esq. F.R.S. Sec. Chem. Soc.
                 On the Sulphurous Impurity in Coal Gas.
The luminous flames we use to light our heuses after sunset are all
equally gas flames.
    The gas which burns round the wick of a candlo is formed by the
action of heat on the grease of which the candlo is made. The gas
which burns over the wick of an oil lamp is formed by the action of
heat on the oil. The gas which burns over a " gas-burner " is formed
by the action of heat on coal.
    By the heating of any of these substances many different kinds of
gas are produced, some of which become liquids if they are allowed to
cool, while others are permanently gaseous. In the case of candles
and lamps, when the het gas is burnt as fast as it is made, the uncon-
densable and the condensable are burnt alike, the latter contributing
even more than the former to the luminosity of the flame. In the case
of coal gas, which is kept for many hours, and has often to travel along
many miles of iron piping before it is burnt, only very little condonsablo
gas reaches the burner. In this respect " gas " illumination is at
a great disadvantage as compared with candles or lamps. To counter
balance this disadvantage gas must be produced from some substance
which is much cheaper than grease or oil, and such a substanco we
have in coal. But coal, like all minerals obtained on the large scale,
is mixed with small quantities of other substances, and, in particular,
masses of coal always contain a greater or less proportion of a mineral
known, according to its form, as pyrites or marcasite, composed of
eight parts of sulphur united with seven of iron. When coal is heated,
a part of the sulphur from this mineral unites with the carbon and
hydrogen of the coal, and thus the illuminating gas formed from coal
is contaminated with at least two sulphur compounds—carbon bi
sulphide and hydrogen sulphide. Such gas yields when it is burnt,
in addition to water and carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxido produced by
the burning of the sulphur. This gas has a well-known pungent
smell ; it acts on various colouring matters, and it is gradually changed
in presence of air and moisture into a far moro destructive substanco
called hydrogen sulphate or oil of vitriol. Unlike sulphur dioxide,
which is a gas and can be removed by ventilation, hydrogen sulphate

490                      Mr. A. Vernon Harcourt                | April 19,
is not volatile, and exercises a continued corrosive action upon organic
materials or fabrics on which it is deposited. In a furnished room
the leather bindings of books and coverings of furniture are especially
liable to bo injured thus; perhaps because this material, being a
better conductor of heat than others which are used for the same
purposes, is more bedewed after gas has been lighted in a room tlian
they are, and also because it requires less often to be cleaned or
renewed. Fortunately the conversion of sulphur dioxide into hydrogen
sulphate takes place so slowly that in a room lighted with gas and
well ventilated a very small part of the sulphur which gas is liable to
contain remains in this destructive form. Fortunately, also, the
quantity of sulphur which gas as at present manufactured is liable to
contain is very small. In a room lighted with four gas-burners the
volume of sulphur dioxide mixed with the atmosphere of the room in
the course of an heur is about one-hundredth of a cubic foot. The
amount actually present at any moment, if the room is fairly venti
lated, is a small fraction of this volume. Nevertheless, it is possible,
and even probable, that some injury, especially to the bindings of
books, may in the course of years be caused under these circumstances ;
and it is desirable, with a view to avoiding any such injury, and also
with a view to allaying the apprehension of it, that the proportion of
sulphur compounds in coal gas sheuld be reduced as far as possible.
    A ton of coal may contain about 30 lbs. of sulphur : it yields
nearly 10,000 cubic feot of gas, and a considerable part of the sulphur
contained in it is given off with the gas in combination with either
carbon or hydrogen. Of these two elements, hydrogen claims by far
the larger proportion, not less than ten parts for one that is united
with carbon. For the purification of gas from hydrogen sulphide
excellent metheds are everywhere in use. The gas is passed through
layers of slaked lime or of iron oxide, by cither of which substances
all the hydrogen sulphide is capablo of being completely absorbed.
But the smaller quantity of sulphur existing in the form of carbon
bisulphide is not arrested by these agents, nor is there at present
any material or process known by which it can be effectually removod.
    When coal gas which is puro from hydrogen sulphide is heated
and tested again, it is found to contain this impurity, shewing that
some ingredients of the gas are capable of producing hydrogen
sulphide by their mutual action. Hydrogen seems to have a much
stronger affinity for sulphur than carbon has. One consequence of
this difference is the unequal partition of the sulphur between the
two elements in the gas retort. But this inequality does not reach
its limit in the shert time which elapses between the formation and
cooling down of the gas ; an d accordingly, when foul gas (or gas
which has not been purified from hydrogen sulphide) is further
heated, the proportion of hydrogen sulphide in it is increased, and that
of carbon bisulphide diminished. From a number of experiments
in which foul gas was passed through an iron tube three inches in
diameter, filled with iron turnings and heated for a length of about

1872.]            on the Sulphurous Impurity in Coal Gas.             491
two feet to low redness, it appeared that the amount of carbon
bisulphide could be so far reduced that the gas, after purification from
hydrogen sulphide, contained five or six instead of thirty grains of
sulphur in 100 cubic feet. The gas was driven through the heated
tube at a rate of from one to two cubic feet a minute.
    A somewhat greater reduction in the amount of sulphur is obtained
by heating the gas after, instead of before, purification and purifying it
a second time. If it is the case, as seems probable, that tho sulphur
present in coal gas distributes itself when the gas is heated between
the carbon and hydrogen in a ratio dependent upon the relative
affinity for sulphur of the two elements, the proportion of carbon
bisulphide to the total sulphur in the gas will be always the same
when tho composition of the gas is the same, and when it has been
heated long enough for the establishment of an equilibrium. Accord
ingly we sheuld expect the removal of sulphur, by the conversion of
carbon bisulphido into hydrogen sulphide and the absorption of the
latter, to bo accomplished more effectually with gas from which the
chief part of the sulphur had already been extracted. And this, as
has already been stated, is found to be the case.
     The nature of the chemical change which takes place when coal
gas is heated may be illustrated by passing hydrogen over the mouth
of a tube containing carbon bisulphide, and thence through a picco
of combustion tubing heated nearly to a red heat. The mixture of
hydrogen and carbon bisulphide vapour has no action on a solution
of lead acetate ; but, after the application of heat, the gas which
issues produces at once a black precipitate, proving that hydrogen
sulphide has been formed. This change occurs readily with hydrogen
which has been carefully dried ; but the presence of moisture appears
to promote it ; and as coal gas contains a quantity of aqueous vapour,
much moro than sufficient to react with the maximum amount of
carbon bisulphide, it is possible that the formation of hydrogen
sulphide when coal gas is heated, may bo partly due to the interven
tion of moisture.
     If clean iron nails are heated to redness in a glass tube, and coal
gas is passed slowly over them, a soft black carbonaceous deposit is
formed, and the gas is deprived of a part of its carbon. If, hewever,
the gas be passed through more rapidly, no such deposition takes
place, altheugh the time of contact of the gas with the heated surface
is still sufficient to effect the conversion of the carbon bisulphido into
hydrogen sulphide. In the latter case it may be presumed that no
change occurs in the illuminating power of the gas. But to establish
a point which is of capital importance, some direct observations were
made on the illuminating power of gas thus treated. It was found
with gas passing at the rate of 5 cubic feet an heur through a half-
inch iron tube, heated for a length of 12 inches, that, when the heat
did not exceed low redness, no change was observable. When the
heat was raised to bright redness, there was a perceptible increase in
the illuminating power.

492       Mr. A. V. Harcourt on the Impurity of Coal Gas.     [April 19,
    If the process of heating coal gas, in order to remove the sulphur
contained in it, should be employed on the manufacturing scale, the
rate of transmission of the gas through the heating apparatus would
necessarily be such as to render any deposition of carbon very unlikely.
But even where such deposition takes place, it is not necessarily accom
panied by a diminution of the illuminating power.
    An interesting experiment, from this point of view, is the decom
position of marsh gas by the electric spark. When a stream of sparks
from a EuhmkorfiF coil is transmitted between the ends of platinum
wires through a small quantity of marsh gas enclosed in a glass tube
over mercury, the gas gradually expands. In about ten minutes it is
nearly doubled, and at the same time a black deposit appears on the
tube, in the neighbourhood of the wires. Here the intense heat
applied has effected an almost complete decomposition of the hydro
carbon into its elements. But at the same time there is found a small
quantity of some more condensed hydrocarbon, probably acetylene.
On expelling the gas through a jet attached to the upper end of the
tube, and burning it, the flame is seen to be much more luminous
than that of marsh gas itself. The fact of which this experiment
gives a striking illustration is that the illuminating power of gas
depends much more upon tho nature of the hydrocarbons it contains,
than upon the total amount of carbon. How great would be the gain
to the manufacturers of coal gas, if such an operation as this were
possible on the large scale, by which the volume of gas is doubled
and its illuminating power, at the same time, greatly increased !
    As far as chemistry is concerned, the simple operation of heating
gas appears to offer the means of a sufficiently perfect purification.
The construction of a suitable system of iron pipes for heating the
gas, and the best mode of obtaining and applying heat, is a problem
for the engineer. On the scale on which gas is manufactured, all the
apparatus for dealing with it must be of a magnitude to which it is diffi
cult to pass, even in imagination, from the small scale of laboratory
experiments ; but, otherwise, the problem does not appear to be one
of any peculiar difficulty. It may perhaps be found possible to employ
some of the waste heat of the retort-house for this purpose, and thus
to effect the required purification without much increasing the con
sumption of fuel.
                                                          [A. V. H. |

1872.]         Prof. Blackie on the Modern Greek Language.              493
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 26, 1872.
   William Spottiswoodb, Esq. LL.D. M.A. Treasurer E.S. and E.I.
                       Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     John Stuabt Blaokib, F.E.S.E.
                 PBOFESSOB OF GREEK IN THE UNIVERSITY OF EDINBOBGH,
       On the Philological Character and Genius of the Modern Greek
                                    Language.
The Greek language, as the only living bridge between the intellect
of the present and that of the great past, is certainly one of the most
remarkable phenomena in the field of philology. To show how this
wonderful language has retained its vitality, and now flourishes in a
green old age, or rather in a histy rejuvenescence, while Hebrew,
Latin, Sanscrit, and all the great bearers of ancient culture, are
numbered with the dead, is one object of the present discourse ; and
the other object is to take the language in the phasis ultimately
assumed, and by analysis endeavour to set forth succinctly the chief
characteristics of this most recent type.
     In following the historical fates of this famous language, the
fundamental principle with which we must start is that there is no
such thing as absolute fixation in a living language. All language,
so long as it lives, that is, so long as it is the organ of expression to a
living people, and is not summed up to a bookish finality by lexico
 graphers and commentators, must be subject to the change which is
 of the very essence of life. But though in a living language the
 vital force must constantly be at work, and will always be sending
 forth new shoots, as a vigorous tree sends forth new branches, this
 tendency to change is kept under the strongest check by those con
 servative forces universal in nature, which strive obstinately to keep
 up an existing type, when once established. These forces are of two
 kinds, internal and .external ; the internal are the powers of com
 manding intellect, of plastic genius, to which the masses of men
 instinctively concede an authority in matters of style and expression ;
 the external are the two great institutions of Church and State, acting
 either from one common centre, or from two distinct, and in their
  own domain equally powerful, centres. The effect of such great
  centres of political and social action in setting a limit to the local
    Vol. VI. (No. 57.)                                              2 m

  494       Professor Blackie on the Philological Character    [April 26,
 varieties of human speech, and stamping somo favoured form of a
 language with a despotic autherity, is too obvious to require illustra
 tion. Now with respect to both these classes of forces, the Greek
 language possesses a momentum, and springs of permanent energy,
 such as have fallen to the lot of none of the great ancient languages.
 A long succession of poets, philosophers, and scientific men in every
 field of intellectual expression, created and sustained for that form of
 human speech an intellectual dictatorship which could only be shaken
 by disturbing forces of the most violent kind. But when to this
 inherent imperial power of intellect there was added the unifying
 influence of a strong centralizing government at Byzantium, and the
 intenso inspiration of a common Christian Church at once popular in
 its doctrine and aristocratic in its government, the combined con
 servative forces became so strong that the rankest undergrowth of
 linguistic mutation in the uneducated classes of society was unable to
 peer into the light, above the luxuriant leafage of the magnificent old
 forest of inherited classicality. That such an undergrowth did exist
 at Byzantium we have the amplest evidence in the two poems written
 in the popular dialect by the monk Theodoras Ptocheprodromus,
 about the middle of the twelfth century, and dedicated to the Emperor
 Manuel Comnenus. These poems are written in a dialect so corrupt,
 that it is extremely difficult, even with tho help of the commentary of
 the learned Greek Adamantine Koraes,* in not a few places, to fish
 out their meaning. There existed, therefore, in Byzantium at the
 time of the Crusades, and when the Greek Empire was tottering
 surely, theugh very slowly and unwillingly, to its fall, a distinct and
 well-marked bistratification of the Greek tongue—the phenomenon of
a classical type of speech inherited from the mighty past, used as the
 only legitimate form of expression by all men of education, and
 co-existent with this a vulgar type, the natural organ of the unedu
 cated masses, and used by them in their colloquies, ballads, songs,
 and other light fly-leaves of purely popular expression. This bistra
 tification continued with no doubt increasing force to mark the speech
 of the Greek people till the great shake which their nationality
received from the taking of Constantinople by the Turks in 1453 ;
and from this date it might naturally have been expected that, one of
the strongest conservative bonds having been snapt asunder, the
cohesive force that maintained the old classical typo would cease, and
a new language, standing to ancient Greek in the same relation that
Italian does to Latin, would arise out of the debris of the crushed
nationality of the conquered, mingled with the intruded elements of
the foreign conquest. But this event did not take place ; and why ?
first, because the weight of inherited intellectual and ecclesiastical
autherity was far higher in the case of Greek than in that of Latin ;
and again, because the character of the Ottoman policy and religion
was such as to render a fusion between the language of the conquered
                        In the fir&t volume of his "Atokto.

1872.]         and Genius of the Modern Greek Language.              495
and the conquerors—such as took place in Italy to a certain
extent, and in England to a much larger extent—impossible. Tho
Greeks hated the Turk with an intense hatred, even when they
condescended, as in the case of the Fanariotes, to serve him, and to
make profit of him ; so that the smothered embers of patriotism, of
which tho language was a part, were fanned into a flame by the very
forces that under different circumstances would have extinguished
them. The Greek language thoreforo, in spite of that terrible
dilapidation and prostration of the old social fabric, remained Greek,
and no new language, as in the nations of Western Europe, was
created ; and it continued for four centuries, till the great revolt in
1821, sprinkled, no doubt, or spotted over in various motley phases
with barbarisms and adulterations, presenting characteristic local
varieties of a debased type, very offensive to the nice nose of academi
cal men, but retaining all the while a stout muscular heart pumping
with genuine Hellenic vitality, and able at any moment to throw off
the scurf and blotches of a merely external affection, when purer air
and a more nourishing diet should have produced a healthy con
dition of the popular blood. It was in this state that the Greek
language was found by the great patriot and scholar whom we have
already named, Adamantine Koraes (not. 1748), who, in a long scries
of learned works, effectually established himself as an authority in
the constitution of the fixed type which the Greek tongue, after so
many centuries of unkindly handling, was ultimately destined to
assume. Koraes distinctly saw that, if the Greek language was to bo
used by Greek men of letters, for the purpose of improving and
elevating the Greek people, it could only be in a genuine popular
form, that is to say, by shaking off altogether tho polished affectations
of the inherited classical speech, and addressing the living Greek
people in that living form of speech which they had sucked in with
their mothers' milk. While doing this, however, it was by no means
necessary that this noble friond of his oppressed people should adopt
every peculiarity of the popular dialect that was manifestly tho result
of blind ignorance or random carelessness. With a nice discriminative
perspicacity he seized the grand features of the Eomaic idiom, while
he brushed away or washed off its superficial defacements. In fact,
with the wisdom of a practical man, he made a compromise between
the utterly chaotic corruptions of the lowest ballads of Cretan or
Epirotic Greek, and the style of bookish rather than of popular origin,
to which the learned Greeks naturally inclined ; and this compromise
 —the result not of Koraes' literary position solely, but of a general
under-current of national feeling—produced what is now called the
 Neo-Hellenic dialect, to distinguish it from the Romaic, or lowest
 popular stratum of Greek, inherited from the uneducated masses of
 the Byzantine Empire.
    In now attempting a succinct philological analysis of this typo of
 Greek speech, we must bear in mind that, from the very nature of the
case, there is no such fixed standard of modern Greek as there was of
                                                           2 m 2

496        Professor Blackie on the Philological Character       [April 26,
classical Greek in the days of Attic supremacy. For the existing
Neo-Hellenic, the hest standard, no doubt, may be assumed to be the
Greek newspapers ; but from the strong tendency to purification and
restoration which has manifested itself among all Greek writers since
the great popular up-rising of 1821, it is better for philological
analysis to take the current Greek of the last century, affected to a
certain extent by Italian influences, as a just mean between the
extreme corruption of the Cretan dialect, and the Greek of the
modem Greek newspapers, which present, according to the taste of
their writers, in not a few points, a greater or less approximation to
the ancient classical style. To tune my ear to this genuine Romaic
as contrasted with a restored semi-classical Greek, I have been in the
habit of using a translation of the ' Arabian Nights,' published at
Venice in 1792 ; but I have also carefully read through the chivalrous
poem of the ' Erotocritus,' composed by Vincentius Cornaro, a Cretan
Greek, about the beginning of the last century; as also the collec
tions of popular Greek ballads by Passow, Kind, and others, the
peculiarities of which, however disowned in the written style of
educated Greeks, could not be overlooked by the philologer. It is
proper to state also that, though Jhe propositions which I lay down
are drawn out directly from a pretty wide field of Romaic reading, I
was both confirmed in my conclusions, and greatly benefited in my
researches, by the excellent works of those few others who have
worked laboriously in this neglected corner of the HeUenic vineyard.
The names of Sophocles, Mullach, Passow, EUisen, Pashley, Tozer,
Geldart, Clyde, Le Grand, d'Eichthal, and the late Viscount Strang-
ford, will sufficiently indicate to the intelligent the sources from
which I have derived the greatest amount of assistance.
     The first remark that we feel caUed on to make, in sketching the
physiognomy of modern Greek, is by way of protest against the vulgar
notion that all the changes which take place in a language deviating
from an inherited classical type, are to be considered as corruptions,
or varieties of phonetic decay. No doubt both Italian and modern
Greek, when contrasted with classical Latin and Attic Greek, contain
not a little of what, with strict scientific precision, may fall under the
head of corruption ; but the mistake lies in the easy presumption that
this category covers the whole facts of the case. The truth rather is
that, while by the slackness of the controlling power of the conservative
forces, any language may be encrusted with corruption or have its
finest features rubbed off by phonetic decay, it may at the same time,
through the force of its vigorous vitality, go on sending forth new
blossoms, and revelling in fresh formations which are in no sense
corruptions, but only the legitimate outgrowth, foliation, and efflo
rescence of an essentiaUy vital thing. The test of the true character
of such new formations, to the eye of the philologer, is not the
artificial authority of some fashionable Cicero or other great master
of style, but simply the conformity or non-conformity of the recent
growth with the old type of which it purports to be a part. There

 1872.]         and Genius of the Modern Greek Language.                  497
fore, such words in Latin, for instance, as gratitudo and beatiludo, are
not corruptions or defacements, but expansions and improvements of
the Roman tongue, theugh a famous ancient orator never did use
them, and a famous modern Cardinal never dared to use them. In the
same way Greek never resigned and could not resign, in favour of an
artificially constituted autherity of a great book-maker, or a society of
book-makers, its inborn right of luxuriating in all sorts of now forma
tions ; and, if Smyrnean Homer could say yXuxepos as well as yAvxvs,
the Byzantine Greek of later days will insist on his right to say
/Jpoytepos as well as /3piop.t6S7^, and ra^ivos as well as ra^s. And in
verbal affixes also, if the ancients could say, not only ofiaXom, but
bfia\vvo) and oiia\l£to to express the one idea equalize, the modorns will
not be scouted because they prefer Sa«pv£u> to Sa<cpi!a>, apx%o> to apxoficu,
murxlfoo to irdxr)(<is, and other formations of the same kind. And not
only will they claim, as the genuine inheritors of Homeric and Aristo-
phanic speech, the right to make new terminations to old verbs, but they
will make new verbs from old roots, and luxuriate in a wealth of new
compounds, to which the only legitimate objection shall be that they
are formed on a false analogy, not that they are either superfluous or
unautherized. For in shaping forth their own forms of expression the
people require no autherity, but the consistent truthfulness of their
own linguistic instinct ; and, as to superfluity, Nature everywhere
rejoices in it, and, theugh she may have reasons for tolerating the
pruning heok, never submits to systematic castration. I have, from
my reading, made some curious collections of the riches and variety of
mediaeval and modern Greek in this reign of exuberant new phrase
ology ; but I can do no more than simply allude to them here, and
refer the inquirer shertly to Kind's little Romaic dictionary, or any
work of the same kind, where he can scarcely run his eye down a
column witheut encountering some now word of rare poetic power and
beauty, formed according to the truest analogy of genuine Hellenic
speech. On the other hand I have not the slightest wish to conceal
the fact that there are certain changes marking the physiognomy of
modern Greek which fall strictly under the category of corruption,
and which to the eye of the philologer appear just as false as an
ornament in architecture, not organically growing out of the con
struction, as all true ornament does. Such, for example, are the
terminations IXKa, l£o, and ovotikos, in diminutives, and the termi
nation utos in adjectives, as in yc^iaTos from yifi<n, borrowed from the
Latin, and with which the verses of Ptocheprodromus are plentifully
interlarded.
    The first and most universal form of corruption to which all
languages are subject, is curtailment. From motives of indolence,
haste, or convenience, polysyllabic words are likely to be shertened
in various ways ; sometimes amputated in the front, as when the
American says 'cute for acute ; sometimes at the end, as when an
Italian says amor for amore ; sometimes by retaining the initial and
final consonants, and crumpling up the middle, as when the German

498         Professor Blackie on the Philological Character             [April 26,
says Pfingst for Pentecost. Of all these methods of curtailment we
have copious examples in modern Greek. Of initial amputation, or
what tho grammarians call aphceresis, Aiyos for oAiyos, irlo-ia for oirt'o-w,
irospiKa. for ojnupiKa, may serve as specimens ; they include a large
class, practised generally by the uneducated, though from persons
who have any pretensions to culture, at this time of day they may be
scarcely acknowledged. Of the final amputations, or what the gram
marians call apocope, by far the most striking are the cutting off of
the v from the termination of nouns, and of the ov from that of diminu
tives. Thus for koXov wo have koAo, and for koXov waiStW, koX6 ircuM.
Words thus amputated do not offend the ear, and their true character
is generally not difficult to recognize. But when both head and tail
are cut off, as sometimes happens, then only the practised philologer
will easily recognize to what animal the remanent trunk belongs.
*api, a. fish ; /nan, an eye ; Aa8i, oil ; fuSi, vinegar ; and <nn}Ti, a liouse,
aro all old classical words amputated before and behind ; but only
tho scholar, by restoring their perfect forms, could spell out their
 signification—tydpiov, 6p.p.driov, e\d&iov, 6$iovov, hospitium. But this
 double amputation, how strange soever it may appear to us in modern
 Greek, is one of the common processes according to which German
 has passed into English. Thus English, fought ; old English,
foughten ; German, gefochten. In the Greek, this same tendency to
 curtailment which induced us to reject the ge of the past participle,
 led tho Epirotic ballad makers to say ypa/ifievos for yeypcytyufvos, and
 Sao-icaAos for SiSdo-KaXo9. A very poculiar form of curtailment appears
 in Eomaic, when the governing preposition coalesces with the definite
 article, as where orav ttoKiv stands for « rav 7roA.1v, which the Franks,
 who heard it with the ear, without the understanding, corrupted into
 tho well known Stamboul. In the same way t's rav Kd became Stance
 In like manner the Italians say pel for per lo, and nel for in ello. Of
 syncopo, or curtailment by the retention of the final consonants, with
 the slurring of the intermediate letters, we have the most notable
 examples in Atv for \eyow («. e. Xtyovrt, Doric for Xtyouo-t), irav for
 irdyow, <f>av for <f>dyovv, and a few others of the same kind. Of
 crasis, which is akin to syncope, and technically denotes the form
 of curtailment so common in Sanscrit, which takes place when the
 final vowel of the preceding word flows into and forms a new vocalic
 compound with the initial vowel of the immediately following word,
 wo have in Romaic such examples as vd\6rj, or vdpfh), for "va tA0j;,
         for to *xu> "¦<ipx°/Ltat f°r ,rov ^,X°ftat' Turna for to fiira, and a few
 more. But we must by no means allow ourselves to suppose that
 because curtailments and amputations of various kinds are frequent
 in modern Greek, this dialect of the Hellenic is therefore specially
 marked by a meagre and monosyllabic character. On the contrary,
 the tendency to polysyllabic structure and composition is so strong
 in Greek that it recreates in one direction what it has destroyed in
 another; besides that the amputated forms of polysyllabic classical
 words aro vory seldom monosyllablos, as when in English the German

1872.J            and Genius of the Modern Greek Language.                         499
haben becomes have, but dissyllabic or trisyllabic. Nay, in one of the
commonest species of amputation the modern form has always as
many syllables, sometimes more than tho classical. This arises from
the fact that the modern amputation takes place not on the original
classical word, but on its diminutive, systematically used for the
primary noun. Thus Kt^aX-q produces Kc^dAtov, from which the
modern K€<f>aXi, jrora/xos irora/xiov, whence Trord/u and many such.
And thus it has come to pass that, in spite of all amputations, in point
of sonorous syllabic amplitude the modern dialect is not one whit
inferior to its classical prototype. So much for corruption by curtail
ment. But the breaking down of an old type of speech is not
characterized merely in this negative fashion by the absence of some
thing which ought to have been present, and whose presence may be
lightly spared. There are positive and protrusive corruptions in the
form of additions, on which we may now cast a glance. When we
talk of additions, however, we do not always necessarily mean that
the increased form of the word is of comparatively modern date ;
on the contrary, the fuller form may in certain cases be one of the
oldest in tho language, brought to the surface in the modern dialect,
from the displacement of the dominant Attic. The true character
of such increments, whether in the shape of prepositive, paragogic, or
epenthetic letters or syllables, may often defy the combined erudition
and sagacity of a Lobeck to determine ; * it will be enough for our
present purpose simply to indicate their character, without attempting
to investigate their origin. Sometimes, as in Italian sono from sunt,
a vowel seems added to the third person plural of the verbal termina
tion ; as in Doric, Xeyovri ; Latin, leyunt ; Komaic, Keyovv, and also
\tyow( ; in the same way iXtyavt for ZXeyav. Among the pronouns
we find the lengthened forms 1/j.cva and t'o-cVa, rerotos for rotos, and
ctovto for tovto. An epenthetic y between two vowel sounds is very
common, as in Kcu'yto for Kalia ; o-aXevyio for craAeuu) ; avyov for £>ov, in
which somo have been fond to recognize the digamma ; but in many
cases this soft gamma (like the g in the German Gbttingen) is plainly
only a variation of the sjdritm asper, as in the first syllable of yvtos
for vios, yiarptvw for unpivw, &c. One of the most notable of epen
thetic letters is the v inserted before the personal suffix of certain
pure and liquid verbs, as in <j>tpvw for <j>ipw, o~ri\vw for ariXXu),
o-KOTm/ta for o-kot6<j> ; a peculiarity which appears already in the
Alexandrian Greek of the Septuagint ; and indeed, in some sporadic
instances, is as old as Homer, who uses Svv<a for Svm, and 6vvu> for 6vto.
      Along with curtailment and increment, and certainly not of
 secondary importance in the reconstruction of all languages in a state
 of disintegration, nascent or complete, is the tendency to simplification
 of flexional forms, and rcgularization of traditional anomalies. By
 the influence of this tendency, the verbs in yu. havo been altogether
     * See the ' Pntliologia Giieci Sermonis,' Kiinigslicrg, 1803, where this subject, in
 reference to ancient Greek, is handled in the author's exhaustive and masterly style.

500       Professor Blackie on the Philological Character         [April 26,
abolished. For Si'Soyu we have oVSw, for ti&j/u, 6(t£> ; while for the
irregular aorists IBmna and t&rjKa, appear Suxra and Wtaa, Among
the declensions there is a manifest favour, for the first in as and a ;
which leads, in a large class of cases to the ignoring of the third
declension altogether, and the conversion of its accusative case—after
the analogy of the Italian—into a new nominative of the first de
clension. Thus iraTe'pa is assumed as the base of a new nominative
ir&ripas declined after the norm of the first declension, and -eSm'oa the
accusative of 7rc8ias, takes the place of irtSiov as a feminine of the first
declension. By the same instinct, the irregular comparative and
superlative forms of koXos, 7roXus and fieyas have disappeared, and
KaA)/T€pos, iroAAoraTo?, and fityaAwTa.To<s usurp their place.
     So much for variations in the form of words taken singly ; hut
there are changes of no less importance in the manner of combining
words together to form a sentence^-what wc call syntax. Now, as the
moods and tenses of the verbs are the principal engines by which the
dependency of one clause on another is expressed, it is manifest that
changes in the syntax of such a finely articulated language as the
Greek must imply changes in the verb ; and these changes appear
principally in the form of loss or curtailment already mentioned.
The two principal losses which the verb has suffered, producing
striking changes in the syntax, are those of the optative and the in
finitive mood. The loss of the optative, which in the New Testament
has already been curtailed of the largest part of its original domain,
leads to the habitual violation of the law so strictly observed by the
Roman writers, called consecutio temporum, that is to say, the law by
which—to illustrate the matter from our own usage, a dependent
clause with might, could, would, or should, the equivalents of the Greek
 optative, must regularly follow a principal clause, with the leading
verbs in the past tense, which sequence in fact is only the pre
servation of a natural and very obvious congruity. If, instead of
observing this plain rule, the modern Greek uses a form of speech
which, translated into English, would sound thus—I advised you
to do so, that you mat be aware of the difficulties of the case, he certainly
has sacrificed the perfect logical consistency of his syntax, but happily
without the least harm either to the intelligibility or the euphony of
his sentence. Another scarcely less awkward loss which the verb
has suffered, is the entire disappearance of the infinitive mood, for
which, after the Latin fashion, the subjunctive mood with the con
junction va for Iva is substituted. This is simply the making universal
of the common English formula, occurring in such a sentence as
It is too bad that you shodld do so; where in classical Greek the
accusative before the infinitive was the only tolerated construction.
 Another very serious loss to the verb is that not only of the pluper
fect tense—very little used by the Attic writers themselves—but also
 of the future, and the compensation for both losses by the modem
 device of auxiliary verbs." No less significant of declension from the
 ancient classical syntax is the total absence of the dative case of

1872.]         and Genius of the Modern Greek Language.                    501
nouns, with the substitution for it of the genitive, or more generally
the accusative, governed by all sorts of prepositions. All these losses
put together, no doubt give a certain modern cast to Neo-Hellenic
sentences, which the classical scholar naturally resents; conjoined
with these, the substitution of oVov for 09 as a relative, and the
invention of some dozen new conjunctions, are small matters ; but it
is wonderful how soon the ear becomes reconciled to changes of this
kind ; and it is no less surprising with what tact and dexterity ac
complished writers now handle the language so as to reduce to a
minimum the offence which these modernisms are apt to occasion.
Indeed, there seems little reason to doubt, that, if the education of
the Greek people shall proceed for another generation in the same
direction, and at the same rate which have marked it since the great
liberation, the popular speech will have reverted to its old classical
forms, and the dative case, with the infinitivo mood and the future,
all have become as familiar to the tongue of the common man, as they
are now to the ear of the well-disciplined scholar.
    Not the least important element, certainly, in any estimate which
may be made of the eesthetical character of the Neo-Hellenic dialect,
is the matter of pronunciation, including the two principal points of
vocalization and accentuation. Now with regard to vocalization, in
which the melody of language principally consists, we must disabuse
ourselves at starting from the very natural conceit that our English
method of enunciating the Hellenic vowels and diphthongs has the
slightest claim either to scientific authority or to resthetical beauty ;
it is a pure figment, an arbitrary local usage, having as little that is
truly Greek in its character as French or Italian would have, if pro
nounced by a stupid or careless transference to those languages of the
peculiar laws of English orthoepy. I have no time to discuss this
matter in detail here ; * it must be sufficient to remark that the in
version of the natural scale of the vowels, which appears in the
pronunciation of the English a and i, and the coarse canine sound
given to the diphthong ou, when applied to Greek, cannot but produce
a most disagreeable effect on a well-trained Hellenic ear. But even
worse than this, and what makes English Greek, however fluent (which
it seldom is), to the ear of a native altogether unintelligible, is the
gross travestie of the words systematically perpetrated by the substitu
tion of the Latin for the Greek accents, all but universal in the learned
schools of Great Britain.^ In opposition to this utterly lawless and
arbitrary fashion of pronouncing one of the finest languages in the
world, the living Greeks, whatever losses their rich and delicate
orthoepy may have suffered in the course of long centuries, has
certainly continued in the main truo to itself; and its worst fault, the
well-known Itacism, that is, the predominance given to the slender
sound of the vowel 1 in the utterance of some half-dozen vowels and
   * See ray essay on Greek pronunciations. Edinburgh, 1852.
   t See this subject, fully treated in my paper on " The Tlace and Power of
Accent in Language," in the 'Transactions of the Royal Society, Edinburgh,' for
1870-1.

502        Professor Blackie on the Philological Character           [April 26.
diphthongs that could not originally have been so confounded, is but
the culmination of a certain "gracilitas" which Quint ilian noted in his
day as one of the most distinctive peculiarities of classical Greek. As
for the accents, thanks to Aristophanes of Byzantium, the inventor of
the familiar accentual marks, and the service of a patriotic church., the
popular ear has wandered from the old path in this matter, only in a
very few and comparatively unimportant instances. In the general
case the modern accent remains faithful to ancient usage ; and the
fact, which some learned men persist in doubting, that the Greek
accent, like the Latin, actually did mean, not only elevation of tone,
but increase of stress or emphasis on the accented syllable, stands
out everywhere with unmistakable distinctness in the great army
of words curtailed of their initial syllable to which we above (p. 498)
directed special attention. For in these words, in every case it is the
unaccented syllable, as in 8tv for ovSiv,which falls off, and not the
contrary.
       How far the euphony of tho language has been affected, or, per
haps, turned into a cacophony by any of the habits of modern Greek
orthoepy, is to be determined, not by picking out individual words
seamed with a special scar, as is sometimes done, but by the general im
pression which the language makes on the ear when used by those who
 use it for the purpose of producing an rostlietieal effect. That ragileft,
 for instance, the Neo-Hellenic utterance of fSao-iXtw;, is a less
melodious word than the same word pronounced in the customary
 English fashion may be quite true ; in all languages, and not least in
 English, there are single words which, when pronounced most rightly,
 are not pronounced most beautifully ; but the general aesthetic effect
 of a language is not sensibly affected by such occasional cacophonies.
 As to a certain feebleness of vocalization supposed to be produced by
 the Itacism, it ought to be remembered that the instinct of the popular
 ear, like the instinct which guides the poet, will lead the people to
 avoid the near repetition of identical sounds, and there may thus in
 actual practice be no greater danger of satiating the ear with a sur
 charge of the slender i, than in English we feel, when we have occasion
 to use such words as facility, docility, agility, inanition, Elysian, pre
 cision, and such like. As a matter of fact, I can state that in going
 through the Erotocritos, a poem nearly as long as the Odyssey, and
 the Klephtic ballads in Passow's collection, my ear was never dis
 agreeably struck with any predominance of the sound ee. On the
 contrary, the broad, full, and peculiarly Greek sounds of a and oo,
 (English oo), appeared to me to preponderate. Feebleness certainly,
 or tenuity of sound, is tho last charge that can be brought against
 such lines as
                  'O\nifi(pov\a n-oAe/i?, Tb $pitv KapaovKt.
                                          or
                  2kot&>« tovs 'AyapTivovs, wt(ovpa xal Ka.fii.Kri.
                                          or
                  IToAAt? pavptWii ?/>x€Ta'> V-avph ff®v Ka\iaKov&i.
    -¦

1872.J           and Genius of the Modern Greek Language.                     503
from Passow, or
                   2ay, Srav iif<ron4\aya Svb aVt/iot ffilKadovffi
                     'EZdcpvov, Kal fii T^jy ftpoyTriy Avffuvras roXffiavffl,
                   Kdxovrat jui tV Qi\affirav, [tavifavy teal <povaKuvuvv,
                     Teus i^<xcl\£8(s rod yta\ov ffra vt<pa\a ffTlKt&yovy ;
                     "Eyas ipvaif air' 'AvnroXj) k! &K\os iirb tJlk Aiiiri
                   ndVxfi 6 Poppas, Kal /iax*Tai Toy Ndrov va vtK^irrl.
from Cornaro; and if this alleged offence of the Itacism be practi
cally of so little significance, it is needless to remark that the other
prominent peculiarity of modern Greek icsthetical composition, viz.
the substitution of accentual for quantitative rhythm, does not in the
slightost degree mar the eupheny of Romaic verse. The same
substitution, as everyone knows, took place both in Italian and in
the hymnology of the Latin Church ; and in both cases not to the
damage of harmony, but with the creation of a new harmony, which
may justly take its place as the legitimate sister of the old.
    I have said nothing hitherto of that element of adulteration from
foreign sources which generally appears when an old-established
language, like Latin or Greek, begins to be shaken out of its original
compactness. In Italian and French the Teutonic element occurs not
scantily sprinkled through the mass of the old Latin ; and in modern
Greek, likewise, every foreign influence which lasted long enough for
the purpose, was sure to leave its visiblo print on the face of the
spoken dialect. So Byzantine Greek came to be spotted with Latin,
the Greek of the mediaeval Turkish kingdoms with French and
Italian, and the Greek of the Epirotic Klepths with Turkish and
Albanian. But the peculiarity of the Greek as contrasted with the
French and Italian was and is that the foreign elements, by which it
was at different times corrupted, were only attached externally to the
original organism, not worked into the blood and bone ; so that, like
the scurf of a cutaneous disease, when the national health revived,
they were naturally cast off, and this so completely, that at the
present day the occurrence of a foreign word in a Greek sentenco is
as rare as the sight of a Turk in the streets of a Greek city.
    I may conclude the present hasty sketch of philological features
with two speculative remarks, the one retrospective, the other pro
spective. Casting the eye backward into the earliest history of
Hellenic speech, the question may well be asked hew far the present
form of the language is to be looked on as the revival of the old
Aeolo-Dorie dialect, which had so long been suppressed by the graceful
tyranny of the Attic ; and to this question one answer lies very much
on the surface, viz. that, as from the very nature of the case a certain
sprinkling of non-Attic peculiarities was to be expected, and specially
of the widely-dominant Doric, so, in point of fact, such a sprinkling
does undeniably discover itself. The favourite as of the masculine
agent in the first declension is certainly Doric. Doric also is Crrra
for £rlTci, Trlpa for rqpti ; and not less i-a£<o for rao-o-co, and other verbs
of the same flexion. On the other hand, the favourite chango of o

504          Prof. Blachie on the Modern Greek Language.        [April 26,
and <i> into oo as in kovSowi for wuoW is Ionic ; and more distinctly
the slender 17 instead of a in the nominative singular feminine of
adjectives in pos as in fuivp-q for fuxvpa. To me, upon the whole,
judging by the impression on the ear, the Doric seems the more
potent of the two elements ; it is, however, scarcely so marked as to
justify the special designation of Aeolo-Doric, by which some writers
have wished to baptize the present form of the spoken dialect*
    The prospective question which a conjectural glance into the
future suggests, is simply this, how far is it probable that the Greek
language in its present state will survive any changes in the political
system of Europe which the events of the next centuries are likely to
produce? To this question the answer seems plain. There is no
likelihood that a language which has survived so many changes of
political decrepitude at home, and political violence from abroad, will
be perniciously affected by any changes likely to take place in the
balance of the European system. As long as the Greek kingdom,
the creation of three strong and jealous powers, shall stand, even with
the meagre amount of success of which hitherto it has been able to
boast, so long, as a matter of course, must the Greek language in its
present Avatar of restored beauty, go on prospering and to prosper.
Should the little kingdom, on the other hand, be snuffed out some
day, and become a part of one of the great empires that came forward
to nurso its cradle, most probably of Russia, in this case also there is
not the slightest reason to fear that a cultivated language, so rich in
powerful intellectual tradition as the Greek, should givo way to
Slavonic in the same way that Gaelic, in the Scottish Highlands, is
now giving way to the Saxo-Latin speech of the men of the Low
country. Russia, besides, could have no motive that should induce
her to wish to stamp out Greek in Athens, in the same way that she
is endeavouring to stamp out Polish in Warsaw. The relation betwixt
Greece as an incorporated part of Russia and the great Muscovite
Empire, would rather be one of the most friendly description ; and
the Czar would be forced to preserve the language of the Greek Church
and the Greek intellect, as one of the brightest gems in his crown.
The Russian clergy, in fact, would be more ready to be Hellenized by
studying Chrysostom and St. Basil, than the Greek people would be
to sink their aristocratic nationality in a Slavism of huge geographical
amplitude, but without intellectual power or literary prestige. And
in this way the same captive Greece that conquered Rome two
thousand years ago, may before the lapse of another century have
conquered Petersburg and Moscow ; and then the day may not be
far distant when, to realize the bright imagination of an illustrious
French Hellenist,* the formal and meagre Latin shall give place
to the flexible and luxuriant Hellenic, as the Catholic organ of
intellectual intercourse between educated men of all nations, from
the Ganges to St. Francisco.
                                                            [J. S. B.]
                       * Monsieur Gustav d'Eichtlml.

 1872.]                           Annual Meeting.                                 505
                         ANNUAL MEETING,
                            Wednesday, May 1, 1872.
         Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L F.R.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
      The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
 1871 was read and adopted.
      Sixty-six new members were elected in 1871.
      Sixty-three Lectures and Twenty Evening Discourses wero
delivered during the year 1871.
      The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1871 amounted to 115
volumes, making, with these purchased by the Managers, a total of
217 volumes added to the Library in the year, exclusive of periodicals.
      Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the Professors, for
their services to the Institution during the past year.
      The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers for
the ensuing year :—
          President—Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S.
          Treasurer —William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. M.A. F.R.S.
          Secrbtary—Henry Bence Jones, M.A. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S.
               Managers.                                   Visitors.
George Berkley, Esq. C.E.                   John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
William Bowman, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.        George Frederick Chambers, Esq. F.R.A.S.
George Busk, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.           Erasmus Darwin, Esq.
John Peter Gassiot, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.      Edward Frankland, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.
Sir John Lubbock, Bart. M.P. V.P.R.S.          Pres. Chem. S.
George Macilwain, Esq. F.R.C.S.             Thomas Williams Helps, Esq. M.A.
John Carrick Moore, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.        Thomas Hyde Hills, Esq.
   F.G.S.                                   Themas Lee, Esq.
William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.              Robert Pilkington Linton, Esq. F.R.C.S.
Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.        William Millar, Esq.
The Earl of Rosse, B.A. D.C.L. V.P.R.S.     St. George Mivart, Esq. F.R.S. F.L.S.
Robert P. Roupell, Esq. M.A. Q.C.           Major-General Richard Cornwallis Moore,
Gen. Sir Edward Sabine, R.A. K.C.B.            R.A. C.B.
   D.C.L. V.P.R.S.                          Edward Henry Moscrop, Esq.
The Marquis of Salisbury, M.A. F.R.S.       The Lord Josceline W. Percy.
   Chanc. Univ. Ox.                         Basil Woodd Smith, Esq.
Charles William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L.        Michael Wills, Esq.
   F.R.S.
Sir Charles Wheatstone, D.C.L. F.R.S.

506            Mr. W. Spotiistcoode on Optical Phenomena            [ May 3,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 3, 1872.
       Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
  William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. M.A. Treasurer R.S. and R.I.
  On Optical Phenomena produced by Cryttals submitted to Circularly
                             Polarized Litjht.
On a former occasion I exhibited some phenomena depending upon
circular, or, as it was then also called, successive, polarization, and in
particular I adopted and explained a method for producing circularly
polarized light devised by Sir Charles Wheatstone. I propose on the
present occasion to pursue the subject into some of its ulterior con
sequences. In terms of the wave theory, light is said to be circularly
polarized when the vibrations aro circular, as distinguished from plane
polarization, when they aro rectilinear. And further, it is known
from mechanical principles that a circular vibration may always be pro
duced by the combination of two rectilinear vibrations, the amplitudes
or extents of which aro equal, and whereof one is in advance or in
rear of the other by one or by any odd number of quarter-wave lengths.
In the former of these cases the circular motion will take place in
one direction, say right-handed ; in the latter in the opposite, say
left-handed. The contrivance used for producing circular polarization
this ovoning is known by the name of a "quarter-undulation plate,"
and consists of a plate of mica split to such a thickness that one of
the two rays into which plane polarized light is divided on entering
it is retarded by an odd number of quarter-wave lengths behind the
other.
     The optical phaenomena produced by crystals when submitted to
polarized light aro usually divided into two classes, viz. (1) those
arising from the use of parallel light, and consisting of broad sheets
of colour; and (2) theso due to convergent light, and consisting of
the rings and brushes, the general character of which is well known.
I propose to take a fow specimens from each class, and to examine
the modifications which the known phaenomena undergo when the light
is both polarized and analyzed circularly, i. e. when one quarter-
undulation plato is interposed between the polarizer (Nicol's prism)
and the crystal to be examined, and the second between the crystal and
the analyzer (Nicol's prism).

1872.]           of Crystals and Circularly Polarized Light.          507
    In the first place, it is known that if a plate of selenite bo placed
in an ordinary apparatus when the polarizer and analyzer are either
parallel or crossed, there are four positions at 90° apart in which the
plate will produce colour ; and further, that if the analyzer be turned
through 90° the same result will be obtained, except that the colour
will be complementary to that first seen. The intensity of the light
at any given point is then given by the formula :
                      cos.' s — sin. 2 i Bin. 2 (i — s) sin.' -e ,
¦where i and 8 are the angles made with the original plane of polar
ization by the principal sections of the crystal and of the analyzer
respectively, and 9 is the retardation.
    If, however, the two quarter-undulation plates (say the plates A
and B) be introduced, the light undergoes the following processes :—
First, it is plane polarized by the polarizer ; secondly, the plate A
being placed so that its axis is inclined at ± 45° to the original plane
of polarization, the light undergoes right or left handed circular
polarization, and in that condition falls upon the crystal ; thirdly, in
their passage through the crystal C the rays are each divided into
two, whose vibrations are at right angles to one another, and whereof
one is retarded in proportion to the thickness of C ; fourthly, the
plate B being placed so that its axis is parallel or perpendicular to
that of A, each of these sets of rays is circularly polarized, one set
right-handed and the other left-handed ; fifthly, these two oppositely
circularly polarized sets of rays combine, according to known me
chanical laws, on emerging from B into plane rays, in which the planes of
polarization of the different colours of the spectrum are turned through
different angles. Hence finally by turning the analyzer round wo
shall cross these various planes in turn and successively extinguish
the different colours, leaving the complementary colours visible. The
system of plates A C B consequently acts in this respect like quartz.
It is, however, to be observed that if the plate B be turned from one
of the two proposed positions to the other, the directions of motion
in the two emergent circularly polarized rays, and consequently the
planes of polarization of the different colours, will bo reversed ; in
other words, with the plate B in ono position we shall imitate a right-
handed, with the plate B in the other a left-handed, quartz. The
intensity of the light at any point is then given by tho formula :
                                   e
                            sin.' - for one position,
                            cos.2 -Q for the other.
    Again if, the plates A B retaining either of tho positions before
indicated, the crystal C be turned round in its own plane ; then, since
the light emerging from A and B is circularly polarized, it has lost

508           Mr. W. Spotiiswoode on Optical Phenomena                [May 3,
nll trace of direction with reference to the positions of the polarizer
and analyzer, and consequently no change of tint will be observed.
The same is abundantly clear from the formula written above, because
the only term it contains depends upon the retardation within the
crystal C. This experiment was made by Airy.
    If the plates A and B have their axes directed 45° on either side
of the axis of C, and the three plates be turned round as one piece,
the colour will remain unchanged ; while, if the analyzer be turned,
we have the colours shewn in the regular order. If the plates A and
B have their axes directed at 45° on the same side of the axis of C,
and the pieces be turned round bodily as before the colours change
in the same order as above, and go through their cycle once in every
90° of rotation ; and if the analyzer be turned in the same direction,
the colours change, but in the reverse order. The explanation of this
is to be found in the fact that when the plates A and B are crossed,
the retardation due by A is compensated by that due to B ; so that
tho only effective retardation is that due to the crystal C. But upon
this depends the rotation of the plane of polarization ; if therefore
the polarizer and analyzer remain fixed, the colour will remain
unaltered. When the plates A and B have their axes parallel, there
is no compensation, and the colour will consequently change. This
experiment was made by Fresnel. The mathematical expressions for
the intensity of the light in the two cases respectively are :
                  «** (j + • + f) » ftnd cos-, (->' - * ~ I) •
where » is the angle made by the principal sections of A with that
of the polarizer, and j that of the principal section of B with that of
the analyzer. The first expression is obviously unchanged when the
                                                    7T
angle between the polarizer and analyzer, viz. -               is unchanged.
    It sheuld be added that the rotation of the plane of polarization,
and consequently also the sequence of tints, does not follow exactly
the same law in the above cases as in quartz.
    We now come to the case of convergent light, that is, to the phae-
nomena of crystal rings. And let us examine the effects produced
by the same arrangement as before, viz. two quarter-undulation plates
A, B, one in front and one behind the crystal C. To quote from
Mr. Airy :—" The first thing that strikes us in this combination is
that there is nothing, except in the crystal, that has any respect to
sides. For the only incident light is circularly polarized; the only
light allowed to emerge is circularly polarized. The appearance
therefore of the coloured rings, &c., must be such as conveys no trace
of any plane of polarization, and must not vary as the crystal is turned
round. In the common exhibition of the coloured rings the principal
trace of the planes of polarization is in the uncoloured brushes. In
uniaxal crystals they form an eight-rayed star, composed of two               '

1872.]         of Crystals and Circularly Polarized Light.               509
squaro crosses, inclined at an anglo equal to that between the planes
of polarization, every ray of which separatee complementary rings.
In biaxal crystals they compose two pairs of rectangular hyperbolas,
the angle between whese asymptotes is the same as that between
the planes of polarization, and whose branches divide complementary
rings. The two crosses or two sets of hyperbolas unite when the
planes of polarization are parallel or perpendicular. But in the case
under consideration the rings exhibited by crystals will not be tra
versed by any brushes. Uniaxal crystals will exhibit circular rings
witheut a cross ; and biaxal crystals will exhibit complete lemniscates,
witheut any interruption from curved brushes." And it is further to
be noticed, as the formula given above indicates, that the centres of
the rings will be bright or dark according as the analyzer stands at
0° or 90°.
    To pursue this matter further. Suppose that, the arrangements
remaining otherwise as before, the analyzer be turned round ; then in
any position intermediate to 0° and 90° the rings will be contracted
and extended in opposite quadrants until at 45° they are divided by
two diagonals, on each side of which the colours are complementary.
Beyond 45° the rings begin to coalesce until at 90° the four quadrants
coincide again. During this movement the centre has changed from
bright to dark. If the motion of the analyzer bo reversed, the qua
drants which before contracted now expand, and vice versa. Again, if
the. crystal (say positive) be replaced by another (say negative), the
effect on the quadrants of the rings will be reversed. This methed of
examination therefore affords a test of the character, positive or
negative, of a crystal.
    A similar process applies to biaxal crystals ; but in this case the
diagonals interrupting the rings are replaced by a pair of rectangular
hyperbolas, on either side of which the rings expand or contract, and
the effect is reversed either by reversing the motion of the analyzer,
or by replacing a positive by a negative crystal, or vice versd. The ex
periment may then be made in biaxal crystals by turning the analyzer
slightly to the right or to the left, and observing whether the rings
advance towards, or recede from, one another in the centre of the field.
In particular, if polarizer and analyzer being parallel, the plate A
have its axis in a N.E. direction to a person looking through the
analyzer, the plate B its axis in a N.W. direction, and the crystal be
so placed that the line joining the optic axes be N.S., then on turning
the analyzer to the right the rings will advance to one another if the
crystal be negative, and recede if it be positive. The mathematical
expression for the intensity of the light at any point P is in this case
                 J (1 + sin. 2 j cos. 6 + sin. 2 b cos. 2 j »in. 9),
where 6 is the angle between the principal section of C through P and
the principal section of B, and j the angle between the principal sec
tions of B and the analyzer. This shews that when the polarizer and
analyzer are parallel or crossed at 0° or 90°, and consequently j = 45°
   Vol. VI. (No. 57.)                                                2 n

 510            Mr. W. Spottiswoode on Polarized Light.        [May 3,
 or 135° the expression is independent oft, i.e. the intensity is the
 samo throughout circles about the centre, but that when the polarizer
 and analyzer arc crossed we have an expression of the form
                            1(1 ± sin. 2 b sin. 0),
 the sign of the second term depending upon the direction in which
 the analyzer has been turned, and also upon the sign of 0, that is,
 upon the character (positive or negative) of the crystal.
     The dispersion of the planes of polarization effected by the pas
 sage of plane polarized light through a plate of quartz cut perpendi
 cular to the axis may be rendered visible by interposing such a plate
of quartz between the polarizer and a uniaxal or biaxal crystal, when
 the analyzer is at 90°, i. e. when dark brushes are formed. In this
case the brushes cease to be black and are tinged throughout with
colour. The analyzer must, however, bo turned back or forward, ac
cording as the quartz be right-handed or left-handed, in order that it
may cross in succession the planes of polarization of the different
coloured rays, and so produce the most vivid effects. The dispersion
of the brushes by a plate of quartz may however be studied by employ
ing an additional polarizer and quartz plate between the source of
light and the whole system previously used. By turning this polar
izer round we extinguish each ray of the spectrum in turn and tint
the whole field with the complementary colour. The brushes will
then appear to revolve about their centres as the tints vary conti
nuously from one end of the spectrum to the other. If the polarizer be
turned still farther round, the tints which had changed continuously
from red to violet, or vice versd, change suddenly from violet to red,
or vice versd, and the brushes jump suddenly back to their original
position.
    This last optical arrangement may be employed to examine the
more important phenomena of the dispersion of the optic axes pro
duced, not by a quartz plate between the usual polarizer and crystal,
but by certain biaxal crystals themselves.
                                                            [W. 8.]

1872.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                        511
                   GENEBAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, May 6, 1872.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                  in the Chair.
     The following Vice-Presidents were nominated for the ensuing
year:—
               The Marquis of Salisbury.
               The Earl of Rosso.
               General Sir Edward Sabine.
               William Spottiswoode, Esq. the Treasurer.
               John Eric Erichsen, Esq.
               Charles Howard, Esq.
               John Saunders, Esq.
               George Noble Taylor, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The following letter was received from the Right Hon. H. Austin
Bruce, the Secretary for the Home Department, in reference to the
Address to Her Majesty the Queen, adopted at tho last Meeting :—
                                         " Whitehall, 15th April, 1872.
   " Sir,
         " I have had the henour to lay before the Queen the loyal and
dutiful Address of the President, Managers, Visitors, Professors, and
Members of the Royal Institution, on the occasion of the illness of
His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales.
         " I have to inform you that Her Majesty was pleased to receive
the Address very graciously.
                                  " I am, Sir,
                                      " Your obedient Servant,
                                                        "H. A. BRUCE.
   " Sir Henry Holland, Bart., &c., &c."
    John Tyndall, Esq. LL.D. FJI.S. was re-elected Professor of
Natural Philosophy.
    The Presknts received since the last Mooting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     From
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 87. 8vo. 1872.
Agricultural Society of England—Journal, New Series, No. 15. 8vo. 1872.
American Academy of Art* and Sciences—Memoirs, New Series, Vol. X. Part 1.
     4to. 1868.
American Association for the Advancement of Science—Proceedings of the Meeting
     at Troy, New York, August, 1870. 8vo. 1871.
                                                             2 N 2

512                          General Monthly Meeting.                    [May 6,
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 3. 8vo. 1872.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, New Series. Vol. V. Part 2. 8vo. 1872.
Astronomical Society, Jtoyal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXII. Nos. 5, 6. 1872.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1871-2. No. 8. 4to.
 Chemical Society—Journal for March, April, 1872. 8vo.
 Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—Thirty-ninth Annual Report. 8vo. 1871.
 Cox, Edward W. Esq. S.L. M.R.I, (the Author)—Spiritualism answered by
      Science. New Edition. 8vo. 1872.
 Editors—Academy for March, 1872. 4to.
   American Journal of Science for March, 1872. 8?o.
   Artisan for March, 1872. 4to.
   Athenaeum for March, 1872. 4to.
   Chemical News f .r March, 1872. 4to.
   Engineer for March, 1872.
   Food Journal for April, 1872. 4to.
   Horological Journal for April, 1872. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for April, 1872. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for April, 1872. 8vo.
   Nature for April, 1872. 4to.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for April, 1872. 8vo.
   Photographic News for April, 1872. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 555. 8vo. 1872.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 1 10. 8vo. 1872.
Girard, M. Jules (the Author)—-La Photographic appliquee aux Etudes Geogra-
      phiques. (O 14) 16uio. 1871.
Liebreich, R. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Atlas of Ophthalmoscopy. Second Edition.
     4to. 1870.
Lubbock, Sir John, Bart. M.P. F.R.S. (the Author}—Address to the Anthropolo
     gical Institute, January 15, 1872. (Jour. Antlirop. Inst.)
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings. Vol. XI. Nos. 11,
      12, 13. 8vo. 1872.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, January, 1872. Svo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Part 34. 8vo. 1872.
Meteorological Committee of the Royal Society—Currents and Surface Temperature
     of the North Atlantic Ocean. 4to. 1872.
Paine, Martyn, M.I), (the Author)—Physiology of the Soul and Instinct, as distin
     guished from Miterialism. 8vo. 1872.
   Institutes of Medicine. Ninth Edition. 8vo. 1870.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 232. 8vo. 1872.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Jan. 1872. 8vo.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXVI. Parts 2, 3. 4to. 1871-2.
     Proceedings, 1870-1. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 133. 8vo. 1872.
Royal Society of Tasmania—Monthly Notices for 1870. 8vo. 1871.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXV. Part 1. 8vo. 1872.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     April, 1872. 8vo.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 65a. 8vo. 1871.
Vereins zar BefSrderung des Qewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Okt. bis
     Dez. 1871. 4to.
Vereins fur Kunst und Alterthum in Ulm—Verhandlungen. Neue Reihe, Erstes
     Heft. 4to. 1869.
Victoria Institute—Journal of Transactions, No. 21. 8vo. 1872.
Walford, Weston S. Esq. M.A. M.R.I.—Pupworth's Alphabetical Dictionary of
     Onats-of-Arms: Part 15. 8vo. 1871.

1872.]         Mr. Nevil Story-Maskelyne on Meteoric Stones.          513
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 10, 1872.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
              Nevil Story-Maskelyne, Esq. M.A. F.E.S.
                            On Meteoric Stones.
The substantial unity of the celestial objects distinguished in common
language by the names shooting or falling stars, fire-balls, and meteor
ites, and further the coincidence in many important respects of these
with comets, and possibly with the zodiacal light, were suggestions
made by Humboldt in the ' Cosmos,' which have received much con
firmation from the subsequent advance of science.
     The greater apparent velocity with which the ordinary meteors
traverse the atmosphere as compared with that with which the less
frequent larger bodies are seen to move, the marked periodicity that
attends the recurrence of the former in several, and especially in two,
notable cases of meteor-showers, offer an apparent contrast between
these classes of meteors ; it is not, however, in all probability, a real
contrast, for the one class passes into the other by every gradation in
the magnitude of the mass or masses of which the meteor consists,
and consequently in the grandeur of the phenomena which accompany
its advent. If of the material composing the ordinary falling star we
have never yet been able to recognize any vestiges as reaching the
earth, of the meteorite, on the other hand, the mineral collections
of Europe contain numerous carefully collected specimens, which are
the fragments that have escaped the fiery ordeal of the transit through
our earth's atmosphere, and in these we recognize masses composed
either of iron (siderites). or of stone (aerolites), or of a mixture of
the two (siderolites). The phenomena associated with such falls of
 meteoric matter have been described in very similar language by
those who have witnessed them in various parts of the world, and
 these accounts, whether coming from European observers or from
 Hindoo herdsmen (of which some were read by the lecturer), concur
 generally in the approach of the meteorite as a fiery mass, emanating
 from a cloud when seen by day and exploding often with successive
 detonations that are heard over a great extent of country, even in
 certain cases at points more than 60 miles distant, but finally reaching

514                     Mr. Nevil Story-Maskelyne               [May 10,
the earth with a velocity little higher than what might be due to the
motion of a falling body. Externally these meteoric masses are
generally hot when they fall ; sometimes, however, they are not so :
the discrepancies in the accounts being explained by one authenticated
case in which the mass was internally intensely cold, thougb at first
hot externally. The fallen meteorite is invariably coated with an
incrustation, sometimes shining as an enamel, generally black, but
occasionally colourless where the aerolite is free from ferrous silicates ;
and this incrustation is seen to have been formed in the atmosphere,
since it is found coating surfaces of fragments that have been severed
by the explosions in the air.
    Aerolites frequently fall simultaneously in large numbers, many
thousands of them being in such cases spread over a surface of the
country some miles in extent ; and such showers of stones seem to
have entered the atmosphere as a group, though their numbers must
subsequently have been greatly increased by the division accompanying
their detonation.
    The explanation of the incrustation and of the cloud left by the
meteorite, or out of which it seems to emerge, is found in the trans
formation into heat of the energy actuating a body that enters our
atmosphere with a motion of 12 to 40 miles in a second. The velocity
of the body is almost instantaneously arrested by the atmospheric
resistance, and in a very few seconds tho mass becomes, comparatively
speaking, stationary. Its surface must, as a consequence, be imme
diately fused, and the melted matter would be flung off from it into
the surrounding air, fresh surfaces continually affording new fused
material to form the cloud of, so to say, silicious spray that lingers
along and around the path of the meteorite.
    When the moss is small,—and in the case of meteoric showers
and ordinary falling stars it cannot exceed a few ounces, and may
often be but a few grains,—the wholo material is thus consumed, and
must ultimately fall as an unperceived, because widely-scattered, dust.
The meteorite is the residue that survives this wasting action where
the magnitude of the mass is more considerable. The cause of the
violent and often successive explosions is probably to be sought in
the expansion of the outer portions of the mass while tho interior
retains the contracted volume due to the intense cold of space with
which the meteorite enters the atmosphere.
    From time to time these contending conditions of volume may, as
in a Prince Bupert's drop, produce explosion, the heated shell in the
case of the meteorite flying off in fragments from the internally cold
inner core, which if sufficient velocity remain to the mass will undergo
a recurrence of the same conditions of surface fusion and explosion.
The loudness of the detonation is also probably enhanced by the
simultaneous collapse of the air on the vacuum that would follow the
rapidly moving mass.
    The pitted surface characteristic of meteorites probably bears
witness to a similar effect of unequal dilatation operating more

 1872.J                     on Meteoric Stones.                       515
especially in the freshly-broken surfaces of the mass, small fragments
splintering off in this way from the cold and brittlo stone under the
sudden influence of intense heat.
     A remark made by Humboldt, that light and meteorites are the
only sources of our knowledge regarding the universe external to our
 world, points to the true ground for our interest in the waifs and
strays of extra-telluric matter that thus fall upon our globe.
     In physical as well as in chemical characters aerolites resemble
at the first aspect some terrestrial volcanic rocks.
     The minerals of which they are composed are nearly entirely
crystalline, as is evidenced by the colours in polarized light of such
as are transparent. These minerals are usually aggregated with slight
cohesion, and they present in by far the greatest number of cases a
peculiar spherular or " chondritic " structure.
     In these the spherules are composed of similar minerals to these
which enclose them, and even contain metallic iron sometimes in
microscopically fine grains disseminated through them.
     A section of an aerolite was exhibited by the microscope in which
some of the spherules had been broken before being cemented by the
surrounding mass, and in another fissures were seen which had been
filled with a fused material after one side of the fissure had slidden
along the other: facts pointing to events in the history of the meteorite
subsequent to its first formation.
     The chemical composition and the mineral constitution of aerolites
 were illustrated by tables shewing the elements met with in these
bodies, and the minerals in which they were distributed. The former
comprised about one-third of the known elements ; among them mag
nesium, iron, silicon, oxygen, and sulphur were conspicuous ; calcium,
aluminium, nickel, carbon, and phespherus coming next in importance,
the basic elements of most importance by their amount being the same
as these which are found by spectroscopic analysis to be present in the
sun—and in these stars which have been the best examined.
     The minerals most frequent in aerolites besides nickeliferous iron
or troilite (iron monosulphide) and graphite, are bronzite (a ferriferous
 enstatite) and olivine, both the latter being essentially magnesium
silicates. Augite and anorthite also occur (more particularly in the
eukritic aerolites of Rose) and some minerals unknown in terrestrial
minoralogy have also been met with ; such are the different varieties
of Schreibersite (phesphides of iron and nickel) : calcium sulphide,
asmanite (a form of silica crystallizing in the orthorhembic system and
having the specific gravity of fused quartz), and a cubic mineral with
the composition of labradorite. The crystalline form of bronzite was
first determined from the crystals in a meteorite, and was found to
confirm the conclusion Descloizeaux had arrived at as regards its
system from observations on the distribution of the optic axes in the
terrestrial bronzite and enstatite.
     The question as to whence the meteorites come is one that we are
not yet in a position to answer with certainty. The various hypotheses

516          Mr. Nevil Story-Maskelyne on Meteoric Stones.        [May 10,
which suppose for them an origin in lunar volcanoes, or in our atmo
sphere, or again in a destroyed telluric satellite, or that would treat
them as fragments of an original planet of which the asteroids are
parts, or as masses ejected from the sun ; all these hypotheses seem to
be moro or less precluded by the known velocities, the retrograde
motion so frequently characterizing meteors and meteorites, or else
by the chemical conditions that for instance are involved in the passage
of the meteorite through the sun's chromosphere. Whether meteorites
move or do not move in circumsolar orbits is at present impossible to
say ; because, while with our incomplete knowledge we cannot to-day
attach the character of periodicity to any known class of meteorites, we
are not justified in founding any conclusion on a negative result with
so limited a foundation.
    But oven if all or some of them may have been, on their en
countering the earth, members temporarily or permanently of the solar
system, we may with considerable probability consider them as having
originally entered our system from the interstellar spaces beyond it.
Such at least must be our conclusion if we are to admit the unity of the
whole class of phenomena of meteorites and falling stars. For, since
the orbits of the two best known meteoric streams, those namely of
August and November, have been identified with the orbits of two
comets, and since in regard to one of these (that of November) Leverrier
has shown, with great probability, that as a meteoric cloud it entered and
became a member of our system only some 1700 years ago in consequence
of the attraction of Uranus, while the August meteoric ring only differs
in this respect from it, that it had at a much more remote period found
an elliptic orbit round the sun ; we are constrained on the assumption
with which we started to recognize also in a meteorite a visitor from
the regions of remote space. And so far as it goes, the observation
by Secchi that the November falling stars exhibit the magnesium lines
is in harmony with this view.
    It may, however, further be said, that the tendency of scientific
conviction is in the direction of recognizing the collection towards
and concentration in definite centres, of the matter of the Universe,
as a cosmical law, rather than the opposite supposition of such centres
being the sources whence matter is dispersed into space. In the
meteorites that fall on our earth (certainly in considerable numbers)
we have to acknowledge the evidence of a vast and perpetual move
ment of matter in space, about which we can only reason as part of a
great feature in the Universe which we have every ground for not
supposing to bo confined within the limits of the solar system.
    That this matter, whether intercepted or not by the planets and the
sun, should to an ever-increasing amount become entangled in the web
of solar and planetary attraction, and that the same operation should
be collecting round other stars and in distant systems such moving
" clouds " of star-dust as have been treated by Schiaparelli, Leverrier,
and other astronomers, or individual masses of wandering stone or iron
is a necessary deduction from the view that wo havo assumed regarding

 1872.J       Mr. F. A. Abel on the Substitutes for Gunpowder.        517
 the tendency of cosmical matter to collect towards centres. But
 in order to trace the previous stages of the history of any meteorite,
 and, in particular, to determine the conditions under which its present
 constitution as a rock took its origin, we have only for our guide the
 actual record written on the meteoric mass itself; and it is in this
 direction that the mineralogist is now working.
      But the progress is necessarily a gradual one. We may indeed
 assert that the meteorites we know have, probably all of them, been
 originally formed under conditions from which the presence of water
 or of free oxygen to the amount requisite to oxidize entirely the
 elements present were excluded ; for this is proved by the nature of
 the minerals constituting the meteorites and by the way in which the
 metallic iron is distributed through them.
      And one suggestive and significant fact remains to be alluded to ;
 the presence, namely, in some few meteorites of combinations of hydro
 gen and carbon, which if met with in a terrestrial mineral would with
 little hesitation be assigned to an organic origin. A few grains were
 exhibited to the audience of such a body, crystallized from ether, which
 solvent had extracted it to the amount of about 0;25 per cent, from
 six ounces of the Cold Bokkveldt meteorite.
     Similar substances have been extracted by Wohler, Boscoe, and other
 chemists from this and other meteorites. It was, however, observed,
 as pointing to the probability of the comparatively porous meteorio
 stone having in this case taken up the hydrocarbon as a substance
extraneous to it (possibly when in the state of a vapour), that ether
 extracted it entirely from the solid lumps of the meteorite ; pulveri
zation not in any way adding to the amount obtained, or facilitating
in any appreciable degree the separation of the substance.
                                                            [N. S. M.]
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 17, 1872.
      The Earl of Eosse, B.A. D.C.L. V.P.B.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                     F. A. Abel, F.E.S. Treas. C.S.
             On the more important Substitutes for Gunpowder.
No progress has been made sinco 1868 in the application of explosive
agents, other than gunpowder, to artillery purposes. Somewhat
limited experiments with gun-cotton in small field guns led the
Austrians, about ten years ago, to the erroneous conclusion that they
had conquered the difficulties attending the safe employment of gun-

518                          Mr. F. A. Abel                     [May 17,
cotton, applied according to Von Lenk's system, in guns of small
calibre at least. Considerable progress was made in England during
1867-68 towards the production of a thoroughly safe cartridge of
compressed gun-cotton for field guns, but much evidently still remained
to be done when the experiments were suspended before a sufficiently
uniform action of such a cartridge would be secured. The difficulties
which have since been encountered in moderating and regulating the
explosive force of gunpowder when employed in the large charges
which have now to be used in heavy guns show how remote is the
prospect of successfully applying explosive agents more rapid and
violent in their action than gunpowder to artillery, with the excep
tion perhaps of the smallest calibres.
    The numerous attempts to apply substitutes for gunpowder in
small arms have in some instances been attended with partial
success. Many of these have differed greatly from each other, but
all of them have been more rapidly explosive and therefore more
violent and destructive in their action than powder. Gun-cotton
in one form or another has been repeatedly made the subject of
patient experiment as a material for use in small arms. The first
attempts at its employment, made soon after its discovery in 1846,
were disastrous in their results, and the success which long afterwards
was believed to have been achieved, by Von Lenk's indefatigable
labours, in the production of a safe and uniform cartridge, ingeniously
constructed of layers of braided gun-cotton threads, was not confirmed
by experience. Several methods of reducing the rapidity and in
creasing the uniformity of action of gun-cotton in small arms have
since been made the subject of experiment in England. Some of
these, which consisted in the uniform dilution of gun-cotton either
with ordinary cotton or with less explosive varieties of the material,
have furnished fairly-efficient cartridges for sporting purposes, which,
though wanting much in uniformity, have established for themselves a
superiority over gunpowder in regard to freedom from smoke and
fouling, and one or two other qualities. But the only direction in
which substantial prospect of success has hitherto attended the use of
gun-cotton cartridges in arms of precision has been the conversion of
gun-cotton pulp by moderate compression into very uniform masses,
the rapidity and violence of explosion of which were retarded by im
pregnating these throughout with some perfectly inert material, thus
enveloping each particle of gun-cotton in a film of non-explosive sub
stance. The experiments upon this system of preparing cartridges have
not been pursued for the last four years, but some very good targets at
500 yards were made with the service Enfield and Snider arms in
1867 and 1868, with cartridges of gun-cotton pulp impregnated with
small quantities of paraffin or stearine. India-rubber has also been
employed in a similar manner as a retarding and at the same time
water-repelling agent. Considerable success has recently attended
repeated trials with a species of gunpowder devised by Mr. Punshun,
in which the principle of dilution of gun-cotton is also adopted, this

  1872.]      on the more important Substitutes for Gunpowder.          619
  explosive being incorporated with sugar and saltpetre. A preparation
  of somewhat similar nature, containing as one component an imperfect
 kind of gun-cotton made from sawdust, and known as Schultze's
 powder, has also acquired some reputation, though scarcely bidding
 fair to compete in uniformity of action with the excellent gunpowder
 now manufactured for breech-loading rifles.
      The application of powerful explosive agents in shells would ap
 pear at first sight to present little difficulty, beyond that involved in
 the selection of a material which presents a decided advantage in point
 of disruptive power over gunpowder, without exerting an excessive dis
 integrating action upon the mass of the shell and thereby effecting its
 comparatively harmless dispersion. An important obstacle to the
 employment of many of the more powerful explosive agents as charges
 for shells exists in their liability to premature explosion by the con
 cussion which the shell has to sustain upon the discharge of the gun.
 Attempts to employ gun-cotton in shells have several times been at
 tended by such premature explosions, more or less disastrous to the
 guns used. In comparing the relative sensitiveness to explosion by a
 blow or concussion of different compounds and mixtures, their sub
 mission, under precisely similar conditions, to the blow of a weight
 falling from measured heights has furnished satisfactory results, and
 by pursuing this line of experiment, very useful data have been ob
 tained. The conditions which are variable in such experiments
 require, however, very careful regulation, as the results attained may be
 modified to almost any extent by variations of such elements as the
 area of the surface of material struck, the thickness of the mass, its
 mechanical condition (whether in coarse or fine powder, or in a rigid
 or plastic mass), the nature of the materials composing the weight and
 the anvil or support. Thus, a layer of mealed powder 0'05 inch
thick placed between two flat brass plates one inch square is exploded
 by the blow of a 50-lb. weight falling from a minimum height of
 36 feet, while a layer of the same thickness placed between brass
 plates like the preceding, but 0 • 5 inch square, is exploded by a fall of
 the 50 lb. from a height of about 9 feet. Small flat charges of fine-
grain powder weighing five grains, enclosed in tinfoil and placed upon
a steel support, were always exploded, in ten successive experiments, by
 the fall of a steel 25-lb. weight from a height of 2 feet ; when a brass
support was substituted for that of steel, only four charges out of ten
were exploded ; when both weight and support were of brass, only two
out of ten were fired, and when the support and weight were of lead or
wood, no explosion was obtained even when the weight fell from a height
of 40 feet. Again, a nitro-glycerine preparation, of which a layer of a
particular thickness, placed between brass plates resting on a solid
block of iron, was exploded by a fall of a 50-lb. weight from a height
of 2 feet, was not exploded by a fall of 40 feet, when the lower brass
plate was fixed upon a wooden block, the upper plate being attached
to the weight by means of a small block of wood.
     Of the many explosive preparations more violent than gunpowder

 520                           Mr. F. A. AM                    [May 17,
 which have been submitted to comparative experiments of the above
 nature, a mixture of ammonium picrate with saltpetre proved the
 least sensitive to explosion by blow, thus contrasting remarkably with
the violently explosive mixtures of potassium picrate, which have
 been made the subject of experiment in France. Picric acid, which
is now manufactured extensively for tinctorial purposes by the action
of nitric acid upon phenol or carbolic acid, has been known since the
end of last century as capable of furnishing explosive mixtures. Some
 of its salts, such as those of potassium and barium, are of themselves
explosive, and furnish violently detonating mixtures with saltpetre and
potassium chlorate. The mixtures of ammonium picrate with these
salts, though less powerful in their action, are considerably more so
than gunpowder, and the saltpetre mixture which has been called
picric powder, has been shown by extensive experiments to be as safe
as powder in manufacture and use, and as permanent in character;
shells charged with it have been repeatedly fired from guns of large
calibre, with heavy powder-charges, and there appears strong reason
for placing confidence in this material as fulfilling the conditions, in
regard to safety and power, of a very efficient powder for shells.
     Most important progress has been made, during the last few
years, in the application of explosive agents, more violent than
powder, to mining and quarrying and to various civil and military
engineering purposes. The hope of realizing the advantages which
would be secured, especially in point of economy in time and labour,
by an explosive agent combining increased power with other essential
qualities of a practically useful material, has led to the production
of a great variety of preparations designed to serve as powder-sub
stitutes in its industrial applications. The powerful oxidizing agent
potassium chlorate has thus been applied in numerous ways; and
some of its preparations, of comparatively safe nature, such as
Horsley's and Ehrhardt's powders, have afforded prospect of advan
tageous employment, though at present it appears doubtful whether they
can enter into competition with the more violent explosive agents which
have within the last six years become formidable rivals of powder.
     Gun-cotton was gradually growing into extensive use, as a mining
agent in England, within a year of its discovery by Schonbein ; but
its application was arrested for many years by the explosion which
occurred at Messrs. Hall's works in 1847. Between that period and
 1863, when its manufacture was resumed in England, the material
was made the subject of elaborate experiment in Austria. Important
improvements were eventually introduced in its production and purifi
cation by Baron von Lenk, and it was converted by him into a form
decidedly better adapted for mining purposes than the gun-cotton wool,
namely, that of a compact rope, having a central perforation, and cut
into suitable lengths for mining charges. An extensive series of ex
periments, instituted in Austria with gun-cotton in this form, appeared
satisfactorily to establish its superiority over gunpowder, bulk for
bulk, as regards rending and shattering effects, when used in hard

1872.]      on the more important Substitutes for Gunpowder.        521
rock, or when confined in strong cases. The absence of smoke, and the
considerable reduction in weight of the charge required to produce a
particular result, were also important advantages, substantiated by the
experiments of Sir Edward Sabine's Committee on Gun-cotton, and by
the results of practical trials in this country. The benefits, in point
of economy and efficiency, derived from the employment of the rope-
charges, were very greatly increased when the system was devised of
reducing the gun-cotton fibre to pulp, and converting it by powerful
compression into compact homogeneous masses, having about double
the density of the rope. Important consequences of the large reduction
in the space occupied by gun-cotton, when used in this form, were,
the very considerable increase in the amount of tamping which could
be used in blast-holes, and the greater concentration of the force
applied ; the destructive effects in hard rock were consequently much
augmented, and the blast-holes could bo placed farther apart, and
reduced in dimensions. Large charges of compressed gun-cotton
occupied so much less space than the rope-charges, and were so
considerably lighter than powder-charges, that the material became
specially valuable for submarine operations. Other peculiar advan
tages were presented by the compressed material; thus, its cost of
production was greatly reduced, because cotton-waste could be
employed in its manufacture, and because its conversion into the
required forms required comparatively little time; its purification was
more complete, as the finely-divided fibre was much more readily
washed than the long fibre required for furnishing rope-charges ; and
its uniformity was much greater, because the products of a large
number of successive small operations were intimately blended
together in the pulping and washing processes.
    One point of inferiority, exhibited by gun-cotton in the form of
wool, or rope, was not at first remedied, but rather increased by its
conversion into compressed masses. This consisted in the necessity
for very strong confinement of the material, for the proper develop
ment of its explosive force. If used just like gunpowder, in rock
which was soft or contained fissures, its destructive effects were very
imperfect, and under these circumstances very irritating and unwhole
some vapours were produced by its ignition. Large charges used in
military operations or for the removal of great masses of rock required
to be confined in very strong receptacles. Hence, although the use
of compressed gun-cotton in ordinary blasting and quarrying operations
in hard rock soon began steadily to increase, and though its value
for submarine operations was undoubted, it continued for some time
to be uncertain in its effects when employed in a particular class of
mining operations and when used for military engineering purposes.
After it was found, however, that compressed gun-cotton could be
exploded through the agency of detonation, the metamorphosis being
thereby so rapidly transmitted throughout a mass as to rendor any
confinement unnecessary, its application became extended to new and
important purposes, and it became closely allied, in regard to tho

  522                          Mr. F. A. Abel                     [May 17,
 results which it furnished, to the companion explosive agent, nitro
 glycerine, which has been raised within the last nine years from the
  obscure position of a useless chemical product to an exalted rank
 among practically useful explosive agents entirely through the labours
 of Mr. Alfred Nobel.
      In 1863 Mr. Nobel first attempted to apply nitro-glycerine by
 impregnating the grains of gunpowder with it, and igniting the mix
 ture in the usual way. But this mode of proceeding being uncertain
 in its results, he concluded that the certainty of exploding nitro
  glycerine would be increased if a small portion of the mass were raised
 by some special contrivance to the heat at which it would violently
 explode, the explosion being thereby transmitted through the entire
 mass. He suggested several devices for producing what he termed
 the initiative explosion of a portion of the charge, but the most simple
 and successful one consisted in the employment of a large percussion
 cap, by the explosion of which the adjacent particles of nitro-gly
 cerine were suddenly exposed to a high temperature and to a sharp
 concussion. This was the first instance in which the violent explosion
 or detonation of compounds of this class, known not to explode
 violently unless strongly confined, was accomplished through the
 agency of initiative detonation. Compressed gun-cotton was soon
 afterwards observed by Mr. Brown to behave similarly, and in the
 course of an investigation instituted by Mr. Abel into these and other
phenomena exhibited by explosive agents, this susceptibility to violent
explosion, without the aid of confinement, through the agency of a
detonation, was found to be shared by all explosive compounds and
mixtures, even including gunpowder, though the force and nature of
tho detonation required to develop the explosive metamorphosis differed
very considerably with different substances. Numerous interesting
results were obtained which showed that the development of detonation
was at any rate not simply due to the exposure of particles of the
substance to a very high temperature or to the suddenness and
violence of the concussion to which they were submitted.
     Mr. Nobel's discovery of a simple method of exploding nitro
glycerine placed this substance at once at the head of practically
useful explosive agents in point of power ; and the success with which
he developed the manufacture of nitro-glycerine soon rendered this
remarkable liquid available for extensive technical uses. Its value as
an explosivo agent for mines, especially where very hard rock had to
bo operated upon, was speedily established in Sweden, Germany, and
some other countries ; but its extensive manufacture and employment
was very soon followed by numerous fearful accidents, which appear
mainly ascribable to the physical peculiarities of the substance. Its
liquid nature, though valuable in special instances of its employment,
constituted a serious obstacle to its safe transport, storage, and use :
its liability to leak from receptacles in which it was stored and the
great susceptibility to explosion, by friction or blow, of portions which
escaped confinement, were unquestionably fruitful sources of acci

1872.]      on the more important Substitutes for Gunpowder.         523
dent. The precaution of storing and transporting nitro-glycerine in
the form of a non-explosive solution in wood-spirit, did not prove to be
a trustworthy safeguard against accident, as the spirit was liable to
evaporate or become weaker, and thus allow the nitro-glycerine to sepa
rate from it to a sufficient extent to re-establish danger.
     A very simple expedient, which Nobel devised in 1867, soon
enabled him to provide the miner with nitro-glycerine in a very
convenient and comparative safe form. The observation that this
substance could be exploded by detonation as readily (and even with
greater certainty) if mixed with solid substances, which might bo
perfectly inert in character, as when used in the liquid form, led him
to the production of solid but plastic preparations of this substance, to
which he gave the name of dynamite. The earliest of these supplied
to the public, and the one which, in its present improved form, is
superior to any other known nitro-glycerine preparation in point of
safety in storage, consists of 75 parts of nitro-glycerine held absorbed
by 25 parts of a porous infusorial silicious earth, existing abundantly
in Germany, and known as " Kieselguhr." This mixture was first
supplied as a loose unctuous powder, from which the nitro-glycerine
appeared to have a tendency to separate ; it is now converted by
pressure into small cylindrical rolls or charges wrapped in parchment
paper, from which, as far as the lecturer's observation goes, the liquid
does not appear liable to exude, even upon prolonged exposure to
elevated temperatures, though immersion in water will cause a separa
tion of nitro-glycerine after some time. Many experiments were made
in Paris during the siege, by MM. Girard, Millon, and Vogt, to ascer
tain what absorbent materials could be best applied to the manufacture
of dynamite, in the absence of Kieselguhr ; precipitated silica or
aluminia, sugar, and several other substances were found to bo suitable
media, but the material originally selected by Nobel was undoubtedly
superior to all in its power of absorbing and retaining a very largo
amount of nitro-glycerine.
     The preparation of dynamite by Nobel was speedily followed by
the production of other nitro-glycerine preparations, in some of
which, such as Dualine, Horsley's mining powder, and Glyoxilino,
explosive substances are used as the media for absorbing nitro
glycerine. Nobel himself prepares a less violent form of dynamite
by mixing nitro-glycerine in smaller proportions with powder, salt
petre, and resin or coal. A preparation which is perhaps intermediate
in value between this and the " Kieselguhr " dynamite is manufactured
by Messrs. Krebs, of Cologne, who have called it Lithofracteur. As far
as its composition has been mado public it is known to contain less
 nitro-glycerine than Nobel's ordinary dynamite ; the absorbent mate
 rial includes silicious earth and sand, saltpetre, coal, and sulphur.
 Some good practical experiments, made with this preparation at the
Nantmawr and Breidden quarries, near Shrewsbury, satisfactorily
demonstrated its safety in transport and use, when in its normal
condition. In this, as in all other nitro-glycerino preparations con

 524                          Mr. F. A. Abd                        [May 17,
 taining solid materials of inferior absorbent power to Kieselgulir,
 freedom from liability to a partial separation of the liquid can obvi
 ously be only secured at a sacrifice of explosive power, by reducing
 the proportion of the nitro-glycerine, and it is difficult to conceive that
 the consequent loss in power can be compensated for by introducing
 solid explosive materials less violent in their action than nitro-gly-
 cerino as components of the preparation.
     Nobel's dynamite, though obviously inferior to the pure nitro
 glycerine in explosive power, weight for weight, is still one of the
 most violent explosive agents now in practical use. In regard to power,
 it seems to be on an equality with compressed gun-cotton, and the
 results of experience in mines and quarries appear to warrant the
 conclusion that in the class of work where these agents can be applied
 to the greatest advantage, their power is about six times that of
 blasting powder.
     The advantages in point of saving of time and labour attained
by the use of these violent explosive agents in tunnelling and other
operations in hard rock are very important ; they are also specially
valuable in submarine operations, in the breaking up of large masses
of rock or of large castings and forgings, in the rapid destruction of
mflitary works, bridges, and other structures, the clearing of forests,
the removal of ice obstructions, &c. Their special value is partly
due to the comparatively small weight and bulk of the charges of
gun-cotton or nitro-glycerine preparations required to perform the
work (which in many instances could scarcely be accomplished, even
by extremely large quantities of gunpowder), and partly from tho
facility and expedition with which these explosives can be brought
into operation through the agency of detonation. Hard tamping or
strong confinement is superfluous, and in many instances operations
of demolition and disintegration may be effectually carried out, though
with some waste of power, without any confinement whatever of the
explosive agent.
     Dynamite and similar nitro-glycerine preparations possess two
defects in common. One arises out of the poisonous nature of the
liquid, which is readily absorbed into the system, producing severe
headaches and other unpleasant effects, which, however, are said to
diminish in severity and even to disappear by continued use of the
material. Experience has scarcely been yet acquired regarding the
ultimate influence upon the life of those constantly engaged in manu
facturing nitro-glycerine or using its preparations. The form in
which dynamite is now furnished appears to reduce to a minimum
the liability of those employing it to be injuriously affected. The
other defect arises out of the readiness with which nitro-glycerine
freezes at a comparatively high temperature, especially when mixed
with solid substances. The occurrence of several very serious acci
dents during manipulations with frozen nitro-glycerine, and the fact
that the sensitiveness of a substance to explosion by a blow is in
direct proportion to the rigidity of its particles, favoured the con

  1872.]      on the more important Substitutes for Ounpoivder.         525
 elusion that nitro-glycerine was specially dangerous when frozen ;
 there is, however, no doubt that the substance is very much less sensi
 tive to explosion by blow or concussion in that state—a fact which
 must be due to the greater expenditure of heat requisite for con
 version of the solid than of the liquid into gas. The accidents with
 frozen nitro-glycerine and its preparations appear to have arisen from
 reckless handling in consequence of over-confidence in the safety of
 the material, and also from want of care or ignorance in carrying out
 the necessary operation of thawing the explosive agent before applying
 it in the usual manner. The necessity for thawing dynamite and
 similar preparations, which remain frozen even at 50° F., is a serious
 inconvenience, which further experiment in the use and properties of
 these materials may perhaps set aside.
     Plastic preparations of nitro-glycerine possess some advantages
 over compressed gun-cotton in several ordinary blasting operations.
 The application of a little pressure after the charge has been inserted
 will cause it to spread out and fill up any inequalities in the hole, and
 thus a larger charge may in some instances be employed than if the
 rigid cylinders of compressed gun-cotton were used ; the latter are also
 liable to become jammed or fixed when they are being pushed down a
rugged or irregularly-shaped hole ; if the miner then proceeds to force
 the charge home by powerful blows, which, with reckless confidence
engendered by the general safety of the material, he not unfrequently
will, it may become ignited and must explode violently if force is
being applied at the instant of its ignition, as it is then in the position
of a strongly-confined charge. Accidents in the charging of holes
are obviously less likely to occur with plastic materials. Dynamite
has the additional advantage of being readily applicable in blast-holes
from which water cannot be excluded, as the material resists pene
tration by water for a considerable period. To counterbalance these
advantages, gun-cotton is perfectly innocuous, and its ready explosi-
bility by detonation is not in any way affected by cold. When carried
into the field for military purposes compressed gun-cotton is very
decidedly safer than nitro-glycerine preparations ; because if carts or
packages containing the latter are fired into from accident or design
with ordinary small-arm bullets, their contents will be violently ex
ploded as by detonation, while the gun-cotton under the same circum
stances would be simply inflamed.
     Although gun-cotton and nitro-glycerine mixtures possess very
important advantages over gunpowder in all applications where
suddenness and violence of action are desirable, there are some
directions in which they do not possess superiority over powder, and
others in which they cannot replace it, irrespectively of its applica
tions to projectile purposes. In soft rock, in earth mines, and in some
blasting operations, when it is desired to displace large masses of earth,
rock, or stone, the gradual action of gunpowder gives it decided supe
riority. The more violent explosive agents produce great local effects ;
the rock, if hard, is much shattered noar the charge, and is also rent
     Vol. VI. (No. 57.)                                         2 o

52G                           Mr. F. A. Abel                    [May 17,
and fissured to considerable distances, but the displacing effect is gene
rally inferior to that produced by the equivalent of powder, and always
very much so in earth or soft rock. Decided advantages have arisen
from a judiciously-combined application of gunpowder and gun-cotton
or dynamite, the more violent explosive agent being used to prepare
the way for gunpowder, which is afterwards applied to the removal of
the material shattered by the first sudden explosion.
    The degree of safety with which explosive agents may be manu
factured is an important question connected with their extensive
application. The fact that the manufacture of gun-cotton as now
carried on involves not the slightest risk of explosion up to the
final stage, when the material has to be dried, distinguishes it from
most other explosive agents. In gunpowder-manufacture liability
to explosion exists throughout all operations from the point when the
ingredients are mixed, and with regard to nitro-glycerine it appears
that up to the present time occasional severe accidents during manu
facture have been inevitable. The immunity enjoyed by gun-cotton is
due to its being wet, and therefore absolutely uninflammable, through
out all stages, even after it has been compressed into cakes or disks.
At this point it contains 15 por cent, of water, the expulsion of which
by desiccation is unattended by any liability to explosion, or evon to
ignition if very simple precautions are adopted. For storing largo
quantities with absolute safety it is very convenient to preserve the
compressed gun-cotton damp, as it is delivered from the pressos. It
has been thus stored for very long periods without the slightest detri
ment, and its non-inflammability in this condition is aptly illustrated
by the fact that the perforations required in some of the charges are
produced by drilling the damp gun-cotton, the drill revolving at the
rate of about 600 revolutions per minute. The gun-cotton employed
in some extensive experiments recently made on the South Coast had
been stored damp for nearly nine months, and was dried partly in
the open air and partly in a hot-air chamber, when required for use.
On that occasion 6 cwt. of damp gun-cotton, packed in twenty-four
strong wooden boxes, were stacked in a wooden shed and surrounded
by inflammable material. The building was then fired, and soon
burned fiercely, which it continued to do for about half an hour, when
the fire gradually subsided, and the building and its contents were
entirely consumed. The gun-cotton must have slowly burned away as
the surfaces of the masses became sufficiently dry, but at no period of
the experiment was there even any burst of flame, due to rapid igni
tion, perceptible.
    Another very important consideration connected with the ex
tensive employment of an explosive compound or mixture as a
substitute for gunpowder is the question of its stability. Mixtures of
saltpetre or potassium chlorate, with oxidizable substances of stable
character, may be generally relied upon to equal gunpowder in their
unalterable nature, under all conditions of storage and use in different
climates; deterioration in explosive power by the absorption of

1872.]       on the more important Substitutes for Ounjwwder.         527
moisture is the only prejudicial result which generally attends long-
continued keeping of such mixtures. There are a few instances,
however, in which absorption of moisture may in time establish slight
chemical action between the components, and thus become, not only
cause of more serious deterioration, but also a source of danger ; as
chemical activity, once started in preparations of this kind, may gra
dually increase, being promoted by the heat developed, until it attains
a violence resulting in the spontaneous ignition or explosion of the
mass. Instances are on record of the spontaneous explosion from this
cause of damp mixtures, well known to be perfectly stable when dry.
Substances of organic origin, of uncertain stability, require application
with much greater caution to the production of explosive mixtures, as
it is possible that changes may occur spontaneously in them, or may
be established by natural atmospheric fluctuations of temperature,
eventually giving rise to chemical action between them and the oxidiz
ing agent with which they are mixed. Although the stability of com
pounds, which are themselves endowed with explosive properties, may
appear perfectly reliable when the substance is in a chemically pure
condition, it is susceptible of being seriously affected by compara
tively minute causes; hence the most scrupulous care in the pro
duction and purification of such substances is imperatively necessary ;
and in this respect they compare disadvantageously with gunpowder,
as a want of care in its production, though it may lead to accident
during manufacture, or to an inferiority of the product, will not affect
the stability of the material.
    Both nitro-glycerine and gun-cotton, when prepared in small
quantities and carefully purified, have been long known by chemists
to be subject to very gradual chemical change when exposed frequently
to sunlight, and also to be liable to slow or rapid decomposition if
exposed to temperatures very considerably higher than occur as ex
tremes under natural conditions in any climate. Both substances arc
also well known to have exhibited great stability under normal condi
tions of preservation, and even when continually exposed to light ; but
though many specimens exist, which have remained unaltered almost
since the first discovery of these bodies a quarter of a century ago, the
instances are numerous in which laboratory specimens have undergone
spontaneous change, with more or less rapidity.
    The apparently variable nature of these substances, as regards
stability, is due to the retention by them, in some instances, of small
quantities of comparatively unstable impurities, derived from foreign
matters contained in the cellulose or glycerine ; exposure to heat or
to sunlight develops changes in these, resulting in the production of
acid substances ; hence, if they exist in gun-cotton or nitro-glycerine,
they may constitute the starting-point of decomposition when these
are exposed to high temporatures or to the influence of sunlight. If
they exist in gun-cotton, they will be, to some extent, enclosed in the
hollow fibres, and are then only removed effectually by breaking up
 the latter, and long-continued washing. In nitro-glycerine, they are
                                                            2 o 2

528                           Mr. F. A. Abel                    [May 17,
held obstinately dissolved by the liquid, and their removal can also
only be effectually accomplished by a long-protracted washing of the
very finely-divided substance. Alkaline agents are in both cases
useful in accelerating purification.
    For many years nitro glycerine was universally regarded as
specially liable to spontaneous change ; even samples of different quan
tities of several pounds each, which, within the last four years, were
produced at Woolwich in immediately successive operations, all appa
rently under the same conditions and with the special object in view of
obtaining a theroughly purified and stable material, have exhibited
great differences in their keeping qualities. They have all been pre
served in the dark, side by side ; some are now in their originally pure
condition, others have become more or less strongly acid, and two or
throe have undergone complete metamorphesis into oxalic acid and other
products. The manufacturing and purifying processes, as perfected
by Mr. Nobel, appear to furnish more reliably uniform products than
these usually obtained on a small scale, and such specimens of these
products as the lecturer has had an opportunity to examine have
exhibited great stability. Yet, if it were possible to trace explosions
to their cause more frequently than is the case, an accidental want of
stability might perhaps have been found, in some instances at any rate,
auxiliary in bringing about the violent nitro-glycorine explosions which
have occurred. It has, hewever, been already established by very
extensive experience during the last three years that nitro-glycerine is
a far more reliable material than was formerly believed, and that if
the most scrupulous attention is paid to its purification, and is com
bined with vigilance during storage and use of its preparations, and
the adoption of certain precautions, which have already been proved
important safeguards against chemical change in materials of this
class, the risk of accident is so greatly reduced as to warrant the ex
tensive manufacture and employment of nitro-glycerine preparations
under restrictions similar to such as may be deemed sufficient in the
case of other explosive agents.                          - .
     The causes which led to the great uncertainty with regard to sta
bility exhibited by gun-cotton, as manufactured in the earlier days of
its history, have been discussed in former discourses. The very ex
tensive experiments and observations which were set on foot nine
years ago by the Government Committee, and have been continued to
this day, on the keeping qualities of gun-cotton prepared by the Aus
trian process, have furnished most satisfactory results. Very consider
able quantities of gun-cotton, in a great variety of forms, have been
stored at Woolwich for several years, and their periodical examination
has failed to afford any reason whatever for doubting the stability of
gun-cotton under all conditions of storage which are likely to occur.
The experience thus gained applies even more favourably to gun-
cotton reduced to pulp according to the system lately in use, whereby
the uniform purification of the gun-cotton is more effectually secured.
Compressed gun-cotton has not only been stored extensively in dif

1872.]        on the more important Substitutes for Gunpowder.        629
ferent parts of Great Britain ; it has also been exported in considerable
quantities to Australia, India, the West Indies, South America, and other
distant countries, and has been used under circumstances specially
trying to any material of uncertain stability.
     The explosions which occurred at Stowmarket nine months ago
had the natural effect of dispelling from the public mind the great con
fidence which was becoming very generally entertained in the stability
of gun-cotton. Fortunately the facts which were elicited in the course
of the inquiry constituted so complete a chain of evidence as to
place the first cause of the explosion beyond any reasonable doubt, and
to demonstrate that it was quite independent of any want of stability
of the properly-manufactured material. A supply of gun-cotton de
livered from the works at Stowmarket, forming part of a quantity of
which there remained a store in the magazines that exploded, was
found to contain a proportion of disks in a highly impure condition.
The proportion of free (sulphuric) acid existing in some of these
was so considerable that it could not possibly have been left in the
gun-cotton after the first rough washing which it receives immediately
on removal from the acid, and before conversion into pulp in the
rag-engines, where it is beaten up for several hours with a very large
volume of water. Supposing, therefore, that the gun-cotton pulp
composing these disks had been submitted to the compressing pro
cess without passing through the intermediate and principal purify
ing operation, it could not possibly have contained even a small
proportion of the sulphuric acid discovered in the impure disks,
and the same would have been the case even if the ttn-pulped gun-
cotton, after the preliminary washing and ringing, could have been
converted into compressed disks. It was indisputably established,
therefore, that the sulphuric acid discovered in the impure gun-
cotton, and which could not have been generated by any decom
position of the substance, must have found its way into the finished
material in some manner totally unconnected with the process of
manufacture, and that no amount of carelessness in manufacture,
even to the extent of partial omission of the purifying processes, could
have led to the existence of the acid found in the impure gun-cotton.
That this impurity was sufficient to establish rapid change was
sufficiently proved by the condition of some of the disks ; and that
 this chemical change, accelerated as" it was by the great heat of the
weather at the time, gave rise to a development and accumulation
of heat inevitably culminating in the ignition of some portion of
 the stored gun-cotton, was readily demonstrated by simple experi
ments with some of the impure disks themselves. But although the
 ignition of the store of gun-cotton in the lightly-built magazines at
 Stowmarket was completely accounted for, the very violent cha
 racter of the explosions, and especially that of the second explosion
 of a small store, which was burning for a considerable time before
 its contents detonated, were results quite unexpected to those well
 acquainted with the properties of gun-cotton in the compressed

530                          Mr. F. A. Abel                     [May 17,
form. Many practical experiments had demonstrated that it might be
submitted to extremely rough treatment without any risk of explosion,
and single packages of the closely-confined material had been re
peatedly ignited, from within and without, no other result than an
inflammation and a rapid burning of the gun-cotton having ever
occurred. These demonstrations of the apparent immunity from ex
plosive properties of compressed gun-cotton, unless very strongly con
fined or fired by detonation, appeared fully confirmed by the results of a
somewhat extensive experiment made at Woolwich a year ago with gun-
cotton packed in firmly-closed wooden boxes, of the kind which Govern
ment proposed to use for storing the material. Eight such packages,
each containing 28 lbs. of gun-cotton, were enclosed in a pile of similar
boxes loaded to the same weight, and the contents of the centre box
were ignited : no explosion resulted, and the contents of some of the
boxes even escaped ignition. A second experiment, in which the
centre box was surrounded by inflammable matter, so that a fierce
fire burned within the heap for many minutes before the gun-cotton
ignited, was also unattended by any approach to an explosion. The
apparently conclusive nature of these experiments undoubtedly en
 couraged a false confidence in the non-liability to explosion of stores
of gun-cotton in the event of accidental ignition, and the Stowmarket
catastrophe demonstrated the imperative necessity for a more exten
sive investigation of the subject. The results of some experiments
 recently instituted near Hastings by the Government Committee on
 gun-cotton have served to throw great light upon the manner in
 which the explosions at Stowmarket were brought about. In the
 first instance, twenty-four boxes (containing 6 cwt. of gun-cotton) of
 the kind used in the Woolwich experiment were stored upon tables in
 a small wooden shed of light structure, and a heap of shavings and
 light wood was kindled immediately beneath the boxes, two of which
 were left partly opened. After the fire had been burning for about
 seven minutes the gun-cotton inflamed and continued to burn with
 very rapidly-increasing violence for nine seconds, when a sharp ex
 plosion occurred ; a very similar result was furnished by a second
 experiment, in which the same number of boxes of gun-cotton was
 stored in a small magazine of stout brickwork. By subsequent com
parative experiments it was judged that a considerable proportion of
 the gun-cotton had been burned in both instances before the explosion
 occurred, but these were nevertheless of such violence as to produce
 largo craters in the shingle on the site of the buildings and to pro
ject the debris with much force to considerable distances. Two repe
 titions were afterwards made of the first experiment, in wooden sheds
of similar structure, and with corresponding quantities of gun-cotton
 similarly arranged in boxes of the same size, and fastened down just
 as securely as those in the former experiment, but the boxes were
made of somewhat thinner wood and were constructed less strongly.
In neither of these experiments did an explosion occur. In the one
instance the liro was burning in the building for more than half an

1872.]        on the more important Substitutes for Gunpowder.          531
hour before the gun-cotton became ignited, and three minutes after
the first great blaze had subsided there was a second blaze of gun-cotton.
Although the latter must have been exposed to intense heat, no explo
sion was produced. In the second experiment the gun-cotton burned
in three successive portions, the last having been exposed for many
minutes to very fierce heat, yet burning non-explosively. The first
two of these experiments demonstrated that if, in a store containing
packages of gun-cotton in somewhat considerable number, the material
became accidentally inflamed, the intense heat developed by the burn
ing gun-cotton in the first instance might raise some portion, still con
fined in boxes, to the inflaming point, and that then, the mass of the
confined gun-cotton being in a heated condition, the ignition would
proceed with such rapidity as to develop the pressure essential to
explosion while the gun-cotton was still confined, the resulting explo
sion being instantaneously transmitted to other boxes. When the
magazines at Stowmarket exploded, a large volume of flame was
observed to precede the explosion by a very distinct interval. The
 two other experiments described appear to demonstrate that with such
 quantities of gun-cotton as were stored in the experimental sheds, the
 fact of the material being confined in boxes of comparatively light
 structure constitutes a safeguard against explosion, the reason being
 that the weaker packages are opened up by comparatively feeble
 pressure from within, hence when the contents of a box become raised
 to the inflaming temperature, or become ignited by the penetration of
 flame to the interior, the pressure developed by the first ignition is not
 sustained by the box to a sufficient extent or for a sufficient time to
 bring about explosion.
     On the occasion of the Stowmarket accident there were two store-
 sheds containing gun-cotton packed in boxes of light construction,
 which were ignited by the first explosion and burned out without
 exploding, while a third, which contained gun-cotton packed in the
 strong Government boxes, exploded with great violence after having
 been in flames for some time.
     Simple experiments demonstrate that if any explosive compound
 or mixture be ignited when in a heated condition, it will burn with a
 violence proportionate to the temperature to which it has been pre
 viously heated ; if this be near the exploding point, explosion must
 ensue, which will be violent in proportion to the strength of confine
 ment of the material. A practical demonstration of this was furnished
 by an explosion which occurred at Woolwich in 1866. Several very
 strong packages (metal lined-cases) filled with Von Lenk's gun-cotton,
 some of which had been purposely left impure, had been exposed fox
 seven months to artificial heat in a strong brickwork chamber, heated
 by steam. Tho impure gun-cotton in some of the packages was then
 known to be in a decomposing state, but the experiment was continued,
 and eventually spontaneous ignition occurred and at a time when the
 boxes were heated to the maximum temperature. The result was a
 violent explosion of all the packages; the very strong confinement and

532                         Mr. F. A. Abel                       [May 17,
the heated condition of the gun-cotton which ignited, added to its
being at the time in a state of chemical activity, determined its explo
sion, and the explosion of the other packages was a necessary conse
quence of the violent concussion to which they were exposed.
    There can be no doubt that the results of the recent experiments and
of those made last year, as also the results of the Stowmarket accident,
have to be considored in relation to the quantities of gun-cotton operated
upon, as well as to its confinement. The confinement of the eight strong
packages by the layers of boxes which surrounded them on all sides in
the Woolwich experiment, was probably quite as great as that afforded
by the light and roomy shed in which the twenty-four boxes of the same
kind were placed in double layers, in the South Coast experiments ;
yet in the latter case an explosion was developed, and not in the
former with the smaller quantity. In the South Coast experiments,
with 6 cwt. of gun-cotton, the explosions occurred eight seconds and
ten seconds after the ignition of the gun-cotton ; in the Stowmarket
magazine, where several tons of gun-cotton were stored, the explosion
appears to have almost immediately followed ignition ; it must be
borne in mind, however, that in this case much of the gun-cotton was
very closely confined by the large number of surrounding packages,
and that the temperature of tho gun-cotton was already raised consi
derably throughout by long-continued very hot weather. Both of
these circumstances must have greatly favoured the very rapid deve
lopment of explosion, independently of the much more intense heat
generated by the rapid spreading of fire through a large proportion of
the gun-cotton.
    The satisfactory results obtained in the South Coast experiments
with tho lightly-constructed boxes, with employment of 6 cwt. of
material, appear to have received confirmation from the result of an
accident which occurred in 1869 at Penryn, when a magazine of
brickwork containing 20 cwt. of compressed gun-cotton, packed in
boxes of light structure, was burned down without any explosion.
But it is nevertheless very possible that a similar result would not
bo furnished by several tons of gun-cotton similarly packed ; the
much "higher temperature which would bo developed in that case by
the first spreading of the fire, and the additional confinement, due to
the larger number of packages, might combine to develop conditions
favourable to the violent explosion of some portion of the mass,
though no doubt a much larger proportion would burn non-explosively
than if strong boxes were used. While, therefore, in storing dry
gun-cotton, the probability of violent explosions resulting from the
accidental ignition of a magazine may be considerably diminished,
or at any rate tho violence of a possible explosion much reduced, by
storing the material in packages of which some portions will yield
readily to pressure from within, or by adopting any other storage-
arrangement whereby the rapid penetration of flame or heat between
the compressed masses is promoted, it must be considered as conclu
sively established by the last twelve months' experience that such

1872.J        on the more important Substitutes for Gunpowder.       533
regulations as experience and prudence have rendered essential in
connection with the storage of gunpowder and other explosive agents,
must also apply to the storage of compressed gun-cotton when in tho
dry state.
    The rapid development which has taken place within the last few
years in the industrial applications of powerful explosive agents bids
fair to continue. In illustration of this a brief reference may be made
to some recent interesting results arrived at by Dr. Sprengel, who has
observed that mixtures of liquid oxidizing agents (such as nitric acid)
with liquid or solid oxidizable substances, may be made to detonate,
as also mixtures of readily oxidizable liquids with solid oxidizing
agents. Thus, mixtures of picric acid or of nitrobenzol with nitric
acid, or of chlorate of potash with bisulphide of carbon, may be readily
detonated, and are more or less violently destructive in their action.
    Important advantages, in point of power in the one instance and
of economy in the other, appear to be promised by the production, in
compressed masses, of mixtures of gun-cotton pulp with considerable
proportions of chlorate of potash or saltpetre. Even the efficiency
of gunpowder itself as a mining agent has been decidedly augmented
in some directions by the lecturer's observation that it is susceptible
of violent explosion by detonation, like all other explosive prepara
tions, and that strong confinement is consequently not essential to tho
development of its full explosive force. This observation has proved
to be especially valuable in connection with submarine operations, for
which the charges of gunpowder need no longer, as formerly, be con
fined in cases of great strength. There are soveral other directions
in which the study of the behaviour of explosive agents, under condi
tions compatible with their practical application, promises to be fruit
ful of important results.
                                                            fP. A. A.]
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 24, 1872.
     Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.K.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                     Professor W. K. Clifford, M.A.
                   On Babbage's Calculating Machines.
                           [No Abstract received.]

 531                          Professor Pvynter                   [May 31,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 31, 1872.
     Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Manager, in the Chair.
                Professor Edward J. Poynter, A.E.A.
                         On Old Art and New Art.
We are all familiar with the argument which, while it admits that
the great artists of history, whether Greek or Italian, may have con
ceived and realized an ideal of the human form which in these days
we cannot pretend to rival, yet insists that ideas on this subject are,
to use a modern vulgarism, " played out "—that we want our art to be
more in accordance with the spirit of the age, which is an age of
realities and progress, that our art must be above all realistic, and show
us nature as we see ber around us, and that it must also progress and
keep pace with the advancement of science and education so as to give
us something new. I do not say that the argument put in this brood
and coarse form exactly expresses the opinion of any really thoughtful
persons, but it is at the root of much that is written and said on the
subject, and that by persons who have the command of a great deal of
art-education in this country, and who at all events imagine that they
havo well considered the subject ; and it is plausible enough to re-
quiro refutation, for it is apparently not obvious to everyone at first
sight where the great distinction lies between science and art which
should restrain the latter within certain impassable boundaries, while
there is apparently no limit possible to the discoveries and novelties
of which the former is capable ; and persons who hold these views do
not see how essential it is to the very existence of an art that it should
have an ideal of beauty—that, as it can only appeal to our minds or
hearts through our senses, unless it does so on some principle of choice
or selection, we gain no more from it than we gain from the observa
tion of nature itself—that the human form and face, containing as they
do the highest qualities of beauty which nature presents for our ad
miration, the study of them with a view to rendering the most com
plete abstract expression of their beauty and vitality, is the highest
to which an artist can devote himself—that the aspects not only of
human but of all natural beauties, being the same in all ages, there is
no new discovery to be made in the matter ; and so, not seeing, or
caring to see, this, they cannot judge how near perfection in the attain
ment of this ideal the art of the past arrived, or how nearly it reached
the limits outside of which it is incapable of further development.

1872.]                   on Old Art and New Art.                         535
and, not feeling competent to discuss this point, willingly concede
to Greek art the achievement of a perfection for which they know
the crown has always been awarded to it. What they desire, in fact,
is an art which shall appeal more directly to minds incapable of
appreciating its more elevated characteristics; and this, they per
suade themselves, would be a higher development, because appealing
to a wider range—of what ?—not of sympathies, as they imagine,
but in truth, of minds incapable of wide sympathies. Moreover, the
argument that the progress of knowledge has given us new and
more varied themes for expression, and therefore tends to produce a
further development of art, must fall to the ground, unless it can be
shown that these themes are of a kind that lend themselves specially
to artistic treatment.
     The truth is, that any attempt to rival or surpass the chefs-d'oeuvre
 of the past must be made on the same conditions and in the same
 spirit that animated the producers of those great works. Were
 science to discover for us the cause of every natural phenomenon
 that exists, nay, were it to reach the final cause of life itself, the glow
 of the evening sky would be none the more or less beautiful, nor the
 grace of a child's movements one whit diminished or increased.
 These, indeed, are eternal beauties and unchangeable, and they are
 what the artist has to treat of; and though he may never be able to
 arrive at' the complete expression of them, he can see to the end of
 them, for they live for ever for his continued contemplation.
      I have no hesitation in saying that art has lost more than it has
 gained by our modern modes of thought and feeling, and that if it be
 asked why we cannot put away the traditions of the past, and work in
 the modern spirit, the answer is that the modern spirit is becoming
 daily more opposed to the artistic spirit, and is precisely what ham
 pers its expression ; that what is good in the art of to-day, is good in
 the same way, and for the same reasons, as the old is good ; that wc
 have no lights on the subject which were not also clear to the old
 masters, and that where we seem to have struck out a new path, we
 have only chosen one which they purposely and rightly rejected ;
 where we seem to have discovered a new truth, it proves to be one
 beside the question.
      Now there are, I think, two causes to be found for the immense
 difference in the aim and results of our modern work as compared
  with that of the ancients. I should have said rather that there are
 two ways in which the modern spirit is opposed to the artistic spirit ;
  and one of these is in a noble direction, and is due to the spread of a
  philosophy—I might almost call it a religion—which insists on the
  recognition of certain qualities, moral and Divine, inherent in ideas or
  impressions of beauty, which recognition is necessary on the part of
  the artist to the production of a high form of art. The second, or
  ignoble way, may be broadly stated as due to the fact, that artists,
 from motives of indolence or interest, have allowed themselves to be
  led by the opinion of the public, instead of being, as of old, indifferent

 536                        Professor Poynter                     [May 31.
to it, and themselves leading the way to a better appreciation on the
part of the public, of the capabilities of art.
     Now both these causes have curiously enough led to the same
result ; I mean they have both been instrumental in leading to a
prevalent belief that the imitation of nature, or perhaps I should say
tho record of his impressions of nature, is the aim and purpose of the
artist. It will be necessary, then, before going further, that we should
 inquire in what way and how far a mere imitation of nature may
result in a work of art. And, in speaking of imitation, I must be
understood to use the word in the sense of copying. Fuseli defines
tho difference between copying and imitation in this way : " Precision
of eye and obedience of hand are the requisites of the former, without
tho least pretence to choice, what to select, what to reject ; whilst
choice, directed by judgment or taste, constitutes the essence of imita
tion, and alone can raise the most dexterous copyist to the noble rank
of an artist." But it seems to me that it is impossible for on artist
not to choose what he is going to paint ; he may choose stupidly, but
a choice of some kind he must make, so with this difference I take his
definition of copying as what I mean by imitation.
     When I say that the belief of which I am speaking is a very pre
valent one, I judge not so much by what is said and written on the
matter as by the large quantity of merely imitative work which is to
be met with in our numerous art-exhibitions, and the amount of success
such work meets with. Now it is quite true that an imitation of
nature may be a work of art ; when at its best it calls forth all the
highest technical qualities of the painter, the qualities that distinguish
him as a painter from the poet who describes nature in another way.
     This precision of eye and obedience of hand requisite for the ren
dering of colour and form, include the whole art of painting, and are
found in perfection only in the work of the most highly-gifted artists ;
but they are distinctly only the painter's qualities and exclude the
mental. Moreover, being tho qualities which are necessary to his
existence as a painter, and without which he is nothing, they take the
lowest place among the artistic faculties. But the fact remains,
that a mere imitation of naturo—what is called realistic painting,
though I should be inclined to call it materialistic—(I have already
endeavoured to explain in a lecture on " Beauty and Idealism " how
a true realism is one of the highest forms of art) —the fact remains
that this imitative painting may be so admirably done as to become
of a high order of merit. It is the essence of portrait-painting,
though for a good portrait other qualities are doubtless required.
It is the essence also of landscape-painting, though for good land
scapes other qualities are required ; and it is all that is necessary
for still-life painting. But it is only the groundwork of ideal art,
and is akin to the language by which the poet expresses his thoughts.
It is, in fact, the language of art, and may bo used by the artist
for the three purposes following : it may be used to describe the
ordinary aspects of nature, and through the knowledge of these aspects

1872.J                     o/i Old Art and New Art.                      r,H7
to express his selection of what he considers host worth describing ;
and thirdly, to give form to his imagination, which is the result of the
selection and combination of the impressions he has received, the
strength of our imagination depending, according to Mr. Darwin, on
the strength and variety of our impressions, on the rapidity with which
they are conveyed to our mind, and our power of retaining and com
bining them. Mr. Buskin also explains the imaginative faculty in art
to be a certain mode of regarding or combining the ideas which the
mind has received from external nature ; so that is the highest art
which gives form to the imagination of the artist, not that which re
cords impressions received immediately from Nature herself; and this
 imaginative faculty in the hands of men of great genius is of a truly
creative kind, for is not the result of their combinations akin to the
creation of a new world for the enjoyment, intellectual and moral, of
 those who can appreciate their inspirations ? Has not Michael Angelo,
 indeed, created for us a new and superior order of beings, the gran
 deur of whom may indeed be felt but not defined, in whose honour
 writers have exhausted language in the attempt to give utterance to
 the emotion called up by his power; concerning whom Reynolds said,
 " I feel a self-congratulation in knowing myself capable of such sen
 sations as he intended to excite ;" of whom Fuseli wrote, " His women
 are moulds of generation, his infants teem with the man, his men are
 a race of giants :" and Ruskin, " His inexplicable power proceeds from
 an imaginative perception which is almost superhuman, which goes
 whither we cannot follow, and is where we cannot come ; throwing
 naked the final, deepest root of man, whereby he grows out of the in
 visible and holds on his God home ; " and again, he speaks of " tho
 troops of terror torn up from the earth by the four-quartered winds of
 the Judgment, making the hair stand up, and the words be few "—lan
 guage which indeed bears witness to the high nature of this creative
 power, for of none other could the like be used. So, then, the aim of
 all high art is—of all art (except that which professes to be portrai
 ture) should be—to create a world in which our imaginations should be
  excited to the contemplation of noble and beautiful ideas ; and in pro
  portion as it fails to do this, so does it diner from the great work of the
  old masters, who never had any aim but this. And here is the reason
  why I put landscape-painting in the second rank of art ; for though
  the impressions recorded be of the highest beauty, still it is but a
 record and, an imitation—an imitation, it is true, coming rather under
  the head of Fuseli's second definition, as "being directed by judg
  ment and taste "—an imitation most difficult of accomplishment, and
  requiring for its expression artistic skill of the highest order, on ac
  count of the subtle and fleeting effects which it is the delight and
  glory of the landscape-painter to recall to our minds. Of the same
  nature of this highest form of landscape is the more elevated form of
  portrait-painting, which aims at recording not only the features and
  costume, but all the noblest characteristics of the subject, but takes a
  second place as being a recording and not a creative art. Lower than

 5JJ8                        Profeisor Poynter                   [May 31,
 this mast be placed what is called still-life painting, and that kind of
 landscape which is of the matter-of-fact portrait kind ; these again,
 hewever beautiful the subject chesen for imitation may be, only appeal
 to us in so far as the subject in nature itself appeals to us, or pleases
 us according to the amount of technical skill displayed. Still lower
 again is that kind of realistic portrait-painting which we find in the
 modern French scheol, which presents a specious appearance of origi
 nality by ignoring the necessity for presenting the subject to us under
 an agreeable form, and so repels us in spite of an undoubted technical
 skilfulncss, to which kind of realism I am not sure that I do not
 prefer our own fashionable school of portrait, as shewing the faint tra
 dition of a desire to ennoble the subject by the treatment : while the
 basest degradation of the art is revealed in that brutal rendering of
 noble subjects in which the French realistic painters take especial
 delight, where with insolent bravado everything is done with a direct
 intention of disgusting us, as shewing the superior pretensions of an
 ignoble and ferocious nature over the purity and dignity with which
 such themes have been hitherto invested. Of this kind is the Salome
 of Regnault, which it is worth while to compare with the graceful
 treatment of the same figure by the early Italian painters. Nearly
on the same level, but not always so low, are the Dutch painters,
who treat us to gross representations of drunken scenes ; not so low,
because the pleasure in these things is merely stupid, and not cynical,
as with the French ; and sometimes, as in the case of Ostade (whe
does not always condescend to these subjects, but as often paints
for us the hemely pleasures of a contented, if somewhat degraded,
peasant life), there is a perception of the poetical beauty of glowing
light and softened and mysterious shade, and a delicate skill in
rendering them, which makes us forget the poverty and grossness of
the idea. Not so, hewever, in the same scenes as painted by Jan
Steen, whese remarkable power of rendering expression only adds to
his disgrace ; so that one may say that the better the art displayed in
the imitation the more base is the result.
    Now we shall find if we examine this rfoume of the various styles
of painting that they are all, with the exception of the higher kind of
portraiture, of a comparatively modern invention. They have all come
into practice since the end of the sixteenth century, up to which period
art rested on that high ground of which I have spoken, being of a purely
creative and ideal nature. They are, if you please, developments of
that high scheol, but they develop from a creative to an imitative art :
and as the creative necessarily includes the imitative (man being unable
to conceive of anything outside his experience of nature), they must bo
considered to have taken a lower ground. Nor can it be said to be a
new ground, for it is not to bo supposed that the Florentine and
Venetian pninters, who painted the landscape of their backgrounds
with such exquisite perception of the very essence of its beauty, never
painted landscape pure and simple for want of appreciation ; it was
because they felt it a degradation of their art that it sheuld rely

1872.]                        on Old Art and New Art.                      539
simply on its power of recalling impressions. Titian, indeed, has
left us pictures of almost pure landscape ; but they rather take the
form of studies, and are at- most but in the nature of a diversion from
Ms other and more serious work, being painted but occasionally out
of the fulness of his delight in the beauty of his native mountain
 scenery. And so of fruit and flower painting. There was no painter up
 to the end of the sixteenth century who would not have scorned to sit
 down to make a picture of a bunch of roses or a plate of peaches. In
 their beautiful ideal presentations of the infant Christ and His Virgin
 Mother they could conceive no more delightful manner of enriching
 their pictures with forms of beauty than by decorating them with
  garlands of fruit and flowers, and be sure they took as keen a pleasure
  in painting these most innocent beauties of nature as any still-life
  painter of the Dutch, French, or English schools. Herein, then, lies the
  difference between the old and new in art. A work of pure imitation
  j>er se was a thing unknown up to the end of the sixteenth century ; not
  because it did not occur to the sculptors and painters of the old world
  to produce such work, but because they rejected it as not worthy of
  consideration, knowing well that art means a different thing. Modern
   art—I mean that part of it which is modern in spirit—is content with
   recalling the impressions which all of us who have a few shreds of
   poetic sensibility receive from the more obvious beauties of nature,
   and in rendering what is purely beautiful finds its expression in that
   school of landscape-painting which has reached perhaps its highest
   point in some of Turner's best work—its lowest in the mass of still-
   life, flower, and fruit painting, of which I suppose William Hunt is
   the most refined and skilful exponent.
         With that phase of modern art which deals not with the beauty of
    nature, but its grossness or inanity, I for tho present have nothing to
    do            I have said there are two causes for the great difference to
    be found between ancient and modern art, a noble and an ignoble one.
    I will begin with the first; and it seems rather startling to say that an
    idea of a noble kind may also be of a kind to mislead ; but it is rather in
    the application of the idea to art, not in other considerations to which
    it gives rise, that the idea appears to me a fallacious one, and when I
    speak of a noble philosophy of art amounting almost to a religion,
    you cannot remain long under a misapprehension as to whom I mean
    by the exponent of this philosophy, or the prophet of this religion ;
    the name of Mr. Euskin cannot fail at once to occur to your minds.
    It is with no small amount of diffidence, I assure you, and with some
    misgiving, that I venture to differ from so gifted a writer and thinker,
    and especially on a point which he would, and indeed does, insist on
     as a vital one in all his teaching on art—with diffidence, for it is quite
     possible that I have missed his meaning, or do not see deeply enough
     into it, or that I have not grasped the whole of it—with misgiving, for
     he has the world enough against him already, and it may be, if indeed
     he is ever aware of the fact, a natural source of vexation to him to find
     that I, occupying a post analogous to his own, in which I am respon

540                         Professor Poynter                    [May 31,
sible for the nature of all the art teaching which may fall to my share,
so that my opinion in that sense must be considered of importance for
right or wrong, should hold on an important point of that teaching an
opinion different to his own. But I feel that this idea of his which I
am about to challenge leads to so much that is false in the art of this
country, to the production of so much of this merely recording work
as being the aim of the painter, that I boldly run whatever risk I may
in endeavouring to point out its fallacy. I may give it in his own
words, as set forth in the 6econd volume of 'Modern Painters,' where
he enunciates the whole of his theory of art ; and these are the words :
" I wholly deny that the impressions of beauty are in any way sensual ;
they are neither sensual nor intellectual, but moral." And again, in
a later work, ' The Crown of Wild Olive' : " No statement of mine has
been more earnestly and oftener contradicted than that good taste is
essentially a moral quality." So I can hardly be mistaken as to the
assertion, though, as I say, I may have failed to grasp the whole of his
meaning. And in the sentence before the first one I have quoted he
explains that " JBsthesis," or the sssthetic faculty, properly signifies
mere sensual perception of the outward qualities and necessary effects
of bodies, which, although true, slightly degrades the meaning of the
word eesthetic, which may surely be applied to our mental as well
as our sensual perceptions. It is also to be remarked that the word
sensual has come to be used in a lower meaning than (esthetic, as when
we speak of sensual pleasures we mean rather the pleasures by which
we gratify our lower appetites, so I prefer, for fear of misapprehension,
the word " aesthetic." Now, in insisting on the resthetic nature of our
ideas and impressions of beauty, I labour under the disadvantage
of appearing to abstract from them that elevated character which
Mr. Ruskin has ascribed to them in his chapter on typical beauty.
But observe, I do not in any way deny the truth—the philosophical
truth—of this view of ideas of beauty ; I only say it is beside the ques
tion, and may easily lead to false conclusions with regard to art. It
is not that I hold the error to lie in the assertion of the moral
qualities of beauty, but in the inference that the perception of those
qualities is essential to the production of a true work of art, and that
all good art has been produced under the influence of this perception.
I can, indeed, conceive of no writing more calculated to elevate our
moral and intellectual nature than the chapters in which Mr. Ruskin
treats of the different forms of beauty as types of the Divine attributes,
and not only these chapters, but the whole of his works from beginning
to end set before us more exalted conceptions of the beauty and sub
limity of nature than has ever been presented to us in words, amount
ing, as I have said, almost to the setting forth of a new religion
of the purest and noblest type. But it is to me impossible not to feel
throughout that the theoretic qualities are not inherent in forms of
beauty, but exist in the mind of the spectator, and that the apprecia
tion of those qualities may therefore be equally excited by any art
which professes to represent them. For, l>c it observed, if the testhetic

1872.]                  on Old Art and New Art.                      541
nature of these impressions be excluded, the seeing power of the artist,
which is distinctly his aesthetic faculty, as distinguishing him from
those who cannot receive impressions of beauty, iB excluded also ; in
which case the earnest intention of the painter, his intense love of
nature, his profound veneration and affection for the moral beauties
to be found in the most trivial of God's works, may easily lead him
to the belief that as long as he devotes himself to the imitation of
these works he is setting forth the glory of the Creator in a better
way than if he used his powers for the purpose of selection and com
bination. " Let the young artist beware of the spirit of choice :
it is an insolent spirit at best," says Mr. Buskin, as a sequel to
saying that "if we can only admiro this thing or that, wo may be
sure that our cause for liking it is of a finite and false nature." He
must pardon mo if I think that not only here, but throughout his
works, he has not sufficiently separated two ideas; the faculty by
which we may all derive a moral benefit from a humble contemplation
of the infinite beauties and wonders of creation, from that artistic
faculty which frames for us and forces upon us the perception and
appreciation of those generic beauties which are not obvious to the
unexercised mind. Ideas of beauty are doubtless capable of giving
us a more elevated understanding of the nature of this world and this
life the more they illustrate to us the naturo of God, and so may have
an ennobling effect on our whole moral nature ; but this is beside the
question when we are considering them in relation to art, when we
have to decide not what excites in us the highest religious or moral
emotions, but how far the art is capable of conveying these emotions
to our mind ; so that we must admit the aesthetic or sensual nature of
ideas of beauty, or we should have to admit that the man in whom
they excite the most rapturous emotions is of necessity the greatest
artist, rather than he who is distinguished by his perceptive gift. An
artist, indeed, may possess his enthusiasm for beauty in this theoretic
form, but how is he to explain in his work that this is the case ? It is
doubtless easy to answer that the artist who enjoys this high moral
perception of beauty must show it in his work if his art is good ; but
this leaves it open to tho spectator to assert that that art is not good
in which he can perceive no traces of this emotion, and thus wo come
back to the original proposition that the moral qualities of beauty
exist only, in the mind of the beholder, who can supply them to any
work of art which he considers to set forth these beauties most clearly.
Now I think if I have put my argument satisfactorily (and I am not
at all sure that I have done so) you will begin to perceive how these
ideas may lead to that kind of art which I have explained as being
rather of a recording and imitative than of a creativo nature.
    The beauty of nature is very much more obvious in certain aspects
and in some objects than in others ; for ono man who has the aesthetic
faculty of being pleasurably affected by the beautiful forms and pro
portions of the Milo Venus, or Michael Angelo's Slave, or rather by
the subtle distinctions of line which in naturo go to make the dif-
    Vol. VI. (No. 57.)                                         2p

542                         Professor Poynter                     [May 31,
 ferenco between a form of high beanty and one that is of a mean or
 vulgar kind (the true aesthetic faculty this), there are a hundred who
 can feel the glory of a sunset, or the exquisite beauty of an anemone ;
 and as the moral qualities of a typical beauty are set forth to the
mind which can see them as gloriously in these last as in the first, it
 is not difficult for an artist to persuade himself that he is doing the
most earnest and right-minded work in endeavouring humbly and
patiently to imitate those beauties to the utmost of his power, and so
 convoy to others the emotions that he feels : nay, he may go farther ;
 he may persuade himself that there is nothing else worth doing, and
that this work alone is of pure and spiritual nature, all other being
sensuality, and therefore demoralizing, so that, like the ascetics of old,
there is no kind of work too humble for him to devote himself to :
 or what is worse than this (for work done really in earnest and with
 a spirit of patience has always in it something of value, and I may
 add parenthetically, that no good work can ever be done without this
spirit), the spectator may well imagine that the mind of the painter
who laboriously produces for us again and again bunches of primroses
and violets, is actuated by this earnest feeling and in possession of
this high theoretic faculty, while indeed he has only been exerting his
 technical skill, and what amount of (esthetic faculty he may possess ;
nay, more, who has been but exercising just so much of his faculties
as will enable him to make money in the quickest and readiest way.
 Thus it is quite possible for such a theorist, if himself destitute of the
rosthotic perception, to exalt bad and fantastic work over good if he
imagines it to give a higher expression to the typical nature of
beauty ; so that the critic who is not offended by the crude and
 discordant yellow and blue of one of Turner's later sunset pictures,
may yet believe that he finds in it a deeper perception of the infinity
and purity of the evening sky, than in his earlier and more soberly
harmonious representations, and bo ascribe to it an artistic value which
it does not possess. Or it is not impossible for him to exalt in this
way the birds' nests of William Hunt over the mighty conceptions of
Michael Angelo and Phidias, if he imagines he perceives this earnest
purism in the one and not in the others.
     And in proof of this possibility we have only to look at the
amount of artistic talent that is spent on painting little groups of
flowers and fruit, or small landscape studies that might be developed
into something better if the artist did not stop short with the idea,
brought about by this train of thought, that he is doing the lightest
work. It is not, indeed, Mr. Buskin's fault that a noble theory has
led to such poor results, for it is the misfortune of all great ideas
that they degenerate most easily into cant ; in illustration of which
point I may relate an instance which has come under my own notice
of a person who, on visiting an artist's studio, and having been shown
pictures and designs of no mean order of beauty, begged to be allowed
to see somo of his " earnest work, his studies of leaves and flowers."
    If, thon, I have made myself clear, I shall bo understood to have

 1872.]                 07! Old Art and New Art.                      543
 said that the idea must be expressed in a work of art, and not merely
exist in the mind of the artist, or bo supplied by that of the behelder ;
that the moral nature of beauty is of a kind that cannot be expressed
in painting or sculpture, and that therefore as far as art is concerned,
ideas of beauty are, and must be, purely aesthetic, and that the theory
of the moral nature of beauty is not only calculated to lead criticism
astray when the aesthetic faculty is wanting, but may even induce an
indifference on the part of the artist to higher forms of beauty than
these which are at once obvious to the uneducated mind. Now, I will
not stop to discuss another point in Mr. Raskin's writings bearing
on this subject, and to some extent akin to it, but in reality of a
different character. I mean the idea which runs througheut his
works of the necessity for a right state of moral feeling, not only in
the producers, but in a nation or epoch, as essential to the appreciation
and production of a noble and beautiful art. But I may remark that
even if it can be shewn that the best art has always arisen out of a
pure state of national faith and domestic virtuo, it does not follow
that these conditions will always produce good art ; if the aesthetic
qualities be absent they certainly never will, and I can imagine no
condition of national virtue which could cram ideas of beauty into
the head of an average Englishman or Scotchman ; but as far as
regards the artist himself, it appears to me unquestionable that the
aesthetic faculties being in two instances equal, there will be no
comparison between the art of a man of a pure and noblo mind and
one of a mean and sordid nature. Indeed, the very highest artistic
gifts seem to imply also a noble and healthy moral condition.
Michael Angelo was himself one of the most simple and high-minded
of men, incapable of any act of meanness, and wo sheuld find, I think,
on examination that all the truly great artists and poets have been of
the same nature. . . .
    I have described the second cause as arising from the fact that
artists from motives of indolence or interest have allowed themselves
to be led by the public, instead of, as old, taking the lead in forming
the public taste. . . . And here, I may quote a saying of Sir J.
Reynolds as being to the point : " It is certain that the lowest stylo
will be the most popular as it comes within the compass of ignorance
itself; and the vulgar will always be pleased with what is natural
in the confined and misunderstood sense of the word." And again,
" In the inferior parts of the art the learned and the ignorant are
nearly on a level;" so with this autherity, I feel in a position to
repeat my original assertion that modern art has struck out for itself
a path which the ancients disdained to follow, and has developed
itself in the direction which no genuine artist or man of taste would
ever wish to see it developed, having lowered itself to the appreciation
of a class of patrons and admirers unknown to the artists of the old
world. . . .
    If, then, we are to look forward to the more general production
of a class of art of that high creativo kind which I have dwelt on,
                                                            2 p 2

 5U                     General Monthly Meeting.                   | June 3,
 and which is at present decidedly in the minority in this land (though
  I must confess that I think there is a decided move in the right
 direction, and a desire for something of a more serious kind), we
 must, I think, in the first place, try not to encumber our minds with
 ideas, but rely on the cultivation of our perceptive faculties to show
 us the high beauties that lie beneath the surface of nature ; and we
 shall then get rid of the notion that little pictures of fruit and flowers
 and landscape are anything more than studies to help us in the
 execution of better work, or to be done from time to time as mementos
 of some especially delightful aspect of nature in form or colour ; and
 we must above all study the works of the great masters of antiquity.
 " Study the great works of the great masters," says Reynolds, " for
 ever. Study nature attentively, but always with those masters in your
 company ; consider them as models which you are to imitate, and at
 the same time as rivals with whom you are to contend." ....
                                                               [E. J. P.]
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, June 3, 1872.
      The Earl of Rossb, B.A. D.C.L. V.P.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                Charles Edward Beevor, Esq.
               Frederick John Blake, Esq.
                Maurice Barnard Byles, Esq.
               C. F. Hancock, Esq. B.A.
               George Augustus Huddart, Esq.
               Joshua G. Kershaw, Esq.
               Henry Samuel King, Esq.
               Athol Maudslay, Esq.
               Mrs. Ciccopiere St. Clair.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Managers reported that they had appointed William Ruthbb-
ford, M.D. F.R.S.E. Fullerian Professor of Physiology.
     The special thanks of tho Members wore returned to Sib Hknby
Holland, Bart., the President, for his fourteenth Annual Donation of
Forty Pounds.

1872.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                          545
     The Presents received since the last Meoting wero laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FROM
The French Government—Collections de Documents ineVlits sur l'Histoire de France.
      1™ Serie : Histoire Politique : Lettres du Cardinal Mazariu. Ed. M. Cheruel.
     Tome L 4to. 1872.
Accademia dei Lincei Reale—Atti. Tomo XXIV. 4to. 1871.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 172. 8vo. 1871.
   Proceedings, 1871. Nos. 12, 13. 1872. Part 1. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXII. No. 7. 1872.
Bell, I. Lothian, Esq. (the Author)—Chemical Phonomena of Iron Smelting. 8vo.
     1872.
Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society—Journal, No. 27. 8va 1872.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1871-2. Nos. 9, 10. 4to.
Browning, Ernst, Esq. il.R.I. (the Author)—Exposition of the Laws of Marriage
     and Divorce. 8vo. 1872.
Browning, George, Esq.—Footprints. Poems translated and original. 16ma 1871.
Chemical Society—Journal for May. 1872. 8vo.
Comitate Geologico d'ltalia—Bollettini. 1872. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. Firenze.
Edinburgh Royal Observatory—Astronomical Observations, Vol. XIII. (1860-9).
     4to. 1871.
Editors—Academy for May, 1872. 4to.
   American Journal of Science for April, 1872. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for May, 1872. 4to.
   Chemical News for May, 1872. 4to.
   Engineer for May, 1872. 4to.
   Food Journal for May, 1872. 4to.
   Horological Journal for May, 1872. 8vo.
   Journal of Gas Lighting for May, 1872. 4to.
   Mechanics' Magazine for May, 1872. 8vo.
   Nature for May, 1872.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for May, 1872. 8vo.
  Photographic News for May, 1872. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 556. 8vo. 1872.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 67. 8vo. 1871.
   Proceedings, 1871-2. 8vo.
London Institution—Journal, No. 15. 8vo. 1872.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 2. 8vo. 1872.
Noyes, Edward F. Esq. Governor of Ohio—Geological Survey of Ohio. Report
     for 1870. 8vo. 1871.
Phetographic Society—Journal, No. 233. 8vo. 1872.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Feb. 1872. 8vo.
Roberts, W. Chandler, Esq. M.R.I.—Second Annual Report of the Deputy-Master
     of the Mint. 8vo. 1872.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 134. 8vo. 1872.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author) —Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     May, 1872. . 8vo.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 66. 8vo. 1 872.
Zoological Society of Ijondon—Transactions, Vol. VII. Parts 7, 8. Vol. VIII.
     Part 1. 4to. 1872.
  Proceedings for 1871, Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1872.

546                         Professor Odling                      [June 7,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, June 7, 1872.
     Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
                       Professor Odung, F.R.S.
                         On the History of Ozone.
The most important points in the history of ozone are the following :
I. Its recognition as a distinct variety of matter or substance, by
Schonbein in 1840. II. An inquiry into its nature, made by Marignac
in 1845, whereby it was established that the action of ozone on various
substances results simply in their oxidation. III. The evidence of
different kinds, accumulated by many observers during a period
extending from 1845 to 1863, that the matter of ozone is identical
with the matter of oxygen. IV. The demonstration by Andrews and
Tait in 1860, that ozone is a condensed form of oxygen. V. The
recognition by Andrews and Tait in 1860, and interpretation by the
speaker in 1861, of the singular fact that, in certain cases, the removal
of its constituent ozone from a mixture of ozone and oxygen is un
attended by any alteration in the volume of the gas, notwithstanding
the considerable oxidation effected by it. VI. The study of the
quantitative reactions of ozone by Brodie in 1872 ; and his establish
ment of the relationship of ozone to ordinary oxygen, in corroboration
of some less exact results obtained by Soret in 1865, as also of a sug
gestion made by the speaker in 1861.
                                   L
    Ozone was discovered by Schonbein, in 1840, when experimenting
with the then newly-invented battery of Sir Wm. Grove,—an instru
ment still recognized as yielding a current superior, in respect of joint
quantity and intensity, to the current yielded by any other electro
motor available for general use. Ozone was recognized by Schonbein
successively, as a minute constituent of the oxygen gas resulting from
the electrolysis of water effected by a current of high tension ; as a
minute constituent of air or oxygen through which electric discharges
have taken place ; and as a minute constituent of air in which moist
phosphorus has been undergoing slow oxidation. To Schonbein then
is due the great merit of recognizing ozone as a distinct form of
matter, having an identity of its own by whatsoever means prepared—

  1872.]                 on the History of Ozone.                      547
 as also the merit of discovering the most important means for the
 production of ozone, and of establishing its principal properties and
 reactions.
      The general properties of ozone are these of an active oxygenant.
 Thus, like chlorine and peroxide of nitrogen, it bleaches colouring
 matters, corrodes fabrics, tarnishes or otherwise attacks metals, and
 liberates iodine from iodide of potassium. Its special properties aro
 its characteristic pungent odour, its destructibility by a moderate heat,
 and its non-manifestation of any acidulous reaction.
                                     n.
     The nature of ozone was at first the subject of much speculation,
 Schonbein inclining to the view that it was a new elementary body, and
 a component of nitrogen. But in 1845, Marignac, in a series of most
 exact experiments, made partly in association with De la Rive, brought
 the question as to the nature of ozone within a very narrow compass.
 The experiments of these investigators, in which they established,
 among other points, that by exposnro to the action of ozone, moist
silver was converted simply into oxide of silver, and iodide of potassium
into its oxidized form of iodate of potash, were susceptible only of one
 or other of two interpretations—either the interpretation which they
 themselves put on their results, that the matter of ozone is identical
 with the matter of oxygen—or, else the interpretation put on their
 results by Schonbein, that ozone is constituted of oxygen plus the
 elements of water, or in other words, that it is a peroxide of hydrogen.
 For a long time, experiment seemed quite incompetent to decide
 between these two views—opposite conclusions being arrived at almost
 alternately by the different investigators engaged on the inquiry.
 Corroboration, hewever, if any wore needed, of the fact that ozone
 is really formed from oxygen itself with or witheut water, and not
 from any trace of nitrogen or other foreign matter that might possibly
 bo present, was afforded by a remarkable experiment conducted by
 Fremy and Becquerel in 1853, being, indeed, the first recorded quan
 titative experiment made with ozone. By passing a long series of
electric discharges through a given volume of oxygen standing over an
 aqueous solution of iodide of potassium, Messrs. Fromy and Becquerel
 succeeded in causing the whele of this oxygen to assume the form of
 ozone ; as was shewn by its ultimate complete absorption by the
 solution, with correlative liberation of iodine from the dissolved iodide
 of potassium.
     The difficulty experienced in these early days of making out the
real nature of ozone—of ascertaining whether it is a form of oxygen
or a peroxide of hydrogen—depended mainly on the very small degreo
to which it was then possible to charge air or oxygen with the ozone
to be examined, and on the necessity for the exclusive employment in
the investigation of apparatus in which neither metal nor organic
matter was present for the ozono to react with. The apparatus had

548                           Professor Odling                   [June 7,
consequently to be constructed entirely of glass, and all the junctions
to be made before the blow-pipe or by grinding. Now-a-days, by
improvements in the metheds of conducting the processes of electriza
tion and electrolysis, it is possible to charge oxygen with ozone in very
considerable proportion ; while by means of paraffin, a substance ou
which ozone is witheut recognizable Rction, junctions of the glass
apparatus employed may be made and unmade with the greatest
facility.
                                     III.
     Assuming the ozone furnished by the three principal processes for
its production to be one and the same substance, it was not until the
year 1863 that the absolute freedom of ozone from any proportion of
hydrogen was so definitely established as not to allow of any further
question. In this year, Soret shewed that altheugh ozonized oxygen
obtained by electrolysis, after having been desiccated as theroughly as
possible, frequently yielded some water as a product of its decompo
sition by heat, yet that when certain precautions were taken, and cer
tain sources of error in the production and collection of the electrolytic
oxygen were recognized and avoided, a uniformly negative result was
obtained, and not a trace of moisture or other compound of hydrogen
resulted from the decomposition by heat of the ozone present in the
oxygen.
    This conclusion of Soret's was confirmatory both of the previous
result of Andrews with regard also to electrolytically obtained ozone,
and of the yet earlier result of Schonbein himself with regard to the
ozono obtained by the slow oxidation of moist phospherus. For in
opposition to the view enunciated first by himself, and in seeming
discrepancy with the undoubted fact that for the production of ozone
by means of phespherus the presence of moisture is essential,
Schonbein, in 1849, shewed by repeated experiment, that when ordi
nary air in quantities of several hundred litres, ozonized as strongly
as possible by its passage over moist phesphorus, was transmitted first
through a desiccating tube, then through a tube heated to 400°, so as
to effect the destruction of the ozone present, and finally through
another desiccating tube to absorb any moisture that might result
from the destruction of the ozone, this last desiccating tube did
not shew, by an increase of weight or other change, any absorption of
moisture whatever, notwithstanding the largeness of the absolute
quantity of ozone destroyed in the experiment. From this time forth,
Schonbein abandoned the notion of hydrogen being a constituent of
ozone ; and while making a valid distinction between his own view and
that of Marignac and De la Rive, admitted with them that the matter
of ozone is identical with the matter of oxygen. These last-named
investigators, in their research already referred to (1845), shewed that
perfectly dry oxygen, submitted to the influence of electric discharges,
experienced an alteration of character, whereby it acquired the pro
perty of liberating iodine from moist iodide of potassium,—a result

1872.]                    on the History of Ozone.                    549
afterwards confirmed by Freniy and Beequerel. But they did not
regard this alteration of character as due to the formation in small
proportion of a new substance within the mass of oxygen, but rather
to the assumption by the mass of oxygen of a peculiar electric con
dition. Moreover, the fact of dry oxygen being capable of some
modification by the action of electric discharges, coupled with the
fact of the inability of the so modified oxygen to act upon iodide of
potassium save in the presence of water, was not inconsistent with
the notion of this modified oxygen having to unite with water in order
to produce a compound identical with the ozone obtained immediately
from moist or watery reagents. That the effect of electrical dis
charges, and more particularly of the silent discharge, on perfectly
dry oxygen, is really to convert a small proportion of this oxygen
into ozone identical with that furnished by electrolysis, and capable
of acting upon certain substances, as mercury and iodine, when
 in the dry state, and on certain other substances, as iodide of potas
 sium and metallic silver, only when in the moist state, was first put
 beyond question by Andrews and Tait, in a research next to be
 considered.
                                    IV..
    In the spring of 1860, Dr. Andrews and Prof. Tait made a joint
communication to the Royal Society on the volumetric relations of
ozone. The primary object of this research was to ascertain whether
any, and if so what, alteration of volume took plnco in the conversion
of a given quantity of oxygen into ozone. They thus attacked the
problem from an entirely new point of view, and, with admirably
directed pains and skill, succeeded in making probably the most
important contribution hitherto made to an exact knowledge of the
nature of the ozone. In their experiments, a quantity of perfectly pure
and dry oxygen, contained in a straight glass tube with a pressure-
gauge appendix, was ozonized by moans of the silent electric discharge
passed through the gas for some time. Coincidcntly with the passage
of the silent discharge through it, the quantity of gas contained in
the glass tube was observed to undergo a marked contraction in
volume. This contraction proceeded at first rapidly, but afterwards
more slowly, till it attained a limit which, in one of their experiments,
was estimated at one-twelfth the original volume of the gas. And as
whenever the gas, contracted in this manner, was examined, it was found
to bo proportionately ozonic, the general fact was established that the
production of ozone from ordinary oxygen is attended with a con
traction in volume. The converse result was also obtained. It was
found that when oxygen, contracted by the passage of the electric
discharge, was exposed for a short time to the temperature of 270°-300°,
it was restored to its original volume. And as whenever the gas,
re-expanded in this manner, was examined, it was found to be free from
ozone, the general fact was established that the conversion of ozone
into ordinary oxygen is attonded with an expansion in volume. And

  550                          Professor Odling                    [June 7,
   this alternate contraction of a given quantity of oxygen by exposure
  to prolonged electrization, with production of ozone, and re-expansion
  of the gas to its original volume by exposure to a temporary heat,
  with destruction of ozone, could be repeated an indefinite number of
  times. Now the only possible conclusion to be drawn from these
  experiments would appear to be that, the matter of ozone being
  identical with the matter of oxygen, ozone is oxygen in a denser
  form,—that is to say, in the form of a more complex unit Some years
  afterwards, this conclusion was confirmed in a very interesting manner
  by Professor Tyndall, in the case of ozone obtained electrolytically.
  He found that the absorptivity for radiant heat of electrolytically
  obtained oxygen, when rich in ozone, was upwards of a hundred times
  greater than that of ordinary oxygen—a result indicating ozone to have
  a more complex molecular constitution, and consequently a greater
  density, than ordinary oxygen. Moreover, after this same electro
  lytically obtained and richly ozonic oxygen had been subjected to the
 action of heat, so as to have its ozonic character destroyed, it then
 exhibited merely the absorptivity for heat of ordinary oxygen,—the
 observed absorptivity not going at all beyond that of ordinary oxygen,
 as would have been the case if the ozone originally present in the
 electrolytic gas had been decomposed into ordinary oxygen and
 aqueous vapour.
      Referring to the statement already made, that in Messrs. Andrews
 and Tait's experiments, the oxygen gas, more or less contracted by the
 electric discharge, was found to be proportionately ozonic, this point
 was ascertained in the following way :—A small thin glass bulb,
 containing a solution of iodide of potassium, was introduced into the
 oxygen-holding tube, prior to its being filled with the gas ; which, after
 having been more or less contracted by the process of electrization,
 was next submitted to the action of the solution, released on the
 breaking, effected by concussion, of the small bulb wherein it was
 contained. And on estimating the quantity of iodine set free from
 the iodide of potassium solution by its reaction with the contracted
 gas, it was found to be the exact chemical equivalent of a weight of
 oxygen equal in volume to the amount of contraction which the
 original gas had experienced during the process of electrization ; so
 that if in the process of electrization, there had been one, two, or
 three cubic centimetres of contraction, the quantity of iodine liberated
was chemically equivalent to tho weight of one, two, or three cubic
centimetres of oxygen ; whence it results that to ascertain the iodine-
titre of the ozonized gas is to learn the contraction of the original
gas effected by its electrization, or the correlative expansion of tho
electrized gas effected by its exposure to heat. In the case also of
electrolytically obtained ozonized oxygen, it was shown firstly by
Andrews and Tait, and subsequently by Soret, that the iodine-titre of
the gas is tho measure of its expansion by heat, consequent on the
conversion of its constituent ozone into ordinary oxygen.

1872.]                    on the History of Ozone.                    551
                                     V.
    It has just been remarked that in the action of the contracted gas
on iodide of potassium solution, there is absorbed by the reagent, with
equivalent liberation of iodine, a weight of oxygen corresponding
to a volume equal to that of the original contraction ; but very
curiously, the absorption by the reagent of this weight of oxygen from
the contracted gas was found by Messrs. Andrews and Tait not to
produce any further contraction or alteration of its volume ; or the
weight of oxygen which acted on the iodido of potassium solution
appeared to occupy no part of the volume of the contracted gas, its
removal from the contracted gas by means of the reagent not effecting
any alteration in that volume. Since this remarkable result was first
announced by Messrs. Andrews and Tait in 1860, it has been abun
dantly confirmed by von Babo and Claus, by Soret, and by Sir Ben
jamin Brodie—the modes of experimenting adopted in the original
investigation of Andrews and Tait and in the three subsequent inves
tigations, being all different from ono another. And moreover, not only
has the fact been established by the four several investigations with
regard to iodide of potassium, but by one or other of the investigations
with regard also to iodine, to mercurous salts, to ferrous salts, to
arsenites, and to ferrocyanides. So that, when a given volume of
ozonized oxygen is allowed to act upon these different oxidizable
bodies, the oxidation effected by the ozone present in the gas is found
to be unattended by any diminution in the volume of the gas. An
interpretation of this singular result was put forward by the speaker
soon after the publication of Messrs. Andrews and Tait's experiments,
to the following effect : Ozone being proved to be a condensed form
of oxygen, it is clear that any volume of ozone will contain a greater
weight of the matter of oxygen than is contained in the same volume
of ordinary oxygen. And since in the action of ozone upon iodide of
potassium, the volume of the reacting gas does not undergo any alter
ation, it is obvious that the oxidation effected must be effected by only
so much of the matter of oxygen contained in the volume of ozone,
as is in excess of the matter of oxygen contained in the same volume
of ordinary oxygen. This interpretation, so far as it went, was con
sidered to be demanded by Messrs. Andrews and Tait's experiments,
as the only satisfactory explanation of them. With regard to the
weight of the matter of oxygen contained in a given volume of ozone,
in excess of the weight of the matter of oxygen contained in the same
volume of ordinary oxygen, no data whatever existed to shew what
this weight really is. But relying upon the fact that the weight of
oxygen contained in a standard volume of free oxygen is composed of
two simple weights of the matter of oxygen, it was conjectured that the
weight of oxygen contained in a standard volume of ozone might not
improbably be constituted by an introduction into the standard volume
of ordinary oxygen of another simple weight of oxygen—equal volumes
of ozone, free oxygon, and nitric oxide, for example, being expressiblo

 552                         Professor Odling                      [June 7,
 by the comparable formulaB 0„ Oj, and NO respectively. In accordance
 with this supposition, the action of ozonized gas upon iodide of potas
 sium, &c, is explicable as follows :—The ozone which acts is decom
 posed into a weight of free oxygen equal in volume to the volume of
 the ozone, and into another weight of absorbed oxygen, assumed to be
 one-half of the former weight. The suggestion as to the standard
 volume of ozone being constituted thus of three simple weights of
 the matter of oxygen, was admittedly not a necessary deduction from
 the then known facts, which were indeed equally consistent with its
 being constituted of four, five, or six such weights ; it was only the
 suggestion of the simplest possible constitution for ozone that was
 consistent with the facts.
     A few years afterwards, in 1865-66, the probability of this being
 the real constitution of ozone was much strengthened by the results
 of some experiments conducted by Soret. Operating by a process very
 simple and ingenious, but scarcely calculated to afford precise results,
 Soret found that when electrolytically obtained ozonized oxygen was
 allowed to act upon oil of turpentine, the absorption of the ozone by
 the turpentine was attended by a diminution in the volume of the gas
 equal approximatively to twice the initial contraction,—as inferred, of
 course, from the iodine-titre of the. ozonized gas, or from its per
 manent expansion after exposure to a temporary heat. Supposing the
 final diminution effected by the turpentine to have been exactly twice
 the initial contraction, inferred from the iodine-titre, it is clear, that
 while the original gas would have suffered altogether a diminution of
 three volumes, the ozonized gas would have suffered a diminution of
 only two volumes. Or there would have been ultimately abstracted
from the original uncontracted gas three volumes of the matter of
oxygen, occupying in the contracted or ozonized gas, submitted to the
action of the turpentine, only the bulk of two volumes. But as a
mean result of Soret's first set of five experiments, the final diminution
effected by the turpentine was 2 * 40 tunes the original contraction ;
while, as a mean result of his second set of seven experiments, the
final diminution was 1 * 81 times the original contraction. Assuming,
however, ozone to have the constitution expressed by the symbol 0„
its specific gravity, and consequently its diffusion-velocity, would
approximate closely to the specific gravity and diffusion-velocity of car
bonic acid gas, C02 ; and in 1867, Soret, in corroboration of his pre
vious absorption results, satisfied himself that the diffusion-velocity
of ozone really does approximate very closely to that of carbonic acid.
                                     VI.
     During the last few years, the quantitative reactions of ozone have
been made tho subject of an elaborate study by Sir Benjamin Brodie,
whoso results constitute indeed " a body of exact information as to the
chemical properties of ozone, through which it may be hoped that
this important question will bo finally removed from the domain of

1872.]                    on the History of Ozone.                   553
arbitrary speculation and brought within the precincts of science."
In Brodie's experiments, a quantity of pure perfectly dry oxygen, after
having been submitted to electrization by its passage through a
modified form of Siemens' induction tube, carefully maintained at
a low temperature, was collected in an oil of vitriol gas-holder, to the
amount of four or five thousand cubic centimetres. From the store
of ozonized gas thus collected, which was found to maintain its pro
portion of ozone without appreciable deterioration for some hours,
portion after portion was allowed to pass into a pipette of about
250 c.c. capacity, by displacement of the oil of vitriol originally
filling it ; and successive equal volumes of the store of ozonized gas
so measured off, were submitted one after another to the action of the
same or of different reagents, by the passage of each pipetteful of gas
through a small bulb-tube containing the reagent in solution. The
gas, freed from all ozone by its passage through the reagent, was next
received into a mercurial measuring cylinder, in which it was ex
panded to a definite volume ; and then, by reading off the pressure at
which it occupied this volume, its proper volume was ascertained.
 Finally, the difference between the capacity of the pipette and tho
 volume obtained in the mercurial cylinder showed the volume of
 tho gas absorbed by the reagent,—the weight of this gas being
 determined directly or indirectly by titrations of the reagent. Of
 course, very many points of detail in the construction and use of
 the apparatus had to be attended to, in order to ensure trustworthy
 results ; but, both in its principle and general working, the process is
 exceedingly simple. One essential novelty consists in the application
 of that very useful instrument, the pipette, to the purposes of gas
 analysis; and by its aid, results having a degree of accuracy far
 greater than those furnished by any previous method of ozone investi
 gation, were found to be obtainable with both speed and facility.
     Operating, then, with the apparatus just described, Brodie has
 succeeded in establishing three perfectly definite classes of ozone-
 reactions,—the first of them including the instances previously made
 known by Andrews and Tait. In this first class of reactions, of
 which there are several distinct varieties, the absorption or decom
 position of the ozone present in a mixture of ozone and oxygen, is
 unattended by any diminution in the volume of the gas ; or a volume
 of ozone O2 +x, is resolved into an equal volume of free oxygen, and an
 indefinite weight of other oxygen, either absorbed or set free. This
 class of reactions accordingly does not afford any information as to
 the value of x, or, in other words, as to the relationship of tho
 formula O2 + 1 to the formula O2.
                        Unit-volumes.
                     O* + ' = 0» + x 0 absorbed.
     In a second class of reactions, the absorption or decomposition of
 the ozone present in a mixture of ozone and oxygen, is attended with

 554                              Professor Odling             I [June 7,
 a diminution in the volume of the gas, equal to half the volume that
 the weight of oxygen absorbed would occupy in the free state. In
 this class of reactions, then, ono of but two occurrences must happen:
 either the ozone present in the mixture of gases, is absorbed whelly
 witheut decomposition, in which case the density of ozone must be
 twice that of ordinary oxygen, and the formula 02+' become O*; or
 the ozone present in the mixture, is decomposed into half its volume
 of oxygen liberated, and into a quantity of oxygon, corresponding
 to its entire volume, absorbed ; in which case the density of ozone
 must be one-and-a-half that of ordinary oxygen, and the formula
 O2 + ' become O3.
                         Unlt-voll
                        O* + * = nil +
                    2 (0* + *) = 0» +
    In a third class of reactions, the absorption or decomposition of
the ozone present in a mixture of ozone and oxygen, is attended with
a diminution in volume of the gas, equal to two-thirds the volume
that the weight of oxygen absorbed would occupy in the free state ; or
the weight of the gas absorbed is to the weight of an equal volume
of oxygen as 3 to 2. But consistently with this class of reactions,
the density of ozone must necessarily be one-and-a-half times that of
ordinary oxygen, and the formula O, + * must become Oj.
                                               + 3 0.
    This last and most important class of reactions, by which the
formula of ozone as Oj, is put beyond question, was established by
a long series of experiments, made chiefly with a neutral or but
slightly alkaline solution of hyposulphite of soda, and in a few
cases with oil of turpentine. As a result, the ratio of the entire
diminution in volume suffered by the original oxygen, to the dimi
nution in volume of the electrized or contracted oxygen effected by
the reagent, was found to be, as a mean of twenty-seven concordant
experiments made with the hyposulphite, 3 - 02 to 2 - 02 ; and as a
mean of eight concordant experiments made with the turpentine,
also as 3 - 02 to 2 - 02. But neither with the hyposulphite nor with the
turpentine, coidd the weight of oxygen absorbed by the reagent bo
determined, otherwise than by a calculation from the alteration in
volume of the gas. A direct determination, hewever, was effected in
the caso of a few experiments made with protochloride of tin, under
conditions carefully considered and regulated so as to ensure a
trustworthy result. And it was found, in these few experiments, that
the weight of the matter of oxygen absorbed from the ozonized gas by
the tin-salt, was almost exactly three times the weight of the matter
of oxygen absorbed from the same gas by iodide of potassium,— the
volumo occupied by the weight of oxygen absorbed by the tin-salt

1872.]                    on the History of Ozone.                   555
being almost exactly twice the volume proper to the weight of oxygen
absorbed by the iodide of potassium.
     Independently of the importance attaching to the actual deter
mination of the density of ozone, Sir B. Brodie's result has a further
interest for chemists, which it would be difficult to exaggerate. The
principal of the elementary bodies, known to chemists in the gaseous
or vaporous state, are hydrogen, chlorine and its congeners, oxygen,
sulphur, nitrogen, phosphorus, arsenic, mercury, and cadmium. Now
it is a fact that the weight of phosphorus or arsenic contained in any
volume of phosphorus or arsenic vapour, is four times the weight
of phosphorus or arsenic contained in the same volume of phos-
phoretted or arsenetted hydrogen, and of a host of other phos-
phoretted or arsenetted gases or vapours. It is also a fact that the
weight of hydrogen, chlorine, oxygen, or nitrogen contained in any
volume of each of these elementary gases, is twice the weight of
hydrogen, chlorine, oxygen, or nitrogen contained in the same volume
of a variety of hydrogenous, chlorinous, oxygenous, or nitrogenous
compound gases. It is also a fact that the weight of mercury or
cadmium contained in any volume of the vapour of either element,
is identical with the weight of the element contained in the same
volume of the vapour of all its hitherto examined volatile com
pounds. But now a variety of oxygen is shown to exist, the weight
of any given volume of which is three times the weight of oxygen
contained in the same volume of the simplestof oxygenous compounds
respectively, thus :—
                                Unit-volumes.
                    PCI,       CO       NO       HgCl,.
The question, then, naturally arises, how long will it be before another
variety of oxygen is recognized, the weight of any given volume
of which, like that of a given volume of phosphorus vapour, shall
furnish the weight of the element contained in four such volumes
of its several simplest compounds ? And again, how long will it bo
before yet another variety of oxygen is recognized, the weight of any
given volume of which, like that of any given volume of mercury
vapour, shall furnish but the weight of the element contained in the
same volume of its several simplest compounds ? There is the strongest
indirect reason for believing in the existence of such a unitary oxygen.
For in its reactions, oxygen behaves as a sort of more active electro
negative counterpart of electro-positive mercury Hg ; and like mercury
Hg, and unlike hydrogen H2, and chlorine Cl2, it enjoys the property
of adding itself to a pre-formed unit of substance by an indivisible
proportion.
                                                              [W. O.]

55G                        General Monthly Meeting.                   [July 1,  |
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, July 1, 1872.
         William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Manager, in the Chair.
          Sir Henry Bouverie Paulet St. John Mildmay, Bart.
was elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
     The Peksents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
tablo, and the thanks of the Members returned for the some, viz. :—
     FROM
TIer Majesty's Government—Memoirs of the Geological Survey. Vol. IV. 8vo»
     1872.
   British Organic Remains. Decade 13. 8vo. 1872.
Actuaries, Institute of—Life Tables. 8vo. 1872.
Batacia Magnetical and Meteorological Observatory— Observations. Vol. I. fulio.
      1871.
Cape of Good Hope, Iioyal Observatory—Results of Observations in 1S5G. 8vo.
     1871.
Chemical Society—Journal for June, 1872. 8vo.
Comiiato Geologico <VItalia —Rollettini. 1872. Nos. 3, 4. 8va. Firenze.
Editors—Academy for June, 1872. 4to.
   American Journal of Science for May, June, 1872. 8vo.
   Athenwum for Juno, 1872. 4to.
   Chemical News for Junej 1872. 4to.
   Engineer for June, 1872.
   Food Journal fur Juno, 1872. 4to.
   Horological Journal for June, 1872. 8vo.
   Journal of Gns Lighting for June, 1872. 4to.
   Mechanics' Maguzine for Juno, 1872. 8vo.
   Nature for Juno, 1872. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for July, 1872.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1872. 8vo.
   Phetographic News for June, 1872. 4to.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 557. 8vo. 1872.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XVI. No. 2. 8vo. 1872.
Lincoln's Inn, lion. Society of—Third Supplement of Catalogue of the I ibrarv.
      8vo. 1872.
TAverpool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings. No. 25. 8vo. 1P71.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Report, 1870. Part 4. 4to. 1872.
Payne, Joseph, Esq. (the Editor)—E. A. Youmans, Essay on the Culture of the
      Observing Powers of Children. 16mo. 1872.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 234. 8vo. 1872.
Royal Society of London—Correspondence respecting the Great Melbourne
      Telescope. 8vo. 1871.
   Astronomical and Magnetical and Meteorological Observations at Greenwich
      in 1870. 4to. 1872.
Symons, G. J. Esq. Che Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      June, 1372. 8vo.
   British Rainfall, 1871. 8vo. 1872.

1872.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                          557
Tyndall, John, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. {the Author}—Fragments of Science. Fourth
     Edition. 8vo. 1872.
   Contributions to Molecular Physics iu the Domain of Radiant Heat. 8vo.
      1872.
Vereins zur PefSrderung des Geuterbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Jan. und
      Fib. 1872. 4to.
Wiirzlmrg Physikal-Medecin. Gesellschaft—Verhandlungen, Band II. Heft i. 8vo.
      1871.
Yorkshire Archaeological and Topographical Association—Jburnal, Part 5. 8vo.
      1872.
Yorkshire Philosophical Society—Communications in 1872. 8vo. 1872.
                   GENEKAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, Nov. 4, 1872.
        Sib Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
                         Henry Dominic Phillips, Esq.
was elected a Member of the Koyal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
         FROM
Akock, Col. M.P.I, (the Author)—The Relative Power of Nations. (K 98J 8vo.
      1872.
Asiatic Society of Peng iJ—Journal, Part 1, 1871, No. 3; 1872, Part 2, No. 1.
   Proceedings, 1872, Nos. 2-5. 8vo.
Asiatic Society, Uoyal—Journal: New Scries. Vol. VI. Part 1. 8vo. 1872.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Procet dings, Vol. XXXII. Nns. 8, 9. 1872.
 Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal—Abhaudlungon, Baud XI. Abtli. 1. 4to.
      1871.
   Sitzungsberichte. 1871 ; Heft 3. 1872; Heft 1.
 Bombay Geographical Society—Transactions, Vol. XIX. Tart 2. 8vo. 1S71.
British Architects, Uoyal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1871-2, Nos. 1 1, 12. 4to.
 British Museum Trustees—Cutaloguo of Hemiptcra Hetcroptera, Part 5. 8vo.
      1872.
   Appendix to Catalogue of Shield Reptiles, Part 1. 4to. 1872.
 Chemical Society—Journal for July-Oct. 1872. 8vo.
 Church, Prof. A. H. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—Manualo di Chimica Pratica.
      8vo. 1871.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. XXXIII. XXXIV.
      8vo. 1872.
 Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. V. 8vo. 1872.
 Comitaio Geologico d'Italia—Bollettini. 1872. Nos. 5, G. 8vo. Firenzo.
 Commissioners in Lunacy—2Cth Report. 8vo. 1871.
 Croll, James, Ksa. {the Author)—What determines Molecular Motion? (From
       Phil. Mag., July. 1872.) 8vo.
 Davrson, J. W. Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Notes cn tho I'ost-pliocfflie
       Geology of Canada. 8vo. 1872.
                    (No. 57.)                                          2 Q

558                          General Monthly Meeting.                       [Nov. 4,
Editort—American Journal of Science for July-Oct. 1872. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for July-Oct. 1872. 4to.
   Chemical News for July-Oct. 1872. 4to.
   Engineer for July-Oct. 1872.
   Food Journal for July-Oct. 1872. 4to.
   Horologieal Journal for July-Oct. 1872. 8to.
   Journal of Gas Lighting for July-Oct. 1872. 4to,
   Mechanic's Magazine for July-Oct. 1872. 8vo.
   Nature for July-Oct. 1872. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for July-Oct. 1872. 8vo.
   Once a Week for July-Oct. 1872. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for July-Oct. 1872. 8vo.
   Journal of Applied Science for July-Oct. 1872. Folio.
Elliot, The Lady—The History of India as told by its own Historians. By Sir
      H. M. Elliot. Vol. IV. 8vo. 1872.
Enderby, Charles, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Autl.or)—Treatise on Capital, Monty,
      and Biches. 8vo. 1872.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 558-561. Svo. 1S72.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XVI. No. 3. 8vo. 1872.
 Geo'ogical Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1S72. Nos. 1, 2. Svo.
   Verhaudluugen, 1872. Nos. 1-10. 8vo.
   Abhandlungen, Band V. Heft 3. 4to. 1872.
-Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 111. 8vo. 1872.
 Glasgow Philmophica! Society—Proceedings, Vol. VIII. No. 1. 8vo. 1872.
Harvey, Augustus J. Esq.—Tabular View of the Orders and Families of Insects.
Incorporated Law Society of the United Kingdom—Catalogue of the Mendham
      Collection. 8vo. 1871.
7ron and Steel Institute—Journal, Nos. 1-3. 8vo. 1872.
Linnean Society— Journal, No. 55. 8vo. 1872.
   Proceedings, 1872. Svo.
   Transactions, Vol. XXVIH. Part 2 ; Vol. XXIX. Part 1. 4to. 1872.
Mamhetter Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XI. No. 14, Vol. XIL No. 1.
      8vo. 1872.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, May, 1872. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Tart 35. 8vo. 1872.
 Meteorological Committee of the Iloyal Society—Bcport for 1871. 8vo. 1871.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Beport, 1871. Part 1. 4to. 1872.
   Metcorol 'gy of the Atlantic, with Charts. 4to. 1872.
 Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 3. 8vo. 1872.
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences—Proceedings for 1871. 8vo. 1871-2.
 Pirala, Don Antonio (the Author)—El Bey en Madrid y en Provincial. 8vo.
      Madrid. 1872.
 Plateau, Professor J. Hon. M.R.I, (the Author)—La Mesure des Sensations Phy
      siques. (Bull, do l'Acad. de Belgique, Tome XXXIH.) 8vo.
 Preussische Altademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, April, May, 1872.
      8vo.
 lloma, Rsale Accademia dei Lincei—Atti, Tomo XXV. Scss. 1-3. Fol. 1872.
 Boss, Major W. A. (the Auther)—Pyrology, or Fire Analysis. (B. S. Proc., No. 137,
       1872.) 8vo.
Rm/al Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 135, 136, 137. 8vo. 1872.
    Philosophical Transactions for 1871, Part 2. 4to. 1872.
 Smithsonian Institution, U.S.—Annual Beport, 1870. 8vo. 1872.
Societe- HoTlandaise des Sciences—Archives Neerlaudaises, Tome VII. Nos. 1-3.
      8vo. 1871-2.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXV. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1872.
St. Piftersbourg, Aeadc'mie Impc'riale des Sciences—Me'moires, 7" Sc'rio, Tomo XVII.
      Nos. 11, 12; Tome XVIII. Nos. 1-7. 4to. 1871-2.
   Bulletins, Tomo XVII. Nos. 1, 2. 4to. 1871-72.

1872.J                      General Monthly Meeting.                                559
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine.
      July-Oct. 1872. 8vo.
Telegraph Engineers, Society of—Journal, Vol. I. No. 1. 8vo. 1872.
TyndaU, Professor, LL.V. F.R.S. {the Author)—In den Alpou. 8vo. Braun
      schweig. 1872.
   The Forms of Water in Clouds and Rivers, Ice and Glaciers. 16to. 1872.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 67. 8vo. 1872.
Upsal Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta, Series III. Vol. VIII. Fasc. 1. 4to.
      1871.
   Bulletin Me-teorologique, Vol. I. 1-12 ; Vol. II. 1-12 ; Vol. III. 1-12. 4to. 1870-1.
 Vereins tur BefSrderung des Geuterbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Marz-
      Juni. 1872. 4to.
 Vernon, Wm. F. Esq. M.R.I, (the A uthor)—Notes on Harefleld, Middlesex. 4k).
      1872.
 Victoria Institute—Journal of Transactions, Vol. VI. No. 23. 8vo. 1872.
 Wells, T. Spencer, Esq. F.R.C.S. (the A uthor)—Diseases of the Ovaries. 8vo.
      1872.
 Wild, M. B.—Repertorium fur Meteorologie, Band II. Heft 2. 4to. 1872.
 Wiirdmrg Physikal-Medecin. Gesellschaft—Verhandlungen, Band III. Heft 1, 2.
      8vo. 1871.
 Yorkshire Archaeological and Topographical Association—Journal, Parts 6, 7. 8vo.
      1872.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. VIII. Part 2. 4to. 1872.
   Proceedings, 1872, Part 1. 8vo.
   List of Vertebrated Animals iu the Gardens. 8vo. 1872.
   Catalogue of the Library. 8vo. 1872.
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, Dec. 2, 1872.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
                  Themas Thempson, jun. Esq.
                  Sidney Waters, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The following Lecture Arrangements for the ensuing season
were announced :—
                Christmas Lectures (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory).
   Professor Odlino, M.A. F.R.S. Six Lectures On Air and Gas, on Dec. 28
(Saturday), Dec. 31, 1872 ; Jan. 2, 4, 7, 9, 1873.
                                 Before Easter, 1873.
   Professor Rutherford, M.D. F.R.S.E. Twelve Lectures On the Forces and
Motions of the Body, on Tuesdays, Jan. 14 to April 1.
   Dr. Derus, F.R.S. Three Lectures On Oxidation, on Thursdays, Jan. 16, 23, 30.
   Dr. H. E. Armstrong, F.C.S. Four Lectures On the Artificial Formation of
Organic Substances, on Thursdays, Feb. 6 to Feb. 27.
   A. Vernon Harcodrt, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Five Lectures On the Chemistry
of Coal and its Products, on Thursdays, March 6 to April 3.
                                                                        2 Q 2

                              General Mi/nthly Meeting.                     [Dec. 2
   Eswabd A. Fbczxax, Esq. D.C.L. Six Lectures On the Comparative Poli
tical Ir^-itoti -a* of Different Nations, on Saturdays, Jan. 18 to Feb. 22.
   IV.r£*t* W. K. Cuttohd. M.A. Three Lcctare-s On tlie Philosophy of the
Fare Scieneea. on Saturdays. March 1. 8, 15.
   PaorESdos Max HrLixE. LL.D. Three Lectures On Darwin's Philosophy of
Liia_Tase, oa Saturdays. March 42, 29, and April 5.
                                      After Easter.
    J' HS Moelet. Esq. Three Lectures On the Limits of the Historic Method)
oo Toes-tayi, April 22 to May 6.
    J. H. Pakexb, Keq. C.B. Foot Lectures On the Evidence for the Traditional
History of Rome from Elisti'.g Architectural Remains, on Tuesdays, May 13, 20,
27 :ir,djnne3.
    Pl !Tj=ob Tystmll, LL.D. F.R.S. Six Lectures, on Thursdays, April 24 to
June 5.
    Pe. rtsoa Ohling, M.A. F.R.S. Four Lectures, on Saturdays, April 26 to
May 17.
    Kiward Daxxretthek. Et-o,. Three Lectures On the Development of Music
in Connection with the Drama, on Saturdays, May 24, 31, and June 7.
       The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
           PBOM
 The Lord* of Ike Admiralty—The Nautical Almanac for 1876. 8vo. 1872.
Agricultural Soeitty. Royal- Journal, 2nd S*riea, Vol VIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1S72.
 Asiatic Society of Bengal—Joumal, 1872, Part 2. No. 2. 8vo.
    Proceedings, 1872. No*. 6, 7, 8. 8vo.
Atchison, Surgeon-Major T. (the Author)— Timelv Counsel. 8vo. 1872.
Brititk Architect*, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1872-3, No. h 4to.
 Chemical Society—Journal for Nov. 1872. 8vo.
 Editors—Amer can Journal of Science for Nov. 1872. 8vo.
    Atbenrcum for Not. 1872. 4to.
    Chemical News for Not. 1872. 4to.
    Engineer for Nov. 1872.
    Food Journal for Nov. 1872. 4to.
    H> imlogicsl Journal for Nov. : 872. 8vo.
    J> nmal of Applied Science for Nov. 1872. Folio.
    Journal of Gas Lighting for Nov. 1872. 4to.
    Mechanic's Magazine for Nov. 1872. 8vo.
    Niitnre for Nov. 1872. 4to.
    Nautical Magazine for Nov. 1S72. 8vo.
    One* a Week for Nov. 1872. 8vo.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for Nov. 1872. 8vo.
    Telegraphic Journal, No. 1. 8vo. 1872.
 Falconer, Thomas. Esq. (the Editor)—W. Falconer : Dissertation on St. Paul's
       Voyage from C'a-sar< a to Putvoli. 8vo. New Ed. 1872.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 562. 8vo. 1872.
  Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 112. 8vo. 1872.
 Manchester Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XII. No. 2. 8vo. 1872.
 Komentino, F.B.G.S.—Nuova Italia: a Poem. 16to. 1872.
 Nyttrom, J. W. Esq. (the Author}—On the Force of Falling Bodies. (L 15)
       8vo. 1872.
  Odonlological Society of Great Britain—Transactions. New Series. Vol. IV.
       8vo.. 1872.
 Photographic Soc'ett/—Journal, No. 235. 8vo. 1872.
Preussisehe Akademie der Wisseruehaflen—Monatsberichte, Juni, Juli, 1872. 8vo.

1872.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                          5G1
Iiennie, James, Esq. F.R.S. M.Tt.I.—J. M. Chclius. System of Surgery: Trans
     late! by J. F. South. 2 vols. 8vo. 1845-7.
rtmnn, Reate Accademia dei Lined—Atti, Tonio XXV. Soss. 4. Fol. 1872.
Royal Society of Lileraturi—Transactions, Second Series, Vol. X. Part 2. 8vo.
     1872.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 138. 8vo. 1872.
Society of Telegraph Engineers—Journal, Vol. I. No. 2. 8vo. 1872.
Stratum, Thomas, Esq. M.l). (the Author)—Affinity between the Hebrew Language
     and the Celtic. (O 15) l(ito. 1872.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Svinons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine.
     Nov. 1872. 8vo.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 68. 8vo. 1872.
 Vereins zur Iitflirderung des Geicerhfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Juli,
     August, 1872. 4to
Walford, Weston S. Esq. M.A. M.R.I.—Papworth's Ordinary of British Armorials.
     Parts 16, 17, 18. 8vo. 1S72.
 Wild, A7. //. (the Director)—Annales de l'Obscrvntoire Physique centrale do Eussie.
      1865 et 1870. 4to.
   The two Actonjax Pkizks of 105/. each for Essays "On the Theory of the
Evolution of Living Things, ' wore this day awarded by the Managers to the
Eev. George Henslow and to B. Thompson Lowne, Esq.


                 INDEX TO VOLUME VI.
Arel, F. A., on Substitutes for Gun      Brazil, Emperor of, elected Honorary
   powder, 517.                             Member, 384 ; Letter from, 422.
Air Thermometer, 439.                    Iirodie, Sir B. C, on Ozone, 552.
Airy on Solar Eclipse, 292.              Budd, Dr. W., on Germ Theory of
Alizarine and its Artificial Production,    Disease, 369.
   120.                                  Bunsen and KirchliofFs Discoveries by
Alkali Metals discovered, 390.                   Spectroscope,
                                            the and            390. Experiments
                                                       SchischkofFs
Alphabet, its Origin, 464.
        Roman, Greek, and Phoenician        on Gunpowder, 275.
   compared, 468.
American Picture-Writing, 465.           CiEsiiM discovered, 391.
Ammonia-compounds of Platinum, 176.      Cagniard de la Tour discovered the
Anaxngoras's Philosophy, 314.               Yeast Plant, 6.
Anaxamines' Philosophy, 307.                    his Experiments on Liquids, 357.
Anaximander's Philosophy, 305.           'Captain,' Iron-plate Vessel, its Con
Andrews, T., on Gaseous and Liquid          struction, 212.
   States of Matter, 356 ; investigates  Carpenter, W. B., on the Temperature
   Ozone, 549.                              and Life of the Deep Sea, 63.
Anglo-Saxon Conquest illustrated by              Latest Scientific Researches in
   Archaeology, 116.                        the Mediterranean, 236.
Animal Life in the Deep Sea, 72.         Carrick's Respirator, 371.
Annual Meetings (1870), 142; (1871),     Carrington and Gilliss on the Solar
   325 ; (1872), 505.                       Eclipse, 286.
Appareil Paulin (Smoke Jacket),          Castor and Pollux, Minerals, 392.
   371.                                  Cavalli, Colonel, on Extension of Fired
Armstrong and Noble's Experiments           Gunpowder, 274.
   on Gunpowder, 277.                    Cavendish's Experiment on Composi
Art, Mr. Westmacott on, 103.                tion of Water, 315.
       Old and New, 534.                 Chalk, Water from, Method of Soften
Atomic Weights,
          Heats of
                398.
                   Metals, 397.             ing, 197.
                                         Chinese Writing, 466.
                                         Chloride of Lime invented, 201.
Bateman, J. F., on the Subway to         Chlorine, History of, 199 ; its Action,
   France, 110.                             200 ; Improvements in its Manufac
Bedouins of Sinai, their Prayers, &c.,      ture, 203.
   90.                                   Clironoscopo to measure the Action of
Beecher and Stahl originate the Theory      Gunpowder, 278.
   of Phlogiston, 317.                   Circularly Polarized Light, Action of
Berkeley's Philosophy, Prof. Huxley         Crystals on, 506.
   on, 341.                              Clifford, W. K., lectures on Theories
Berthellet applies Chlorine to Bleach       of the Physical Forces (no abstract),
   ing, 200.                                83 ; on Babbage's Calculating
Blackie, J. S., on the Interpretation of    Machines (no abstract), 533.
   Popular Myths, 129.                   Clothing, Principle of, 229.
-      on Pre-Socratic Philosophy, 302.  Coal Gas, its Production and Impuri
       on the Modern Greek Language,        ties, 489.
   493.                                  Colloids, 30.
 bleaching Powder invented by Ten-       Colour of Soa Water, 190; Causes,
   nant, 201.                                192
 Bradford, W.( on the Esquimaux and             Vision, 260.
   Ice of Greenland, 377.                       Blindness, 269.

5G4                                    INDEX.
Cookery, Bumford's Researches in, 231.      Fog-bell, 221.
Corona, Solar, during an Eclipse, 281,      Folk-lore of tho Russians, 320.
  484.                                      Fremy and Becquerel investigate
Cotton Wool Respirator, 9.                     Ozone, 547.
Crookes, W_ discovers Thallium, 392.        Froude, W., on Sea Waves, 355.
Crystallization of Metals, 425.
Crystalloids, 30.                           Galibebt's Respirator, 376.
Crystals, their Action on Polarized         Gaseous and Liquid States of Matter,
   Light, 506.                                356.
Curtailment of Language, 497.               Gases : Movements under Pressure ;
                                              Effusion and Transpiration, 33;
Davis, Alfred, bequeaths 2000J. to            Diffusion, 36 ; Fa-^age through Col
   the Royal Institution, 183.                loid Septa, 44 ; Occlusion through
Davy proves Chloriuo to be an Element,        Metals, 48.
   201.                                     Germ Theory of Disease, 7.
Dawson, J. W., on the Priniitivo Vege       Gibraltar, Current. 216.
  tation of the Earth, 165.                 Oilman, Mr., on the Solar Eclipse of
Deacon, H., his Process of Manufac            1870, 287.
   turing Chlorine, 204.                    Glaciers of Greenland, 378.
Defensive Policy of Great Britain, 335.           Descent of, 155.
De la Hire on Fired Gunpowder, 273.        Gladstone, Dr. J. H., on Crystallization
Democritus's Philosophy, 310.                 of Silver, Gold, and other Metals,
Dialysis and Osmose, 30.                      425.
Diffusion of Liquids, 28 ; of Gases, 3G.   Gothic Period of Art, 56.
Donation Fund for the Promotion of          Graham, Professor T., Life and Works,
  Experimental Besearches, 61, 101,           15.
   175, 209, 301, 364.                      Greek Language, its Vitality, 493 ; its
Douglass, J. N., on the Wolf Bock             Pronunciation, 501.
  Lighthouse, 214.                               Mythology, Interpretation of, 129.
Drinking-water, Particles in, 95.          Gun Cotton, History of, 518; its Appli
       from Chalk Districts, Method of        cation to Shells, &c. 519 ; Experi
   Softening, 197.                            ments respecting its Storage, 531.
Dust and Disease, 1.                       Gunpowder, Substitutes for, 517.
      and Smoke, 365.                             Tension of Fired, 273 ; Kinds of,
Dynamite, 523.                                279.
EcwrSE of tho Sun in 1870, 284.            Haboovbt, A. Vernon, on Coal Gas,
Electricity employed to measuro Tem           and the Sulphurous Impurity in it.
   peratures, 438.                            489.
Elements, Discovery of, 388.               Heat, Atomic, of Metals, 297.
Ellis, Mr., on Dust and Disease, 367.             Radiant and Light, 417.
Empedocles' Philosophy, 308.                      Rumford's Researches in. 231, 232.
Evans, J., on the Alphabet and its          Hebrew Alphabet, its Derivation, 470.
   Origin, 464.                            Heraclitus's Philosophy, 308.
Exner, S., on tho Sensations of Colour,     Herschel's Star Grouping, 143.
   268.                                     Hieroglyphic Writing, 466.
Expedition of 1870, 189, 284.               Holland, Sir Henry, President, Dona
      of 1871, 477 ; Apparatus described,     tions from, 175, 304, 544.
   480; Besults, 483; Photography,          Humphry, Professor, on Sleep, 424.
   485.                                     Huxley, T. H , on the Pedigree of the
                                              Horse (no abstract), 129.
Fables, their Migrations, 173.                    on Bishop Berkeley, and the Me
Faraday's MS. Notes of Lectures, &•*.,        taphysics of Sensation, 341.
   bequeathed to the Institution by Sir     Hydration of Compounds, 24.
   James
      his South,
           first Electric
                   185. Machine, given      Hydrogen absorbed by Palladium, 50 ;
                                              Hydrogcnium alloyed with Palla
   by Dr. A. J. Stephens, 185.                dium, 54.
Firemen's Bespirutor, 374.                 Hylozoists, Philosophers, 304.

                                           INDEX.                                    505
Ice of Greenland. 377.                          Mediterranean Sea described, 236 ; its
imitation and Copying, 536.                         Density, 237; Temperature, 239;
Increment of Language, 499.                         Solid Matter in Suspension, 243 ;
Indium discovered, 393.                             Currents. 249 ; Animal Life, 256.
Iron-clad Ships, 95.                            Metals, History of, 387.
          Art, its
ItalianRivers      Development,
                : the Po, 59,      56.                  their Atomic Heats, 397.
                                                        Crystallization of, 425.
                                                Meteoric Stones, 513.
JebvOIS, Col. Drummond, on Defensive Mexican Picture-Writing, 465.
    Policy of Great Britain, 335.               Michael Angelo characterized, 537.
                                                Migration of Fables, 173.
Kathebine, St., Convent on Sinai, 86.           Modern Greek Language considered,
Kieselgubr, 523.                                    493.
                                                Morley, J., on the Influences of Rous
Laky discovers Thallium, 392.                       seau, 475.
Lantern of Lighthouses, 219.                    Moseley, H., on the Descent of Glaciers,
Lavoisier on Composition of Water,                  155.
    315; refutes the Phlogiston Theory, Mount ofthe Law, its probable Position,
    317.                                            93.
Lecture Arrangements for 1871, 187; Miiller, Max, on Greek Myths, 133.
    for 1872, 384 ; for 1873, 559.                      on Migration of Fables, 173.
 Leslie, H., on Social Influence of Music,              on Mythology (no abstract), 300.
    432.                                        Mulready's Pictures affected by Faulty
 Lewes, G. H., on Dust and Disease,                 Vision, 462.
    366.                                         Music, its Social Influence, 432.
 Liebreich, E., on Faults of Vision, 450. Myths, Interpretation of, 129.
          its Chemical
 Light,Scattering           189 ; successive
                      of, Properties, 232.
                                                 Neumann's Experiments with Gun
    Polarization, 205.                               powder, 275.
 — and Radiant Heat, their Identity, Nitroglycerine, its Properties, 522.
    418.                                         Nobel's Nitroglycerine, 522.
 Lighthouse on Wolf Rock, 214.                   Noble, Capt., on the Tension of Fired
 Lindsay, Lord, presents a Spectroscope,             Gunpowder, 284.
    379.
 Liquid State of Matter, 356.                    Oceanic Circulation illustrated, 252.
 Liquids : their Movements under Pres Odling, W., on Professor Graham's Sci
     sure, 26 ; Diffusion, 28.                       entific Work, 15.
 Lister on Germs in Disease, 8:                          on Ammonia compounds of Plati
  Lithofracteur, its Properties, 523.                num, 176.
  Locke on the Qualities of Matter, 345.                 on the Manufacture of Chlorine,
  Lockyer, J. N., on the Solar Eclipse of            199.
     1870, 284; of 1871, 477.                    •       on the Revived Theory of Phlo
  Lornbardic Period of Art, 57.                      giston, 315.
                                                         on Indium, 386.
  Macqceb on the Phlogiston Theory,                      on Ozone, 546.
     324.                                                re-elected Fullerian Professor,
  Madler on Solar Eclipse, 293.                      381.
  Manganese, its Use in the Chlorine Old and New Art, 534.
     Manufacture, 202.                             Oran Eclipse Expedition, 189.
  Manning, Archbp., on the Daemon of Organic Matter in the Air, 2.
      Socrates, 402.                               Osmose, 32.
  Marignac and De la Rive investigate Ozone, History of, 546.
      Ozone, 547.
  Maskelyne, Nevil Story-, on Meteoric Painting affected by Faults of Vision,
      Stones, 513.                                    450.
  Matter, Graham on its Constitution, Palladium absorbs Hydrogen, 50; its
      43.                                             Alloy with Hydrogenium, 54.
   Maxwell, J. Clark, on Colour Vision, Palmer, Mr., 83; on SinaitiO Inscrip
      260.                                            tions, 91.
       Vol. VI. (No. 57.)                                                        2 B

  566                                      INDEX.
 Pasteur on Dust, 2.                            Rubidium, 391.
 — and Pouchet on Spontaneous Ge                Rumford's Proposals for establishing a
    neration, 10.                             i Public (afterwards the Royal) Insti
 Philosophy before Socrates, 302.                 tution, ix.
 Phlogiston Theory revived, 315.                     - Scientific Discoveries. 227.
 Phespheric Acid, its Modifications, 20.               on Fired Gunpowder. 274.
 Phetographs of Solar Eclipse, 485.             Ruinker on the Solar Eclipse of I860,
.Picrio Acid and Powder, 520,                 ¦ 286.
 Picture-Writing, 465.                          Ruskin, J., on Verona and its Rivers,
 Piobert's Investigations into Gunpow             55 ; on Michael Angelo, 537 ; on
    der, 277.                                      Philosophy of Art, 539.
 Plantamour on the Solar Eclipa, 286.           Russian Folk-lore and Songs. 326.
 Platinum, Ammonia-oompounds of, 176.           Rutherford, Dr. W., appointed Fullerian
 Plato on Socrates' Dooraon, 408.              I Professor of Physiology, 544.
 Poison, N., on Solar Eclipse, 294.
 Poiseuille on Liquids under Pressure,          Santonine produces Colour Blindness.
    26.                                           271.
 Pole, Professor, on Colour Blindness,          Scattering of Light, 189.
    269.                                        Scheelo discovers Chlorine, 199.
 Popular Myths, their Interpretation,           Schmidt's Drawing of Solar Eclipse of
     129.                                          1851 described, 293.
 Poynter, E. J., on Old and ,New Art,           Schonbein discovers Ozone. 546.
    531.                                     J  Schwann discovers the Yeast Plant, 7.
 Pro-Socrntic Philosophy, 302.               I  Sea, its Temperature and Life, 6} ;
 Primitive Vegetation of tho Earth, 165.          Tables of Temperature, 81, 82.
 Proctor, R. A., on Star-grouping, Star-        Se i Waves. 355.
    drift, and Star-mist, 143.                  Sensation, Metaphysics of, 341.
 Psilophyton princeps, oldest known           ! Shaw, Capt., on Smoke Jackets, 372.
    Plant of North America, 167.             ;  Ships and Guns, Fallacies connected
 Pyrometers, 440.                            I     with, 211.
 Pythagoras, 303; his Philosophy, 311.          Siemens, C. W„ on Measuring Tem-
                                             '    p^ratures by Electricity, 433.
 Radiant Heat and Light ; their Iden            Si^ht, Defective, Illustrated, 454.
    tity, 417.                                  Sinai, Ordnance Survey of, 83 ; Inscrip
 Ralston, W. R. S., on Russian Folk               tions, 91.
    lore, 326.                                  Sleep, Professor Humphry on, 424.
 Rankine, W. J. Macquorn, on Sea                Smith, Dr. Angus, on the Air of Ma:i-
    Waves, 355.                               j   ehester, 12.
 Rnyet, on Solar Eclipse, 293.                  Smoke Jacket for Firemen, 371.
            J., on Iron-clad
 Reed,onE.Fallacies          Ships,
                      connected with95.Ships    Socrates, the Daemon of, 402.
                                                Sophists' Philosophy, 314.
    and Guns, 211,                           ]  Soret investigates Ozone, 548.
 Reich and Richter discover Indium,             South, Sir James, bequeaths Far* lay's
    393.                                          MS. Notes of Lectures, and Iro:i
 Respirators for Smoke, 378.                      Magnetic Ring, &c., 185.
 Ridilell, Mr., on Socrates' Doomon, 411.       Spectroscope presented by Lord Lind
 Robins' Experiments with Fired Gun               say, 379.
    powder, 273.                                Spectrum Analysis, 390 ; Results of,
 Rodman, Major, Experiments on Gun                390.
    powder, 275.                                Spontaneous Generation, 10, 363.
 Rolleston, G., on the Influence of Anglo-      Spottiswoode, W., on Successive Polar
    Saxon Conquest, illustrated by Arch           ization of Light, 205.
    aeology, 116.                                      on Optical Phenomena produced
 Roscoe, H. E., on Alizarino and its              by Crystals submitted to Circularly
   Artificial Production, 120.                    Polarized Light, 506.
 Rousseau, his Influence on Society, 475.       Stahl publishes the Phlogistic Theory,
Royal Academy of Music, 436.                      317.
        Institution, Original Proposal for,     Star-grouping, &c., 143.
    ix.                                         Stonheuse's Respirators, 373,

                                          INDEX.                                     5G7
Stowmarket Explosions examined, 529.           Wales, Prince of; Address to the
Substitutes for Gunpowder, 517.                   Queen on his Recovery, 474 ; Reply,
Subway to France, HO.                             511.
Sulphur in Coal Gas, 489.                      Water, Colour of, 190; Particles in,
                                                  195.
Tait investigates Ozone, 549.                  Watson, Bp., on Phlogiston, 319.
Temperature of the Deep Sea, 64, 81 , 82.      Weldon's Process of Manufacturing
Temperatures measured by Electri                  Chlorine, 203.
   city, 438.                                  Westmacott, B., on Art, 103 ; on the
Tennant invents Bleaching Powder,                 Mausoleum of Halicamassus, 105 ; on
   201.                                           the British Museum, 107.
Thales' Philosophy, 305.                       Westminster, Archbishep of, on the
Thallium, Discovery of, 392.                      Daemon of Socrates, 402.
Thermometers, 440.                             Wheatstone's Experiments on Succes
" Time of the Masters " (Italian Art),           sive Polarization of Light, 205.
   59.                                         Williams, W. M., on Rumford's Scien
Transpiration, 26.                               tific Discoveries, 227.
Turner's Pictures affected by Faults of        Williamson, A., on Atoms (no ab
   Vision, 450.                                  stract), 164.
Tvlor's, E. B., Theory of the Alphabet,        Wilson, C. W., on the Ordnance Survev
   471.                                          of Sinai, 83.
       on the
Tyndall,   J., on
               Colour
                  Dustofand
                          Water ; and1.tho
                            Disease,           Wolf Rock Lightheuse, 214.
   Scattering of Light, 189.                   Xenophanes' Philosophy, 313.
       on Dust and Smoke, 365.                 Xenophen on Socrates D;omon, 408.
—:— on tho Identity of Light and
   Radiant
       Experiments
              Heat, 417.
                     on Ozone, 550.            Yeast Plant discovered, 6, 7.
                                               Yellow Spot in the Eye, 270.
Vkrosa and its Rivers, 55.                    Zeller, on Socrates' Daemon, 410.
Vertical Circulation in Water, 246.
Vision, Faults of, 450.
                                   END OF VOL.' VI.
    LONDON : rE[NTU> RT WILLIAM CI.OWRS AND SONS. STAMFORD STRRET ASD CHARINO CVOSS.

4




    This book should be returned to
 the Library on or before the last date
 stamped below.
    A fine is incurred by retaining it
 beyond the specified time.
    Please return promptly.
DUE APR '67 H


