This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

s 1 -063, 153
              ^'
¦k.
    fOmmL
          Pal
     B
    »
  <U+25BC>
r i
k
    mm






                   NOTICES
           PROCEEDINGS
       MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS
&0|>ai institution of #reat Britain*
      ABSTRACTS OF THE DISCOURSES
                    DELIVERED AT
           THE EVENING MEETINGS.
                    VOL. VII.
                  1873—1875.
                  LONDON:
 PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS,
       STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.
                       1875.


                 NOTICES
          PROCEEDINGS
                     AT TH*
       MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS
                     OT THI
fto^al institution of #reat Brti
      ABSTRACTS OF THE DISCOURSES
                   DEUVEEZD AT
          THE EVENING MEETINGS.
                   VOL. vn.
                  187a—1875.
                  L ON DOS-.
  PRINTED BY WILLIAM €3jW& ^*
        HTAMKOHD BTBKET ANT OBAttV :3***~

                                  Q/JX4
                                     patron.
                          HEB MOST GBAOIOUB        MAJESTY
                             QUEEN VIOTOEIA.
            TJice^atton an* ffconotats iWemfcet,
                               HIS UOYAL HIGHNESS
               THE PEINCE OF WALES, E.G. F.E.S.
 President—The Duke of Northumrerland, D.C.L.
 Treasurer—Georqe Busk, Esq. F.R.S.— V.P.
.Secretary—William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Treas.R.S.— V.P.
         Managers.       1875-76.                   Visitors.    1875-76.
 William Bowman, Esq. F.R.S.                John Derby Allcroft, Esq.
 Adm.Sir Henry John Codrington, K.C.B.      John R. Andrews, Esq.
 "Warren Do la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.8.      John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
 The Duke of Devonshire, K.G. F.R.S.        Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, Bart.
   Chane. Univ. Camb — V.P.
                                            Alexander John Ellis, Esq. F.R.S.
 Sir T. Frederick Elliot. K.O.M.G.
 Francis Galton, Esq. F.R.S.                Thomas Hyde Hills, Esq.
 The Hon. Sir Wm. Robert Grove, M.A.        Richard Liebreich, M.D. M.R.C.S.
   F.R.S. Just. C.P.                        William Longman, Esq. M.A.
 Csesar H. Hawkins, Esq. F.R.S.             A. C. Brisbane Neill, M.D.
 Alfred Latham, Esq.                        John Rae, M.D. LL.D.
 The Lord Josceline W. Percy.
                                            The Rev. Arthur Rigg, M.A.
 William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.— V.P.
                                            John Bell Sedgwick, Esq.
 The Lord Rayleigh, M.A. F.R.S.
 The Lord Arthur Russell, M.P.              James Spedding, Esq.
 0. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.     George Andrew Spottiswoode, Esq.
    V.P.                                    The Hon. John Gage Prendergast
 Sir Charles Wheatstone, D.C.L. LL.D.          Vereker.
    F.R.S.
 Professor of Natural Philosophy—Jomi Tyndall, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. &o.
 Fullerian Professor of Chemistry—John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
 FuUerian Professor of Physiology—Alfred H. Garrod, Esq.
    Assistant Secretary and Keeper of the Library—Mr. Benjamin Vincent.
    Assistant in the Library—Mr. 0. W. Vincent, F.R.S.E. F.C.S. Lond. & Berl.
    Clerk of Accounts and Collector—Mr. Henry C. Hughes.
    Assistant in the Physical Laboratory—Mr. John Cottrell.
    Assistants in the Chemical Laboratory—Mr. Walter Hibbert and Mr. Matthew
       W. Williams.

                         CONTENTS.
                               1873.
                                                                  Page
Jan.  17.— Mr. William Spottiswoode—On the Old and New
              Laboratories at the Royal Institution ..        ..     1
  „   24.—Rev. Professor T. R. Birks, M.A.—On the
              Analogies of Physical and Moral Science         ..    12
  „   81.—Mr. Edward Dannreuther—On the Music of the
              Future                                                22
Feb.   3.— General Monthly Meeting      ..     ..      ..     ..    80
  „    7.— Professor A. C. Ramsay—On Old Continents           ..    32
  „   14.—Mr. Rorert H. Scott — On Recent Progress in
              Weather Knowledge         ..     ..      ..     ..    34
  „   21.— Propessor J. Clerk Maxwell—On Action at a
              Distance ..        ..     ..     ..      ..     ..    44
  „   28.—General Sir Henry C. Rawlinson—On Living
              stone's Explorations in Africa (no Abstract)    ..    54
Mar.    3. —General Monthly Meeting ..         ..      ..     ..    55
    „   7.—Professor James Dewar—On the Temperature of
              the Sun, and the Work of Sunlight (no Abstract) ..    57
    „ 10. —Testimonial to Dr. Benoe Jones      ..      ..     ..    57
    „ 14.— Professor Allman—On Coral Islands and their
              Architects ..       ..     ..    ..      ..      ..   58
    „ 21.—Captain E. D. Lyon—On the Mythology and
              Templos of India ..        ..     ..     ..      ..   67
                              407836

iv                               CONTENTS.
   1873.                              *                           Page
April 4.—Professor Tyndall—On Niagara ..                      ..    73
    „      7.—General Monthly Meeting ..           ..    ..   ••    91
    „    25.—Professor Flower—On Palaeontological Evidence
                 of Gradual Modification of Animal Forms      ..    94
May        1.—Annual Meeting                ..     ..    -•        105
  „        2.—Professor Emerson Retnolds—On Alcohols from
                 Flint and Quartz                                  106
  „       5.— General Monthly Meeting      ..            ..        115
  „        9.—Mr. M. E. Grant Duff, M.P.—A Fortnight in
                 Asia Minor                                        117
   „     16.—Professor Sidney Colvin—On the Limits of
                 Certainty in Taste, or in Artistic Judgment  .. 144
   „     23.—Mr. W. Spottiswoode—On Spectra of Polarized
                 Light                                             134
  „      30.—The Earl of Rosse—On the Radiation of Heat
                 from the Moon, the Law of its Absorption by our
                 Atmosphere, and its Variation in Amount with
                 her Phases                                        139
June       2.—General Monthly Meeting ..           ..    ..   ..   153
   „      6.—Professor Odling — On Evaporation and Diffusion       155
July      7.— General Monthly Meeting                              162
Nov.       3.— General Monthly Meeting      ..     ..    ..    ..  164
Dec.       1.—General Monthly Meeting       ..     ..              166
                                   1874
Jan.     16.—Professor Tyndall—On the Acoustic Transparency
                 and Opacity of the Atmosphere ..        ..    ..  169
   „     23.—Professor Sylvebter -On Recent Discoveries in
                  Mechanical Conversion of Motion         ..   ..  179
          30.—Sir Jdlids Benedict—On Weber and his Times . .       199

                               CONTENTS.                            T
  1874.                                                          Page
Feb.      2.—General Monthly Meeting                              212
 „        6.—Mr. Alfred H. Garrod —On the Heart and the
                Sphygmograph      ..             ..         ..    214
  „     13.—Dr. Doran—On the Opponents of Shakespeare       ..    218
 „      20.—Mr. Vernon Heath—On the Autotype and other
                Photographic Processes and Discoveries . .  ..    220
  „     27.—Mr. Francis Galton—On Men of Science, their
                Nature and their Nurture         ..         ..    227
Mar.      2.—General Monthly Meeting                              237
   „      6. —Sir Samuel W. Baeer—On Suppression of the Slave
                Trade on the White Nile                           239
    ,,  13. —Dr. C. R. A. Weight—On the Chemical Changes
                accompanying the Smelting of Iron in Blast
                Furnaces ..        ..     ..      ..     .. ..    248
    „   20.—Dr. W. B. Carpenter—On the Temperature of the
                Atlantic ..        ..     ..      ..     ..  ..   263
    „   27.—Professor A. C. Ramsay—On the Physical History
                oftheRhino                                        279
April     6.—General Monthly Meeting                              289
    „   17. —Mr. William Spottiswoode—On the Combinations
                of Colour by Polarized Light      ..     ..  ..   291
    „   24.—Mr. Charles Watkins Mkrrifield—On Sea Waves           297
May        1.—Annual Meeting       ..     ..      ..     ..  ..   299
  „        1.—Professor Rolleston—On the Early Inhabitants of
                the North of England                              300
   „       4.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..     ..  ..302
   „       8.—Mr. Sedlet Taylor—On an Historical Enigma in
                the Trial of Galileo before the Inquisition   ..   304
   „     15.— Dr. C. William Siemens—On the Steamship ' Fara
                day ' and her Appliances for Cable-laying          310
   „     22.—Professor W. K. Clifford— On the Education of
                 the People                                        314

                                                                        <
                                 CONTENTS.
   1874.                                                        Page
May       29.—The Dean of Westminster— On the Roman Cata
                 combs as illustrating the Belief of the Early
                  Christians ..      ..     ..   ..    ..    .. 316
June        1.—General Monthly Meeting ..              ..       330
   „       5.—Professor Burdon Sanderson—On Venus's Fly-                r
                 trap (Dionrea Muscipula) . .   ..          ..  332
July        6.—General Monthly Meeting                          336
Nov.       2.—General Monthly Meeting ..         ....       ..339      y
Dec.       7.— General Monthly Meeting ..        ..         ..  342
                                                                      t
                                  1875.
Jan.     15.—Professor Tyndall—On Acoustic Reversibility ..     344
  „      22.—Sir John Lurrock—On Wild Flowers and Insects       351
  „      29.—Professor Huxley—On the Recent Work of the
                 ' Challenger ' Expedition, and its Bearing on
                  Geological Problems       ..   ..    ..   ..  354
Feb.       1.— General Monthly Meeting ..             ..    ..  358
  „        5.—Mb. James Dewar—On the Physiological Action of
                 Light                                          360
 „       12.—Mb. W. R. Greg— On Life at High-Pressure       ..  368
  „      19.—Db. E. Frankland—On River Pollution ..         ..  370
  „      26.—Mr. W. R. S. Ralston— On Popular Tales: their
                 Origin and Meaning        ..   ..    ..    ..378
Mar.       1.— General Monthly Meeting ..       ..    ..    ..  384  J
   „       5.— The Lord Rayleigh—On the Dissipation         of
   „
   n
                 Energy      ..     ..     ..   ..
         12.—Professor Arel—On Accidental Explosions
                                                      ..
         19. —Db. Richard Lierreich—On the Real and Ideal in
                                                            ..
                                                            ..
                                                                386
                                                                390
                                                                     1
                 Portraiture                                    430
April      5.—General Monthly Mooting      ..         ..        444

                                CONTENTS.
  1875
April 9. —Sie William Thomson— On Tides..                          447
   »   16,,—Professor Gladstone—On Progress of Science in
                Elementary Schools                                 449
    »  23. —Professor Ramsay—On the Pre-Miocene Alps,
                and their subsequent Waste and Degradation         455
    »  30. —Mr. Walter Noel Hartley—On Action of Heat
                on Coloured Liquids                                458
May      1. —Annual Meeting                                        469
  n     3. — General Monthly Meeting #„                            470
  n      7. —Professor Cornu— On the Velocity of Light             472
  )»   11..—Mr. John Evans—On the Coinage of the Ancient
                Britons, and Natural Selection ..    ..       ,.   476
       21 . —Mr. J. Baillie Hamilton— On the Application of
                Wind to Stringed Instruments ..       .. , ..      488
  „   28.-—Col. Lane Fox— On the Evolution of Culture              496
June     1 .—Professor Gladstone— On the Copper-Zinc Couple
                and its Effects                                    521
   V     4..—Professor Tyndall— On Whitworth's          Planes,
                Standard Measures, and Guns                        524
  ,l    7.,—General Monthly Meeting       ..                       540
July     5..— General Monthly Meeting     ..                       542
Index                                                              543
                                                         Illustrations.

                               ( viii  )
                         ILLUSTRATIONS.
                                                                  Page
Map of Niagara                                                      91
Provisional Classification of Ungulata               ..     to face 98
Diagrams of Conversion of Motion                             191, 197
Automatically-working Engine ..                                    215
Diagram of Depths of Atlantic Ocean                                273
Diagrams of Sensitive Flames                                 345, 349
Evolution of Types on Ancient British Coins    to face 481 and 485
Diagrams of Reed Instruments ..                                    489
Diagrams of Reed and String Instruments                            490
Stone, Flint, and Bronze Instruments     ..                  509, 511
Forms evolved from a simple Stick                    ..   to face 513
Ornamentation of New Ireland Paddles, showing the
  Transition of Form      ..      ..        ..                     517
Whitworth's Projectiles and Guns         ..         . . 534, 537 533

           iffogal institution of CRrrat Britain.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, January 17, 1873..
    Sir Hknrt Holland, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. President, in the Chair.
William SroTTiswoora:, Esq. LL.D. M.A. Treasurer R.S. and R.I.
        On the Old and New Laboratories at the Royal Institution.
A time when, through temporary absence from one chair, and through
a change of occupancy of the other, wo are deprived of the presence of
our two Professors, seems to offer an opportunity for reviewing the
past history, the scientific results, and the futuro prospects of our
laboratories. A time when, through circumstances which cause us
much regret, we are deprived, at our evening meetings at least, of the
presence of our Secretary, offers perhaps the only occasion when the
task of such a review could fall to other hands than his. The fact
that it has fallen to mine is attributable to the office in which your
votes have placed me, rather than to any individual qualifications of
my own ; and it would have been impossible for me to undertake the
task, had he not placed at my disposal his wide-spread information
upon many branches of science, as well as his intimate knowledge of
the history of the Institution, to the well-being of which his care and
devotion have so largely contributed.
     The first dawn of our history is to be sought among those stormy
years with which the last century drew towards its close, and out of
which many new thoughts and aspirations of men took their birth.
     Its character, in accordance with the views of its early promoter,
Count Rumford, was at first far more industrial than it eventually
became. Its two great objects were " the general diffusion of the
knowledge of all new and useful improvements, and teaching the
application of scientific discoveries to the improvement of arts and
manufactures, and to the increase of domestic comfort and conve
nience." The Institution was to contain models, or actual specimens
of fire-places and kitchen utensils for cottages, farm-houses, and large
dwellings; a complete laundry for a gentleman's family; grates and
chimney-pieces; brewers' boilers ; distillers' coppers ; ventilators; lime
kilns ; steam-boilers ; spinning wheels ; agricultural implements ;
bridges, &c., &c.; and at one time some eighteen or twenty young
mechanics were actually boarded and lodged in the house. Tho
records of our early proceedings give an instance, illustrating the
views of the founders. In January, 1800, when the designs for the
theatre, model-room, and workshops were formed, the architect pro-
   Vol. VII. (No. 58.)                                            r

 2                            Mr. Spottiawoode                  [Jan. 17,
 posed that the laboratory should occupy the position which it ulti
 mately held. But, with a view to giving more room to the workshops,
 the proposal was set aside in the very next month, and the space in the
 basement under the theatre assigned to the purpose. Happily, how
ever, before the building had reached the first floor, this position was
 found unsuitable ; and further consideration devised the laboratory,
which we have all known so well as that of Davy, of Faraday, and of
Tyndall. A staircase leading to it from the front hall, although long
since closed, was removed only in 1866, to make room for Tyndall's
smoke chamber.
     From Count Rumford's final departure from England in 1802 wo
may dato the decline of the industrial element, some echo of which
still rings in our motto, " Illustrans commoda vitae ;" and early in the
following year a definite proposal to givo up that part of the original
plan was made.
     From a report to the managers in 1803, it appears that, although
chemistry had always been a primary object of the Institution, yet
from motives of economy nothing more had been done in the way of
either laboratory or apparatus than was necessary for the immediate
purpose of the lectures. It was consequently proposed that the work
shop should be added to the laboratory and fitted with seats for 120
persons, and the forge adapted to chemical purposes. Tho report
ends as follows :—" This laboratory will be equal, or indeed superior,
to any in this country, and probably to any on the Continent."
    The chemical laboratory was altered in accordance with that report,
and remained unchanged until 1863, when, on the appointment of Dr.
Frankland to the Professorship of Chemistry, the lecture seats were
removed so as to adapt the room more properly to purposes of scientific
research.
    It is interesting to contrast the verdict of 1873 with that of 1803.
" Originally built," to quote Dr. Bence Jones's own words, " as a
workshop for blacksmiths, fitted with a forge, and furnished with
bellows which only last summer left the Institution, our chemical
laboratory was probably the very worst in London."
    The physical laboratory remained unchanged ; and although
Professor Tyndall for himself desired nothing more than to continue
his researches in a place which his imagination filled with tho recol
lections of his predecessors, he still acquiesced in the proposal for
rebuilding, for the sake of his successors, and in the interest of the
sister science of his colleague.
     Thus much about the material fabric of our laboratories. Next as
to the scientific work of which they have been the birthplace.
    Of tho great names connected with this building foremost in order
of time, and very high in scientific rank, stands that of Dr. Thomas
Young. His ' Theory of Light and Colours ' will always stamp him
as one " whose genius has anticipated the progress of science," and
whose reputation has risen as men have better understood his worth.
His first paper on the subject was presented to the Royal Society in

1873.]                on the Old and New Laboratories.                       3
November, 1801 ; but tho earliest printed account of his views is to
be found in his ' Syllabus of Lectures at the Royal Institution,' dated
January 19, 1802.
    With tho criticisms of his theory published in the ' Edinburgh
Review,' with the circumstances which led to his withdrawal from
the Institution, with his researches in Egyptian hieroglyphics, we
are not here concerned. But it is not too much to say of him, that
without the Wave Theory of Light (of which he was one of the prime
and main founders) to serve as a guiding-thread through the laby
rinth of phenomena, the long series of discoveries which have in this
placo culminated in those of Tyndall in Radiation and Absorption,
would have been impossible.
    It is often remarked that little rills, which have threaded their way
from distant mountains, ultimately discharge themselves as mighty
streams into the sea. Yet between these two stages they flow quietly,
but not therefore less usefully, past smiling meadows and the haunts
of men. And here is a little scientific pastoral—if it may be so
called—flowing out of the highest conceptions of the theory of undu
lations, and furnishing— to use his own words — a simple instrument
" for measuring the diameters of the fibres of different kinds of wool."*
[The lecturer then described and exhibited on the screen the principle
of Dr. Young's eriometer.]
    Our next name is that of Davy, an account of whose discoveries
would require a volume, and a bare recital of them would be long. I
quote the following notes from the pen of our Secretary, and wish
that he had been here to give life to the dry bones.
    In 1806, whon twenty-eight years of age, Davy did tho work
which formed his first Bukerian Lecture, ' On the Chemical Agencies
of Electricity.' Six years previously he had written, " Galvanism I
have found, by numerous experiments, to be a process purely chemical."
In tho interim, water had been decomposed by electricity, and Davy
began his researches with an inquiry into the changes produced in
water by electricity. His main conclusion was that " the kind of
polarity of each element determined the electrical and chemical
actions shown by it." Tho French Academy awarded him a medal
for this work ; and from theso discoveries the fame of our labora
tories took its rise.
    The next year Davy began a new series of experiments on Polarity.
He exposed different substances to the action of platinum wires
coming from a battery of 100 cells ; and on October 6 ho wrote in
his note-book, " Remarkable phenomena with potash." On the 19th
ho made tho following entry, " A capital experiment proving tho
decomposition of potash." He worked at the decomposition of other
alkalies until tho 23rd November, when he was attacked by a fever
which proved nearly fatal to him.
   * Tho King at this time had his flock of merino sheep, and Sir Joseph Banks
had tho earo of them at Kew. On his recovery from his first mental attack the
King would only c;ill the V. R. S. his woolstaplcr.
                                                                   B 2

4                            Mr. Spottisicoode                   [Jan. IT
     The importance of these decompositions to the recent science of
spectral analysis, although not dreamt of at the time, can hardly be
overrated ; and I will therefore venture to interrupt my narrative
for a moment by an experiment,—a very well-known one, with a slight
modification, which will servo to illustrato the point. [The speaker
then exhibited the dark absorption-line of sodium ; but so arranged as
to show tho dark line in the centre of, and not entirely obliterating, the
bright lino ; proving that a certain density of vapour is necessary for
complete absorption.]
     In 1808 Davy began to work on the composition of muriatic acid ;
and with a new battery, provided for him by subscription, he attacked
different substances with increased energy. In 1810 he sent to the
Royal Society his researches on oxymuriatic acid and the elements of
muriatic acid, on what is in fact now known as chlorine.
     In 1811 he mado the acquaintance of Mrs. Approece, and in 1812
wrote to his brother, " In a few weeks I shall be able to return to my
habits of study and research. I am going to be married to-morrow,
and have a fair prospect of happiness with tho most amiable and
intellectual woman I have ever known." The issue of these hopes
has been written by his biographers ; but the disappointment of the
last seventeen years of his life is illuminated by the invention, not
less original in its conception than benevolent in its object, of the
Safety Lamp.
      The great value of this contrivance, and of questions arising out of
 it, will, I trust, be sufficient apology for diverging again from my
 story in order to mention some very important experiments now
 in progress by Mr. Galloway. Explosions, it is well known, occur
 even in cases where the safety lamp is used. And it has been noticed
 that in these cases they occur most frequently after the firing of a
 blasting shot in the neighbourhood ; and as it was almost certain
 that the penetration of the flame through the gauzo of the lamp
 was not due to a sudden flow of gas from one' part of the mine to
 another, experiments have been instituted to determine whether the
 transmission of the sound wave, or wave of compression, may not
 have boon the means of producing the mischief. Through the kind
 ness of Mr. Galloway we have here a tube arranged for making
 such an experiment. At one end there is the inflammable current
 enveloping a safety lamp ; in tho centro is a loose diaphragm, and
 at the other end a pistol will be fired, by tho explosion of which
 a sound wave will be propagated along the tube. On the arrival of
  the sound wavo at the extremity of the tube, the combustion will
  pass from tho inside to the outside of the safety lamp. But I here
  leave tho matter in the hands of Mr. Galloway, of whose experiments
  we hope to hear more hereafter.
      Of the next great name connected with our Institution, namely,
  Michael Faraday, of his life and his* discoveries the history has been
  already written, so far indeed as it can be written, by Bence Jones, by
  Tyndall, and by Gladstone. Si monumentum quicris circumspice.

1873.]             on the Old and New Laboratories.                   5
These volumes of notes, from 1831 to 1856, will give some idea of
the amount of work which he did in our laboratory ; and their value
will be better appreciated through the consideration that before theso
notes were made, no less than sixty of his scientific papers had been
printed, nine of them in the ' Philosophical Transactions.'
    Those of us who were present at Tyndall's two memorable lectures
on ' Faraday as a Discoverer,' are not likely to forget the impression
of the man left by them on our minds ; and for those who were not
present, it would be an office thankless to your lecturer and burden
some to his hearers, to contribute a feeble reproduction of those life
like memoirs. For our present purpose it will be sufficient to say
that the entire fabric of those brilliant and manifold contributions
to human knowledge were wrought out within the walls of the Royal
Institution.
    His great experiments have been so often and so well exhibited in
this theatre, that some apology is needed for bringing any of them
before you again ; but in repeating for my own instruction some of
those which bear more particularly upon the subject of Light, I have
been tempted to reproduce one of them here. In doing this I have
been perhaps moved more by a fascination of the phenomenon, and
by a pieco of instrumental good fortune which enables me to introduce
an old friend under a new garb, than by any better reason. The ex
periment in question is that which Faraday called " the magnetization
of light, and the illumination of the lines of magnetic force;" we
should now term it the rotation of the plane of polarization under the
influence of the magnetic field. But in order that we may not even
by inadvertence confuse the rotation here produced with that due to
quartz, or oil of turpentine, I will draw your attention, by way of
memorandum, to the nature of the magnetism produced by spiral
currents in given directions, and of the rotations of free currents
produced by magnets.
    [The lecturer then showed the opposite rotations of two sparks
discharged about the two poles respectively of an electro-magnet, and
the reversal of those rotations, first by a change of the poles, and
secondly by a reversal of the direction of the sparks.]
    You now see upon the screen an image of the figures produced by
a magnificent piece of heavy glass under the action of polarized light.
Its size enables me to make use of about four times the amount of
light usually available in this experiment ; and I have token advan
tage of the figure which its imperfect annealing produces, to vary the
effect upon the screen. The dark parts of the figure indicate the
parts of the beam in which the vibrations are perpendicular to those
transmitted by either polarizer or analyzer, and which are conse
quently cut off. Now if anything should intervene to change the
plane of those vibrations a portion of them will be transmitted, and a
partial illumination of the screen will ensuo. This turning of tho
piano of vibration is effected by tho magnet as soon as its force is
developed by the electric current sent through its coils.

6                            Mr. Spottisieoode                    [Jan. 17,
    [The lecturer then " dispersed " the dark lines of the figure by
means of a plate of quartz ; and after turning polarizer and analyzer
so as to colour the centre of the field with the tint intermediate
between red and violet (leinte sensible), he showed that when the
magnet was excited the field was rendered red or green according to
the direction of the polos.]
    Professor Frankland before coming to us had isolated the com
pound radicals Methyl, Ethyl, and Amyl, and had proved their resem-
blanco to Hydrogen. He had also combined them with the metals
zinc, tin, and mercury, and with the metalloid boron. By this means
ho had obtained very powerful chemical reagents, which proved of
eminent service in subsequent operations. An instance of this power
will be found in zinc-ethyl, which by its rapid combination with
oxygen of the air, bursts into spontaneous combustion as soon as a
flask containing it is opened.
    In conjunction with Mr. Duppa, Professor Frankland worked in
our laboratory at the artificial formation of ethers. They treated
acetic ether with sodium and with the iodides of methyl, ethyl, and
amyl ; and by their means they arrived at a method for the formation
of many organic substances which had previously been obtained only
through the agency of animals or of vegetables.
    In 1866 Dr. Frankland determined by a long series of calori-
metric experiments the maximum amount of force capable of being
developed by given weights of the different foods commonly used
by man.
    In the following year he investigated the effect of pressure (up to
20 atmospheres) upon the luminosity of flames of hydrogen and of
carbonic oxide: He found that these flames, so feobly luminous at
ordinary atmospheric pressure, burn with brilliant light under pres
sures of from 10 to 20 atmospheres, and that the spectra of these bril
liant flames are perfectly continuous. From the latter circumstance he
inferred that solar light may be derived from glowing gas and not from
incandescent solid or liquid matter.
    As these researches have so important a bearing upon spectral
analysis and solar physics, I will venture to repeat ono or two of the
experiments. Here are three closed tubes filled respectively with
hydrogen, oxygen, and chlorine, at atmospheric pressure. The densi
ties of these substances are in the proportions 1:16: 35£ ; and if
the spark from an induction coil be made to pass through them, the
luminosity of the discharge will bo found to increase with the density
of the gas.
    That this result is really due to tho density, and not to the chemical
constitution of the gases, may be proved by allowing the discharge to
pass through this tube filled with air, and by pumping air into it
during the discharge. It will then be seen that tho brilliancy in
creases with tho pressure.
    These researches were suggested by an old experiment of
Cavendish's, in which he exploded a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen,

1873.]                on the Old and New Laboratories.                  7
first under atmospheric pressure and then under a pressure of from
10 to 12 atmospheres. In the first case there is much noise and
little light ; in the second, a brilliant flash and no noise. The labours
of Dr. Frankland have rendered this experiment intelligible, and have
correlated it with other phenomena.
     Of Faraday's successor, John Tyndall, I am greatly at a loss how
to speak. In this place his presence seems so near to us, his thoughts
so subtle, his words—even when rung back to us from those busy
cities far away on the other side of the Atlantic— so familiar and
yet so stirring, that it behoves us that ours should be wary and few.
Few men have brought so large a burden and bulk of contribution to
the common stock of knowledge ; but still fewer have inspired in his
hearers so strong a love, such ardent enthusiasm for the subjects of
his research.
     It is now twenty years since Professor Tyndall began his re
searches in our laboratory. During the first thirteen years he
produced no less than thirteen papers, which were printed in the
' Philosophical Transactions ' : on Sound, on Diamagnetism, on Glaciers
and Ice, on tho Radiation and Absorption of Heat, and on Calorescence.
     In these he established the important fact that if the various gases
be arrangod in order according to their power, first of radiating
heat and secondly of absorbing radiant heat, the order will be the
same in both cases. He further proved that the chief absorbing
action of our atmosphere on non-luminous heat is due to its aqueous
vapour. He applied his discovery to the explanation of many meteoro
logical facts : e. g. the great daily range of the thermometer in dry
climates ; the production of frost at night in the Sahara ; the cold in
the table-lands of Asia, &c.
     He discovered also the means of separating the invisible from the
visible radiations, and proved that in the case of tho electric light the
former is no less than eight times as powerful as the latter. He also
made the daring experiment of placing his eyo at a focus of dark rays
capable of heating platinum to redness.
     Since 1866 his attention has been largely occupied in examining
the action of heat of high refrangibility (instead of low), as an ex
plorer of the molecular condition of matter.
     In this investigation one obstacle to be overcome was the pre
sence of the floating matter in the air. The processes of removal
of these particles became the occasion of an independent research,
branching out into various channels ; on the one hand, it dealt
with the very practical problem of the preservation of life among
firemen exposed to heated smoke ; and, on the other, it approached
the recondite question of spontaneous generation.
     He subjected the compound vapours of various substances to the
action of a concentrated beam of light. The vapours were decom
posed, and non-volatile products were formed. Tho decompositions
always began with a blue cloud, which discharged perfectly polarized
light at right angles to the beam. This suggested to him the origin

8                            Mr. Spottigwoode                     [Jan. 17,
of the blue colour of the sky ; and as it showed the extraordinary
amount of light that may be scattered by cloudy matter of extremo
tenuity, he considered that it might be regarded as a suggestion
towards explaining the nature of a comet's tail.
     [The lecturer then exhibited the polarization of light scattered
by small particles suspended in the medium traversed by a beam
from the electric lamp, employing for the purpose the chromatic
effects due to the circular polarization of quartz.]
     His volume of contributions to molecular physics in the domain of
radiant heat, which contains only his original investigations on this
subject, would alone suffice to show what is doing in the laboratory
of our Institution.
     If we compare him to Faraday at the same time of life, he has
still many years of intellectual energy, the conversion of which into
its scientific equivalent may, perhaps, bo effected within these walls.
     No one has regretted the destruction of the laboratory of Davy
and of Faraday moro than Professor Tyndall. He almost prayed for
the preservation of the place where their discoveries had been made ;
but as soon as he saw that in our struggle for existence such material
aids as improved buildings would conduce alike to the progress of
science and to the permanence of the Institution, ho withdrew his
objections, and threw all his powers into making the new laboratories
as perfect as possible for the good of his successors.
     I add a few words on the reasons which led the managers to
recommend the rebuilding our laboratories, and the consequent demo
lition of the place where the great discoveries that I have touched
upon were made. In the opinion of thoso best qualified to judge, our
chemical laboratory was badly ventilated, badly lighted, badly drained,
and quite unfit to be occupied for many hours daily. It was probably
the very worst, and certainly all but the worst chemical laboratory in
London ; and compared with more modern ones both at home and
abroad, it was nowhere. Tho physical laboratory had remained for
nearly seventy years in its original state. At first it was said to be
equal to any laboratory ; but then there were hardly any in existence in
this country ; and during the last few years such splendid edifices have
arisen in London, in Oxford, in Cambridge, in Manchester and in
Glasgow, and elsewhere, that the laboratory of Davy, of Faraday, and
of Tyndall was much inferior to the private laboratories of the pro
fessors who carry on their course of instruction in public rooms of still
 greater size and extent of resource. The main purpose of our labora
 tories is research, and instead of bffering by their excellence an induce
 ment to professors to come and to stay, the ono was a mere makeshift,
 the other a noble relic. Neither offered facilities which were not
 offered in a larger measure elsewhere. And thoso only who know
 what is going on both at home and abroad can form an adequate idea
 of the competition which, in this respect alone, will prevail for a
 generation to come.
     By the construction of new laboratories this material disadvantage

 1873.]               on the Old and New Laboratories.                        9
will be removed. Future professors will have buildings constructed
to aid research. Your liberality has spared no judicious expense ; and,
so far as the site would admit, our laboratories will be as perfect as the
 skill of our architect and the advice of our professors can make them.
     In conclusion, let mo lay before you what must still be done, in order
that there may be earned for the new laboratories a reputation com
parable with that which has hitherto proved both our glory and our
support.
     Our first and foremost object, beyond bricks and mortar, and money,
and apparatus, must be to find a succession of professors of the old
 type ; men who love research. But even Faraday would perhaps have
 been compelled to leave us, on account of the smallness of the sum which
 we could afford him, had not the endowment of the chemical chair, with
 100Z. a year, by the late Mr. Fuller, happily intervened. This timely
 endowment was probably a critical turning-point in the history of the
 Institution. We may not easily find successors worthy of the great
names who have gone before them ; but we may do much toward pre
venting mistakes in future appointments by keeping steadily in view,
that the promotion of natural knowledge is our main object ; and that
instruction and amusement, and brilliant audiences are all secondary
to our principal purpose. Not that these subsidiary purposes are to
be neglected or despised ;—and I, as your Treasurer, should be the
 last to undervalue them, but we feel confident that if the main purpose
 is effected, all the others will follow as a simple sequence.
     Secondly, when we have found professors of the type that I have
 described, our next need is that we may be able, from independent
 resources at the disposal of the Institution, to offer them a remunera
 tion which, all things taken into account, shall be an equivalent to
 what they would receive elsewhere. So that neither Government
appointments, nor University professorships, nor the liberality of
mercantile men, should be able to lure them from the path of dis
covery, to tuition, to arts, or to manufactures.
     The one act of wisdom, among tho many aberrations of an eccentric
Member of Parliament, saved Faraday to us, and thereby, as seems
probable, our Institution to the country. The liberality of a Hebrew
toy-dealer* in the East of London has made the rebuilding of our
laboratories possible.
     It is said that Mr. Fuller, the feebleness of whose constitution
denied him at all other times and places tho rest necessary for health,
could always find repose and even quiet slumber amid the murmuring
lectures of tho Royal Institution ; and that, in gratitude for the peace
ful hours thus snatched from an otherwise restless life, he bequeathed
to us his magnificent legacy of 10,0002. If this evening's discourse
    * Mr. Alfred Davia, after paying his composition of sixty guineas, as a
Member of the Institution, and three annual donations of twenty guineas for the
promotion of research, at his death in 1870 bequeathed 2000/. for tho same
purpose. His deafness prevented him from deriving any benefit from the
Lectures.

10                   Original Work in the Laboratories        [Jan. 17,
shall have ensured one such blissful hour to any of his audience, your
lecturer's offorts will not have been altogether in vain. But to each
such happy individual ho would express the hope that, as you have
resembled Mr. Fuller in your experience of life, so may you emulate
him in your liberality at death. In short, I would conclude almost in
the words of old Bishop Andrews : TJnum operae meae pretium abs to
peto, hoc autcm vehementer expeto, ut moi peccatoris meorumque in
precibus interdum memor sis. Which being interpreted is :
    For these my efforts I beg but one thing in return, and this I beg
most earnestly, viz. that you will now and then remember me a
sinner against your patience and forbearance in your prayers, and that
you will also bo mindful of our professorships in your wills.
                                                              [W. 8.]
    The following Table of the principal items of original work done
by our Professors, taken in connection with their long series of labo
ratory notes, forms a monument of the intellectual activity, the
manual dexterity, and the persevering industry, developed in the
Laboratories of the Royal Institution :—
                                  DAVY.
      1806       Chemical Agencies of Electricity.
      1807       Decomposition of Potash.
      1810       Chlorine.
      1812       Discourso on Radiant or Ethereal Matter.
      1813       Iodine.
         IK_     Researches on Fire-damp and Flamo.
      1817       The Safety Lamp.
                                FABADAT.
      1820       Alloys of Steel.
      1821       History of Electro-magnetism.
        „        Magnetic Rotations.
      1823       Liquefaction of Chlorine and other Gases.
      1825-6     New Compounds of Carbon and Hydrogen.
      1825-9     Manufacture of Optical Glass.
      1831       Vibrating surfaces.
        „        Magneto-Electricity.
      1832       Terrestrial Magneto-Electric Induction.
      1833       Identity of Electricities.
      1834       Electro-Chemical Decomposition.
        „        Electricity of the Voltaic Pile.
      1835       The Extra Current.
      1837-8     Frictional Electricity.

1873.]                 at the Royal Institution.                11
     1837-8  Specific Inductive Capacity.
     1845-8  Magnetization of Light.
       „     Lines of Magnetic Force.
       „     Magnetic Condition of all Matter.
       „     Diamagnetism.
       „     Magne-Crystallic Action.
     1849-50 Magnetism of Flame and Gasos.
       „     Atmospheric Magnetism.
     1856    Relations of Gold and other Metals to Light.
     1860    The Regelation of Ice.
                             TYNDALL.
     1853    Transmission of Heat through Organic Substances.
     1854    Vibrations due to Contact of Bodies at Different Tem
                peratures.
     1855    Researches on Diamagnetic Force.
     1856    Slaty Cleavage.
     1857-8 Physical Properties of Ice and Glaciers.
     1859-63 Absorption and Radiation of Heat by Gases.
     1865    Caloresccnce.
     1866-7 Action of Heat of high Refrangibility.
     1868-9 Formation of Clouds.
         „   Colour and Polarization of the Sky.
     1870    Smoke and Dust Respirator.
                           FRANKLAND.
     1863-6  Synthesis of Acids of the Lactic Series.
     1863    Mercury-methyl, Mercury-ethyl, and Morcury-amyl.
     1864    Transformation of Organo-Mercury Compounds into
                Organo-Zinc Compounds.
       „     Combustion of Iron in Compressed Oxygen.
     1865     Synthesis of Acids of tho Acrylic Series.
       „     Synthesis of Fatty Acids.
     1866    New Organic Radical Oxatyl.
       „     Tho Source of Muscular Power. Potential Energy in
                various kinds of Food.
     1867    Source of Light in Flamo. Effect of Pressure upon
                Luminosity of Flame.

12                         Professor T. B. Birks               [Jan. 21,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, Jan. 24, 1873.
     Sir Henrt Holland, Bart. M.D. D.CX. F.R.S. President,
                                 iu the Chair.
               The Rev. Thomas Rawson Birks, M.A.
                    PROFESSOR OP MORAL PHILOflOPHT, CAMRRIDGE.
             On the Analogies of Physical and Moral Science.
The Analogies, on which I would offer a few remarks this evening,
are of two kinds—general and specific. The former are those which
depend on the nature of the subjects in themselves. The latter are
correspondencies, by which the Maker of both worlds, the natural and
the moral, seems to have stored all outward nature with countless
parables, by which to lead our dull thoughts upward to the things
unseen and eternal.
    The first general analogy between Physics and Moral Science is in
the foundation on which they rest. In either case some first prin
ciples must be assumed. We cannot prove everything. A demon
stration requires premises. You cannot reason on colours with one who
is wholly blind from his birth. You cannot reason on right and wrong
with one whose conscience is wholly dead. There must be intuitions
of space, before there can be a science of geometry. There must be
perceptions of force and power, beforo there can be a science of
dynamics. There must be a sense of right and wrong, before there can
be a Science of Morals, and an instinct of religious reverence, and up-
looking to an Unseen Source of moral perfection, beforo there can bo
a true Theology.
    The 80s ttov cttiu of Archimedes is as needful in Physics as in
Morals. No lever can act without its fulcrum. No conclusions can
be reasoned from experiment, or from the processes of geometry, until
we accept, as trustworthy, the evidence of our senses, the testimony
of honest witnesses, and the veracity of our own powers of thought
and reason.
    Again, Physics and Morals agree further in this, that the first
principles on which they build rest on a basis of deep, unexplained
mystery. A violent attempt has been made to clear physical science
from those troublesome, mischievous cobwebs, metaphysics and theo
logy. But in striving to sweep them away, science itself is destroyed.
Phenomena, not referred to causes or forces, cannot even be grouped
together. Nay, a phenomenon is something appearing to some one.
If there be no thing that appears, and no person or percipient to whom
it appears, there is no phenomenon. But what is a person ? What is a

1873.]         on Analogies of Physical and Moral Science.              13
thing? They arc metaphysical ideas. Arithmetic starts from the unit.
But what is a unit ? The One and the Many has been a metaphysical
puzzle from the days of Parmenides. In what does individuality
consist ? A line is one line, but it has two sides and infinite points.
A person is one person. But he has many faculties, and thoughts
innumerable. Geometry starts with definitions of a point, a line, and
a surface. Here are as many mysteries as words. They all belong
to space. But what is space ? a thing or an attribute ? Is it finite
or infinite ? Why aro there three dimensions, and no more ? How
can there be a point without size, a line without breadth or thickness ?
And when we pass on to dynamics, the difficulties multiply. Momen
tum, vis viva, accelerating force, velocity .and time, a deep, unsearch
able mystery lies couched and latent in every phrase.
     In algebra, however mechanical its processes may seem, look
below every symbol, and you will find a mystery concealed. Take
the simple formula for the area of a circle, ir r, = a. The sign of
equality is one mystery. For what is it for two things to be equal
and not the same ? Equal numbers -are the samo number, but equal
lines are different, and not the same. The idea runs up into morals and
theology. What are equal rights and equal laws ? In what sense are
the ways of God equal, the ways of sinful men unequal ? The symbol
a denotes an area, the symbol r a radius or line. Can a line multiply
a lino, to make an area ? Or if they are numbers, can we deal with
infinite incommensurables as with finite numbers ? Tho number ir is a
 mystery. It represents a definite ratio, and yet one which no finite
fraction can express. The series of integers forms the basis of the
 science of arithmetic. A circle is one of the simplest figures in geo
 metry. But when we would pass from what is simplest in one science
 to what is simplest in the other, the infinite steps in, and blocks our
 path. We can approximate as near as we please. We can detect
a hundred infinite series to which ir is equal, but a finite expression
for it we cannot ever obtain.
      The case is similar in the higher region of morals and religions
 faith. The difficulty is neither more nor less, but precisely the same.
 Man is a free agent, responsible for his actions. This is a first prin
 ciple in morals. Man is dependent largely, in his feelings and
 instincts, on the conditions of his animal nature. This is a first prin
 ciple in human physiology. Man, to fulfil his duty and act aright,
 needs the offered help of Divine grace. This is a first principle of
 Christian Theology. But who shall explain perfectly the union and
 harmony of these three elements ? The first, divorced from the others,
will create a proud, self-flattering Stoic ; the second, a lazy sensualist ;
the third, a superstitious, immoral mystic. In their union alone
heroic virtue is reconciled with practical common sense, and religious
faith and reverence. But, just as in squaring the circle, truths simple,
but different in kind, may need a passage through the infinite, and
thus exceed the range of our finite minds, in order to reconcile them
and reveal their perfect harmony.

14                        Professor T. R. Birks                  [Jan. 24,
    The ultimate scientific, and the ultimate moral and religious ideas,
arc alike mysterious. Those who, on this ground, would deny moral
science and religious truth, must be content to seo geometry, the doc
trine of space, and dynamics, the doctrine of force, involved in tho
common ruin. He who refuses to seo by any light which has a haze
of mystery around it, or dark line contained in it, must close his eyes
even to the sunlight, and remain in darkness for ever.
    Again, Physical Science has a twofold character. It deals with
truths and with facts, truths of reason, and facts of experience, and
its triumph is in their marriage. Set aside tho deductions of abstract
science, and natural philosophy sinks into a lumber-room of countless
observations, unreduced and unexplained. Neglect experiment and
observation, and pursue abstract theories alone, and it resolves itself
into a fairyland of chimeras and empty dreams.
    Tho character of Moral Science is the same. It has its truths and
its facts, which must not bo confounded together. Its truths are the
laws of eternal righteousness, which will not bend, to humour the
weakness, or disguise the perversencss, of erring and sinful men.
These abide the same in their grand outlines for ever, and include all
actual and all possible moral agents within their firm and mighty
empire. Its facts are the special conditions of human life, the strange
complexities which arise from man's animal and spiritual nature,
and tho lessons of his actual moral state, his virtues or vices, his capa
bility of brutish debasement, and his capacity of lofty faith and moral
progress, derived from observation on tho real history of mankind.
And hero, too, there is the same double danger. Shrewdness of
observation, and keen insight into human character, can never create
a moral science worthy tho name, without tho clear vision of high
and eternal truth ; while abstract disquisitions on the beauty of virtue,
and eternal and immutable laws of right, will remain almost wholly
useless, like sounding brass or tinkling cymbal, unless they are brought
into contact with the realities of moral conflict and temptation, and
reconciled with them through the condescending messages of redeeming
love.
     The analogy of Physics and Morals in their growth and progress,
and their common hope of further advances to be made, and fuller
insight to bo attained, may perhaps be veiled from superficial ob
servers. But there is a rosemblanco of an opposite kind, which it
seems impossible to overlook or deny. The advance of knowledge, in
tho field of Physics, is great and manifest ; in that of Morals, it is real
and steady, though less apparent. But in each alike our remaining
ignorance is far greater still. Thoy both, when seen aright, teach us
the same lesson of deep humility. In the lower field of thought as in
the higher, the words of Newton are still true. We are only children,
picking up shells, or perhaps even jewels, on the shore while the great
ocean of truth lies undiscovered before us.
     Wbere can wo turn in the fields of Physical Science, and not feel,
after all our boasted progress, that we are infants in knowledge, and

 1873.]        on Analogies of Physical and Moral Science.              15
 far more still remains unknown ? The law of gravitation is the chief
 triumph of modern research. Its results have been deduced by pro
 found analysts, for the moon, the planets, the satellites, and the comets
 and the double stars, through two hundred years, and have yielded a rich
 harvest of discovery. Yet we cannot solve, even now, the problem of
 three bodies only, except in special cases, and by successive approxi
 mation. But we have to assume that every star and planet, nay,
 every atom composing them, is fulfilling this law with unfailing
 accuracy, when acted upon every moment by thousands of stars or
 planets, and by the billions or trillions of atoms that compose them.
 Is, then, each atom omniscient ? Does it know, by a sure instinct, the
 distance of every other atom in the universe to a decimal of a thousand
 places, and govern its own movements by tho resultant of the whole ?
 If so, each particle of matter must bo infinitely wiser in the reckening
 of distance, and in the summation of ever-varying quantities, than tho
 ablest mathematician of past or present days. Does each atom act
 instantaneously at every point, through a sphero which reaches to tho
 farthest and dimmest star? Then it would seem that it acts every
 where but where it is, and must bo virtually omnipresent. The
 infant's hand, uplifted in idlo play, affects the motion of Sirius. Tho
 dew-drop that falls unseen in the night, the tear on the cheek of
 sorrow, is carried downward by the help of overy wave that dashes on
 the shores of New Zealand, and by overy atom in those deep places of
 the earth which science has never explored. It acts in turn with a
 measurable force, however small, on every star in the midnight
 heavens. Science might advance at its present rato for millions on
 millions of years, and still would fall infinitely short of reckening up
 all the consequences of this one law of nature, so beautifully simple, so
 inexpressibly mysterious and profound !
     The lesson of Moral Science is the same. Some laws of duty are
 plain and clear to the humblest and the least intelligent. But when we
 pass beyond the first elements, we meet with difficulty on every side.
 The laws of outward nature, the free will of man, the Divine
sovereignty, with its promisos of grace, who can integrate the vast
 moral equation, which includes these three grand elements, or trace out
 the countless results that must flow from it in the over-changing
drama of human life ? We may see dimly that all the elements of
the moral world, like those of the natural, must act and react on each
other. But when once wo step beyond the plainest laws of duty, or
tho simplest lessons of revealed religion, mystery shuts us in on every
side. Every thoughtful mind is compelled to exclaim, " O the depth
of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God!"—the
Governor of this vast universe of moral agents! — "How unsearch
able are His judgments, and His ways past finding out ! " Pride ill
befits the students of scienco, whether in its lower or its higher field.
If they have wings, with which to traverse swiftly the starry depths
of space, they need surely to have others, with which to veil their faces
while they adore.

16                        Professor T. B. Birks                 [Jan. 24,
    From those general analogies of Physical and Moral Science,
I pass on to others of a more specific kind.
     And first, the doctrine of atoms is one of the chief features of our
modern chemistry, including its kindred science of molecular forces.
Scientific analysis divides aud subdivides, and comes at length to a
limit which it cannot pass. The chemical elements, each with its
own combining number, point to the real existence of atoms, having
their proportional weight, which build up the structure of all solids by
their union. Some way or other, the properties of the aggregates
depend plainly on their atomic elements. These determine their
forms of crystallization, their density, their optical, magnetic, and
electric powers. A clearer knowledge of their real nature would
introduce a new era, more striking than all the past, in the progress of
Physical Science.
    In Moral Science, also, there is a great and simplo fact, which
answers, by close resemblance, to this atomic theory of modern
chemistry. This is the individual personal responsibility of each
moral agent.
    Human society is a very complex whole. The man seems often
almost lost amidst the millions of a civilized nation, the statistics of
its trade and commerce, the tens of thousands of its armies, and the
grand developments of its social and political life. But a nation is
not like a cube or surface, capable of endless subdivision. Analyze
it aright, and we soon reach the moral units of which it is composed.
These men, women, children, are endued with moral characters, and
each is separately responsible to the others and to their God. You
cannot resolve such an agent into decimal fractions. You cannot fuse
man down into some composite mass, in which his own responsibility
shall disappear.
    Material atoms are elastic. Force cannot destroy them. Com
pression, however violent, calls out those immense latent powers which
were concealed in them before. And it is just the same in the
moral world. Tyranny leads to a strong reaction. The conscience
repels the usurpations of lawless force, whether issuing from an
Eastern despot, or some fierce and wilful democracy ; and asserts its
powers anew, whether in martyrs at the stake and patriots dying for
their country's liberty in the battle-field.
    The dominion of law is another great fact, which has revealed
itself more and more clearly in the whole progress of modern science.
With some minds it seems ready to swallow up every other. Laws,
which can dispense with a Law giver, and create their own subjects,
are a paradox of some modern philosophers, but unknown and without
any example in the social world, where the idea has its natural homo.
The true meaning of the phrase, in physics, is that changes result from
forces, with which the particles of bodios, or living things, are
endued ; and that these forces, in a large number of cases, aro measur
able, and vary in their amount by some rule which can be discovered.
The term, however, may be extended to those truths of arithmetic and

1873.]         an Analogies of Physical and Moral Science.                  17
geometry, which coexist with the whole series of physical change,
and which we feel to be necessary, and their opposites inconceivable.
We have thus, speaking strictly, a double principle or fact of science,
the permanence of unalterable truth, and the constancy of laws that
are not necessary, which might be conceived different, and are proved
by the inductions of experience alone.
    Is there nothing in the field of morals which answers to this main
feature of modern physical science ? The correspondence is exact and
entire. First, we have a large class of moral truths, which answer to
those of arithmetic and geometry ; only that they deal with higher and
nobler subjects, not with abstract units, or points and lines in space, but
moral agents, and their relation to each other, and to the great Sourco
and Fountain of their being. It is just as easy to conceive that two
right lines can enclose a finite space, as that it is morally right for a man
to hate all his fellow-men, and to think the properties of a circle may
be reversed and turned into those of a mangle, as for treachery to become
a virtue, and gratitude a crime. But besides moral truths, unalterable
in themselves, our reason recognizes laws of another kind, dependent
on the will of the Creator, and the actual constitution of the moral
universe. Such, for instance, are the force of example, the strength
of sympathy, and the power of habit. Such are all the ordinances of
marriage and of property, and the various relations which grow out of
the actual constitution of men, in whom an animal nature and a
higher life are mingled strangely together.
     Again, the law of universal attraction is the boast and glory of
modern physical discovery. No other physical truth has been so
wide in its range, or so wonderful in the triumphs of mathematical
reasoning, and practical and assiduous observation, to which it has led.
 Has this no counterpart in the higher sphere of morals ? There is
 one of the simplest and plainest kind. The great law of duty, " Thou
 shalt love thy neighbour as thyself," binds together, with a Divine
 bond, the whole moral universe. It reaches to the highest, and stoops
 to the lowest. It includes every being, on earth or in heaven, or in
 unknown worlds, who is endued with the power of choice and will. It
 speaks to the conscience of the child, trained in Christian faith at its
mother's knee, and claims the allegiance of the noblest and loftiest
 of those spirits which stand before the eternal throne. Like the great
law of which it is the moral counterpart, it
             " Lives through all life, extends through all extent,
               Spreads undivided, operates unspent,"
and exercises a powerful control of binding, irreversible authority
 throughout the vast range of the moral universe.
     But universal attraction, though it claims historical precedence,
 is not the only law which obtains in the wide world of natural
 philosophy. There is a moral law of molecular repulsion, towards
 which modern science, with slow and painful steps, seems to be
 groping its way. It has long seemed to be plainly implied in the
    Vol. VII. (No. 58.)                                              o

18                          Professor T. R. Birks                    [Jan. 24,
intense elasticity of the waves of light. It bas been still more clearly
revealed, of lato, by the strange phenomena of Halley's comet and
several others, in their near approach to the sun. In tho words of Sir
J. Horschel, the force displayed is "repulsive as respects the sun,
and far exceeds in energy the force of gravitation." When once ita
naturo is more clearly scon and defined, we may expect an advance of
physical soience still greater than has been achieved since the im
mortal ' Principia ' appeared.
     Here, again, there is a moral counterpart of the plainest kind.
There is, in the innermost sphere of thought, a principle of self-asser
tion and personal responsibility, without which the social instinct
itself would be fatal to moral life ; and, under the sway of numbers and
the tyranny cf majorities, all power of moral action would expire.
Side by side, also, with the grand law of love, which binds together
the moral universe, there is a further law, second only to the first, of
purity and holiness, by which the upright and pure repel from them
selves tho prossnre and threatening invasion of all moral evil. And,
just as in the natural world, so in the moral, the law of repulsion,
compared with the force of attraction, is less easy to define, more
complex and mysterious in its working; but is found, by those who
 look below the surface, to be no less essential to the harmony and
well-being of tho whole.
     Another striking feature in the discoveries of modern physics, is
tho law of order and mutual dependence which they reveal. Let us
look at the solar system, as unfolded by astronomy. It is severed,
 first of all, by immense intervals, from the nearest stars. It forms
 one mighty whole. The sun, in its centre, exceeds a thousandfold
 tho collective mass of all the planets that circle around it. The
 planets, in their turn, exceed their own satellites, and hold them in
 due subordination. They vary in size themselves, from Jupiter, a
 thousand times larger than the earth, to Mercury twenty times, and
 to asteroids a thousandfold less. Each planet, again, has its own
 atmosphere. Tho sun has his crown of glory and his nebula of
 fainter light, far diffused ; the earth its gentler auroral displays, and the
superior planets give some signs of being partly self-luminous. Every
where there is a marked subordination, and on this fact the possibility
of a scientific calculation of their orbits mainly depends.
      The same principle prevails clearly in the moral world. There
are common laws of moral duty and obligation, and of creature
dependence, which belong equally to all. But in the actual state,
tho various gifts and privileges of moral agents, there is a wide
and immenso diversity. In atoms thero is diversity of weight, from
hydrogen to gold. In planets, diversity of size, from the tiny asteroid
that eludes the lynx-eyed observer, to the lustrous Jupiter, with its
belts and satellites, and a circumference of near three hundred thousand
miles. In tho discoveries of science, as well as in the first impressions
 of the eye, one star differs from another star in glory. In plants
 there is vast disparity, from the cedar of Lebanon to the hyssop on

1873.]         on Analogies of Physical and Moral Science.             19
the wall, or the algoc of the microscope ; and in living organisms, from
the huge elephant or extinct mammoth, to the minute forms of life
which the same microscope alone reveals. And in the higher range of
moral being it is the same. Equality is a chimera of mere dreamers,
and a dead, monotonous level can nowhere be found. There is
diversity of experience, from the feebleness and ignorance of infancy,
to the ripe wisdom of age. There is diversity of rank, from the
pauper, dependent on the alms of others, to the monarch on the throne.
There is diversity of mental power, from the helpless idiot to the
poet or philosopher who explores the secrets of the universe. There
is diversity of moral condition, from the wretched slave of brutish
appetite to the noble army of martyrs, and the goodly fellowship of
prophets, whose lips and hearts are touched with fire from heaven.
     Men are found to tell us, in these days, that society tends
irresistibly to a dead level of pure and absolute democracy, where
genius, rank, character, virtue, shall count for nothing, and the
power of numbers alone shall prevail. They might as well per
suade us that the wheels of time are rolling backward, and the
universe is resolving itself into nebulous mist again. All nature,
with one voice, points clearly to an opposite view. If an old social
order has been dissolved, from time to time, like a solid which first
melts and then evaporates, it is that some new precipitate may be
formed, perhaps one more crystalline in structure, and thus more
pervious to the light of heaven. In the moral world, as in the
natural, a dynasty of homogeneous atoms, with no polarity and no
bonds of special cohesion, can never last. Wherever there is life,
there must be organization. And all members have not the same
office. The least and lowest may have its own use and honour, but can
never, without shame and mischief, usurp the place of the higher.
Least of all can even the noblest creatures, without the risk of some
fatal loss and moral catastrophe, attempt to shake off their subjection
to that Fountain of Life, and Sun of the moral universe, on whom they
all depend.
     The power of nearness or proximity is another great fact, which
pervades the world of physics. On this, in some way or other, co
hesive action plainly depends. It is seen even in the law of gravita
tion. It seems to operate, among the atoms of bodies, in a still
intenser form. And is it not just the same in the world of morals ? The
great command, " Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself," teaches
clearly that neighbourhood is to form one main element in the actings
of moral duty and Christian love. All are to be loved. But the forth-
goings of affection, like the circles formed by the pebble in the lake,
are to be strongest and fullest towards those who dwell at our side.
Destroy cohesive force in adjoining atoms, and the universe would
be unmade, and suns and planets become nebulous mist once more.
Destroy the family affections, and social life must equally perish and
pass away.
     But there is another principle, the contrast and complement of the
                                                              o 2

20                       Professor T. R. Birks                   [Jan. 24,
last, which the facts of astronomy, and indeed of all physical science,
clearly reveal — the mighty power of Union. Forces, separately
feeble and insignificant, when grouped together, and formed into one
coherent mass, have an influence they can never obtain while disunited
and incoherent. The cohesion and mass of the comets is small. We
have seen one of them part asunder. Perhaps we witnessed, the other
day, a brilliant shower of its comminuted fragments, spending them
selves in our atmosphere, and working no sensible change. They pass
near to the planets and satellites, and no disturbance of their motion
follows. But let' the same elements be combined in a greater mass,
and they become a planet, maintaining its own orbit, and sustaining
its own forms of life. Let the mass be further increased, and we have
a central sun, the source of light, heat, and order to the mighty
system over which it rules.
     The very same principle obtains in the higher world of morals and
intelligence. Union is strength. It is not strength alone, but light and
heat also. The combination of myriads and millions has a mighty
power. But they must first cohere, or this power of union is unat
tainable. Truth, faith, and love, are the secret bonds by which alone
they can be united in a permanent and effectual way. Common selfish
ness, or some tide-wave of popular passion, may combine them for a
moment, but only to form an explosive mixture, soon to be scattered
violently again. But union, built up by truth and love, such as the
union of the Christian Church and every Christian nation ought to be,
though, alas ! too little attained, has immense and mighty power.
Once let the world witness a truly righteous nation, where truth fills
every mind, and love every heart, and a common faith pulsates through
the whole ; and it would be like the presence of a moral sun, shedding
light and warmth through all surrounding nations, and by its moral
momentum would bind all the tribes and nations of the earth, like
planets, into order and perfect harmony.
     The analogies are no less striking which result from the whole
recent course of optical science.
     The prism, of late, has been unusually rich in new discoveries.
The pathway in which Newton took the first main step, has been ex
plored anew, and secret marvels have been disclosed in every step of
the progress. These waves of light, from forty to sixty thousand in
one inch, these swift undulations, hundreds of millions of millions in
one second, bailie and confound us by their subtilty and strangeness.
This beautiful gradation of tint and shade, derived from the pure
white of the sunbeam, this strange fusion with heat at one end of the
scale, and passage into magnetic force at the other, these dark lines
that take their stations, like sentinels, in the midst of light itself, and
turn, in other cases, into lines of double brightness, all stimulate the
curiosity of science, and open a wide field for conjecture, while they
delight the eye with their variegated beauty.
    These facts, also, have their moral counterpart. " The Bow of the

1873.]         on Analogies of Physical and Moral Science.             21
covenant " is an accepted symbol from the opening to the close of the
book of God. And its double lesson is plain. The light of pure and
perfect goodness needs to assume a varied colouring, and is refracted
into many forms, of gentleness and severity, of justice and grace, the
tints of the ruby and the emerald, when it shines through the storm-
clouds of our present world. And the same is true of moral excellence
in the creature, the image and reflexion of the Divine. It admits
of strong contrasts and large varieties. There is the stern, heroic
grandeur of the ancient prophets, and the weeping gentleness of a
Mary Magdalene. There are forms of goodness which resemble fiery
flame, that warms as well as enlightens, but consumes the stubble, and
others that resemble rather the gentler green of the meadow, or the
pure azure of the sky.
     May we not carry the resemblance still further, even into the
region of these new discoveries ? There ore dark lines even in the
brightest ports of Divine Providence, interspersed amidst the purest
and most attractive messages of the Christian revelation. They are
there, whether we observe them or not. They are there, even when
we cannot explain them. The sun sends us his message. It contains
dark hieroglyphics, which we do not understand. Yet Science accepts
them, and profits by them ; and the docility with which it notes
and receives facts it cannot yet interpret is the pledge and inlet of
new discoveries. If we can detect and then measure the approach
or recession of fixed stars, millions of miles distant, a problem that
might seem impossible, it is not by light itself, but by darkness sur
rounded with light, and seen in the midst of it, that the triumph is
won. There are also dark lines in Divine Providence, even where
the light shines clearest. There are deep mysteries enshrined in that
message of Divine love, which brings light to the mind of the Christian
and warmth to his heart. And the docility with which we receive the
whole spectrum of Divine truth, even when its strange, dark lines are
unsolved mysteries, is perhaps the condition on which the highest attain
ments of Christian wisdom and true moral insight may depend.
    But I must hasten to a close, though I have merely skimmed the
surface of a vast ocean, and its deeper soundings remain wholly un
explored. All nature is one storehouse of parables to the thoughtful
mind. Science, even when most careless, can hardly help stumbling
on some of them in its way. But the more carefully we weigh its
discoveries, the richer we shall find them to be in lessons of wisdom.
The links which bind the planets to their sun are not so firm as those
which bind this outward world of sense and matter to the higher and
nobler truths of the spiritual world beyond and above. Nature is
one vast mirror, in which we may see the dim reflexion of a nobler
field of thought than the conflict of puny atoms, or integrals of atomic
force, can ever supply. We need first to gaze downward, that presently
we may look upward. Then turning from the shadows to the sub
stance, from things seen and temporal to things unseen and eternal,

22                         Mr. E. Dannreuther                    [Jan. 31,
we shall veil our faces before the vision of a greatness that is un
searchable, and a goodness that is unspeakable. In the spirit of
Christian faith and hope, we shall thus gaze on the uncreated Light,
and rejoice with humility, while we adore.
                                                             [T. R. B.J
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, January 31, 1873.
   Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. President, in the Chair.
                      Edward Dannreuther, Esq.
                        On the Music of the Future.
Possirly some of you may have dabbled a little here and there in the
study of Harmony. H it has happened to you to make experiments
with two or more masters, you will in all likelihood have been
astounded to observe how much " the doctors diner." You will have
been amused to see how congenial it is to musical wiseacres to carry
on a war of " omnes contra omncs." You will have found different
principles and different applications even in rudimentary matters.
When the professors came to explain things a little more complicated
than a hymn tune, when they came to account for the doings of artists
of original genius, say of men such as Chopin, Berlioz, or Liszt, they
are certain to have pronounced them wanting in clearness and perspi
cuity, in grammatical precision, and logical development of thought.
That which the professor's critical yard of tape can neither measure
nor encompass is to him a nonentity.
    Like Newman Noggs's barber, every professor thinks himself bound
to draw the line somewhero ; say before the last works of Beethoven,
or before Schumann or Chopin. He stigmatizes everything that ex
tends beyond his little horizon of personal vision as madness, or at
least as eccentricity ; and the party-cries of madman, fanatic, barbarous
destroyer of the beautiful, have been heard probably ever since the
children of Jubal " handled the harp and organ."
    Now the fact is, that in music, as in all other arts, the practice of
great artists always precedes theory. In our day, I should say,
practice is in advance of theory by about a quarter of a century ; in
Beethoven's time it was ahead by about fifty years, and before that by
full a hundred. An artist of genius widens tho scope and enlarges
the domains of his art, and the critical and theoretical surveyor comes
after to take his measuro with a yard of tape.
    It is near upon five-and-twenty years since Richard Wagner and
Franz Liszt accomplished some of their most important revolutionary
deeds in the realms of instrumental and dramatic music, and the time

 1873.]                  on the Music of the Future.                  23
has come when musical theorists are following in the wake of the
 great innovators, and are exerting themselves to give a systematic
account of their doings. Before attempting to give you some insight
into the many conflicting theories, opinions, and absurdities, that have
 crystallized around that great bugbear, " The Music of the Future,"
it will be well to give you a slight notion of the state of musical
matters antecedent to Wagner and Liszt's revolt. It will be best to
 do this from two sides : The side of pure instrumental music, which,
 as you know, has been far the most prominent in Germany (that is to
say, in the entire musical world worth speaking of), since the middle
of the last century ; and secondly, from the side of music in connec
 tion with the Drama, that is to say, operatic music generally. Since
 the days of Bach and Handel, the progress of musical art has lain
almost exclusively within the domains of purely instrumental music
 It is true, that our great masters have produced an enormous amount
of matter for human voices, both with and without accompaniment,
and it is not less true that the art, even the purely instrumental part
of it, has received an immense impulse through its connection with the
stage. Still I may assert, that the achievements of the great instru
mental school, from Bach and his sons, through Haydn, Mozart, and
 Beethoven, to Schubert, Mendelssohn, and Schumann, constitute the
 genuine triumphs of the art, without fear of injuring Rossini, and all
his friends who have devoted their talents to the manufacture of
tunes for Italian and French singing-birds. If we follow the courso
 of the development of instrumental music from Haydn to Beethoven,
wo perceive a gradual development of form ; from a regular produc
 tion for the market, to the achievement of a lofty ideal, upon which
none but purely artistic considerations are allowed to have any
influence. In Haydn's earlier days, tho greater number of Austrian,
 Bohemian, and Hungarian noblemen kept their private bands. A similar
custom has obtained in Russia up till the recent emancipation of serfs,
and may be still in vogue here and there for aught I know. Those
who were unable to support a complete band, kept at least a string
quartette, or a couple of wind-instrument players. " Pater familias "
played the violin, or the flute, or the violoncello together with his
retainers, and accompanied his daughters playing on the cembalo. It
was for this sort of amateur gatherings that composers produced the
incredible mass of chamber music, which astonishes the student.
It is to these reunions of dilettanti, that the enormous number of
duets, trios, quartettes, for string and wind instruments ; the endless
sets of variations for the pianoforte ; the serenades, cassaziones,
suites for small bands, &c., resembling one another like eggs in a
basket, owe their origin. The composers furnished what their
patrons could play easily ; and thus a conventional form and style for
compositions of this character was easily developed, and soon carried
to a state of relative perfection.
     But the very great diffusion of this class of music, and the ever-
increasing demand for it, brought into play an element, which, though

24                          Mr. E. Dannreuther                  [Jan. 31,
it carried with it the germs of degeneracy, yet saved the conventional
forms of chamber music from entire stagnation ; I mean the virtuose
element. A number of professed players, travelling virtuosi, made
their influence felt from one end of Europe to the other ; and it was
in consequence of their increased professional skill, of their safe and
sure mastery over all technical difficulties, that composers, such as
Mozart, animated with a desire to fly at higher game, could venture to
give bolder expression to their musical dreams. They could aim at
filling the conventional forms with higher and more intensely emo
tional matter, and could afford to eschew the typical banalities, so dear
to the amateurs of their time. At last Beethoven was enabled to clear
the entire domains of dilettantism at a bound, and to escape the stifling
atmosphere of amateur tastes and wishes. From the beginning of
Beethoven's second period, from the Sinfonia Eroica, or the Waldstein
Sonata, or the Rasoumouffsky quartettes, we may date the decay and
death of dilettantism. These works are absolutely beyond the reach
of players who cannot devote an entire life to their instruments, and
they form of necessity the centre of that great circle, round which the
whole musical world of our day gyrates. With Beethoven, instru
mental music rises to a perfectly ideal sphere. He has got rid of all
and every conventionality of form and diction. He makes every
technical detail subservient to the expression of his poetical idea. He
gives himself no trouble as regards difficulties of execution, provided
there are no technical impossibilities. He finishes his work as best he
can without consulting the desires or tastes of his executants, or even
of his audience. The outlines of musical form, such as they have been
bequeathed to him by his predecessors, he cannot be said to have
either obliterated, or strained. He expanded them, and turned them to
account for the expression of intense emotions. It is impossible in all
the works of his second and third period to find a trace of conventional
and traditional "shablone" ; every single work forms a perfect organism
with its own conditions and laws of being. Every work is a distinct
individual, whose connection with the species, may be, and is, traceable,
though at first sight it appears to be infinitely removed from the parent
stock. I think I can formulize the gist of the whole matter definitely
and clearly, when I say, that since Beethoven, it has been the desire
of all thinking and aspiring musicians to construct their music upon
a poetical basis. Now the tendency towards the expression of some
definite poetical idea by musical means, is the characteristic of all so-
called " Music of the Future," and such a tendency has made itself
felt more and more clearly in the works of Beethoven's successors :
Mendelssohn, Schumann, Chopin, Berlioz, Liszt, and Wagner. The
 unlimited powers of the art for emotional expression, and for this
 only, are being more and more universally recognized ; and we are
 every day moving farther from the old standpoint of vague juggling
 with sweet sounds in stereotyped forms. A sonata or a string
 quartette of the old type was built somewhat like an ordinary Victorian
 house. From the portico and hall of the first theme you were led up

 1873.]                 on the Music of (lie Future.                    25
 a commonplace staircase of runs and passages, to the second theme
with its feminine drawing-room air, from whence it was easy to find
 your way into more or less insignificant accessory rooms, or to descend
 again into this or that musical pantry.
     With Beethoven the form is evolved from the emotional essence of the
 poetical idea. If you call to mind one of his heavenly Adagios in the
string quartettes, or Symphonies, or the astonishing vigour, depth, and
tenderness of the opening movements of these works, and compare
 them to similar movements of Haydn's ; or again, if you consider the
 emotional element in Beethoven's ninth symphony, or in other of the
works of his third period, and compare them with any of Mozart's,
you will see what I mean to indicate by such an expression as the
"Emancipation of form for the sake of the poetical idea," and by the
assertion, that such music has a poetical basis, and is the most dis
tinct, and the most perfect of all possible expression of a poetical idea.
In Beethoven, the scaffolding of musical forms, conventional and
traditional with Haydn and Mozart, in whose works all the props and
joists are clearly visible, and often make the impression of empty
" shablone," is entirely idealized. It is still traceable, but has become
entirely subservient to the poetical idea ; to the expression of some
particular and intense emotion. The structural element, as architects
say, has entirely amalgamated with the vital parts. The work of art
has ceased to be a conglomerate of tunes, and has become a living
organism.
     Beethoven has not in every instance thought fit to give a distinct
clue to the poetical ideas which prompted, or at least ran parallel with
his musical production. He has, however, in his most important
works done so, and in the records of his conversations with friends
and pupils, many indications in a similar direction are to be found.
Thus among his Symphonies, I need only mention the " Eroica," the
"Pastoral," and above all the ninth. Among his Sonatas, tho "Pathe-
tique," " L'absence et le retour." Among his overtures, " Coriolan,''
" Egmont," and the three great " Leonoras."
     His followers, on the list of German instrumental composers,
have carried the principle still farther. Thus to mention an extreme
example, and one most likely familiar to you all, Mendelssohn in his
overture, entitled " Calm Sea and Prosperous Voyage," follows a poem
of Goethe's, line for line, picture for picturo. His other concert
overtures, " A Midsummer Night's Dream," " Fingal," " Melusine " ;
all give most vivid impressions of the ideas their titles indicate.
Rob. Schumann has in several of his larger works, such as the
overtures to " Manfred," " Faust," " Julius Caesar," succeeded in
giving the emotional essence of the poetical works indicated by the
titles in the musician's language ; and hundreds of his smaller
pianoforte pieces have characteristic superscriptions indicative of the
precise pictures, images, and feelings that engrossed the composer's
mind during his work. In Berlioz's Symphonies, and Liszt's " Poemes
Symphoniques," the new method has reached its climax, and probably

  2G                        Mr. E. Dannreuther                     [Jan. 31,
 in many cases, both composers have overstepped and overstrained the
 limits and capacities of musical art. Both offer definite, and some
 times very lengthy programmes to their musical work. Berlioz has
 attempted to make a symphony of Shakspeare's " Romeo and Juliet,"
 and of the fourth Canto of Byron's " Childe Harold." Liszt has
 reproduced poems by Victor Hugo, Schiller, meditations by Lamartine,
 scenes from Dante's "Divina Commedia," &c. To my mind, many
 of these works, marvellously interesting though they be, and surpris
 ingly ingenious and perfect in all technical detail, are a little unpalat
 able. I get no total and complete impression from them. If I listen
 to the music, without attending to the poetical programme followed
 by the composer, the impression is one of musical incoherence ; and
 if I attend to the poem, the conditions of the unsatisfactory im
 pression are only reversed, not done away with. In the one case,
 I get an amount of Very clever music wrapped up in a cloak of poetry ;
 in the other a fine poem stifled under an enormous mass of orchestral
 colour. What I long for, and what makes Beethoven's works so unap
 proachable—the entire fusion of the poetical and musical elements
 into one indissoluble and complete whole—seems wanting. These
 extreme cases of programme music, then, form one phase of the
 matter, and are known, and sometimes ridiculed, under the sobriquet
 of " Music of the Future."
      The other, the main phase, and the one I entirely agree with, is
 that represented by Richard Wagner. Wagner, in constructing a
 musical drama, delineates the characters after the fashion of a great
 poet, and makes use of music as the ultimate means of poetical
 expression. Hero, as much, and even moro than in Liszt's and
 Berlioz's works, the traditional " shablones " of isolated musical form
disappear, and the poetical idea everywhere modifies and influences
the courso and development of the music ; but, instead of a separate
programme, printed or read, and to be used as a sort of reference, we
have the living action on the stage ; the emotions, sentiments, and
actions, supremely intelligible, developing themselves in actual flesh
and blood before our eyes, and the poetical comment to the music, as
well as the musical comment to the poetry, uniting into one great
focus, and producing a total artistic impression, the intensity of which
must by any other conceivable means be for ever unapproachable. In
Wagner's dramas, the significance given to music is indicative of the
character the art will attain in no very distent future. I firmly believe
with him, that music will in time be the matrix, the informing element,
of the drama. It was so in ancient Greece, and will be again. I
believe that the drama of the future will bo as much the richer in
scope and power as modern Becthovenian music is richer than Greek
music was; and that the complete union which poetry, mimetics,
and music have in our timo undergone in Wagner's dramas, is a union
which will henceforth be inseparable and indissoluble.
     It is a common case in all arts and sciences, that a man of genius
has some intuitive insight—sees his way by chance as it were through

1878.]                 on the Music of the Future.                     27
a maze of facts—is perfectly right in his intuition ; yot, while seeking
plausible reasons for it, such as shall make it palatable to others, hits
upon an explanation, only partially true, or mayhap altogether false.
His intuitions may for all that be very profound, and perfectly right.
Some such intuitive rediscovery of forgotten truth, long lost sight
of, we owe to Wagner, and the reasons he has in his voluminous
writings given for it, are the cause of all the storms that havo
devastated the musical world for the last quarter of a century.
Wagner is a poet and dramatist by nature and profession ; a very
different thing from a moro musician, let it bo remembered. His
artistic talents developed themselves in immediate contact with the
musical stage. At starting, he was equipped with a sound classical
education over and above his enormous specifically musical and
dramatic gifts. Possessing an ardent imagination, that most vividly
reproduced the scenes and sentiments of ancient Greek and Eliza
bethan drama, a fiery soul steeped in the Titanic marvels of Beethoven's
symphonies and Bach's fugues, is it to be wondered at that ho should
have found the dreary everyday routine of operatic banalities, the
platitude and puerility of all operatic doings, utterly unbearable ? To
us, who judge after tho fact, it appears most natural and inevitable
that he should have attempted a realization of an artistic ideal, mado
up of these various elements, and intending to combine the separate
and isolated perfections of both into one glorious whole ; a dramatic
whole, in which the poet should be allowed to delineate his characters
in accordance with tho laws of his art, without making the slightest
concession to the musician for the sake of operatic or any other con
ventionalities ; and again, a dramatic whole, in which the musician
should be able to give unfettered expansion to the supreme powers for
emotional expression, peculiar to his art. Wagner saw the possibilities
for such a form clearly before him, and long before he attempted to
find plausible reasons in support of his intuition ; long hefore he began
to speculate on the subject, he tried to embody his ideal in living
works for the musical stage. I need only mention " Der fliegende
Hollander," " Tannhauser," and " Lohengrin," which were all written,
and for the most part publicly performed, before a word of his theo
retical endeavours saw the light.
    He spent the earlier part of his life conducting operas at small
theatres in second-rate towns, like Wiirzburg, Magdeburg, Riga.
    During his conductorship at Dresden from 1843 to 1849, he had
striven most ardently, but in vain, to raiso the general standard of
things operatic. After the revolution of '49, finding himself entirely
isolated from all musical and dramatic doings, a refugee at Zurich, ho
determined to give, at least, a written version of the dramatic and
musical ideal which he had formed for himself, and which ho then
saw no hope of actually realizing on the stage. He had received the
strongest inducements to account for the stagnation of the musical
stage in Germany, by the position it occupios in modorn society. It
was folly, undoubtedly, to entertain a hope of entirely reversing the

28                          Mr. E. Dannreuther                    \Jan. 31,
position of an institution, which aims almost exclusively at providing
diversion and amusement for a population that loves pleasure, because
it is bored, and at securing the pecuniary gain necessary to cover the
expenses of exhibitions calculated to serve such a purpose. It was
folly to think of substituting for this, an ideal tendency to raise the
minds of the people from the vulgar interests of daily life, and to
enable them to comprehend and to view with due adoration the highest
and the most significantly beautiful that the human mind is capable
of grasping. Wagner had time to consider the causes which have re
duced the stage to the equivocal position it occupies in regard to
public life, and on the other hand, to take into account the foundation
of those social relations, which would as necessarily produce a theatre
such as he conceived it, as modern social relations produce the present
theatre. As he had found in the rare appearances of artists of genius
a basis for the character of his dramatic-musical ideal, history also
presented to him a type for the ideal relation of the theatre, such as
ho imagined it to public life. This was the theatre of ancient Athens,
which was only opened on days of special festivity, when the enjoy
ment of art was at the same time a religious celebration, and wherein
the most distinguished men of the state took part, as poets or actors ;
appearing like priests before the assembled population of town and
country, who were filled with such high expectations of the loftiness
of the works to be performed, that iEschylus and Sophocles could
produce before them the profoundest of all poems, and be certain of
their appreciation. The reasons for the decline of this incomparable
work of art were easily perceivable. His attention was first drawn to
the social causes of this decline, and they appeared to be identical
with the causes of the decline of the ancient state itself. Thence he
endeavoured to deduce the social principles of that political organization
of the human race, which, correcting the imperfections of the antique
state, would be able to found a condition of things, in which the rela
tions between art and public life as it once existed in Athens, would
revive in a manner, if possible, more noble, and certainly more durable.
His thoughts on this subject were stated in a little pamphlet entitled
" Die Kunst und die Revolution " (Art and Revolution). For a com
paratively longer time he then occupied himself with inquiring into tho
character of this deplorable dissolution of the Greek work of art. The
first thing that struck him, was the remarkable fact, that those different
branches of art which had previously been united in the perfect drama,
were now dissolved and separated. Tho mighty union by which it
had been possible to make the most profound and exalted intentions of
humanity perfectly intelligible to the people, had ceased to exist, and
its component parts—the arts, as wo call them—from the position of
inspired teachers, had sunk to the level of a pleasant pastime for in
dividual lovers of art, so that while the people were publicly enter
tained with combats of gladiators and wild beasts, educated men
 occupied themselves with literature in private seclusion. It was
 especially important to perceive, that the different arts in their separate

1873.]                 on the Mimic of the Future.                   29
and isolated cultivation, however their powers of expression might bo
increased and developed by brilliant genius, could never (without
degenerating into unnaturalnoss and downright faultiness) aim in any
way at replacing that all-powerful work of art, the production of which
had only been possiblo to their combined efforts. With the aid of
eminent art critics—Lessing, for instance, in his researches on tho
limits of painting and poetry —Wagner arrived at the result, that each
separato branch of art develops itself to the full extent of its capa
bilities, and that, arrived at those limits, it cannot overstep them,
without incurring tho risk of becoming incomprehensible and fantas
tical, nay, even absurd. At this point, it seemed clear to him, that
each art once arrived at its limits, demanded to join itself to a sister
art. Ho seemed, finally, to be able to show it as existing most
distinctly and strikingly in tho relation between music and poetry ;
especially taking into consideration the great significance of modern
music. Endeavouring thus to imagine a work of art, of which all
separate branches are supposed to unite, each in a supreme stato of
perfection, ho arrived spontaneously at a clear conception of that
ideal, which his mind had unconsciously formed for itself as a vague
vision. As he was unable—remembering the thoroughly faulty rela
tion of the stage to public life—to realize this ideal work of art in
our own time, he called it " Kunstwerk der Zukunft " (" Art-work of
the futuro ") ; and under this title he published a pamphlet, in which
he entered into a somewhat detailed exposition of the ideas just men
tioned, and it is to this title that wo are indebted for that spectral
invention—"the Music of the Future," which haunts French and
other roports on musical art, and of which you will now easily
perceivo both the aim and the erroneous origin.
     A storm, the like of which had not darkened the musical horizon
since Gliick carried his operatic reforms in Paris, burst round
Wagner's ears directly after the publication of this book. Musical
critics, fighting under every manner of flag, and chirping under cover
of all manner of variegated feather, made day hideous with their
clamour. There was one Herr Bischoff, of Cologne, whose whelping
was heard far and wide. It was he who invented " Music of the
Future " ; that is to say, a sort of music hideous and abominable to
our ears, but warranted by its perpetrators to sound all right to the
ears of our grandchildren. In a reckless moment Franz Liszt, Wag
ner's great protagonist, was rash enough to adopt the nickname of
" Musician of the Futuro," much like the " water-guesen " of Holland
had adopted their nickname and gloried in it ; and ever since that
day there has been a strong party of German musicians who have in
all humility adopted tho sobriquet of " Musicians of the Future."
     To sum up. The characteristic feature, then, of what is called
" the Music of the Future," as distinguished from the traditional
forms of instrumental music, is this : Composers nowadays try to
embody a distinct poetical idea, and the musical form is modified and
possibly created entirely anew under the influence of this poetical

30                          General Monthly Meeting.          .          [Fob. 3,
idea ; whereas, under the older regime of Haydn, Mozart, and their
immediato followers, instrumental music was written according to
prescribed forms and shapes, in strict accordance with traditional
" shablones." In Haydn's time the form was paramount, and the
poetical element subservient, if it was present at all.
     In our day the poetical idea moulds and shapes the form, and
music expresses intense emotions, instead of being confined to a sort
of arabesque-like combination of pleasant sounds under more or less
complicated structural restrictions. The danger of the old metbod
was, that a composer should lay stress upon form, and neglect con
tents ; that he should say things extremely well which were hardly
worth saying. With us the danger is, that a composer should express
high emotions in a chaotic manner, and that he should attempt to
express things in music which the art is incapable of fully realizing.
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, Feb. 3, 1873.
       Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                     in the Chair.
          Charles Dent, Esq. B.A.
          The Kcv. George Smith Drew, M.A.
          The Eight Hon. Sir James Hannen, Judge of the Probate
                and Divorce Court.
          Richard Budd Painter, M.D.
          Henry Sturt, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to
     Sir Charles Wheatstone, D.C.L. F.R.S. for his gift of a Magneto-
electric Clock with ten dials ;
     John Peter Gassiot, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. for his gift of a Bust of
Mrs. Somerville, by L. Maedouald, Rome, 1844 ; and to
     C. F. Hancock, Esq. B.A. for his gift of Littre's " Dictionnaire de
la Languo Francaise." 4 vols. 4to. 1863-72.
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
       FROM
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 80. 8vo. 1872.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 4. 8vo. 1872.
 Astronomical Society, lioyal—Memoirs, "Vol. XXXIX. Part 2. 4to. 1872.
   Proceedings, Vol. XXXIII. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1872.
 Bavarian Academy of Sciences, lioyal—Verzeichniss von 4091! telescopischen
      Sterwen. 8vo. 1872.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1872-3. Nos. 2, 3, 4. 4to.

1873.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                          31
Carpenter, W. B. LL.D. M.D. F.It.S. (the A uChor)—Report on Scionlific Researches
     made during Aug. Sept. and Oct. 1871 in H.M. surveying ship • Shearwater.'
     (Itoyal Soc. Proceedings, XX.) 8vo. 1872.
Chemical Society—Journal for Dec. 1872, and Index; and for Jan. 1873. 8vo.
Church, Professor A. II, M.A.—Practice with Science : a Series of Agricultural
     Papers, Vol. I. 8vo. 1867.
   Colour. By A. H. Church. 16to. 1873.
Comitate Geologico a" Italia—Bolluttini. 1872. Nos. 7-10. 8vo. Firenze.
Director of the Geological Survey— Mineral Statistics for 1871. 8vo. 1872.
   Memoirs. Four Parts. 8vo. 1872.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Dec. 1872; and Jan. 1873. 8vo.
   Athencoum for Dec. 1872; and Jan. 1873. 4to.
   Chemical News for Dee. 1872 ; and Jan. 1873. 4to.
   Engineer for Dec. 1872; and Jan. 1873.
   Food Journal for Dec. 1872 ; and Jan. 1873. 4to.
   Journal of Applied Science for Dec. 1872 ; and Jan. 1873. Folio.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Dec. 1872; and Jan. 1873. 4to.
   Nature for Dec. 1872 ; and Jan. 1873. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Dec. 1872 ; and Jan. 1873. 8vo.
   Once a Week for Dec. 1872 ; and Jan. 1873. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Dec. 1872 ; and Jan. 1873. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal, Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1873.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 563. 8vo. 1872.
 Geneva, Socie'te' de Physique— Memoires, Tome XXI. Secondo Partic. 4lo.
      1872.
Geographical Society, Hoyal—Classified Catalogue of the Library. 8vo. 1871.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1S72. No. 3. 8vo.
   Verhandlungen, 1872. Nos. 11-13. 8vo.
Gladstone, John II. Ph.D. F.H.S. M.IU. (the Author)—Michael Faraday, Second
      Edition, fljto. 1873.
Hancock, C. F. Esq. B.A. M.R.I.—E. Littre', Dictionnaire do la Langue Francaise,
      4 vols. 4to. Paris, 1863-72.
Hogg, F. R. M.D. (the Author)—Marriage in the Army. (K 99) 8vo. 1872.
Lewis, T. B. MB. (the Author)— On a Haimatozoou inhabiting Human Blood.
      8vo. 1872.
   Microscopical and Physiological Researches respecting Cholera. By T. B.
      Lewis and D. D. Cunningham. 8vo. 1872.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 68. 8vo. 1872.
London Institution—Journal, No. 18. 8vo. 1873.
MacMillan, Alex. Esq. M.H.I,; and J. H. Gladstone, Esq. M.R.I,—Portrait of
      Professor Faraday from a photograph by Watkins.
Manchester Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XII. No. 3. 8vo. 1872.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, July, 1872. Part 1.
      8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Medicc-Chirurgical Transactions. Vol.
      LIV. 8vo. 1872.
 Meteorological OJRce-Quarterly Weather Report, 1871, Part 2. 1872, Part 1.
      4to.
 Peacock, R. A. Esq. C.E. (the Author)—How a National Museum of Natural
      History might be built and arranged. (K 99) 8vo. 1872.
 Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 236, 237. 8vo. 1872.
Preuesische Akademie der W'ssenschaften—Monatsberichte, Aug.-Oct. 1872. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Catalogue of Scientific Papers, Vol. VI. 4to. 1872.
   Proceedings, Nos. 139, 140. 8vo. 1872.
Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences—Handlingar, Band VII. No. 2, VIII. IX.
      No. 1. 4to. 1868-70.
   Ofversigt, Band XXVI. XXVII. 8vo. 1870-71.
   Lcfnadsteckningar, Band I. Haftc 2. 8vo. 1870.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Reports, Vol. VIII. 8vo. 1872.

32                            Professor A. C. Ramsay                         [Feb. 7,
Shipley, Rev. Orby, M.A. (the Author)—Ecclesiastical Reform : Eight Essays by
     various Writers. 16to. 1873.
Statittical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXV. Part i. 8vo. 1872.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (tfie Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     Dee. 1872 ; and Jan. 1873. 8vo.
Topley, William, Esq. F.G.S. (the Author)—Geology of the Straits of Dover. 8vo.
     1872.
   Agricultural Geology of the Weald. 8vo. 1872.
   Comparative Agriculture of England and Wales. (K 99) 8vo. 1871.
United Sermce Institution, Hoyal—Journal, No. 69. 8vo. 1872.
Vereim zur BefVrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Prewssen—Verhandlungen, Sopt.-
     Okt. 1872. 4to.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, Feb. 7, 1873.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
                   Pbofebsor A. C. Ramsay, LL.D. F.R.S.
            niRECTOK-OENERAL OP THE GEOLOGICAL SURVE! OF THE UKITED KINGDOM.
                                 On Old Continents.
 The Professor began by stating that in most of the manuals of geo
logy all stratified formations are spoken of as of marine origin, with
the exception of part of the Coal-measures, the Purbeck and Wealden
beds, and the fresh-water strata of part of the Eocene and Miocene
eras.
     The object of the discourse was to prove that, in the British Islands,
 several of the great formations, partly of Palaeozoic and partly of
Mesozoic or Secondary age, wero deposited in large inland lakes,
 fresh or salt, and if this can be established, then during that epoch
 there was a long continental epoch in this part of the world analogous
 to and as important, in a physical point of view, as any of the great
 continents of the present day.
      In general the Upper Silurian seas swarmed with lifo all marine,
 but in the very topmost beds these brown strata pass insensibly into
 the Old Red Sandstone ; the marine life rapidly dwindled away, land
 plants appear in the seeds of Lycopodiaceae, and the strata finally
 become red ; just such changes as might have taken place if a portion
 of the sea had been isolated like the Baltic or Black Sea ; and in the
 end being completely separated from the main ocean, and only supplied
 with rain and the fresh water of rivers, the water became first brackish,
 and in the end fresh. Referring to the Old Red Sandstone, he said
 that its red colour was due to the fact that each minute grain of mud
 or sand was covered by a thin pelliclo of peroxide of iron, which,
could not have boon deposited in an open ocean, but might easily be

  1873.]                     on Old Continents.                          33
  deposited in an inland lake ; and that some of the fish of that formation
  which, except in the very topmost beds, is destitute of shells, have
  their nearest living analogues in the Polypterus of the rivers of
  Africa, the Ceratodus of Australia, and in less degree in the Lepi-
  dosteus of North America. The topmost beds of the Old Red Sand
 stone are, however, in places full of ferns and other land plants, and
 of fresh-water shells of the genus Anodon, just where they gradually
 pass into the lowest carboniferous strata.
      Professor Ramsay then dilated on the great superficial extent and
 thickness of the carboniferous strata, especially of the Coal-measures ;
 and the evidence which the latter afford of a great continental area
 which underwent many changes in its physical geography, as shown
 by the forests and peat mosses of the period, now beds of coal, the
 existence of sun-cracks and rain-pittings, and footprints of Labyrin-
 thodont amphibia on mud now hardened into shale.
     In the red marls and sandstones of the Permian strata, in addition
 to these signs and the red colour of the rocks, there are sometimes
 formed pseudomorphous crystals of salt, which crystals could not have
 been formed in an open ocean, for the water must have been more than
 saturated with chloride of sodium before the deposition of crystals of
 salt could have taken place. In the same strata there are footprints
 and bones of Labyrinthodont amphibia. In regard to the Magnesian
Limestone of this period, it was shown that the molluscous life of that
 epoch was miserably poor in numbers of genera and species when
compared with the crowded life of the Carboniferous Limestone epoch ;
and in this respect it may be compared to the scanty marine fauna
of the Caspian Sea at the present day. It was further explained, that
as Mollusca do not use magnesia in the formation of their shells, this
magnesian limestone could not have been deposited in the ocean, but
must have been precipitated in a great inland salt lake, because of
evaporation of the water by solar heat. The Lepidotosaurus Dujfii,
which was found in the marly limestone near the base of this forma
tion, was a Labyrinthodont amphibian ; and Proterosaurus Speneri
and P. Huxleyi, from the Marl Slate, were probably land Lacertilian
reptiles.
     It was next shown that the New Red Sandstone and Marl of Britain
were deposited in lakes, and the marl certainly in a salt lake. Land
plants are frequently found in the sandy beds of that formation ; the
foraminifera, the bivalve crustacean Estheria minute, and tho fish
Dipteronotus cyphus might just as well have lived in a salt lake as in
an open sea ; and the small marsupial mammal Microlestes antiquum,
found in the red marl of Watchet, prove the neighbourhood of land.
The Labyrinthodont footprints and other reptilian relics all tend to
confirm the view that the strata were deposited in an inland salt lake
or lakes, which increased and diminished in size at different seasons
of the year; and the gypsum and rock-salt could only have been
deposited by solar evaporation of the water of a lake, which, like the
Dead Sea, the lake of Utah, or numerous lakes in Central Asia, have
   Vol. VII. (No. 58.)                                            d

34                          Mr. Robert H. Scott                 [Feb. 14,
no outlets, and only get rid of the water that flows into them by help
of the heat of the sun.
    This interior portion of Asia, indeed, probably most nearly cor
responds to the state of what is now Great Britain and the northern
half of Europe during the Permian and New Red epochs.
     The result of all the foregoing arguments, in the opinion of the
speaker, tends to show that, over much of what is now Europe (and in
some other continents) a long continental epoch obtained from the
close of the Upper Silurian period down to the beginning of the
deposition of the Rhoetic beds, which lie between the New Red Marl
and the Lias, a portion of geological time which, in the present state
of our knowledge, it is impossible to calculate in years, but which may
possibly be comparable to all the time occupied in the deposition of
the whole of the Secondary and Tertiary formations.
                                                             [A. C. R.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 14, 1873.
  William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. M.A. Treasurer R.S. and R.I.
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     Rorert H. Scott, Esq. F.R.S.
                      DIRECTOR OP THE METEOROLOGICAL OFFICE,
                On Recent Progress in Weather Knowledge.
It is now nearly four years since I had the honour of delivering a
lecture in this theatre on the work of the Meteorological Office. On
the present occasion my subject is of more general interest, as in treat
ing of recent progress in weather knowledge all over the world we are
no longer confined to the operations of our own office.
     Although I cannot as yet claim for myself and my brother
Meteorologists that we have made serious progress towards what has
well been termed, " the splendid possibility of predicting the nature of
seasons," I hope still to show you that we have made some advance
towards entitling weather knowledge to rank among the sciences, and
thereby disproving Arago's famous dictum, that no one who had
scientific character to lose would prophesy weather.
     The prediction of the seasons, for any considerable period in
advance, is of course the problem whose solution must affect the most
 important social interests, inasmuch as all the operations of agricul
 ture are necessarily dependent on the varying character of the
 weather. Recently, in order to afford some practical information as
 to the effect of the weather on growing crops, an agitation bas been
 set on foot for the organization of a system of telegraphic agricul

1873.J          on 'Recent Progress in Weather Knowledge.                 35
tural weather reports, in order by a knowledge of the prospects of the
harvest to be able to regulate the price of grain. The veteran Maury*
is at the head of this movement, and the question was mooted at the
International Statistical Congress at St. Petersburg last summer.
    Meanwhile, we ourselves, in the course of last summer, have made
a commencement of giving intelligence as to tho probable growth of
crops, by adding six inland stations to the list of those which furnish
information for the Daily Weather Report.
    Our recent experience of the rainfall of 1872, which was almost
unprecedented and certainly unexpected, both as to its amount and
continuance, is a fair illustration of the very moderate pretensions
which even the most practised Meteorologists can make to a knowledge
of the probable character of the weather for even two months in
advance. We are now receiving abundant notes as to the concomitant
phenomena of unusual drought during parts of last year in other
regions of the earth, and as to the abnormal relations of barometrical
pressure over N.E. Europe on the one hand, and Iceland on the other ;
but none of these facts throw any light, hitherto discoverable, on the
causes of our exceptional weather.
    Anyone of experience can cite numerous instances of the failure
of prophecies of woather based on the popularly received signs, such
as the shining of the sun on Candlemas-day, and we shall soon see
that the principles on which such prophecies depend are not mathema
tically correct. It is, nevertheless, undeniable that the movements of
birds of passage are apparently directed by a prescience of the coming
character of the weather ; generally, their arrival may be attributed to
the fact that they herald the approach of conditions of weather which
have already set in in their home.
    It is evident that the changes of weather ought to bear mathema
tical treatment as well as any other statistical facts, and consequently
attempts have been made to apply mathematical reasoning to our ex
perience of the seasons, in order to test whether the popular ideas to
which I have just alluded have, or have not, any real basis of truth.
    The most recent contribution to our knowledge in this direction is
a paper by Wladimir Koppen in the Russian Repertorium fur Meteoro-
logie, Vol. II., " On the Sequence of the Non-periodic Variations of
Weather, investigated according to the Laws of Probability." The dis
cussion is prefaced by the remark that while weather study has made
great progress owing to the development of telegraphy, its results are
mainly of utility to the seaman, but remain comparatively valueless
for the farmer, while the advantage to be derived from a fore
knowledge of the weather is as great in the one case as in the other.
    M. Koppen has examined into the chance of a change of weather at
any time, and he finds that the weather has a decided tendency to
preserve its character. Thus, at Brussels, if it has rained for nine or
   * The death of Com. Maury on the 1st February has been announced since the
lecture was delivered.—B. H. 8.
                                                                D 2

36                          Mr. Robert H. Scott                  [Feb. 14,
ten days successively, the next day will be wet also in four cases ont
of five : and the chance of a change decreases with the length of time
for which the weather from which the change is to take place has
lasted.
     If we take the case of temperature for five-day periods we find the
same principle to be true ; for if a cold five-day period sets in after
warm weather, we can bet two to one that the next such period will be
cold too : but if the cold has lasted for two months we can bet nearly
eight to one that the first five days of the next month will be cold too.
The chance of change is, however, greater for the five-day periods
than for single days.
     Similar results follow for the months, but here again the chance of
change shows an increase.
     If we revert to the instance we first cited, that of rain, the result
is not that if it once begins to rain the chances are in favour of its
never ceasing ; all that is implied is, that the chances are against its
ceasing on a definite day, and that they increase with the length of
time the rain has lasted. The problem is similar to that of human
life : the chance of a baby one year old living anothor year is less
than that of a man of thirty.
     The practical meaning of all this is, that although we know that
a compensating anomaly for all extraordinary weather exists some
where on the earth's surface,—e. g. the very common case of intense
cold in America while wo have a mild winter, which was most strik
ingly true last January,—there is no reason, as yet ascertained, to
anticipate that this compensation will occur at any given place in the
course of a year. In other words, when definite conditions of weather
have thoroughly established themselves, it is only with great difficulty
that the courses of the atmospheric currents are changed.
     Attempts have not unfrequently been made to predict the seasons
for a long period in advance, but without much success hitherto. One
great cause for failure is that accurate meteorological records do not
extend beyond the beginning of the century at more than a few
stations, and for these we cannot eliminate the local influences
altogether. Thus, it is hardly possible to say what has been the
approximate temperature of these islands for more than twenty years,
—a period far too short for the definite recognition of a cycle. The
shortest of these cosmical cycles which has been determined is the
sunspot period of 11^ years according to Wolf, and there are indica
tions of far longer periods, such as 33 years or even 69^ years, accord
ing to Hornstein.
     At the last meeting of the British Association at Brighton a very
interesting paper by Mr. Meldrum, of tho Mauritius, was read, in
which he showed that the cyclones for which that district of the Indian
Ocean enjoys an unenviable notoriety, have been more frequent in
some years than in others, and that these years of maximum frequency
occurred at intervals of about 11 years, coinciding with those of maxi
mum sunspot frequency.

1873.]          on Recent Progress in Weather Knowledge.               '67
    This agreement is most important, and it has been abundantly
corroborated by an examination of the rainfall at such stations in the
southern hemisphere as are available. This has been carried out by
Mr. Lockyer in ' Nature,' as well as by Mr. Meldrum.
    The results, for the comparatively short period to which they refer,
are most striking, as they are sufficient to show that a periodicity is
traceable in the weather of the Indian Ocean which is eminently sug
gestive of a close relationship between the changes which take place in
the sun's surface, and the phenomena of our own atmosphere.
    It will at once be asked, why has not this periodicity, if it exists,
been detected long ago by an examination of European records, which
are far more complete than any existing for the Indian Ocean ? The
answer to this is twofold ; in the first place, we are pre-eminently in
the district of the variable winds, and our storms are not nearly so
regular in their character as those of the Mauritius, where almost the
sole type of storm is the true tropical cyclone, with its concomitant
rainfall. It is next to impossible in this country to keep an accurate
record of all the several storms which pass over us. The existence of
conjugate storms is not unfrequent ; two and even three systems of
disturbance being traceable at the same time within the area of the
United Kingdom. Are these one single storm or several, and how
should they be counted in a catalogue ? Rain also cannot be taken
as a sign of the frequency of storms in a year ; for although we know
that warm winters are invariably wet and stormy, it cannot bo asserted
that the, all but constant, rainfall of the early part of last year was in
any way related to storms.
     There is, however, in the second placo, a far deeper reason for the
non-discovery of these cycles in any chance series of rainfall records.
The sun passes through phases of greater and less activity, and the
terrestrial phenomena corresponding to the epochs of the former cha
racter are excessive evaporation in some parts of the globe, and
consequent excessive procipitation in others. We must therefore
ascertain in what districts we aro to look for the ono and for the other
of these phenomena respectively. The fact of the mutual compensa
 tion of anomalies of which I spoke when treating of M. Koppen's paper,
 will show you that it is not impossible that the years of maximum
rainfall at the Mauritius may be years of great dryness here. In fact,
 we cannot yet say where we shall find the maximum solar effect pro
duced.
     The lesson that we are to learn from the fruitful researches of
 Mr. Meldrum has been pointed out by Mr. Lockyer, that we must
aim at attaining a thorough knowledge of the movements and changes
 of our own atmosphere, and then seek to establish a connection between
 them and other cosmical phenomena, such as terrestrial magnetism,
 the relation of which to the state of the sun's surface was pointed out
 by Sir E. Sabine twenty years ago.
     We must now proceed to the subject of Weather Telegraphy and
 Storm Warnings with which the name of Admiral Fitzroy will always

38                         Mr. Robert H. Scott                   [Feb. 14,
be associated. Justice, however, compels us to admit that this country
was not the first to issue telegraphic weather intelligence to its sea
ports; for in the year 1860, when the possibility of introducing such a
system was being discussed here in London, the step had actually
been taken in Holland, at tho instance of Prof. Buys Ballot. At the
present time there is not a single European country, except Greece,
which has not its own meteorological organization. In most cases
telegraphic weather reports are published in the newspapers, while
the example set by Le Verrier, about 1858, of tho publication of a
lithographed daily bulletin has been followed by our own office, more
than 600 copies of whose charts are issued daily to subscribers and for
exhibition at sea-ports. Of late years Russia, too, has commenced the
publication of a lithographed bulletin.
    If we want to see weather telegraphy on its grandest scale, we must
cross the Atlantic, where, under the direction of Brigadier-General
Myer, no less than three charts are issued every day by the Chief
Signal Office of the United States at Washington. This undertaking is
rendered possible by the fact that the whole organization is military,
and that its efforts aro almost entirely concentrated on the prepara
tion of these reports, while the telegraphic system of the States is
placed at the disposal of the Signal Office for a certain space of time
every day. By this means it is rendered possible to publish the
chart and roport simultaneously in all the principal cities of the States.
It is not unimportant to consider what the system costs, as compared
with our own. We spend, at the outside, 4000Z. a year on our
weather telegraphy, when we apportion to it its due share of the
expenses of the office, while the vote for the Signal Office, or, to use
its familiar designation in the 'New York Herald,' for " Old Probabili
ties," is no less than 250,000 dollars, about fourteen times as much as
our expenditure under the same head.
    Our system of stations is shown on tho chart, the only station omitted
being Christiansund. The first thing noticeable about it is, that we are
entirely exposed to the westward, the direction from whence most of
our storms come, and that we have little prospect of improving our
 condition in this respect. In my former lecture I apoke of the pro
posal to moor vessels off our coasts, having telegraphic communication
 with the shore, and to use them as floating observatories. The trial
that was made with H.M.S. ' Brisk,' at the entrance of the Channel,
was anything but a success, as it resulted in a total failure. The
proposal has just been resuscitated in the United States by Mr.
Morse, who proposes to moor buoys out at sea with observing turrets
 on them.
     Latterly, an announcement has been made that the Portuguese
 Government intend to establish a reporting system between the Azores
 and the mainland, and an application has been made to the Meteoro
 logical Committee to contribute towards the expense. I need scarcely
 say that they have at once replied that they would be ready to assist
 in this particular development of weather telography to the extent of
 their powers.

 1873.]          on Recent Progress in Weather Knowledge.              39
     We have, in the meantime, instituted a comparison between the
 8 a.m. reports from Angra do Heroismo in the Azores and from
 Valencia for the last 2f years, and we find that there is not a single
 instance in which we can trace the progress of a storm from the Azores
 to these islands ; the two barometrical curves pursue their respective
courses almost entirely independently of each other, and so far from
its being true " that no country would benefit by this intelligence
 (from the Azores) so much as Great Britain," as has been asserted,
 the prima facie evidence afforded by the diagrams is, that the balance
 of advantage to be gained by the proposed connection would fall to the
 Azores. It, however, is undeniable that it would be a great advantage
 to us to know daily what were the atmospheric conditions over the
 district of the Atlantic where the islands in question are situated.
     Our own experience of the value of Transatlantic reports is not
 satisfactory. For three years we received reports daily (free) from
 Heart's Content, through the great liberality of the A. A. Telegraph
 Company, but we did not find them of much practical value ; partly
 because the station was badly placed for wind observations, being in
 a land-locked bay, and partly because we can never trust uncorroborated
 reports from distant stations. Accordingly, when the committee were
asked to pay for the transmission of the reports, they at once decided
to discontinue them.
     We now come to the practical portion of our subject, the actual
forecasting of the weather. The only great principle which has been
established of late years has been the entire dependence of the wind,
as to both its direction and its force, on the barometrical gradient, and
not on the absolute height of the barometrical column. This prin
ciple is known as Buys Ballot's law, and it is illustrated by the
diagram before you. It was fully explained in my former lecture.
The law is—" Stand with your back to the wind, and the barometer
will be lower on your left hand than on your right." As a simple
result of this fertile generalization, we find that there is no danger
of a gale, unless the gradient, or difference between barometrical
readings over a given distance, exceeds 0-6 in. per 60 miles in
the district where the gale will be felt. The attempts which have
been made to establish a numerical relation between the gradients
and the wind-force have not been satisfactory as yet, owing chiefly to
the difficulty of eliminating the local conditions which affect the
wind. We are also unable, as yet, to say what interval of time
elapses between the establishment of the gradient and the setting in
of the corresponding wind, and, on the whole, it must be said that, if
wd trust to the barometer alone, we shall not have sufficient warning
of the approach of a gale.
     There are soveral valuable deductions which follow from Buys
Ballot's law.
     The wind may move either against or with watch-hands, and the
former is the more usual direction of gyration. The former of these
motions is termed cyclonic, and takes place round a barometrical

40                         Mr. Robert R Scott                   [Feb. 14,
minimum ; the latter, anti-cyclonic, and takes place round a barome
trical maximum. The whole of our weather depends on the relative
positions and characters of these areas of defect and excess of atmo
spherical pressure, and the wind systems connected with them.
    A storm may be produced by an increase of pressure as well as by
a decrease, and some of our most destructive storms —most destruc
tive, because they give us hardly any warning of their approach—are
caused by an increase of pressure on the eastern shores of the North
Sea, while a depression is advancing over these islands. The storm
of February 6, 1870, which levelled the harbour works at Wick, be
longed to this class. Their direction is south-easterly.
    Almost all of our storms are related to barometrical depressions, and
not to elevations. The reason of this has yet to bo explained by the
mathematicians. If, therefore, wo knew about an advancing depression,
the shape (including gradients in all directions), direction, and rate
of motion, and whether the disturbance was increasing or diminishing
in intensity, we should be able to form a fair judgment as to what
parts of the coast would be most likely to feel a gale, and from what
points of the compass.
    There is hardly one of these particulars of which we can gain a
sufficient knowledgo until the storm is well upon us, so that the issue
of warnings to our exposed western and northern coasts will ever be a
matter of great difficulty and uncertainty.
    As regards the direction of motion of storms, we have somo pro
gress in knowledge to report. Professor Mohn, in his Storm Atlas,
has assigned for a few storms the direction and rate of advance, and
has shown how both these elements are modified as tho storm
moves across Scandinavia into Russia. An English meteorologist,
Mr. Ley, has also paid attention to the subject ; and in his recent
 work, ' The Laws of the Winds in Western Europe,' has given charts
of the mean paths of depressions for certain months of the year.
     Both of these investigators refer the direction of motion to tho
distribution and condensation of vapour in the atmosphere ; and
Mr. Ley maintains that tho depression itself is generated by excessive
rainfall, and that its advance is due to the same cause. We aro
hardly prepared to admit the truth of this statement, in its entirety ;
the area covered by our daily weather reports is too small for us to
be able to test the matter thoroughly, and but few of the foreign,
stations give either vapour tension or rainfall. "Moreover, the magni
tude of the depressions affords an argument against their being simply
due to the condensation of vapour ; for on November 22, 1869, baro
metrical readings were reduced to the extent of nearly an inch, from
what they had been on the 21st, over an area of about 200,000
square miles. To take a recent instance, on the 20th of January, the
deficit of atmospherical pressure amounted to about ^th of its total
amount over the United Kingdom, the readings ranging between 28 - 0
and 28 - 5, instead of between 29 - 5 and 30-0.
    We know that the direction of motion is ruled very much by the posi

1873.]          on Recenl Progress in Weather Knowledge.               41
tion of the areas of high pressure, which are of considerable superficial
extent, and, as a rule, are not subject to much motion of translation.
The depressions appear to skirt round these areas of high pressure,
and not to advance into them. There is, unfortunately, not time for
me to point out to you the results to which we have been led by our
study of the mutual relations of these areas of high and low pressure ;
but as an illustration of the effects of an area of high pressure on our
weather, I may say that one of the worst signs for us of the danger of
a south-westerly gale is to find the barometer over the south of France
high and rising.
    The simplest idea I can give you of the general motion of these
areas of depression is, that they follow each other in the main stream
of air, which sweeps round the permanent area of low pressure near
Iceland, much in the same way as eddies in a running stream. I have
prepared two photographs which, by the kindness of the authorities
here, I am enabled to throw on the screen, and of which the first, for
Feb. 16, 1872, shows the co-existence of two areas of high and two
of low pressure, while the second, for Jan. 24, 1872, shows two dis
tinct storms, the centre of one being at Scarborough, and of the other
 offValencia.
     Many of the depressions appear to be modified in their character
by the contour of the land. We have more than once had an instance
of a storm which apparently struck the land about Valencia, travelled
 northwards until it found an opening in the coast-line, such as
 Donegal Bay, and then crossed to the Irish Sea, or else skirted round
 Ireland and crossed the Lowlands of Scotland.
     In some cases which we aro as yet quite unable to anticipate, the
 disturbance changes the direction of its motion entirely, and returns
 for a time on its former path. This was in a marked way the case
 with the storm of April 21, 1872, which came down over Ireland,
 between Valencia and Armagh, swept round along the north coast of
 France up to Havre, recoiled and passed north of Portland and
 Falmouth to the south of Ireland, and eventually travelled out to
 sea across Ireland, nearly in the direction along which it had arrived.
     Such a storm as this sets us quite astray, and makes our warnings
 quite wrong. Another circumstance which complicates the study of
 storms most seriously, is that the depressions increase or decrease in
 their intensity, and of the rate of this change we are quite ignorant.
     I have already alluded to storms which are mainly due to a rise
 of pressure, and I have selected one of these in February, 1871, for
 an illustration. This depression advanced from the westward, but
 hardly assumed the character of a storm until the morning of the
 10th of February, when its centre lay over the north of England.
 Now, between the 9th and 10th the barometer over the North Sea had
 risen briskly, so that when the new depression came it found the
 conditions favourable to high gradients and south-east gales on its
 eastern side. Its appearance was quite unexpected by us ; for even
 at 6 p.m. on the 9th there were little signs of it, and, moreover, its

42                         Mr. Robert H. Scott                    [Feb. 14,
force at 8 a.m. on the 10th was moderate compared with its fury later
on in the day. The centre finally passed over London, and the whole
phenomenon passed on to the Continent, where it is untraceable, in
consequence of the absence of reports, owing to the war.
     Easterly gales are, on the whole, difficult for us to foresee ; they
come on us with little warning ; and this is not solely attributable to
the deficiency of information from Eastern Europe, for since we have
received warnings from that region, we have hardly had an instance
of a warning which preceded the gale. In most instances the easterly
storm was on the north side of a depression travelling eastwards, and
began first at our western stations. Such was the storm of Sunday,
Feb. 2, which set in as an east gale at Pembroke, and subsequently
extended to stations lying to the eastward. Some of these easterly
storms do apparently advance from the eastward, and to this class
belongs the fearful storm of Nov. 12-13, in the Baltic. The ravages
of this storm were mainly caused by the fact, that a continuance
of westerly winds had dammed back the water at the Skager Rack, and
then, when the wind chopped round to east, the narrow channels
between the Danish Islands could not discharge the water quickly
enough. The unavoidable result was an inundation.
    What are now the signs of a storm, and when do wo issue warnings ?
We are perforce driven to use the barometer mainly, as it is an instru
ment more closely related to the direction and force of the wind than
the thermometer, and one whose daily range is trifling ; as we have
seen already, if we trust it alone, wo shall hardly ever be certain
about a storm, and the thermometer will not help us much. We have,
then, other signs, such as shifts in the direction of the wind, an increase
of sea, and all the manifold local indications in the atmosphere given
by the character of the clouds and the transparency, &c., of the air,
which are invaluable as collateral information, but require a practised
eye to discern them.
    If it were possible to place our office, with its present telegraphic
facilities, on the west coast of Ireland, we might fairly hope to foretell
five-sixths of the storms which strike us. On two separate ocoasions
I have been in the district in question, and knew perfectly well from
the look of the sky that a storm was coming some hours before the
barometer began to fall, and consequently long before the office here
could issue warnings.
    Some storms do not give even as much warning as what I have
indicated. That of Feb. 10, 1871, is one instance, and that of Nov.
22, 1872, when the ' Royal Adelaide ' was lost on Chesil Bank, is a
recent case. On that day at noon the telegraphic reports showed an
apparent improvement in the weather on that of the previous day, so
that I lowered the drums on our south coast. At night the gale came,
and of course the comments on the office were not favourable. For
tunately for our own peace of mind, one of our best sea observers,
Capt. Thos. Donkin, of the ' Inverness,' which was one of the three
ships that rode out the Madras cyclone of May 2, 1872, was out in

1873.J |      on Recent Progress in WecUher Knowledge.                43
that gale and was blown back by it, hove-to, from the Lizard to the
Casquets. I wrote to him to Portland to ask him whether he had
anticipated the storm from the look of the sky, and his answer was :
    " With respect to the weather on the 22nd November, I may say
that at noon I was standing in towards the land, between Falmouth
and Plymouth, and a pilot cutter came alongside, and if I had had the
least apprehension of such a gale as followed being near at hand, I
should have taken a pilot and gone into Plymouth. The appearance
of the weather at the time was fine, though the glass was falling,
though not low at the time for S.W. wind and unsettled weather."
    This will, I hope, show my audience that we cannot foretell all
storms by means of telegraphy. We are beginning to recognize other
signs of disturbance in the atmosphere generally as indications of a
storm, but these can hardly as yet be considered as scientifically exact.
Among theso we may mention the circumstance which Prof. Mohn
has noticed, that warning of south-westerly gales for the coast of
Norway is given by a rise of temperature at Dovre at a height of
2100 feet above the sea. In these islands we have little prospect
of availing ourselves of this source of information, as our telegraphic
stations are all at low levels.
     Another principle, which was fully explained in my former lecture,
is that pointed out by Mr. Meldrum, that storms are generated between
two currents of air flowing in opposite directions, the easterly winds
being on the polar side of the westerly. Two instances of this are
shown on the diagrams, but from them—especially in July, 1867—
it does not appear that the East wind was thoroughly established as a
current, and it seems more probable that the light E. airs were only
due to an indraught towards the area of depression, just as, before
many of our gales, we see the wind on the west coast of France
drawing into 8.E., while the direction at Valencia is S.W.
     In conclusion, I must say a few words as to the degroe to which
we are practically able to foretell storms, and of the results of our
storm-warning messages. It may seem a comparatively simple matter
to say whether or not a warning was issued in time or not ; but it is
really not so easy a matter, as storms are exceedingly local, so that
two observers situated close to each other may differ seriously as to
whether there has been a gale or not. We have endeavoured, by the
best means in our power, to keep a check on the correctness of our
warnings for the last three years; that is, on whether or not wo
have been able to givo intelligence of the gales in time to be of
practical service to seamen. The result has been for the years
 1870-71, that 46 per cent, of our warnings have been followed by
gales, and about 20 per cent, in addition have been justified by the
occurrence of strong winds after they were hoisted, showing a total
percentage of successful warnings of nearly 70 per cent. For the
first six months of 1872 the percentage of gales for which warnings
were issued in time has risen above 60, and the total percentage of
successes to nearly 80, owing to the two independent circumstances

44                        Professor Clerk Maxwell               [Feb. 21,
that the postal telegraphic arrangements have gradually become more
perfect, and that the exchange of information with the Continent has
become more regular since peace has been re-established.
                                                             [R. H. 8.J
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 21, 1873.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
             Professor J. Clerk Maxwell, M.A. F.R.S.
                          On Action at a Distance.
I have no new discovery to bring before you this evening. I must
ask you to go over very old ground, and to turn your attention to a
question which has beon raised again and again ever since men began
to think.
    The question is that of the transmission of force. We see that
two bodies at a distance from each other exert a mutual influence on
each other's motion. Does this mutual action depend on the existence
of some third thing, some medium of communication, occupying the
space between the bodies, or do the bodies act on each other imme
diately, without the intervention of anything else ?
    The mode in which Faraday was accustomed to look at phenomena
of this kind differs from that adopted by many other modern inquirers,
and my special aim will be to enable you to place yourselves at Fara
day's point of view, and to point out the scientific value of that con
ception of lines of force which, in his hands, became the key to the
science of electricity.
    When we observe one body acting on another at a distance, before
we assume that this action is direct and immediate, wo generally
inquire whether there is any material connection between the two
bodies ; and if we find strings, or rods, or mechanism of any kind,
capable of accounting for the observed action between the bodies, we
prefer to explain the action by means of these intermediate connections,
rather than to admit the notion of direct action at a distance.
    Thus, when we ring a bell by means of a wire, the successive parts
of the wire are first tightened and then moved, till at last the bell is
rung at a distance by a process in which all the intermediate particles
of the wire have taken part one after the other. We may ring a bell
at a distance in other ways, as by forcing air into a long tube, at the
other end of which is a cylinder with a piston which is made to fly
out and strike the bell. We may also use a wire ; but instead of
pulling it, we may connect it at one end with a voltaic battery, and

1873.]                     an Action at a Distance.                     45
at the other with an electro-magnet, and thus ring the bell by elec
tricity.
     Here are three different ways of ringing a bell. They all agree, how
ever, in the circumstance that between the ringer and the bell there is
an unbroken line of communication, and that at every point of this line
some physical process goes on by which the action is transmitted
from one end to the other. The process of transmission is not instan
taneous, but gradual ; so that there is an interval of time after the
impulse has been given to one extremity of the line of communi
cation, during which the impulse is on its way, but has not reached
the other end.
     It is clear, therefore, that in many cases the action between bodies
at a distance may be accounted for by a series of actions between each
successive pair of a series of bodies which occupy the intermediate
space ; and it is asked, by the advocates of mediate action, whether, in
those cases in which we cannot perceive the intermediate agency, it is
not more philosophical to admit the existence of a medium which we
cannot at present perceive, than to assert that a body can act at a place
where it is not.
     To a person ignorant of the properties of air, the transmission of
force by means of that invisible medium would appear as unaccount
able as any other example of action at a distance, and yet in this case
we can explain the whole process, and determine the rate at which the
action is passed on from one portion to another of the medium.
    Why then should we not admit that the familiar mode of commu
nicating motion by pushing and pulling with our hands is the type
and exemplification of all action between bodies, even in cases in which
we can observe nothing between the bodies which appears to take part
in the action ?
    Here for instance is a kind of attraction with which Professor Guthrie
has made us familiar. A disk is set in vibration, and is then brought
near a light suspended body, which immediately begins to move
towards the disk, as if drawn towards it by an invisible cord. What
is this cord ? Sir W. Thomson has pointed out that in a moving fluid
the pressure is least where the velocity is greatest. The velocity of
the vibratory motion of the air is greatest nearest the disk. Hence the
pressure of the air on the suspended body is less on the side nearest
the disk than on the opposite side, the body yields to the greater
pressure, and moves toward the disk.
    The disk, therefore, does not act where it is not. It sets the air
next it in motion by pushing it, this motion is communicated to more
and more distant portions of the air in turn, and thus the pressures on
opposite sides of the suspended body are rendered unequal, and it
moves towards the disk in consequence of the excess of pressure. The
force is therefore a force of the old school—a case of vis a tergo—a
shove from behind.
    The advocates of the doctrine of action at a distance, however,
have not been put to silence by such arguments. What right, say

46                      Professor Clerk Maxicell                  [Feb. 21,
they, have wo to assert that a body cannot act where it is not ? Do
we not see an instance of action at a distance in the case of a magnet,
which acts on another magnet not only at a distance, but with tho
most complete indifference to the nature of the matter which occupies
the intervening space ? If the action depends on something occupying
the space between the two magnets, it cannot surely be a matter of
indifference whether this space is filled with air or not, or whether
wood, glass, or copper, be placed between the magnets.
     Besides this, Newton's law of gravitation, which every astronomical
observation only tends to establish more firmly, asserts not only that
the heavenly bodies act on one another across immense intervals of
space, but that two portions of matter, the one buried a thousand miles
deep in tho interior of the earth, and the other a hundred thousand
miles deep in the body of the sun, act on one another with precisely
the same force as if the strata beneath which each is buried had been
non-existent. If any medium takes part in transmitting this action,
it must surely make some difference whether the space between the
bodies contains nothing but this medium, or whether it is occupied by
the dense matter of the earth or of the sun.
     But the advocates of direct action at a distance are not content
with instances of this kind, in which the phenomena, even at first
sight, appear to favour their doctrine. They push their operations
into the enemy's camp, and maintain that even when the action is
apparently the pressure of contiguous portions of matter, the con
tiguity is only apparent—that a space always intervenes between the
bodies which act on each other. They assert, in short, that so far from
action at a distance being impossible, it is the only kind of action which
ever occurs, and that the favourite old vis a tergo of the schools has no
existence in nature, and exists pnly in the imagination of schoolmen.
     Tho best way to prove that when one body pushes another it docs
not touch it, is to measure the distance between them. Here are two
glass lenses, one of which is pressed against the other by means of a
weight. By means of the electric light we may obtain on the screen
an image of the place where the one lens presses against the other. A
series pf coloured rings is formed on tho screen, These rings were
first observed and first explained by Newton. The particular colour
of any ring depends on the distance between the surfaces of the pieces
of glass. Newton formed a table of the colours corresponding to
different distances, so that by comparing the colour of any ring with
Newton's table, we may ascertain the distance between the surfaces
at that ring. The colours are arranged in rings because the surfaces
are spherical, and therefore the interval between the surfaces depends
on the distance from the line joining the centres of the spheres. The
central spot of the rings indicates the place where the lenses aro
nearest together, and each successive ring corresponds to an increase
of about the 4000th part of a millimetre in the distance of the
surfaces.
     The lenses are now pressed together with a force equal to the

1873.]                    on Action at a Distance.                       47
weight of an ounce ; but there is still a measurable interval between
tbem, even at the place where they are nearest together. They aro
not in optical contact. To prove this, I apply a greater weight. A
new colour appears at the central spot, and the diamoters of all the
rings increase. This shows that the surfaces are now nearer than at
first, but they are not yet in optical contact, for if they were, the
central spot would be black. I therefore increase the weights, so as
to press the lenses into optical contact.
     But what we call optical contact is not real contact. Optical
contact indicates only that the distance between the surfaces is much
less than a wave-length of light. To show that the surfaces are not
in real contact, I remove the weights; The rings contract, and several
of them vanish at the centre. Now it is possible to bring two pieces
of glass so close together, that they will not tend to separate at all,
but adhere together so firmly, that when torn asunder the glass will
break, not at the surface of contact, but at some other place. The
glasses must then be many degrees nearer than when in mere optical
contact.
      Thus we have shown that bodies begin to press against each other
whilst still at a measurable distance, and that even when pressed
together with great force they are not in absolute contact, but may bo
brought nearer still, and that by many degrees.
     Why, then, say the advocates of direct action, should we continue
to maintain the doctrine, founded only on the rough experience of a pre-
 scientific age, that matter cannot act whero it is not, instead of admit
 ting that all the facts from which our ancestors concluded that contact
is essential to action were in reality cases of action at a distance, the
distance being too small to be measured by their imperfect means of
observation?
      If we are ever to discover the laws of nature, we must do so by
 obtaining the most accurate acquaintance with the facts of nature, and
 not by dressing up in philosophical language the loose opinions of
 men who had no knowledge of the facts which throw most light on
 these laws. And as for those who introduce ictherial, or other media,
 to account for these actions, without any direct evidence of the existence
 of such media, or any clear understanding of how the media do their
 work, and who fill all space three and four times over with others of
different sorts, why the less these men talk about their philosophical
 scruples about admitting action at a distance the better.
      If the progress of science were regulated by Newton's first law of
 motion, it would be easy to cultivate opinions in advance of the age.
 We should only have to compare the science of to-day with that of
 fifty years ago ; and by producing, in the geometrical sense, the line of
 progress, we should obtain the science of fifty years hence.
      The progress of science in Newton's time consisted in getting rid
 of the celestial machinery with which generations of astronomers had
 encumbered the heavens, and thus " sweeping cobwebs off the sky."
      Though the planets had already got rid of their crystal spheres,

48                        Professor Clerk Maxwell               [Feb. 21,
they were still swimming in the vortices of Descartes. Magnets were
surrounded by effluvia, and electrified bodies by atmospheres, the pro
perties of which resembled in no respect those of ordinary effluvia
and atmospheres.
    When Newton demonstrated that the force which acts on each of
the heavenly bodies depends on its relative position with respect to
the other bodies, the new theory met with violent opposition from the
advanced philosophers of the day, who described the doctrine of gravi
tation as a return to the exploded method of explaining everything by
occult causes, attractive virtues, and the like.
    Newton himself, with that wise moderation which is characteristic
of all his speculations, answered that he made no pretence of explain
ing the mechanism by which the heavenly bodies act on each other.
To determine the mode in which their mutual action depends on their
relative position was a great step in science, and this step Newton
asserted that he had made. To explain the process by which this
action is effected was a quite distinct step, and this step Newton, in
his ' Principia,' does not attempt to make.
    But so far was Newton from asserting that bodies really do act on
one another at a distance, independently of anything between them,
that in a letter to Bentley, which has been quoted by Faraday in this
place, he says :—
    " It is inconceivable that inanimate brute matter should, without
the mediation of something else, which is not material, operate upon
and affect other matter without mutual contact, as it must do if gravi
tation, in the sense of Epicurus, be essential and inherent in it. . . .
That gravity should be innate, inherent, and essential to matter, so
that one body can act upon another at a distance, through a vacuum,
without the mediation of anything else, by and through which their
action and force may bo conveyed from one to another, is to me 60
great an absurdity, that I believe no man who has in philosophical
matters a competent faculty of thinking can ever fall into it."
    Accordingly, we find in his ' Optical Queries,' and in his letters
to Boyle, that Newton had very early mado the attempt to account for
gravitation by means of the pressure of a medium, and that the reason
he did not publish these investigations " proceeded from hence only,
that he found he was not able, from experiment and observation, to
give a satisfactory account of this medium, and the manner of its
operation in producing the chief phenomena of nature."*
    The doctrine of direct action at a distance cannot claim for its
author the discoverer of universal gravitation. It was first asserted
by Roger Cotes, in his preface to the ' Principia,' which he edited
during Newton's life. According to Cotes, it is by experience that we
learn that all bodies gravitate. We do not learn in any other way
that they are extended, movable, or solid. Gravitation, therefore,
has as much right to be considered an essential property of matter as
extension, mobility, or impenetrability.
                 * Maclaurin's Account of Newton's Discoveries.

 1873.]                   on Action at a Distance.                       49
     And when the Newtonian philosophy gained ground in Europe,
it was the opinion of Cotes rather than that of Newton that became
most prevalent, till at last Boscovich propounded his theory, that
 matter is a congeries of mathematical points, each endowed with the
 power of attracting or repelling the others according to fixed laws.
 In his world, matter is unextended, and contact is impossible. He did
not forget, however, to endow his mathematical points with inertia.
 In this some of the modern representatives of his school have thought
 that he " had not quite got so far as the strict modern view of
 ' matter ' as being but an expression for modes or manifestations of
'force.'"*
     But if we leave out of account for the present the development of
the ideas of science, and confine our attention to the extension of its
boundaries, we shall see that it was most essential that Newton's
method should be extended to every branch of science to which it was
applicable—that we should investigate the forces with which bodies
act on each other in the first place, before attempting to explain how
that force is transmitted. No men could be better fitted to apply
 themselves exclusively to the first part of the problem, than those who
 considered the second part quite unnecessary.
     Accordingly Cavendish, Coulomb, and Poisson, the founders of the
exact sciences of electricity and magnetism, paid no regard to those
old notions of " magnetic effluvia " and " electric atmospheres," which
had been put forth in the previous century, but turned their undivided
attention to the determination of the law of force, according to which
electrified and magnetized bodies attract or repel each other. In this
way the true laws of these actions were discovered, and this was done
 by men who never doubted that the action took place at a distance,
without the intervention of any medium, and who would have regardod
the discovery of such a medium as complicating rather than as
explaining the undoubted phenomena of attraction.
     We have now arrived at the great discovery by Orsted of the
connection between electricity and magnetism. Orsted found that an
electric current acts on a magnetic pole, but that it neither attracts
it nor repels it, but causes it to move round the current. He ex
pressed this by saying that " the electric conflict acts in a revolving
manner."
     The most obvious deduction from this new fact was that the
action of the current on the magnet is not a push-and-pull force, but
a rotatory force, and accordingly many minds were set a-speculating
on vortices and streams of aether whirling round the current.
     But Ampere, by a combination of mathematical skill with experi
mental ingenuity, first proved that two electric currents act on one
another, and then analysed this action into the resultant of a system
of push-and-pull forces between the elementary parts of those
currents.
        * Review of Mrs. Somerville, ' Saturday Review,' Feb. 13, 1869.
    Vol. VII. (No. 58.)                                                b

50                        Professor Clerk Maxwell              fFeb. 21,
     The formula of Ampere, however, is of extreme complexity, as
compared with Newton's law of gravitation, and many attempts have
 been made to resolve it into something of greater apparent simplicity.
     I have no wish to lead you into a discussion of any of these
attempts to improve a mathematical formula. Let us turn to the
independent method of investigation employed by Faraday in those
researches in electricity and magnetism which have made this Institu
tion one of the most venerable shrines of science.
     No man ever more conscientiously and systematically laboured to
improve all his powers of mind than did Faraday from the very
beginning of his scientific career. But whereas the general course of
scientific method then consisted in the application of the ideas of
mathematics and astronomy to each new investigation in turn, Faraday
seems to havo had no opportunity of acquiring a technical knowledge
of mathematics, and his knowledge of astronomy was mainly derived
 from books.
     Hence, though he had a profound respect for the great discovery
of Newton, ho regarded the attraction of gravitation as a sort of
 sacred mystery, which, as he was not an 'astronomer, he had no right
to gainsay or to doubt, his duty being to believe it in the exact form
in which it was delivered to him. Such a dead faith was not likely to
lead him to explain new phenomena by means of direct attractions.
     Besides this, the treatises of Poisson and Ampere are of so techni
 cal a form, that to derive any assistance from them the student must
have been thoroughly trained in mathematics, and it is very doubtful
if such a training can be begun with advantage in mature years.
     Thus Faraday, with his penetrating intellect, his devotion to
science, and his opportunities for experiments, was debarred from
following tho course of thought which had led to the achievements of
the French philosophers, and was obliged to explain the phenomena to
himself by means of a symbolism which he could understand, instead
of adopting what had hitherto been the only tongue of the learned.
     This now symbolism consisted of those lines of force extending
themselves in every direction from electrified and magnetic bodies,
which Faraday in his mind's eye saw as distinctly as the solid bodies
from which they emanated.
     The idea of lines of force and their exhibition by means of iron
filings was nothing new. They had been observed repeatedly, and
investigated mathematically as an interesting curiosity of science.
But let us hear Faraday himself, as he introduces to his reader the
method which in his hands became so powerful.*
     " It would bo a voluntary and unnecessary abandonment of most
valuable aid if an experimentalist, who chooses to consider magnetic
power as represented by lines of magnetic force, were to deny himself
the use of iron filings. By their employment he may make many
conditions of the power, even in complicated cases, visible to the eye
                                Exp. Rea. 3284.

1873.J                    on Action at a Distance.                     51
at once, may trace the varying direction of the lines of force and
determine the relative polarity, may observo in which direction the
power is increasing or diminishing, and in complex systems may
determine the neutral points, or places where there is neither polarity
nor power, even when they occur in the midst of powerful magnets.
By their use probable results may be seen at once, and many a valu
able suggestion gained for future leading experiments."
                      Experiment on Lines of Force.
    In this experiment each filing becomes a little magnet. The poles
of opposite names belonging to different filings attract each other and
stick together, and more filings attach themselves to the exposed
poles, that is, to the ends of the row of filings. In this way the
filings, instead of forming a confused system of dots over the paper,
draw together, filing to filing, till long fibres of filings are formed,
which indicate by their direction the lines of force in every part of
the field.
    The mathematicians saw in this experiment nothing but a method
of exhibiting at one view the direction in different places of the
resultant of two forces, one directed to each polo of the magnet; a
somewhat complicated result of the simple law of force.
     But Faraday, by a series of stops as remarkable for their geo
metrical definitencss as for their speculative ingenuity, imparted to
his conception of these lines of force a clearness and precision far in
advance of that with which the mathematicians could then invest their
own formulae.
    In the first place, Faraday's lines of force are not to be considered
merely as individuals, but as forming a system, drawn in space in a
definite manner, so that the number of the lines which pass through
an area, say of one square inch, indicates the intensity of the force
acting through the area. Thus the lines of force become definite in
number. The strength of a magnetic pole is measured by the number
of lines which proceed from it ; the electro-tonic state of a circuit is
measured by the number of lines which pass through it.
    In the second place, each individual line has a continuous exist
 ence in space and time. When a piece of steel becomes a magnet
 or when an electric current begins to flow, the lines of force do not
start into existence each in its own place, but as the strength increases
new lines are developed within the magnet or current, and gradually
grow outwards, so that the whole system expands from within, like
Newton's rings in our former experiment. Thus every line of force
preserves its identity during the whole course of its existence, though
its shape and size may bo altered to any extent.
    I have no time to describe the methods by which every question
relating to the forces acting on magnets or on currents, or to the
induction of currents in conducting circuits, may be solved by the
consideration of Faraday's lines of force. In this place they can
                                                              k 2

52                       Professor Cleric Maxwell               [Feb. 21 ,
never be forgotten. By means of this new symbolism, Faraday
defined with mathematical precision the whole theory of electro-
magnetism, in language free from mathematical technicalities, and
applicable to the most complicated as well as the simplest cases. Bnt
Faraday did not stop here. He went on from the conception of
geometrical lines of force to that of physical lines of force. He
observed that the motion which the magnetic or electric force tends
 to produce is invariably such as to shorten the lines of force and to
 allow them to spread out laterally from each other. Ho thus per
 ceived in the medium a state of stress, consisting of a tension, like
 that of a rope, in the direction of the lines of force, combined with a
 pressure in all directions at right angles to them.
     This is quite a new conception of action at a distance, reducing it
to a phenomenon of the same kind as that action at a distance which is
exerted by means of the tension of ropes and the pressure of rods.
When the muscles of our bodies are excited by that stimulus which wo
are able in some unknown way to apply to them, the fibres tend to
shorten themselves and at the same time to expand laterally. A stato
of stress is produced in the muscle, and the limb moves. This ex
planation of muscular action is by no means complete. It gives no
account of the cause of the excitement of tho state of stress, nor does
it even investigate those forces of cohesion which enable the muscles
to support this stress. Nevertheless, tho simple fact, that it substitutes
a kind of action which extends continuously along a material substanco
for one of which we know only a cause and an effect at a distance from
each other, induces us to accept it as a real addition to our knowledge
of animal mechanics.
     For similar reasons we may regard Faraday's conception of a state
of stress in the electro-magnetic field as a method of explaining action
at a distance by means of the continuous transmission of force, even
though we do not know how the state of stress is produced.
     But one of Faraday's most pregnant discoveries, that of the mag
 netic rotation of polarized light, enables us to proceed a step farther.
 The phenomenon, when analysed into its simplest elements, may be
 described thus :—Of two circularly polarized rays of light, precisely
 similar in configuration, but rotating in opposite directions, that ray
 is propagated with the greater velocity which rotates in the samo
 direction as the electricity of the magnetizing current.
     It follows from this, as Sir W. Thomson has shown by strict dyna
 mical reasoning, that the medium when under the action of magnetic
 force must be in a state of rotation—that is to say, that small portions
 of the medium, which we may call molecular vortices, are rotating, each
 on its own axis, the direction of this axis being that of the magnetic
force.
     Here, then, we have an explanation of the tendency of the lines of
magnetic force to spread out laterally and to shorten themselves. It
arises from tho centrifugal force of the molecular vortices.
     The mode in which electromotive force acts in starting and stop

  1873.]                    on Action at a Distance.                      63
  ping the vortices is more abstruse, though it is of course consistent
  with dynamical principles.
      We have thus found that there are several different kinds of work
  to be done by the electro-magnetic medium if it exists. We havo also
  seen that magnetism has an intimate relation to light, and we know
  that there is a theory of light which supposes it to consist of the vibra
  tions of a medium. How is this luminiferous medium related to our
  electro-magnetic medium ?
      It fortunately happens that electro-magnetic measurements have
  been made from which we can calculate by dynamical principles the
  velocity of propagation of small magnetic disturbances in the supposed
  electro-magnetic medium.
      This velocity is very great, from 288 to 314 millions of metres
  per second, according to different experiments. Now the velocity
  of light, according to Foucault's experiments, is 298 millions of metres
  per second. In fact, the different determinations of either velocity
  differ from each other more than the estimated velocity of light does
  from the estimated velocity of propagation of small electro-magnetic
  disturbance. But if the luminiferous and the electro-magnetic media
  occupy the same place, and transmit disturbances with the same
  velocity, what reason have we to distinguish the one from the other ?
  By considering them as the same, we avoid at least the reproach of
  filling space twice over with different kinds of iBther.
      Besides this, the only kind of electro-magnetic disturbances
  which can bo propagated through a non-conducting medium is a dis
  turbance transverse to the direction of propagation, agreeing in this
  respect with what wo know of that disturbance which we call light.
  Hence, for all we know, light also may be an electro-magnetic dis
  turbance in a non-conducting medium. If we admit this, the electro
  magnetic theory of light will agree in every respect with the undu-
  latory theory, and the work of Thomas Young and Fresnel will be
  established on a firmer basis than ever, when joined with that of
• Cavendish and Coulomb by the keystone of the combined sciences of
  light and electricity—Faraday's great discovery of the electro-mag
  netic rotation of light.
       The vast interplanetary and interstellar regions will no longer be
  regarded as waste places in the universe, which the Creator has not
  seen fit to fill with the symbols of the manifold order of His kingdom.
  We shall find them to be already full of this wonderful medium ; so
  full, that no human power can remove it from the smallest portion of
  space, or produce the slightest flaw in its infinite continuity. It
  extends unbroken from star- to star ; and when a molecule of hydrogen
  vibrates in the dogstar, the medium receives the impulses of these
  vibrations ; and after carrying them in its immense bosom for three
  years, delivers them in due course, regular order, and full tale into the
  spectroscope of Mr. Huggins, at Tulse Hill.
      But the medium has other functions and operations besides bear-'
  ing light from man to man, and from world to world, and giving

64                      Weekly Evening Meeting.                   [Feb. 28,
evidence of the absolute unity of the metric system of the universe.
Its minute parts may have rotatory as well as vibratory motions, and
the axes of rotation form those lines of magnetic force which extend
in unbroken continuity into regions which no eye has seen, and which,
by their action on our magnets, are telling us in language) not yet in
terpreted, what is going on in the hidden underworld from minute to
minute and from century to century.
    And these lines must not be regarded as mere mathematical
abstractions. They are the directions in which the medium is exert
ing a tension like that of a rope, or rather, like that of our own
muscles. The tension of the medium in the direction of the earth's
magnetic force is in this country one grain weight on eight square
feet. In some of Dr. Joule's experiments, the medium has exerted a
tension of 200 lbs. weight per square inch.
    But the medium, in virtue of the very same elasticity by which it is
able to transmit the undulations of light, is also able to act as a spring.
When properly wound up, it exerts a tension, different from the
magnetic tension, by which it draws oppositely electrified bodies
together, produces effects through the length of telegraph wires, and
when of sufficient intensity, leads to the rupture and explosion called
lightning.
    Theso are some of tho already discovered properties of that which
has often been called vacuum, or nothing at all. They enable us to
resolve several kinds of action at a distanco into actions between con
tiguous parts of a continuous substance. Whether this resolution is
of tho nature of explication or complication, I must leave to the
metaphysicians.
                                                              [J. C. M.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                      Monday, February 28, 1873.
      Sm Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
General Sir Henry C. Rawlinson, K.C.B. D.C.L. F.R.S. Pres. Roy.
                                Geog. Soc.
                 On Livingstones Explorations in Africa.
                            [Abstract deferred.]

 1873.J                 General Monthly Meeting.                      55
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                        Monday, March 3, 1873.
    Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
 Joseph Bedder, Esq.                   Frank Normandy, Esq.
 J. S. Bergheim, Esq.                  Professor William Odling, M.A.
 Matthew Blakiston, Esq.                    F.R.S.
John Brogden, Esq.                     William Miller Ord, M.D.
 The Rev. Robert Henry Nisbett         Thomas Levett Prinsep, Esq. J.P.
      Browne, M.A.                     Arthur Rigg, jun. Esq.
 George Edward Chapman, Esq.           Mrs. C. William Siemens.
 The Lady Mary F. Egerton.             Mrs. Otto Siemens.
 Stephen Henry Emmens, Esq.            Reginald Masters Smith, Esq.
 Lewis A. Jackson, Esq.                Lionel A. Walford, Esq.
Charles P. Matthews, Esq.              J. P. Ward, Esq.
John W. Miers, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     Profebsor Tyndall having presented to the Royal Institution
the new Philosophical Apparatus employed by him in his Lectures
recently delivered in the United States, it was moved by Sir Frede
rick Pollock, Bart., seconded by W. Pole, Esq. F.R.S., and
unanimously
     Resolved, That the warmest congratulations of the Members of
the Royal Institution be offered to their Professor of Natural Philo
sophy upon his arrival in England from the United States of America,
in which, upon the invitation of tho most eminent scientific men of
America, he has been recently delivering a series of Lectures unex
ampled for the interest they have created in that country, and the
large and distinguished audiences who have been attracted to them.
     The Members of the Royal Institution rejoice that the people of
America have shared in the advantages of Professor Tyndall's
teaching and illustrations of those sciences which have been so greatly
advanced by tho labours of his predecessors, and by his own, in the
laboratories of the Royal Institution.
     They receive and welcome him, on his return to what they are
proud to be able to designate as his own scientific home, with satisfac
tion and delight, and wish him all continued health and prosperity.
     The Members of the Royal Institution have also to thank Professor
Tyndall for his liberal gift to the Institution of the splendid and
extensive Apparatus employed by him in his Lectures in America,

56                          General Monthly Meeting.                  [March 3,
and congratulate him on the generous spirit, and the love of science'
which has lod him to appropriate the profits of his Lectures in the
United States to the establishment of a fund to assist the scientific
studies of young Americans in Europe.
       The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. : —
       FROM
Alcoclt, Col. Z. St. L. M.R.I, (the Author}—Relativo Power of Nations. Third
     Edition. (K G S) 8vo. 1S73.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIII. No. 3. 8vo. 1873.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal. 1870. Sitzungsberichte. 1872 : Heft 2.
      8vo.
   Inhaltsverzeichniss, 1860-70. 8vo. 1872.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1872-3. Nos. 5, 6. 4to.
Chemiatl Society—Journal for Feb. 1873. 8vo.
Comitato Geologico d' Italia—Bolettini. 1872. Nos. 11, 12. 8vo. Firenze.
Dawson, Principal J. W. F.R.S. (the Author)—The Story of tho Earth and Man.
      16to. 1873.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Feb. 1873. 8vo.
   Athcmeum for Feb. 1873. 4to.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1873. 4to.
   Engineor for Feb. 1873.
   Food Journal for Fob. 1873. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for Feb. 1873. Folio.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Feb. 1873. 4to.
   Nature for Feb. 1873. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Feb. 1873. 8vo.
   Once a Week for Feb. 1 873. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb. 1873. 8vo.
 Franklin Imtitute—Journal, Nos. 564, 565. 8vo. 1873.
 (teographical Society, Royal—Correspondence respecting the New Arctic Expedi
      tion. 8vo. 1873.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 113. 8vo. 1872.
 Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, No. 4. 8vo. 1872.
 Macpherson, John M. 0. M.R.I,—J. M. Joule ; Das Mechanischo Warme-
      aquivalent. Uebersetzt von J. W. Spongel. 8vo, Brauuschwcig, 1872.
 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings. Vol. XII. No. 6.
      Svo. 1873.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, 1872 : July, Tart 2.
      8vo.
 Meteorological Office— Quarterly Weather Report. 1872, Part 2. 4to.
   Report of the Meteorological Conference at Leipzig. Svo. 1873.
 Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 5. 8vo. 1873.
 Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Nov. 1872. Svo.
 Royal Society of Ijondon—Proceedings, No. 141. Svo. 1872.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)— Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      Feb. 1873. 8vo.

 1873.J               Testimonial to Dr. Bence Jmt.es.                57
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Monday, March 7, 1873.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                      James Dewar, Esq. F.R.S.E.
         On the Temperature of the Sun and the Work of Sunlight.
                            [Abstract deferred.]
             TESTIMONIAL TO DE. BENCE JONES.
     At a Meeting of the Managers of the Eoyal Institution, held on
 Monday, March 10, 1873, especially to consider a Letter from Dr.
 Bence Jones, resigning his office as Honorary Secretary, the following
 Resolution was unanimously agreed to :—
     " The Board of Managers receive with deep regret the letter of
 Dr. Benoe Jones containing his resignation of the office of Secretary
 to tho Royal Institution.
     " They lament tho reason which compels him to relinquish a post
 which he has filled for so many years with equal honour to himself
 and advantage to the Institution.
     " His conviction of the value of original research, and of the
 special vocation of the Royal Institution to continuo diligent in pro
 moting it, was with him an unceasing stimulus to exertion. His
attention to every detail left nothing neglected in tho performance of
 his duties. His own scientific attainments have been of signal effect
in maintaining respect for the Institution, and in procuring the co
operation of eminent men in tho Laboratories and Lecture Theatre.
His love of the placo and its memories has been shown by the pains
he took to collect its early annals ; including in this work an account
of the discoveries of Young and Davy ; and by his becoming tho
historian of Faraday.
     " The Managers cannot fail to remember that the services of Dr.
Bence Jones have been given under the pressure of important pro-,
fcssional engagements, and latterly under the additional difficulties of
failing health ; and that until now, reluctantly compelled to resign,
ho has nover relaxed in the active prosecution of his honourable task,
    " The Managers, howover, trust that tho aid of Dr. Benoe Jones
may not be altogether lost to tho Institution ; but that ho will still
afford to it the benefit of his counsels and experienco. They hope

58                          Professor Allman                 [March 14,
that he may in future occupy a scat at the Board of Management ;
and further, that he will remain associated with the Institution, by
doing it the favour of accepting the position of Honorary Assistant-
Secretary. They believe that the distinguished success which has
attended Dr. Bence Jones in his career as Secretary will always be
his worthiest reward. It rests with them to tender to Dr. Bench
Jones the expression of their strong personal regard, and of their
warmest gratitude for his invaluable services to the Royal Institution."
    It having been ascertained that tho form of Testimonial most
agreeable to Dr. Bence Jones would be a Bust of himself to be placed
in the Royal Institution, tho Managers resolved to open a Subscription
List among the Members tif the Royal Institution for the purpose ;
Individual Subscriptions to bo limited to 31. 3s. as a maximum.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,                  .
                        Friday, March 14, 1873.
   Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. F.R.S. President, in the Chair.
                      Professor Allman, F.R.S.
                  On Coral Islands and their Architects.
The speaker commenced by giving an account of the structure and
habits of the Actinia, or sea-anemone, as a typo of the coral polype.
He described it as a fleshy sac attached by a broad base at one end,
and having at tho opposite end a mouth surrounded by a wreath of
tentacles or feelers. He showed that its stomach consists of a smaller
sac suspended in the larger, and opening at one end by the mouth,
while at the other end it opens into the surrounding cavity of the
larger sac. This free opening of tho stomach into the general cavity
of the body is a character of great importance, and is possessed by no
other group of animals than that to which the sco-ancmone belongs.
    The group so constituted is named Ccelenterata, a designation
derived from the Greek, and intended to express the peculiarity of
structure here referred to. This curious open stomach is kept in
its place by a set of vertical fleshy plates, which radiate from it to
tho surrounding walls of the great cavity of the body. Now, the
various parts of the sea-anemone are under the control of a definite
Number, by which its symmetry is regulated. This is the Number
Six ; and the radiating plates just mentioned are thus either six in
number or some multiple of six, and so also tho tentacles when freely
and normally developed are either six or one of tho multiples.

1873.]            on Coral Islands and their Architects.            59
    While the sea-anemone is immersed in the waters of tho sea, and
is surrounded by tho conditions which promote its health and well-
being, it will display its beautiful crown of tentacles and spread
itself out like an expanded flower, often brilliantly and beautifully
coloured. But let danger threaten, let a finger rudely touch it, and
it will instantly draw in its tentacles and contract itself around
them ; and then, instead of the expanded flower, wo may believe we
have before us the same flower in the bud.
    The speaker then pointed out how Caryophyllia, which may be
found upon various parts of our own shores attached to rocks at low
spring-tides, and which essentially agrees in structure with the sca-
anemonc, has the power of separating carbonate of lime from tho
sea-water and of depositing this mineral, particle by particle, in its
tissues so as to become in great part calcified. In other words, how
it has the power of forming a true skeleton of coral.
     Now the Caryophyllia with its skeleton of coral, instead of re
maining simple and solitary like the sea-anemone, may throw out
buds like a plant, or may complicate itself by partially dividing into
two or more segments, and will thus be converted into a compound
colony of coral-producing polypes, each polypo having its own
mouth and stomach and tentacles and radiating plates; and each,
while providing for its own wants, contributing at the same time to
 the general well-being of tho colony. The form of this colony will
 depend on the disposition and mode of growth of the buds, or of tho
 new polypes produced by the splitting of the old ones ; for if all
these remain closoly impacted together, there would result such
massive corals as are familiar in Astnva and Meandrina; while if
they become more or less separated from one another and grow
 out into branches, we should then have a branched coral like a
 DendrophyUia or a Madrepore. Now it is such animals as these
 Astraeas and Meandrinas and Dendrophyllias and Madrepores which
 form the reefs and coral islands to whose history the discourse is
devoted.
     It must not, however, be supposed that all coral animals are reef-
 builders. The well-known red coral of commorce, for example, never
accumulates in reefs or banks. This coral also, as well as many
other non-reef-building kinds, differs in some subordinate points of
 structure from the true reef-builders ; and instead of having its
 symmetry controlled by the number Six, it is the number Four by
which the disposition of all its parts is regulated.
     Having thus given an account of the nature of the coral animal
and its mode of forming coral, the speaker proceeded to describe tho
home of the reef-builders. This region forms an irregular zone,
extending for some distance at each sido of tho equator, but never
going farther from it than about 30° of latitude. There can be no
doubt that this coral zone is limited by temperaturo, and it has been
pointed out by Dana, on what appears to bo good cvidenco, that its
northern and southern boundaries arc formed by tho isocrymal lines

60                           Professor Allman                 [March 14,
of 68°, or those lines which may be drawn through the parts of the
ocean where the mean temperature of the coldest month of the year
is 68° Fahr. These isocrymal lines, however, greatly deviate from
the parallels of latitude, for while in some places they are separated
from the equator by 30° of latitude, in other places they are strongly
pressed towards it by the influence of the cold currents from the
poles.
     The extent of the coral formations within this area has ever since
the seas began to be explored struck the navigator with astonishment.
Along the western coast of New Caledonia is a reef of 400 miles in
length, and along the north-east coast of Australia is one of more than
1200 miles ; while it is to the labours of the reef-building polypes
that almost all the beautiful islands which stud the tropical portion
of the Pacific, and many of those in the Indian Ocean, are mainly
due.
     The speaker then drew a picture of the aspect of the ocean, and
of the most striking members of its fauna in tho region of coral reefs.
He directed especial attention to the most superficial zone of tho
tropical ocean—that zone where sea and air and heat and light com
bine and concentrate the conditions of intensest animality, amid
which becomes developed a most beautiful and marvellous fauna ;
where Mqdusae and Siphonophores wander at their own wild will,
propelled through the clear waters by the pulsations of crystal bell
or of broad many-coloured disc, or in vast fleets are floating over the
 sea with sail extended to the breeze ; where Pteropods flit on wings
 through tho water like butterflies through the air ; where Beroes
 catch the sunlight on their sides and flash it back in all the brightest
 hues of the rainbow ; where Salpaa play in long undulating chains of
 crystal, and Pyrosoma, no less clear and crystal-like by day, becomes
 a cylinder of fire by night. What exuberance of life ! What intensity
 of happiness t What unnumbered hosts basking beneath the tropic
 sky, or breaking the mirror of tho sea with their gambols, or yielding
 to the impulse of the gentle trade-wind, or lighting up at night with
 phosphorescent gleam the dark waters of the deep !
     Now, tho coral-builders share with these bright and active hosts
 the prolific surface zone of the ocean. But their area is also a deeper
one, and for many a fathom downwards their flower-like discs and
 banks of living coral may be traced by the sounding-lead and the
 dredge.
     This extension downwards, however, is not unlimited. The ocean
varies with its depth in its physical characters and in the conditions
 of life which it presents, and the coral-builders find the conditions
suited to their welfare within a limited and definite range. This
range never extends beyond a depth of from 20 to 30 fathoms, so that
 no living reef-building coral is ever found at a greater depth than this.
     Within the upper portions of this area the coral fauna may be
 witnessed in all the perfection of its highest development and life ;
for there the sea is transparent as the purest beryl, and down fathoms

 1873.]              on Coral Islands and their Architects.                61
 deep below the boat the eye can penetrate through the liquid crystal
 to where the coral bank spreads around, and a scene of marvellous
 beauty becomes revealed. For there beneath the sea is a garden:
 carnations and asters and anemones and gorgeous cactus - flowers
 seem there to expand their glowing petals ; flexile shrubs root them
 selves in the crevices of the rocks, and envelop their branches in
 bright clusters of flowers like tho mozereon bush in the month of
 March. What profusion of forms ! what richness of colouring !
 crimson, and golden, and purple, and emerald-green, and snowy
 white ;—no garden of the upper air can surpass that garden of the sea
 in loveliness. But, stranger than all ! every petal is replete with
 sense ; every flower and every shrub is an animated being ;—touch it,
 and it shrinks ; feed it, and it digests ; it rejoices in the warm sun
 light, and feels happy in the caress of the ocean tide.
      Now the animated flowers of that wonderful sea-garden spend no
 life of idleness—day after day, night after night, they are at their
 work ! they are the builders of coral, the architects of islands, tho
 ceaseless labourers by whose untiring energy have been rescued from
 the ocean thousands of miles of habitable land.
      Having thus examined the workers, and become acquainted with
 their home, the speaker proceeded to consider the nature of their works,
 and this subject would be best treated under the following heads :—
      1. The forms and structure of the reefs.
     2. The mode of their construction.
     3. Their relations to man.
                  The Forms and Structure of Coral Reefs.
     Coral formations have been divided into three classes : the Atoll,
or Lagoon Island, the Barrier Reef, and the Fringing Reef.
     The Atoll is the type of the Coral Island. It presents tho appear
ance of a circular or irregularly formed ring of coral rising out of tho
bosom of the ocean, generally clothed with a rich tropical vegetation
of cocoanut palms, pandanus, and pisonia, surrounded by a wreath of
whito foam where the sea breaks upon its outer margin, and having
a lagoon or lake of still water in the interior.
     Tho ring of coral is usually discontinuous in one or more places,
and through the channels thus formed ships can generally sail into
tho calm central lagoon, which will then afford them, no matter how
rough may be the external sea, a safe and commodious harbour.
     It is scarcely possible to conceive of anything more lovely than
one of these Lagoon Islands, with its graceful palm-trees and its
groves of pisonia, tho still quiet lake within, the restless landless
ocean without, and the glowing sky of the tropics stretching over all.
Where
        " Droops the heavy blossomed bower ; hangs the heavy fruited tree,
          Summer isles of Eden lying in dark purple spheres of sea."
    Some of the small uninhabited Atolls especially seem almost as if

62                          Professor All man                 | March 14,
they had been the work of enchantment. Even the wild creatures
which dwell there appear to realize the wonders of the fairy tale and
roake us almost believe that they lie under the spell of a magician.
The United States' explorers assure us that in some of these islands
the birds were so little alarmed at the presence of man, that they
allowed themselves to be taken off the branches of the trees as if they
had been their flowers.
    When the Atoll is. examined more minutely, it is found that the
depth of the central lagoon may be about ten or twenty fathoms ; a pure
coral sand or fine white coral mud covers its bottom ; the flexible and
shrub-like species of coral root themselves in its sides, and millions of
strange creatures nestle in their branches, or creep over tho coral
rock, or dart through the waters of the lagoon.
    On. the outer side of the ring of coral things are very different.
The reef here usually extends outwards for some distance as a flat
platform, with but a slight depth of water over it ; the depth then
suddenly increases, and immediately afterwards the sounding-lead
sinks into tho fathomless ocean where no bottom can be felt. One of
the most remarkable features in an Atoll is thus the extraordinarily
rapid rate at which its outer side sinks into the ocean ; and this fact
must especially bo noted, for it will aid us in our attempts to explain
the formation of the island.
    When masses of the coral of which the reef is composed are
brought up from various depths, botween the surface and twenty or
thirty fathoms below it, these fragments arc generally found to be
alive. From much greater depths, however, the sounding-lead will
continue to bring up fragments of coral which it has detached from
the sides of the reef; but whatever fragments are brought up from
greater depths than at most thirty fathoms are invariably found to bo
dead. This fact is in accordance with what has been already said
regarding the limited range in depth at which the coral animal can
live ; and it is another very important one, which must be also kept
in mind as necessary in enabling us to understand the mode of forma
tion of tho island.
    If a correct idea of tho nature of an Atoll be now conveyed, there
will be no difficulty in understanding the two remaining classes of
coral formations.
    The Barrier Reef consists of a ridge of coral resembling that of an
Atoll, but running parallel to the shores of a continent, or surround
ing those of an ordinary island, and in either case at such a distance
as to include between it and tho land a deep channel of still water.
    A Fringing Reef differs from a Barrier Reef only in being smaller,
and scarcely including any channel between it and the land, which it
 thus merely fringes with a skirt of coral rock.
                       Mode of Formation of Reefs.
    When it was first known that so many of the islands in the Pacific
and Indian Oceans owed their existence to the energy of coral animals,

1873.]            on Coral Islands and their Architects.            63
it was believed that the coral-formers commenced their labours upon
the flat bottom of tho sea, at unknown and unfathomable depths, and
that they thence worked continuously upwards to the surface. This
hypothesis, however, is inconsistent with the now well-established
fact of the limited range in depth of living coral.
     The circular form of the Atoll suggested also another hypothesis,
which maintained that the coral animals established themselves round
the crater of some submarine volcano, and that, thence working
upwards, they necessarily repeated on the surface of the sea the
circular form of their foundation. Now this hypothesis would involve
the highly improbable supposition that there exists throughout the
region of corals innumerable volcanic craters, and that all these are
nearly at the very same level, namely, that which alone is suited to
the energies of the living coral ; while its improbability is rendered
still further apparent by the fact that there is no known volcanic
crater whose diameter approaches in dimensions to that of many
Atolls.
     For the beautiful theory which is now universally accepted— the
only one, indeed, which is consistent with all the known phenomena,
and one of the most important with which the physical history of
the earth has of late years been enriched—we are indebted to Mr.
Darwin.
     The theory of Darwin is founded on two incontestable facts,—the
one purely physiological, the other purely physical.
    The physiological element in the theory of Darwin consists in the
fact already insisted on, that the coral animals cannot live at un
limited depths, that they need the presence of light and of other con
ditions which they can obtain only near the surface, and that from
twenty to thirty fathoms below the surface is the greatest depth at
which the reef-building polypes can continue to live.
    But we have also seen that the outer walls of the coral reef have
been followed downwards into depths very much greater than this ;
and though the coral forming those deep portions is always found to
be dead, it is plain that it must have been at one time living, and
some additional fact is therefore needed in order to reconcile its
occurrence at these great depths with the established limited range of
living coral. Here, then, comes to our aid the physical element in
the theory. It is this: That while the ocean maintains the same
level from age to age all over the world, the solid land is subject to
repeated oscillations of level, rising in one place and sinking in
another, and this sometimes to an extent of many thousands of feet.
    Having demonstrated the reality of this phenomenon by reference
to numerous well-known geological facts, such as the sinking of the
southern shores of Scandinavia and of the western shores of Green
land, and the rising of the northern shores of Scandinavia and of
Siberia, the speaker proceeded, with the aid of diagrams, to apply, as
Darwin had done, the two groups of phenomena, physiological and
physical, to the explanation of coral formations.

 64                         Professor Allman                  [March 14,
     He showed how a mountain, rising out of the sea in the form of a
 precipitous island, in the region of the reef-builders, will present on
 its shores the conditions suited to the coral-polypes, which will there
 attach themselves, building downwards until they arrive at depths too
 great for the perfect exercise of their functions, and upwards until
 the surface of the sea sets bounds to the further elevation of their
 structures. A reef of coral will thus be spread all round the shores
 of the island, and will constitute the formation known as a Fringing
 Reef.
     But the island is supposed to be in a region of subsidence, and has
begun to sink slowly into the sea, carrying with it the already-formed
fringe of coral into depths incompatible with the well-being of the
polypes. Urged, however, by an unerring instinct, the reef-builders
continue their labours upwards simultaneously with the gradual
depression of the land, and thus the reef is always extending itself
towards the warm sunlit surface of the sea, where all the conditions of
coral life exist, while the lower parts have passed downwards into
depths where the formers of coral must cease to live.
     The reef has thus grown larger ; and as the coral is produced in
greater force on the outer edge, where the reef is exposed to the open
ocean, with all the conditions in which the animals forming it delight,
this part is sooner brought to the surface than the inner part, where
the growth of the coral is still further interfered with by the accumu
lation of fragments which the waves tear from the reef, break down
into coral sand and coral mud, and carry inwards towards the land.
A deep channel is thus formed between the outer part of the reef and
the shores round which the coral has attached itself; and what was at
first a Fringing Eeef becomes in this way converted into a Barrier
Reef.
     In the meantime fragments of coral broken off by the waves are
gradually piled upon the upper surface of the reef, which is thus in
time raised above the sea in the form of a long stretch of dry land,
separated from what still remains of the original island by the inter
vening channel of still water, and capable in the course of time of
affording, by the decomposition of its surface, a soil in which terres
trial plants may take root.
     But the changes do not end with the formation of a Barrier Reef ;
for the work of subsidence goes on, and the ancient land continues to
sink deepor and deeper into the sea, carrying the coral-polypes down
with it into the dark, ungenial ocean depths, where they must in
evitably perish. And now at last the highest point has disappeared,
all has sunk beneath the sea, and a wide waste of landless waters rolls
unbroken over its summit.
     The island architects are not, however, to be baffled. As the
lower parts of the reef sink into depths, where they must perish, the
upper parts are simultaneously extending themselves as a bank of
living coral towards the surface, which at last they reach in the form
of a more or less circular reef, on which the waves once more break,

1873.]              on Curat Islands and their Architects.              65
and which includes within it a sheltered lagoon, now free from even
the last remnant of included land ; and the Barrier Reef hecomes thus
converted into an Atoll.
     Now it will be here noted that throughout the whole of the
changes which have been thus traced, the thickness of the bed of
living coral is a constant quantity, extending always from a little
below the surface of the sea to that fixed plane beyond which if the
 coral be carried it ceases to live, while, on the other hand, the mass of
 dead coral is continually increasing with the subsidence of the land.
     It is also evident from 'what has now been said that the Atoll
points out the spot where an ordinary island had become submerged,
and that the whole region of Atolls and Barrier Reefs has been
gradually subsiding. A subject of great significance is thus suggested
by the study of the phenomena of Coral Reefs ; and the conclusion is
irresistibly forced upon us that in the region where now the Pacific
Ocean separates the Old World from the New there lay in former
times a continent with its mountain peaks and table-lands ; that all has
since sunk beneath the sea, except its highest table-lands and the
summits of its highest mountains ; that within the region of the reef-
builders the coral has gathered in its encircling reefs round these last
remnants of the ancient land ; while an Atoll marks the spot where a
mountain peak of that old continent has totally disappeared beneath
the ocean.
     In those regions which lie beyond the warmer area of the coral, the
land may yet have sunk and left no sign ; for the reef-builders could not
live in the colder waters, and there was nothing else to tell the tale.
                  The Coral Island in its relations to Man.
     But the Atoll whose formation we have been following is not yet
dry land. It is still a submerged reef over which the waves roll, for
the polypes cannot extend their works into the upper air. Further
changes therefore still await it. Fragments torn from its outer
side by the waves are piled upon its surface, and it rises higher and
higher from the sea ; the decomposing coral covers the reef with a
fertile soil, to which the wind and the ocean currents may bring the
seeds of plants from other lands, and a graceful vegetation clothes in
time its sea-girt shores.
    And thus the Atoll becomes fitted for the sustenance of terrestrial
animals and man. Sea-birds in multitudes find shelter there, and
land-birds from distant shores see in it a country where they may
dwell ; while tho drifted trunk of the forest tree, to which the lizard
and the insect still cling, is cast upon its strand to begin the peopling
of its woods with still other forms of life.
    Some largo fruit-eating bats too have discovered it ; but no other
mammal has ever formed part of the aboriginal fauna of the Coral
Island.
    Its latest occupant is doubtless man ; but whence he came, from
   Vol. VII. (No. 58.)                                            r

66                   Professor AUman on Coral Islands.         [March 14,
what original stock he migrated, we have no positive evidence to
determine.
     If we except the Feejee group and some of the other high coral-
encircled islands which lie at the extreme west of the area, and in
which the inhabitants are Negrittos, characterized by their black
skins, frizzled hair, and repulsive features, we shall find a great uni
formity of type to prevail over the rest of the Pacific coral region, a
type with lighter skin and straight or wavy hair, and one which
points towards an affinity with the Malay races of south-eastern Asia,
We are not, however, on this account to suppose that the islands were
necessarily peopled by direct migration from the Asiatic shores. If
we suppose that the high islands, with their encircling barrier reefs,
represent the last remnant of a submerged continent, it is quite
possible that these islands may have retained the last remnant also of
its population. But whether this be so or not, it is certain that the
Atolls must have been independently peopled, either from the sur
rounding islands or from some more distant continent. The Atoll
rose from the bosom of the ocean destitute of terrestrial life, and many
a century must have passed before the presence of man broke the
 solitude of its shores. We may well believe that at last some savages,
 drifted out of their course by adverse winds, had run their canoe upon
the strand and had taken possession of the land of the polype. The
fish of the lagoon, the mollusca of the shore, the fruits of the wood,
afford them their subsistence ; they have discovered that a pit dug a
few feet deep into the coral rock will reach a reservoir of fresh water
accumulated from the rains which had percolated through the more
 superficial porous structures ; the friction of two pieces of dry timber
 yields them fire ; while their spears fashioned by a piece of sharp stone
 found entangled in the roots of some driftwood, facilitate the acqui
 sition of food, and make the struggle for existence more easy.
     And so years pass on, and the descendants of the first accidental
settlers have peopled the island; but though experience may have taught
them many things, though an imperfect division of labour may have been
adopted and a rude state of society established, the aboriginal dwellers
have rather adapted themselves to the physical conditions among which
they have been thrown than raised themselves above them, and centu
ries pass away and leave them little changed. For after all, the Coral
Island is but ill fitted for human development ; without a hill to break
the uniformity of its surface, without a stream to hollow out a valley,
 without a single metal, without a mineral beyond the unvaried calca
reous coral rock, without a mammal other than the bird-like bat, the
native, cut off from all communication with other lands, will have few
 ideas ; while his wants, few and easily satisfied by the spontaneous
produce of the island, will afford little motive for exertion, and little
 stimulus to development ; and it is later times, and other lands where
 civilization has already spread, where knowledge has already ad
 vanced, that must carry civilization and knowledge to the Coral
 Island.

 1873.]           Capt. Lyon on the Mythology of India.                    67
     And so centuries still roll on, until at last from these other shores
the destined race has landed on the island—a race with higher
powers, a more cultivated intellect, and an increased capacity for
improvement —the bearer of a new force, of a civilization with all its
good, and, alas ! with all its evils too : but the good is greater than tho
evil, and so the lower yields to the higher phase of intellect ; more
perfect social relations are introduced ; laws are instituted ; the savage
rites of a degrading superstition give place to a more elevated and a
purer creed ; no longer with that narrow policy which does not look
beyond the limits of its own strand of coral, a common interest has
united island to island, and a national life has dawned upon the
archipelago of the polypo ; deficiencies are supplemented by the pro
ducts of other lands ; the broadfruit and tbe banana and the yam are
cultivated ; tho fruits of the woods and tho pearl-shell and the tre-
pang of the lagoons are sought after by the trader ; the relations of
commerce are established, and the Coral Island takes its place in the
great community of Nations.
                                                                [G. J. A.J
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 21, 1873.
 William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Treas. R.S. & R.I. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                            Captain E. D. Lyon
                  On the Mythology and Temples of India,
               Illustrated by Photographic Views of the Temples.
India is the brightest appanage of the British crown, containing as it
does about one hundred and forty millions of inhabitants ; and yet
how little is known about it. Most persons have heard of an Indian
temple or pagoda, but such words are not known in India, the word
used being Devila, which means " the house of God," and what English
people call a pagoda is nothing but the door or entrance to the build
ing of God. The difficulty of obtaining information on the subject of
the Hindoo religion in India is very great. The Anglo-Indians are
far too much occupied to trouble themselves on such matters ; and the
only persons of whom inquiries can be made are the Brahmins and the
missionaries. With the former, experience teaches that the applica
tion of silver to their hand .has a wonderful effect on their tongue,
and if you only apply enough coin you may get any amount of informa
                                                                  f 2

68                          Capt. E. D. Lyon                  [March 21,
tion ; but then comes the difficulty of separating what is truo and
what is imaginary. As to the missionaries, it is hardly likely they
will take the trouble to study much a religion which they have come
to try and root out. One of them declares that in India the natives
worship three hundred and thirty millions of gods ; but the real truth
is, the Hindoos worship only one supreme Deity, whom they look
on as too sublime, too grand, too awful for their minds to conceive.
They never address any prayer to him ; they have nevor erected any
temple to his honour, and they would consider it sacrilege to do so.
All their prayers are addressed to one of his triune personifications,
Brahma, Vishnu, and Shiva. Brahma personifies creation ; Vishnu,
preservation ; and Shiva, destruction. These three agree in one ; for
though at first sight it might appear difficult to reconcile creation and
destruction as agreeing ; still when it is remembered that with the
Hindoos destruction is in reality re-creation, the coalition is easy. In
former times the worshippers of the throe divinities also agreed and
used the same forms of worship and the same temples, as is proved
by the older temples containing close together representations of the
three deities ; but of late years they hate each other with as fanatical
a hate as is to be found in the Western world.
    Captain Lyon then began the exhibition of his photographs,
enlarged by the camera, and illuminated by tho electric light; first
introducing the god Ganesa, one of the most noted in India, and the
one which every Hindoo prays to before commencing any undertaking.
Before he begins a journey, before he builds a house, he prays to
Ganesa—" O glorious and immortal Ganesa, grant me success in what
I am about to undertake !"
    " I have already mentioned," said Captain Lyon, " the Indian
temple or house of God. I must now explain that the temple is
composed of four parts : the Gopurum, or gateway, much resembling
the Egyptian Pylon; the Mundapum, or porch ; the Teppa Kolum,
or tank ; and the Vimanum, or sanctuary. The three first I will show
you ; the last is a low oblong room, perfectly plain, into which no ray
of daylight is ever permitted to enter. It is here the idol is kept,
and no one but a high-caste Hindoo and a royal prince is allowed
to enter ; and if a prince goes in he must go quite alone.
    " The first temple of which I shall show you a view, is that of
Seringum, near Trichinopoly. It is one of the largest in India. You
see the Gopura which mark the entrances from one court to another.
The base is of stone, and the pyramid of brick covered with plaster,
out of which all tho figures are made. There are twenty-three of these
 Gopura in this temple, and eight thousand Brahmins livo in it ; but
you must not suppose all the Brahmins are priests. It is from among
the Brahmins that the priests are chosen ; as among the Jews it was
from the tribe of Levi the family of Aaron was chosen for the
priesthood. -
    " A mundapum, or porch, of which literally thousands are to be

1873.]           on the Mythology and Temples of India.                 69
found in India, is composed of eight stones, say eight feet long and
about two feet square. Take four of these and put them upright in
the ground, lay the other four along the top to form a roof, and you
have a mundapum ; and whether of immense size and beautifully
curved, or quito plain, the shape and form are the same.
    " In the view before you each group of horses, animals, and figures
are cut out of one block of granite, fifteen feet high, and it forms the
front of one of the mundapa in the Seringum temple. The Teppa
Kolum, or tank, which you see in this view, is also in the Seringum
temple, and is the third part of a Hindoo temple, as already men
tioned. At a festival in January the god is put on a boat, and drawn
twenty-one times round the pavilion which you see in the middle,
the Nautch girls dancing and the band playing.
     " Madura, the Rome of the Hindoos, is the next placo to visit.
Here we find the celebrated Pnthu Mundapum, built by Trimul Nayak,
the last king of Madura. He asked the god to come and pay him a
visit ; and the answer was, he had no house fit to receive him. The
king erected this wonderful building, which cost one million sterling,
and took twenty-two years to complete. It is 333 feet long, by
eighty-one broad. The roof is supported by 128 pillars, each of
which is a solid block of granite twenty-five feet high, and all most
beautifully sculptured.
     " You have heard of tho Juggernaut car, which is the next view.
Tho god, besides his row on the tank, must have his car in which
he is drawn about on a certain day every year. The whole popula
tion of the neighbouring villages assembles ; tho god is brought
out, covered with jewels, and being carried to the top of tho car by
means of an inside staircase, the enormous ropes are attached, and
being seized by thousands of men, the ponderous mass begins slowly
to move ; and what with the shouting of the men, the singing of the
 women, and the dancing of the Nautch girls, the scene is one never to
 be forgotten. The excitement becomes at last so intense that one
hardly wonders that the fanatics become absolutely mad, and that it
is with difficulty tho police, appointed by tho government for the
purpose, can restrain them from throwing themselves on their backs
on the ground, and opening their legs permit the wheels of the machine
to pass over their bodies, welcoming so horrible a death in the belief
that it will ensure to them beatitude hereafter.
     " Farther south we shall see the Monolith at Kaloogoomulla, which
 not six white persons have ever seen, and very fow know even of its
 existence. For some reason the Brahmins will not tell anyone of its
 whereabouts; and when questioned deny all knowledge of it. It is
 cut out of a solid block of dark granite, and stands perfectly isolated.
 No worship of any sort is ever performed there, and it is not known
 when or by whom it was erected or for what purpose.
     " At Tennevelly, yet farther south, are four gigantic figures,
 each cut out of a solid block of a dark green stone, said to be a mixturo

 70                          Capt. E. D. Lyon                  [March 21,
 of trapstono and hornblend, twenty feet high. The one you see is
 the Kama Deva, or Indian Cupid, who was born with a bow and five
 arrows ; and on asking Brahma, his father, for what purpose these
 were given to him, was told that to him was given the power to
 inflame mankind with love, and thus people the world. He thought
 ho would try his arrows first on Brahma, and the result was he was
 soon blest with 1-19,000 brothers and sisters.
     " The sacred temple of Ramisseram on the island of Paumben,
situated at the commencement of what is called Adam's bridge, which
is said formerly to have joined Ceylon to the mainland. The story
of the sanctity of this island and temple is to be read in the
' Ramayana,' a Hindoo poem filling a very large volume ; being a
history of the battles which took placo between Rama and Ravana,
when the latter, a monster with ten heads and one hundred arms, carried
off Sita, Rama's wife. The temple is the most sacred in all India, not
even excepting Benares. It is here the pilgrim ends his long journey
which he began three thousand miles away ; and no one who does not
know what Indian travel is, can realize what the pilgrim suffers in this
tedious march, without mentioning the austerities to which he con
demns himself— such as prostrating himself, face downwards, in
the dust at the end of every mile. Here is rest at last ; and as he
wanders in tho waning light through these sacred precincts, he forgets
all he has undergone in the remembrance that he has gained his goal,
and he looks forward to blessings in this world and immediate beati
tude after death. The wonderful corridors of the temple itsetf are
justly considered ono of the most marvellous exhibitions of human
labour to be found anywhere; their aggregate length is nearly
four thousand feet ; and when we consider that their section is that of a
small Gothic church, and their length eight times that of our largest
cathedral, that all the pillars are of granite richly carved, and observe
tho variety of light and shade, and the wonderful effects of perspective
in tho long-drawn aisles, we must admit that they form an ensemble
surpassing anything of its class to be found elsewhere.
    " In Avadea Covill we find again the hard stone, as at Tinnevelly,
which no chisel in these modern days can be made to cut. The temple
is small, but wonderfully beautiful. At Tanjore the temple is one
of the finest and richest in India, but, curious to say, almost entirely
deserted : it is celebrated for the large stone bull Nundi, which our
engineers compute must have weighed nearly one hundred tons before
it was cut, and must have been brought five hundred miles, as there is
no quarry of a similar stone nearer.
    " At the Seven Pagodas, near Madras, are the extraordinary rocks
which have been so beautifully carved, both inside and out ; but by
whom, when, or for what purpose, is not known. The whole under
taking seems to have been begun at once and ceased suddenly. The
bassi-relievi round the sides of the hollowed-out rocks are as fine, if

 1873.]           on the Mythology and Temples of India.               71
not finer, than anything to be found in India. There also is the
temple on the sea-shore, supposed to be all that remains of the sub
merged city of Bali, the wildest fiction that ever was invented ; but
nevertheless immortalized by Southey in his ' Curse of Kehama.' Close
by are the Five Raths, as they are called, large boulders cut into
beautiful little temples, said to be the only Buddhist temples in India,
the other remains being all caves as at Karlee, where we see one of
the finest of them; and curiously enough, the wood-work, both at the
entrance and also at the farther end, dato from the time of the original
excavations, probably a few years before our Saviour. The shape of
the interior is very similar to that of the early Christian churches, the
Dagoba being in the place of the altar. At Tarputy, 140 miles north of
Madras, we find again the same stone as at Avadea Covill and
Tinnevelly, and here even more marvellously sculptured. The bases
of what were splendid Gopura, but now in ruins, are covered with a
profusion of beautifully-executed figures, flowers, and animals, such as
a Hindoo could alone have attempted. Next comes the city of
Vijianuggur, which formerly covered seven square miles, and which
has now almost entirely disappeared, leaving only two small temples
as records of its former grandeur. This city defied for two hundred
years the power of the Mahomedans, whose capital, Beejapoor, is very
interesting to visit on account of the tombs of its kings, which alone
in like manner remain to attest its magnificence. In this city each king
built his own tomb during his lifetime ; a plan which had the one disad
vantage, that if the king died before it was half finished it remained in
the same state for ever. The verandah round the mausoleum of Ibrahim
Shah is as fine as anything to be found in the East ; and, when the azure
colouring was fresh, the contrast between it and the gilt letters and the
outer frame of the grey granite, must have been grand indeed. The
whole of the Koran has been engraved on the walls of this tomb.
Over the windows the stone has been pierced, and the Arabic letters
alone left, which are so well done and perfect as to be easily legible
by anyone even imperfectly acquainted with the language. Whether
this marvellous exhibition of skill and patient industry, or the window
of the mosque at Ahmedabad, or the screen round the Taj at Agra,
bears off the palm, is a question very hard to answer."
     In conclusion, Captain Lyon devoted a few words to the Jain
 religion : " There can be little doubt that the founder of this religion,
 Mahavira, was the preceptor of Buddha, and that the cause of their
 separation was that Mahavira tried to persuade his disciples that they
 should go about in a state of nudity. Buddha saw at once that such a
 precept could not practically become popular, and the result was their
 quarrel, and Buddha became the founder of the religion which, even
 at this day, numbers more disciples than all the rehgions of the West,
 while the Jains for a time seemed almost to have disappeared, to
 reappear in small numbers again, when the Buddhists were driven by

72            Capt. Lyon on the Mythology of India. [March 21, 1873.
the Brahininical faith out of India. There are three or four small
colonies of them now scattered about, and at Bombay they are very
rich, and have built on a hill they have purchased in Goozerat some
very beautiful temples. They arc a quiet and very hard-working
race of men, and their religion is one of the very best in India ; their
Bible, the Kalpa Sutra, being as practically good as the Koran."
                                                           [E. D. L.]

          i&ogal Institution of (Kreat ©rttain.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 4, 1873.
        Sir Henrt Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
                    Professor Tyndall, LL.D. F.R.S.
                       Some Observations on Niagara.
It is one of the disadvantages of reading books about natural scenery
that they fill the mind with pictures, often exaggerated, often distorted,
often blurred, and even when well drawn injurious to the freshness
of first impressions. Such has been the fate of most of us with regard
to the Falls of Niagara. There was little accuracy in the estimates
of the first observers of the cataract. Startled by an exhibition of
power so novel and so grand, emotion leaped beyond the control of the
judgment, and gave currency to notions regarding the waterfall which
have often led to disappointment.
      A record of a voyage in 1535 by a French mariner named Jacques
Cartier, contains, it is said, the first printed allusion to Niagara. In
 1603 the first map of the district was constructed by a Frenchman named
Champlain. In 1648 the Jesuit Rageneau, in a letter to his superior
at Paris, mentions Niagara as " a cataract of frightful height." * In
the winter of 1678 and 1679 the cataract was visited by Father
 Hennepin, and described in a book dedicated " to the King of Great
 Britain." He gives a drawing of the waterfall, which shows that
 serious changes have taken place since his time. He describes it as
 " a great and prodigious cadence of water, to which the universe does
 not offer a parallel." The height of the fall, according to Hennepin,
was more than 600 feet. " The waters," he says, " which fall from
this great precipice do foam and boil in the most astonishing manner,
making a noise more terrible than that of thunder. When the wind
blows to the south its frightful roaring may be heard for more than
 fifteen leagues." The Baron la Hontan, who visited Niagara in 1687,
makes the height 800 feet. In 1721 Charlevois, in a letter to Madame
de Maintenon, after referring to the exaggerations of his predecessors,
 thus states the result of his own observations :—" For my part, after
examining it on all sides, I am inclined to think that we cannot allow
 it less than 140 or 150 feet,"—a remarkably close estimate. At that
     * From an interesting little book presented to me at Brooklyn by its author,
Mr. Holly, some of these data are derived: Hennepin, Kalm, Bakewell, Lyell,
Hall, and others I have myself consulted.
    Vol. VII. (No. 59.)                                                o

 74                        Professor Tyndoll :                   [April 4,
 time, viz. a hundred and fifty years ago, it had the shape of a horse
 shoe, and reasons will subsequently be given for holding that this
 has been always the form of the cataract from its origin to its present
 site.
      As regards the noiso of the cataract, Charlevois declares the
 accounts of his predecessors, which, I may say, are repeated to the
 present hour, to be altogether extravagant. He is perfectly right.
 The thunders of Niagara are formidable enough to those who really
 seek them at the base of the Horseshoo Fall ; but on the banks of
 the river, and particularly above the fall, its silence, rather than its
 noise, is surprising. This arises, in part, from the lack of resonance ;
 the surrounding country being flat, and therefore furnishing no
 echoing surfaces to reinforce the shock of the water. The resonance
 from the surrounding rocks causes the Swiss Reuss at the Devil's
 Bridge, when full, to thunder more loudly than the Niagara.
     On Friday, the 1st of November, 1872, just before reaching the
 village of Niagara Falls, I caught, from the railway train, my first
 glimpse of the smoke of the cataract. Immediately after my arrival
 I went with a friend to the northern end of the American Fall. It
may be that my mood at the time toned down the impression pro
duced by the first aspect of this grand cascade ; but I felt nothing like
disappointment, knowing, from old experience, that time and closo
acquaintanceship, the gradual interweaving of mind and nature,
must powerfully influence my final estimate of the scene. After
dinner we crossed to Goat Island, and turning to the right, reached
the southern end of the American Fall. The river is here studded
with small islands. Crossing a wooden bridge to Luna Island, and
clasping a tree which grows near its edge, I looked long at the cata
ract, which here shoots down the precipice like an avalanche of foam.
It grew in power and beauty as I gazed upon it. The channel, spanned
by the wooden bridge, was deep, and the river there doubled over
the edge of tho precipice like the swell of a muscle, unbroken. The
ledge here overhangs, the water being poured out far beyond the base
of the precipice. A space, called the Cave of the Winds, is thus
enclosed between the wall of rock and the cataract.
     Goat Island terminates in a sheer dry precipice, which connects
the American and the Horseshoo Falls. Midway between both is
a wooden hut, the residence of the guide to tho Cave of the Winds,
and from the hut a winding staircase, called Biddle's Stair, descends
to the base of the precipice. On the evening of my arrival I went
down this stair, and wandered along the bottom of the cliff. Ono
well-known factor in the formation and retreat of the cataract was
immediately observed. A thick layer of limestone formed the upper
portion of the cliff. This rested upon a bed of soft shale, which
extended round the base of the cataract. The violent recoil of the
water against this yielding substance crumbles it away, undermining
the ledge above, which, unsupported, eventually breaks off, and pro
duces the observed recession.

 1873.]                 Some Observations on Niagara.                      75
     At the southern extremity of the Horseshoo is a promontory,
formed by the doubling back of the gorge, excavated by the cataract,
and into which it plunges. On the promontory stands a stone build
ing, called the Terrapin Tower, the door of which had been nailed up
because of the decay of the staircase within it. Through the kind
ness of Mr. Townsend, the superintendent of Goat Island, the door
was opened for me. From this tower, at all hours of the day, and at
some hours of the night, I watched and listened to the Horseshoe
Fall. Tho river here is evidently much deeper than the American
branch; and instead of bursting into foam where it quits the ledge, it
bends solidly over and falls in a continuous layer of the most vivid
green. The tint is not uniform but varied ; long stripes of deeper
hue alternating with bands of brighter colour. Close to the ledge
over which tho water rolls, foam is generated, tho light falling upon
which and flashing back from it, is sifted in its passage to and fro,
and changed from white to emerald green. Heaps of superficial foam
are also formed at intervals along the ledge, and immediately drawn
down in long white striae.* Lower down, the surface, shaken by the
reaction from below, incessantly rustles into whiteness. The descent
finally resolves itself into a rhythm, the water reaching the bottom
of the fall in periodic gushes.- Nor is the spray uniformly diffused
through tho air, but is wafted through it in successive veils of gauze
like texture. From all this it is evident that beauty is not absent
from the Horseshoe Fall, but majesty is its chief attribute. The.
plunge of the water is not wild, but deliberate, vast, and fascinating.
From tho Terrapin Tower, the adjacent arm of the Horseshoe is seen
projected against the opposite one, midway down ; to the imagination,
therefore, is left the picturing of the gulf into which the cataract
plunges.
     The delight which natural scenery produces in some minds is
difficult to explain, and the conduct which it prompts can hardly be
fairly criticised by those who have never experienced it. It seems
to me a deduction from the completeness of the celebrated Thomas
Young, that he was unable to appreciate natural scenery. " He
had really," says Dean Peacock, " no taste for lifo in the country ;
he was one of those who thought that no one who was able to live in
London would be content to live elsewhere." Well, Dr. Young, like
Dr. Johnson, had a right to his delights ; but I can understand a
hesitation to accept them, high as they were, to the exclusion of
                   " That o'erflowing joy which Nature yields
                     To her true lovers."
To all who are of this mind, tho strengthening of desire on my part
to see and know Niagara Falls, as far as it is possible for them to be
seen and known, will be intelligible.
     On the first evening of my visit, I met, at the head of Biddle's
    * The direction of the wind with reference to the course of a ship may be
inferred with accuracy from the foam-streaks on the surface of the sea.
                                                                      o 2

76                         Professor Tyndall :                 [April i,
Stair, the guido to the Cave of the Winds. He was in the prime of
manhood —large, well built, firm and pleasant in mouth and eye. My
interest in the scene stirred up his, and made him communicative.
Turning to a photograph, he described, by reference to it, a feat which
he had accomplished somo time previously, and which had brought him
almost under the green water of the Horseshoe Fall. " Can you lead
me there to-morrow ? " I asked. He eyed me inquiringly, weighing,
perhaps, the chances of a man of light build and with gray in his
 whiskers in such an undertaking. " I wish," I added, " to see as
much of the fall as can be seen, and whore you lead I will endeavour
to follow." His scrutiny relaxed into a smile, and he said, " Vory
 well ; I shall be ready for you to-morrow."
     On the morrow, accordingly, I came. In the hut at the head of
 Biddle's Stair I stripped wholly, and re-dressed according to instruc
 tions,—drawing on two pairs of woollen pantaloons, three woollen
jackets, two pairs of socks, and a pair of felt shoes. Even if wet, my
 guide urged that tho clothes would keep me from being chilled ; and
 he was right. A suit and hood of yellow oilcloth covered all. Most
 laudable precautions were taken by the young assistant of the guide
 to keep the water out ; but his devices broke down immediately when
 severely tested.
     We descended the stair ; the handle of a pitchfork doing in my
 case tho duty of an alpenstock. At the bottom my guide inquired
 whether we should go first to the Cave of the Winds, or to the Horse
 shoe, remarking that the latter would try us most. I decided to get
 the roughest done first, and he turned to the left over the stones.
 They were sharp and trying. The base of tho first portion of the
 cataract is covered with huge boulders, obviously the ruins of the
 limestone ledge above. The watet does not distribute itself uniformly
 among these, but seeks for itself channels through which it pours
 torrentially. We passed some of these with wetted feet, but without
 difficulty. At length we came to the side of a more formidable cur
 rent. My guide walked along its edge until he reached its least tur
 bulent portion. Halting, he said, " This is our greatest difficulty ; if
 we can cross here, we shall get far towards the Horseshoe."
     He waded in. It evidently required all his strength to steady
 him. Tho water rose abovo his loins, and it foamed still higher. He
 had to search for footing, amid unseen boulders, against which the
 torrent roso violently. He struggled and swayed, but he struggled
 successfully, and finally reached the shallower water at the other side.
 Stretching out his arm, he said to me, " Now come on." I looked down
 the torrent as it rushed to the river below which was seething with
 the tumult of the cataract. De Saussure recommended the inspection
 of Alpine dangers with the view of making them familiar to tho eye
 before they are encountered ; and it is a wholesome custom in places
 of difficulty to put the possibility of an accident clearly before the
 mind, and to decide beforehand what ought to be done should the
 accident occur. Thus wound up in the present instance, I entered

1873.]               Some Observations on Niagara.                     77
the water. Even where it was not more than knee-deep its power
was manifest. As it rose around me, I sought to split the torrent by-
presenting a side to it ; but the insecurity of the footing enabled it to
grasp the loins, twist me fairly round, and bring its impetus to bear
upon the back. Further struggle was impossible ; and feeling my
balance hopelessly gone, I turned, flung myself towards the bank I
had just quitted, and was instantly swept into shallower water.
     The oilcloth covering was a great incumbrance ; it had been made
for a much stouter man, and standing upright after my submersion,
my legs occupied the centres of two bags of water. My guide ex
horted me to try again. Prudence was at my elbow, whispering dis
suasion ; but taking everything into account, it appeared more immoral
to retreat than to proceed. Instructed by the first misadventure, I
once more entered the stream. Had the alpenstock been of iron it
might have helped me ; but as it was, the tendency of the water to
sweep it out of my hands rendered it worse than useless. I, however,
clung to it by habit. Again the torrent rose, and again I wavered ;
but by keeping the left hip well against it, I remained upright, and
at length grasped the hand of my leader at the other side. Ho laughed
pleasantly. The first victory was gained, and he enjoyed it. " No
traveller," ho said, " was ever here before." Soon afterwards, by
trusting to a piece of drift wood which seemed firm, I was again
taken off my feet, but was immediately caught by a protruding rock.
    We clambered over the boulders towards the thickest spray, which
soon became so weighty as to cause us to stagger under its shock. For
the most part nothing could bo seen ; wo were in the midst of
bewildering tumult, lashed by the water, which sounded at times
like the cracking of innumerable whips. Underneath this was the
deep resonant roar of the cataract. I tried to shield my eyes with
my hands, and look upwards ; but the defence was useless. My
guide continued to move on, but at a certain place he halted, and
desired me to take shelter in his lee and observe the cataract. The
spray did not come so much from the uppor ledge as from the rebound
of the shattered water when it struck the bottom. Hence the eyes
could bo protected from the blinding shock of the spray, while the line
of vision to the upper ledges remained to some extent clear. On look
ing upwards over the guide's shoulder I could see the water bending
over the ledge, while the Terrapin Tower loomed fitfully through the
intermittent spray gusts. We were right under the tower. A little
farther on the cataract, after its first plunge, hit a protuberance somo
way down, and flow from it in a prodigious burst of spray ; through
this we staggered. Wo rounded the promontory on which the Ter
rapin Tower stands, and pushed, amid the wildest commotion, along
the arm of the Horseshoe, until the boulders failed us, and the cataract
fell into the profound gorge of the Niagara Iiiver.
    Hero my guide sheltered me again, and desired me to look up ; I
did so and could see, as before, the green gleam of the mighty curve
sweeping over the uppor lodge, and the fitful plunge of the water as

78                         Professor Tyndall :                  [April 4,
the spray between us and it alternately gathered and disappeared.
An eminent friend of mine often speaks to me of the mistake of
those physicians who regard man's ailments as purely chemical, to
be met by chemical remedies only. He contends for the psychological
element of cure. By agreeable emotions, he says, nervous currents are
liberated which stimulate blood, brain, and viscera. The influence
rained from ladies' eyes enables my friend to thrive on dishes which
would kill him if eaten alone. A sanative effect of the same order
I experienced amid the spray and thunder of Niagara. Quickened by
the emotions there aroused, the blood sped exultingly through the
arteries, abolishing introspection, clearing the heart of all bitterness,
and enabling one to think with tolerance, if not with tenderness, on
the most relentless and unreasonable foe. Apart from its scientific
value, and purely as a moral agent, the play, I submit, is worth the
candle. My companion knew no more of me than that I enjoyed the
wildness ; but as I bent in the shelter of his large frame he said, " I
should like to see you attempting to describe all this." He rightly
thought it indescribable. The name of this gallant fellow was
Thomas Conroy.
    We returned, clambering at intervals up and down so as to
catch glimpses of the most impressive portions of the cataract.
We passed under ledges formed by tabular masses of limestone,
and through some curious openings formed by the falling together
of the summits of the rocks. At length we found ourselves
beside our enemy of the morning. My guide halted for a minute or
two scanning the torrent thoughtfully. I said' that, as a guide, he
ought to have a rope in sucb a place ; but he retorted that, as no
traveller had ever thought of coming there, he did not see the
necessity of keeping a rope. He waded in. The struggle to keep
himself erect was evident enough ; he swayed, but recovered him
self again and again. At length he slipped, gave way, did as I
had done, threw himself flat in the water towards the bank, and was
swept into tho shallows. Standing in the stream near its edge, ho
stretched his arm towards mo. I retained tho pitchfork handle, for it
had been useful among the boulders. By wading some way in, the
staff could be made to reach him, and I proposed his seizing it. " If
you are sure," he replied, " that, in caso of giving way, you can main
tain your grasp, then I will certainly hold you." I waded in, and
stretched the staff to my companion. It was firmly grasped by both
of us. Thus helped, though its onset was strong, I moved safely
across the torrent. All danger ended hero. We afterwards roamed
sociably among tho torrents and boulders below the Cave of tho
Winds. The rocks were covered with organic slimo which could not
have been walked over with baro feet, but tho felt shoes effectually
prevented slipping. Wo reached the cavo and entered it, first by a
wooden way carried over the boulders, and then along a narrow ledge
to tho point eaten deepest into the shalo. When tho wind is from the
south, the falling water, I am told, can be seen tranquilly from this

  1873.]               Some Observations on Niagara.                    79
 spot; but when we were there, a blinding hurricane of spray was
 whirled against us. On the evening of the same day, I went behind
 the water on the Canada side, which, I confess, struck me, after the
 experiences of the morning, as an imposture.
     Still even this fall is exciting to some nerves. Its effect upon him
 self is thus vividly described by Mr. Bakewell, jun. :—" On turning
 a sharp angle of the rock, a sudden gust of wind met us, coming from
 the hollow between the falls and the rock, which drove the spray
 directly in our faces, with such force that in an instant we were wot
 through. When in the midst of this shower-bath the shock took away
 my breath ; I turned back and scrambled over the loose stones to
 escape the conflict. The guide soon followed, and told me that I
 had passed the worst part. With that assurance I made a second
 attempt ; but so wild and disordered was my imagination that when I
 had reached half way I could bear it no longer."*
     To complete my knowledge it was necessary to see the fall from
 the river below it, and long negotiations were necessary to secure
 the means of doing so. The only boat fit for the undertaking had
 been laid up for the winter; but this difficulty, through the kind
 intervention of Mr. Townsend, was overcome. The main one was to
 secure oarsmen sufficiently strong and skilful to urgo the boat where
 I wished it to be taken. The son of the owner of the boat, a finely-
 built young fellow, but only twenty, and therefore not sufficiently
 hardened, was willing to go ; and up tho river I was informed there
 lived another man who would do anything with the boat which strength
 and daring could accomplish. He came. His figure and expression of
 face certainly indicated extraordinary firmness and power. On Tues
day, the 5th of November, we started, each of us being clad in oilcloth.
The elder oarsman at once assumed a tone of authority over his com
panion, and struck immediately in amid the breakers below the Ame
rican Fall. He hugged the cross freshets instead of striking out into
tho smoother water. I asked him why he did so, and he replied that
they were directed outwards not downwards. The struggle, however,
to prevent tho bow of the boat from being turned by them, was often
very severe.
     The spray was in general blinding, but at times it disappeared and
yielded noble views of the fall. The edge of the cataract is crimped
by indentations which exalt its beauty. - Here and there, a littlo
below the highest ledge, a secondary one jets out ; the water strikes
it and bursts from it in huge protuberant masses of foam and spray.
Wo passed Goat Island, came to the Horseshoe, and worked for a
time along the base of it, tho boulders over which Conroy and myself
had scrambled a few days previously lying between us and tho base.
A rock was before us, concealed and revealed at intervals, as the waves
passed over it. Our leader tried to get above this rock, first on tho
outside of it. The water, however, was here in violent motion. The
                     •Mag. of Nat. Hist.,' 1830, pp. 121, 122.

80                         Professor Tyndall :                 [April 4,
men struggled fiercely, the older one ringing out an incessant peal of
command and exhortation to the younger. As we were just clearing the
rock, the how came obliquely to the surge; the boat was turned suddenly
round and shot with astonishing rapidity down the river. The men
returned to the charge, now trying to get up between the half-con
cealed rock and the boulders to the left. But the torrent set in
strongly through this channel. The tugging was quick and violent,
but we made little way. At length, seizing a rope, the principal
oarsman made a desperate attempt to get upon one of the boulders,
hoping to bo able to drag the boat through the channel ; but it bumped
so violently against the rock, that the man flung himself back and
relinquished tho attempt.
    Wo returned along tho base of tho American Fall, running in and
out among tho currents which rushed from it laterally into the river.
Seen from below the American Fall is certainly exquisitely beautiful,
but it is a mere frill of adornment to its nobler neighbour the Horse
shoe. At times we took to tho river, from the centro of which the
Horseshoe Fall appeared especially magnificent. A streak of cloud
across the neck of Mont Blanc can double its apparent height, so here
the green summit of the cataract shining above the smoke of spray
appeared lifted to an extraordinary elevation. Had Hennepin and
La Hon tun seen the fall from this position, their estimates of the
height would have been perfectly excusable.
    From a point a little way below the American Fall, a ferry crosses
the river in summer to the Canadian side. Below the ferry is a sus
 pension bridge for carriages and foot-passengers, and a mile or two
 lower down is the railway suspension bridge. Between the ferry and
the latter tho river Niagara flows unruffled; but at the suspension
bridgo the bed steepens and the river quickens its motion. Lower
 down the gorge narrows and the rapidity and turbulence increase. At
 the place called the " W hirlpool Kapids " I estimated the width of the
 river at 300 feet, an estimate confirmed by the dwellers on the spot.
 When it is remembered that tho drainage of nearly half a continent
 is compressed into this space, the impetuosity of the river's escape
 through this gorge may be imagined. Had it not been for Mr.
 Bierstadt, the distinguished photographer of Niagara, I should have
 quitted the place without seeing these rapids ; for this, and for his
 agreeable company to tho spot, I have to thank him. From the edge
 of tho cliff above the rapids, we descended, a little I confess to a
 climber's disgust, in an " elevator," because the effocts are best seen
 from the water level.
     Two kinds of motion are here obviously active, a motion of trans
lation and a motion of undulation—the race of the river through its
gorge, and the great waves generated by its collision with, and
 rebound from, the obstacles in its way. In the middle of the river the
rush and tossing arc most violent ; at all events, the impetuous forco of
tho individual waves is horo most strikingly displayed. Vast pyramidal

 1873. J               Some Observations on Niagara.                   81
 heaps leap incessantly from tho river, some of them with such energy
as to jerk their summits into the air, where they hang suspended as
 bundles of liquid spherules. Tho sun shone for a few minutes. At
 times the wind coming up the river, searched and sifted the spray,
carrying away the lighter drops, and leaving the heavier ones behind.
Wafted in the proper direction, rainbows appeared and disappeared
fitfully in the lighter mist. In other directions the common gleam of
 the sunshine from the waves and their shattered crests was exqui
sitely beautiful. The complexity of the action was still further illus
 trated by the fact, that in some cases, as if by the exorcise of a local
 explosive force, the drops wero shot radially from a particular centre,
 forming around it a kind of halo.
     The first impression, and, indeed, the current explanation of these
 rapids is, that the central bed of the river is cumbered with large
 boulders, and that the jostling, tossing, and wild leaping of the water
 there are due to its impact against these obstacles. I doubt this
 explanation. At all events, there is another sufficient reason to be
 taken into account. Boulders derived from the adjacent cliffs visibly
 cumber the sides of the river. Against these the water rises and sinks
 rhythmically but violently, large waves being thus produced. On the
generation of each wave there is an immediate compounding of tho wave
motion with the river motion. The ridges, which in still water would
proceed in circular curves round the centre of disturbance, cross the
river obliquely, and the result is that at the centre waves commingle
which have really been generated at the sides. In the first instance
we had a composition of wave motion with river motion ; here we have
the coalescence of waves with waves. Where crest and furrow cross
each other, the motion is annulled ; where furrow and furrow cross,
 the river is ploughed to a greater depth ; and where crest and crest
aid each other, we have that astonishing leap of the water which
breaks the cohesion of the crests, and tosses them shattered into the
air. From the water level the cause of the action is not so easily
seen ; but from the summit of the cliff the lateral generation of the
waves and their propagation to the centre are perfectly obvious. If
this explanation be correct, the phenomena observed at the Whirlpool
Rapids form one of the grandest illustrations of tho principle of inter
ference. The Nile " cataract," Mr. Huxley informs me, offers examples
of the same action.
     At some distance below the Whirlpool Rapids we have the cele
 brated whirlpool itself. Here the river makes a sudden bend to the
 north-east, forming nearly a right angle with its previous direction.
 The water strikes the concave bank with great force, and scoops it
incessantly away. A vast basin has been thus formed, in which the
sweep of the river prolongs itself in gyratory currents. Bodies and
trees which have come ovor the falls are stated to circulate here for
days without finding tho outlet. From various points of the cliffs
above this is curiously hidden. Tho rush of the river into the whirl
pool is obvious enough ; and though you imagine tho outlet must be

  82                          Professor Tyndall :                   [April 4,
  visible, if ono existed, you cannot find it. Turning, however, round
   tho lxlnd of the precipice to the north-east the outlet comes into
  view.
       The Niagara season had ended; the chatter of sightseers had
  ceased, and the scene presented itself as ono of holy seclusion and
  beauty. I went down to the river's edge, where the weird loneliness
  seemed to increase. The basin is enclosed by high and almost pre
  cipitous banks — covered, when I was there, with russet woods. A kind
  of mystery attaches itself to gyrating water, due perhaps to the fact
  that we are to some extent ignorant of the direction of its force. It is
  said that at certain points of the whirlpool pine-trees are sucked down,
. to be ejected mysteriously elsewhere. The water is of the brightest
  emerald green. The gorge through which it escapes is narrow, and
  the motion of the river swift though silent. The surface is steeply
  inclined, but it is perfectly unbroken. There are no lateral waves, no
  ripples with their breaking bubbles to raise a murmur ; while the depth
  is here too great to allow the inequality of the'bed to ruffle the surface.
  Nothing can be more beautiful than this sloping liquid mirror formed
  by the Niagara in sliding from the whirlpool.
      The green colour is, I think, correctly accounted for in ' Hours
 of Exercise in the Alps.' In crossing the Atlantic I had frequent
 opportunities of testing the explanation there given. Looked
 properly down upon, there are portions of the ocean to which we
 should hardly ascribe a trace of blue ; at the most a hint of indigo
 reaches the eye. The water, indeed, is practically black, and this is
 an indication both of its depth and its freedom from mechanically
 suspended matter. In small thicknesses water is sensibly transparent
 to all kinds of light ; but as the thickness increases, tho rays of low
 refrangibility are first absorbed, and after them the other rays. Where,
 therefore, tho water is very deep and very pure, all the colours are
 absorbed, and such water ought to appear black, as no light is sent
 from its interior to the eye. The approximation of the Atlantic Ocean
 to this condition is an indication of its extreme purity.
      Throw a white pebble into such water ; as it sinks it becomes
 greener and greener, and, before it disappears, it reaches a vivid blue
 green. Break such a pebble into fragments, each of these will behave
 like the unbroken mass ; grind tho pebble to powder, every particle
 will yield its modicum of green ; and if tho particles be so fine as to
 remain suspended in the water, tho scattered light will be a uniform
 green. Hence the greenness of shoal water. You go to bed with the
 black Atlantic around you. You rise in the morning and find it a
 vivid green ; and you correctly infer that you are crossing the bank
 of Newfoundland. Such water is found charged with fine matter in
 a state of mechanical suspension. The light from the bottom may
 sometimes come into play, but it is not necessary. A storm can render
 the water muddy by rendering the particles too numerous and gross.
 Such a case occurred towards the close of my visit to Niagara. There
had been rain and storm in the upper-lake regions, and the quantity

1873.]                  Some Observations on Niagara.                              83
of suspended matter brought down quite extinguished the fascinating
green of the Horseshoe.
     Nothing can be more superb than the green of tho Atlantic waves
when the circumstances are favourable to the exhibition of the colour.
As long as a wave remains unbroken no colour appears; but when the
foam just doubles over the crest like an Alpine snow-cornice, under
the cornice we often see a display of the most exquisite green. It is
metallic in its brilliancy. But the foam is necessary to its production.
The foam is first illuminated, and it scatters the light in all directions ;
the light which passes through the higher portion of the wave alone
reaches the eye, and gives to that portion its matchless colour. The
folding of the wave, producing, as it does, a series of longitudinal pro
tuberances and furrows which act like cylindrical lenses, introduces
variations in the intensity of the light, and materially enhances its
beauty.
     We have now to consider tho genesis and proximate destiny of
the Falls of Niagara. We may open our way to this subject by a
few preliminary remarks upon erosion. Time and intensity are tho
main factors of geologic change, and they are in a certain sense con
vertible. A feeble force acting through long periods, and an intense
force acting through short ones, may produce approximately the same
results. To Dr. Hooker I have been indebted for some samples of
stones, the first examples of which were picked up by Mr. Hackworth
on the shores of Lyell's Bay, near Wellington, in New Zealand, and
described by Mr. Travers in tho Transactions of the New Zealand
Institute. Unacquainted with their origin, you would certainly ascribe
their forms to human workmanship. They resemble flint knives and
spear-heads, being apparently chiselled off into facets with as much
attention to symmetry as if a tool guided by human intelligence had
passed over them. But no human instrument has been brought to
bear upon these stones. They have been wrought into their present
shape by the windblown sand of Lyell's Bay. Two winds are dominant
here, and they in succession urged tho sand against opposite sides of
the stone ; every little particle of sand chipped away its infinitesimal
bit of stone, and in the end sculptured these singular forms.*
    * " These stones, which have a strong resemblance to works of human art, occur
 in great abundance, and of various sizes, from half-an-inch to several inches in
 length. A large number were exhibited showing the various forms, which are
those of wedges, knives, arrow-heads, &c, and all with sharp cutting edges.
    " Mr. Tnivers oxplained that, notwithstanding their artificial appearaucc, theeo
stones were formed by the cutting action of the wind-driven sand as it passed to
and fro over an exposed boulder-tank. He gave a minute account of the manner
in which the varieties of form are produced, and referred to the effect which the
erosive action thus indicated would have on railway and other works executed on
sandy tracts.
    " Dr. Hector stated that although, as a group, the s|wcimens on the table could
not well be mistaken for artificial productions, still tho forms are so peculiar, and
the edges, in a few of them, so perfect, that if they were discovered associated with

34                             Professor Tyndall :                        [April 4,
     The Sphynx of Egypt is nearly covered up by the sand of the
desert. The neck of the Sphynx is partly cut across, not, as I am
assured by Mr. Huxley, by ordinary weathering, but by the eroding
action of tho fine sand blown against it. In these cases nature fur
nishes us with hints which may be taken advantage of in art ;
and this action of sand has been recently turned to extraordinary
account in the United States. When in Boston, I was taken by
Mr. Josiah Quincey to see the action of the sand-blast. A kind of
hopper containing fine silicious sand was connected with a reservoir of
compressed air, the pressure being variable at pleasure. The hopper
ended in a long-slit, from which the sand was blown. A plate of
glass was placed beneath this slit, and caused to pass slowly under it ;
it came out perfectly depolished, with a bright opalescent glimmer,
such as could only be produced by the most careful grinding. Every
little particle of sand urged against the glass, having all its energy
concentrated on the point of impact, formed there a little pit, tho
depolished surface consisting of innumerable hollows of this descrip
tion. But this was not all. By protecting certain portions of the
surface and exposing others, figures and tracery of any required form
could be etched upon the glass. The figures of open iron-work could
be thus copied ; while wire gauze placed over the glass produced a
reticulated pattern. But it required no such resisting substance as
iron to shelter the glass. The patterns of the finest lace could be thus
 reproduced ; the delicate filaments of the lace itself offering a sufficient
protection. All these effects have been obtained with a simple model
of the sand-blast devised for me by my assistant. A fraction of a
minute suffices to etch upon glass a rich and beautiful lace pattern.
Any yielding substance may be employed to protect the glass. By
immediately diffusing the shock of the particle, such substances prac
tically destroy the local erosive power. The hand can bear without
inconvenience a sand-shower which would pulverize glass. Etchings
 executed on glass with suitable kinds of ink arc accurately worked
 out by the sand-blast. In fact, within certain limits, the harder the
 surface, the greater is the concentration of the shock, and the more
 effectual is the erosion. It is not necessary that the sand should be
 the harder substance of the two ; corundum, for example, is much
 harder than quartz ; still, quartz-sand can not only depolish, but
 actually blow a hole through a plate of corundum. Nay, glass may
 be depolished by the impact of fine shot; tho grains in this case
 bruising the glass before they have time to flatten and turn their
 energy into heat.
      And here, in passing, we may tie together one or two apparently
 unrelated facts. Supposing you turn on, at the lower part of a house,
 a cock which is fed by a pipe from a cistern at the top of the house,
 the column of water, from the cistern downwards, is set in motion.
 hnmun works, there is no doubt that they would have been referred to the so-called
 ' stone period.'"—Extracted from the Minutes of the Wellington Philosophical Society,
 Feb. 0, 1860.

1873.]                  Some Observations on Niagara.                            85
By turning off the cock, this motion is stopped ; and when the turning
off is very sudden, the pipe, if not strong, may he hurst by the
internal impact of the water. By distributing the turning of the
cock over half a second of time, the shock and danger of rupture
may bo entirely avoided. We have here an example of the concen
tration of energy in time. The sand-blast illustrates the concentration
of energy in gj)ace. The action of flint and steel is an illustration of
the same principle. The heat required to generate the spark is intense,
and the mechanical action being moderate, must, to produce fire, be
in the highest degree concentrated. This concentration is secured
by the collision of hard substances. Calc-spar will not supply the
place of flint, nor lead the place of steel in the production of fire
by collision. With the softer substances, the total heat produced may
be greater than with the hard ones, but to produce the spark, the heat
must be intensely localized.
     But we can go far beyond the mere depolishing of glass ; indeed,
I have already said that quartz-sand can wear a hole through corun
dum. This leads me to express my acknowledgments to General
Tilghman,* who is the inventor of the sand-blast. To his sponta
neous kindness I am indebted for some beautiful illustrations of his
process. In one thick plate of glass a figure has been worked out to a
depth of § ths of an inch. A second plate, fths of an inch thick, is
entirely perforated. Through a circular plate of marble, nearly half
an inch thick, open work of the most intricate and elaborate descrip
tion has been executed. It would probably take many days to per
form this work by any ordinary process ; with the sand-blast it was
accomplished in an hour. So much for the strength of the blast ;
its delicacy is illustrated by a beautiful example of line engraving,
etched on glass by means of the blast, f
     This power of erosion, so strikingly displayed when sand is urged
by air, renders us better able to conceive its action when urged by
water. The erosive power of a river is vastly augmented by the
solid' matter carried along with it. Sand or pebbles caught in a river
vortex can wear away the hardest rock ; " potholes " and deep cylin
drical shafts being thus produced. An extraordinary instance of this
kind of erosion is to be seen in the Val Tournanche, above the village
of this name. The gorge at Handeck has been thus cut out. Such
waterfalls were once frequent in the valleys of Switzerland ; for hardly
    * The absorbent power, if I may use the phrase, exerted by the industrial arts
in the United States, is forcibly illustrated by the rapid transfer of men like Mr.
Tilghman from the life of the soldier to that of the civilian. General McClellan,
now a civil engineer, whom I had the honour of frequently meeting in New York,
is a most eminent example of the same kind. At the end of the war, indeed, a
million and a half of men were thus drawn, in an astonishingly short time, from
military to civil life. It is obvious that a nation with these tendencies can have
no desire for war.
    t The sand-blast will be in operation this year at the Kensington International
Exhibition.

86                          Professor Tyndall :                 [April 4,
any valley is without one or more transverse barriers of resisting
material, over which the river flowing through the valley onco fell
as a cataract. Near Pontresina in the Engadin, there is such a case ;
the hard gneiss being now worn away to form a gorge through which
the river from the Morteratsch glacier rushes. The barrier of the
Kirchet above Meyringen is also a case in point. Behind it was a
lake, derived from the glacier of the Aar, and over the barrier the lake
poured its excess of water. Here the rock being limestone was in
great part dissolved ; but added to this we had the action of the sand
particles carried along by the water, each of which, as it struck the
rock, chipped it away like the particles of the sand-blast. Thus by
solution and mechanical erosion the great chasm of the Fenstcraar-
schlucht was formed. It is demonstrable that the water which flows at
the bottoms of such deep fissures once flowed at the level of what is
now their edges, and tumblod down the lower faces of the barriers.
Almost every valley in Switzerland furnishes examples of this kind ;
the untenable hypothesis of earthquakes, once so readily resorted to in
accounting for these gorges, being now for tho most part abandoned.
To produce the Canons of Western America, no other cause is needed
than the integration of effects individually infinitesimal.
    And now we come to Niagara. Soon after Europeans had taken
possession of the country, the conviction appears to have arisen that
the deep channel of the river Niagara below the falls had been
excavated by the cataract. In Mr. Bakewell's 'Introduction to
Geology,' the prevalence of this belief has been referred to : it is
expressed thus by Professor Joseph Henry in the Transactions of tho
Albany Institute.* " In viewing tho position of the falls, and the
features of the country round, it is impossible not to be impressed
with the idea that this great natural raceway has been formed by
the continued action of the irresistiblo Niagara, and that the falls,
beginning at Lewiston have, in tho course of ages, worn bock the
rocky strata to their present site." The same view is advocated by
Sir Charles Lyell, by Mr. Hall, by M. Agassiz, by Professor Ramsay,
indeed, by most of those who have inspected the place.
    A connected image of the origin and progress of the cataract is
easily obtained. Walking northward from the village of Niagara Falls
by the side of the river, we have to our left the deep and comparatively
narrow gorge through which the Niagara flows. The bounding cliffs
of this gorge are from 300 to 350 feet high. We reach the whirlpool,
trend to the north-east, and after a little time gradually resume
our northward course. Finally, at about seven miles from the pre
sent falls, we come to the edge of a declivity which informs us that
we have been hitherto walking on table land. At some hundreds
of feet below us is a comparatively level plain, which stretches to
Lake Ontario. The declivity marks the end of the precipitous gorge
of the Niagara. Here the river escapes from its steep mural boun-
                              Quoted by Bakewell.

1873.]                   Some Observations on Niagara.                        87
daries, and in a widened bed pursues its way to the lake which finally
receives its waters.
     The fact that in historic times, even within the memory of man,
the fall has sensibly receded, prompts the question, how far has this
recession gone ? At what point did the ledge which thus continually
creeps backwards begin its retrograde course ? To minds disciplined
in such researches the answer has been and will be, at the precipitous
declivity which crossed the Niagara from Lewiston on the American
to Queenston on the Canadian side. Over this transverse barrier the
united affluents of all the upper lakes once poured their waters, and
here the work of erosion began. The dam, moreover, was demon
strably of sufficient height to cause the river above it to submerge
Goat Island; and this would perfectly account for the finding by Sir
Charles Lyell, Mr. Hall, and others, in tho sand and gravel of the island,
the same fluviatile shells as are now found in the Niagara River
higher up. It woidd also account for those deposits along the sides
of the river, the discovery of which enabled Lyell, Hall, and Ramsay,
to reduce to demonstration the popular belief that the Niagara once
flowed through a shallow valley.
     The physics of the problem of excavation, which I made clear to
my mind before quitting Niagara, are revealed by a close inspection
of the present Horseshoe Fall. Here we see evidently that the
greatest weight of water bends over the very apex of the Horseshoe.
In a passage in his excellent chapter on Niagara Falls, Mr. Hall
alludes to this fact. Here we have the most copious and the most
violent whirling of the shattered liquid; here the most powerful
eddies recoil against the shale. From this portion of the fall, indeed,
the spray sometimes rises without solution of continuity to the region
of clouds, becoming gradually more attenuated, and passing finally
through the condition of true cloud into invisible vapour, which is
sometimes reprecipitated higher up. All the phenomena point dis
tinctly to the centre of the river as the place of greatest mechanical
energy, and from the centre the vigour of the fall gradually dies away
towards the sides. The Horseshoe form, with the concavity facing
downwards, is an obvious and necessary consequence of this action.
Right along the middle of the river the apex of tho curve pushes its
way backwards, cutting along the centre a deep and comparatively
narrow groove, and draining the sides as it passes them.* Hence the
remarkable discrepancy between the widths of the Niagara above and
below the Horseshoe. All along its course, from Lewiston Heights
to its present position, the form of the fall was probably that of a
horseshoe ; for this is merely the expression of the greater depth, and
consequently greater excavating power of the centre of the river.
The gorge, moreover, varies in width as the depth of the centre of the
ancient river varied, being narrowest where that depth was greatest.
    * In the discourse the excavation of the centre and drainage of the sides
action was illustrated by a model devised by my assistant, Mr. John Cottrell.

88                              Professor TyndaU :                    [April 4,
     The vast comparative erosive energy of the Horseshoe Fall comes
strikingly into view when it and the American Fall are compared
together. The American branch of the upper river is cut at a right
angle by the gorge of the Niagara. Here the Horseshoe Fall was
the real excavator. It cut the rock and formed the precipice over
which the American Fall tumbles. But since its formation, the
erosive action of the American Fall has been almost nil, while
the Horseshoe has cut its way for 500 yards across the end of Goat
Island, and is now doubling back to excavate its channel parallel
to the length of the island. This point I have just learned has
not escaped the acute observation of Professor Ramsay.* The river
bends ; the Horseshoe immediately accommodates itself to the bend
ing, and will follow implicitly the direction of tho deepest water in
the upper stream. The flexibility of the gorge, if I may use the
term, is determined by the flexibility of the river channel above it.
Were the Niagara above the fall sinuous, the gorge would obediently
follow its sinuosities. Once suggested, no doubt geographers will
be able to point out many examples of this action. The Zambesi
is thought to present a great difficulty to the erosion theory, because
 of the sinuosity of tho chasm below the Victoria Falls. But, assuming
 the basalt to bo of tolerably uniform texture, had the river been
 examined before the formation of this sinuous channel, the present
 zigzag course of the gorge below tho fall could, I am persuaded,
 have been predicted, while the sounding of the present river would
enable us to predict the course to be pursued by the erosion in the
 future.
      But not only has the Niagara River cut the gorgo ; it has carried
 away the chips of its own workshop. The shale being probably
 crumbled is easily carried away. But at tho base of the fall we find
 the huge boulders already described, and by some means or other these
are removed down the river. The ice which fills the gorge in winter,
 and which grapples with the boulders, has been regarded as the trans
 porting agent. Probably it is so to some extent. But erosion acts
 without ceasing on the abutting points of tho boulders, thus with
 drawing their support and urging them gradually down the river.
 Solution also does its portion of tho work. That solid matter is
 carried down is proved by the difforence of depth between the Niagara
 River and Lake Ontario, where the river enters it. The depth falls
 from 72 feet to 20 feet, in consequence of the deposition of solid
 matter caused by the diminished motion of the river.f
      In conclusion, we may say a word regarding the proximate future
    * His words are :—" Where the body of water is small in the American Fall,
 the edge has only receded a few yards (where most eroded) during the time that
 the Canadian Fall has receded from the north corner of Goat Island to the inner
most curve of the Horseshoe Fall."— Quarterly Journal of Geological Society, May,
1859.
     t Near tho mouth of the gorge at Queenston, the depth, according to the
 Admiralty Chart, is 180 feet ; well within the gorge it is 132 feet.

Vol. VII. (No. 59.)
VCISUBSf DLL".£-
1873.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                      91
of Niagara. At the date of excavation assigned to it by Sir Charles
Lyell, namely, a foot a year, five thousand years or so will carry the
Horseshoe Fall far higher than Goat Island. As the gorge recedes
it will drain, as it has hitherto done, the banks right and left of it,
thus leaving a nearly level terrace between Goat Island and the edge
of the gorge. Higher up it will totally drain the American branch
of the river ; the channel of which in due time will become cultivable
land. The American Fall will then be transformed into a dry preci
pice, forming a simple continuation of the cliffy boundary of the
Niagara. At the place occupied by the fall at this moment we shall
have the gorge enclosing a right-angle, a second whirlpool being the
consequence of this. To those who visit Niagara a few millenniums
hence I leavo the verification of this prediction. All that can bo
said is, that if the causes now in action continue to act, it will prove
itself literally true.
    The accompanying highly instructive map has been reduced from one
published in Mr. Hall's ' Geology of New York.' It is based on sur
veys executed in 1842, by Messrs. Gibson and Evershed. The ragged
edge of the American Fall north of Goat Island marks the amount of
erosion which it has been able to accomplish while the Horseshoe
Fall was cutting its way southward across the end of Goat Island to
its present position. The American Fall is 168 feet high, a precipice
cut down, not by itself, but by the Horseshoe Fall. The latter in
1842 was 159 feet high, and, as shown by the map, is already turning
eastward to excavate its gorge along the centre of the upper river,
p is the apex of the Horseshoe, and t marks the site of the Terrapin
Tower, with the promontory adjacent, round which I was conducted
by Conroy. Probably since 1842 the Horseshoe has worked back
beyond the position here assigned to it. Certainly the promontory
at t appeared to me much sharper than it is here shown to be. In
view of these considerations the foregoing prediction is merely the
prospective statement of a fact requiring no great foresight to anti
cipate it.
                                                               fJ. T.]
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                        Monday, April 7, 1873.
   Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
              John Studdy Leigh, Esq. F.G.S. F.R.G.S.
              Francis Sibson, M.D. F.R.S.
              Mrs. Sibson.
              Commander Edmund Hope Verney, R.N.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                                                              h 2

92                       Geiural Mmithly Meeting.                  [April 7,
    With reference to the Resolution of the Managers, passed March 10
(see p. 57), the following letter from Dr. Bench Jones to the President
and Managers was read :—
                                              " 84, Brook Street,
                                                        "March 11, 1873.
" Gentlemen,
                   " I shall indeed be glad, if hereafter by any words
or deeds I can show my gratitude to you for tho Resolutions you have
passed regarding me.
    " To receive your praises is most pleasant ; but I should be
happier if I could look forward with the hope of doing more to
retain them. Your thanks are to.me an all-sufficient and a complete
reward for what I have done for tho general good, and for the
advancement of natural science at the Royal Institution.
    " I valuo your praiso far beyond any material reward, even though
it takes the form of a bust, by Woolner, presented to mo by the
Members to prolong tho remembrance of my connection with the
home of Faraday and of Tyndall.
    " But no words of mino can express my gratitude to you and to
the Members ; I can only beg you to believe me to be
                                " Your most grateful Servant,
                                               " Heney Bence Jones."
    The following letter from Du. Warren De la Rue to the
Treasurer was read :—
                                        " Tue Orservatory,
                                               " Cranford, Middlesex, W.
                                                     " March 18, 1873.
"Dear Mr. Spottiswoode,
           " I fool very great pleasure in contributing to tho Dr. Bence
Jones Testimonial Fund, and enclose a cheque for the amount
at which the maximum contribution has been limited. I venture
also to send a Donation [ 100Z.] towards tho equipment of the new
Laboratories, as a further mark of my high appreciation of the
eminent services which Dr. Bench Jones has rendered to the Royal
Institution during the long period he has held tho onerous position
of Honorary Secretary. We all know that the erection of new
Laboratories, better adapted to promote the advancement of science,
 was to Dr. Bence Jones a matter of anxious solicitude for some
years past, and it will always be remembered that the completion of
the scheme was the crowning act of his enlightened career in con
nection with the Institution.
                             " I am,
                                     " Yours very truly,
                                              "Warren De la Rce."
    Resolved—That tho special thanks of tho Members be returned
to Dr. De la Rue for his liberal Donation.

1873.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                          93
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on tho
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz.:—
        FROM
Academic des Sciences de Vlnstitut de France—Me'moires par divers Savants.
      Tome XX. 4to. 1872.
Actuaries, Institute of— Journal, No. 90. 8vo. 1873.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, No. 17. 8vo. 1873.
Alconk, Col. M.R.I, {the Author)—The Relative Power of Nations. (K 99) 8vo.
       1872.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. V. No. 5. 8vo. 18' 2.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Nos. 177, 178.
   Proceedings, 1872, No. 9. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XXXIII. No 4. 8vo. 1873.
Belgique, Acadimie Royale de—Bulletins', 2'' Se'rie, Tomes XXXI.-XXXIV. 8vo.
       1871-72.
   Centieme Anniversaire de Fondation (1772-1872). 2 vols. 8vo. 1872.
   Annuaire, 1872-73. 16to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of— Sessional Papers, 1872-73. Nos. 7, 8. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Hemiptera Heteroptera, Purt 6. 8vo.
       1873.
Chemical Society—Journal fur March, 1873. 8vo.
Dublin Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. VI. No. 2. 8vo. 1872.
Editors—American Journal of Scienoo for March, 1873. 8vo.
   Athenreum for March, 1873. 4to.
   Chemical News for March, 1873. 4to.
   Engineer for March, 1873.
   Food Journal for March, 1873. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for March, 1873. Folio.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Murch, 1873. 4to.
   Nature for March, 1873. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for March, 1873. 8vo.
   Once a Week for March, 1873. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1873, 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for March, 1873.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 566. 8vo. 1873.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XVI. No. 5. ; Vol. XVII. No. 1.
       8vo. 1873.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrhuch, 1872. No. 4. 8vo.
    Verhandlungen, 1872. Nos. 14-17.
    General Register: Jabrbiicher und Verhandlungen, 1860-70. 4to. 1872.
 Gresham Committee—Catalogue of Books, Music, Pictures, &c., in the Library
       of Gresham College. 8vo. 1872.
 Linnean Society— Journal, No. 69. 8vo. 1873.
 Mailly, Ed. (the Author)—Tableau de l'Astronomie dans l'Hemisphere Austral et
       dans l'lnde. 8vo. 1872.
    De l'Astronomie dans l'Acnde'mie de B<-lgique, 1772-1872. 8vo. 1872.
 Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XII. Nos. 7, 8, 9.
       8vo. 1873.
 Maxwell, Prof. J. Clerk, M.A. F.R.8. (the Author)—Trealiso on Electricity and
        Magnetism. 2 vols. 8vo. 1873.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, October, 1872. 8vo.
 Ord, Wm. Miller, M.B. M.R.I, (the Author)—Notes on Comparative Anatomy.
        16to. 1871.
    Relation of Gout to Uric Acid. (K 99) 8vo. 1872.
     Influence of Colloids on Inorganic Matter. (K 99) 8vo. 1872.
  Payne, Joseph, Esq. (the Author) -On tho Training of the Teacher, and on
        Science Teaching, (lv 99) 8vo. 1873.

94                               Professor Flower                   [April 25,
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 238, 239. 8vo. 1872.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Dec. 1872. 8vo.
Queteht, M. A. Hon. M.R.I, dec. the Author)—Annales Meteorologiques de l'Ob-
      servatoire de Bruxelles, 5" Annee. 4to. 1871.
   Unite' de l'Espece Humaine. (K 99) 8vo. 1872.
   Notice sur Charles Babbage. (O 16) 16to. 1872.
   Tables de Mortalite'. 4to. 1872.
   Observations des Phenomenes Pe'riodiques : Annee 1870. 4to. 1871.
Royal Saxon Society of Sciences—Abhandlungen. Band X. Nos. 3, 4, 5. 4to.
      1872.
   Berichte: Math. Phys. Classo, 1871. Nos. 4-7. 1872. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
      1872.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 142. 8vo. 1872.
Smyth, Prof. C. Piazzi, F.R.S. (the Author)— Shall we have false, or true, Earth
      commensurable Measures ? (K 99) 8vo. 1872.
Symonti, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      March, 1873. 8vo.
Tylor, Alfred, Esq. F.OJ3. (the Author)—On the Curve of Denudation, and Deltas,
      and Rivers. 8vo. 1872.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 70. 8vo. 1873.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Nov.
      Dec. 1872. 4to.
Zoological Society of Ijondon—Transactions, Vol. VIII. Part 3. 4to. 1872.
    Proceedings, 1872, Part 2. 8vo.
   Index to Proceedings, 1861-70. 8vo. 1872.
                      WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, April 25, 1873.
         Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
                       Professor W. H. Flower, F.R.S.
 On Palceonlological Evidence of Gradual Modification of Animal Forms.
 I need scarcely say that one of the greatest, if not absolutely the
 greatest problem which has ever exercised the minds of naturalists is
 that of the fixity or the mutability of species.
      Are the various specific forms under which animal and vegetable
 life exist upon earth, now and in all times past, fixed within certain
 narrow limits of variation, and did each originally appear upon the
 earth without genetic connection with any previously existing forms,
 having been created de novo in fact? or have these different specios
 been produced by gradual modification from pre-existing living forms,
 under the influence of certain laws, at present very imperfectly under
  stood, acting through vast and indefinite periods of time ?
       It is clear that these two views are strongly opposed to each other.
  Both havo been held and still are held by men who are justly con

1873.]          on Gradual Modification of Animal Forms.                 95
sidered masters in the branch of knowledge to which they relate ; and
the solution of the question will exercise so important an influence on
the progress of zoology that any real contribution towards it should
be one of the most welcome additions to science that a naturalist of
the present day can make.
    The question is, indeed, so far-reaching, so all-pervading, that it
meets us everywhere in the study of every group of animal or vege
table life, and in almost every aspect in which the study can be
carried out.
    It bears largely upon, and is greatly illustrated by, descriptive
zoology or botany. It adds vastly to tho interest of the pursuit of
anatomy, by calling out the meaning of rudimentary structures and
so-called typical resemblances; it elucidates obscure questions relating
to the habits and instincts of animals ; it brings into prominonce the
signification of various facts of geographical distribution, and the life
it throws into the study of palaeontology is too obvious to need remark.
     Evidences bearing upon, either for or against, the theory of
evolution or descent can be collected from all these sources. I need
only refer to Mr. Darwin's works, which must be familiar to you all,
in illustration of the great variety and number of the branches of
science which can be brought to throw light upon it. Indeed, in a
subject like this, where direct observation can count for little, in con
sequence of the extreme shortness of the observing time of any
individual compared with the enormous period required for the
assumed changes, it is only by the accumulation of a vast number of
facts from various sources, and observing the direction in which they
all point, that anything like proof can be obtained.
    Leaving aside, for the present occasion, all other sources of evidence
in favour of either of these views, I propose this evening to enter only
upon one which is in some respects, as all must admit, the most im
portant, as it comes nearer than any other to show what actually has
been the history of our existing species in times past ; for as the most
natural and conclusive way of ascertaining the method by which a
nation has arrived at its present condition of society, customs, laws, &c.,
would certainly be to examine into the preserved records of its past
history, so it must bo with the present condition of animal and
vegetable life.
    We all know that such records have been preserved, that the solid
rocks beneath our feet in many places teem with the actual remains
of creatures which lived and died, thousands or millions of years ago.
    Why should they not yield to us the knowledge we are all so eager
to acquire ?
    If species are and ever have been immutable, shall we not find tho
same hard and fast lines surrounding each as we do now ? Shall we not
find long series of similar forms following without change on an abrupt
commencement ? If the other alternative be correct, ought we not to
find specimens of all the various stages through which the wonderful
variety wo meet with now has been brought about ? Evory gap which

96                             Professor Flower               [April 25
now so widely separates group from group ought to bo filled up,
and the various phases of modification should follow through the
successive eras of geological time.
     Now, there can be no hesitation in saying that the evidence of
palaeontology, in the present state of the science, does not reveal the
last-described condition of things. Notwithstanding the vast increase
of our knowledge in recent years, very many large groups of animals
stand completely isolated, and the more nearly allied forms are mostly
separated from each other by tolerably definite intervals.
     Is, then, the question decisively answered against ovolution or
derivation by palaeontology ?
     We must pause before we can join in tho assertion that it is. The
subject is far more complex than it may seem at first.
     Before going further, a proper estimate must be arrived at of tho
nature and valuo of our evidence, and in doing this we must give full
weight to the considerations derived from the " imperfection of the
geological record " so strikingly elucidated in Mr. Darwin's chapter on
the subject.
     To those who have not fully considered this question, it is difficult
to conceive how immense is tho interval betweon our excessively frag
mentary knowledgo of extinct animals, and that perfect palawntological
record which would imply evidence, first, of ovory form of life that has
ever existed, and, secondly, of the period at which it existed.
     If there were, time, I might dwell long upon this part of the sub
ject, but I must leave you to imagino, I. What the chances are against
the fossilization of any animal that dies. II. What the chances of
the stratum in which some fossil remains havo been embedded being
 itself preserved during the constant changes going on on the earth's
 surface, and ultimately appearing in a situation accessible to man's
 research. III. What the further chances against their being so found,
 even if they should have been preserved in an accessible locality.
     I might refer you to the exceedingly minute portion of the earth's
 surface which has yet been really explored palaeontologically ; to the
 cases that are occurring every day of now and most unexpected forms
 and of whole species or orders, known only by an isolated individual,
 as the Archceopteryx of the Solenhofen oolite ; to say nothing of moro
 recondite speculations in the work above referred to, on the impro
 bability of preservation of intermediate forms, owing to variation
 having usually been most rife during periods of elevation, when fos
 silization is' less likely to occur.
      All these show in such a striking manner tho extremely littlo
 valuo of negative evidence in palaeontology, that I am quite justified
 in asking you nevor for a moment to leave it out of consideration in
 thinking of, or reasoning on, what is to follow.
      Such being tho material with which we havo to deal, it will be
 seen that we must go to work upon it in a most careful and circum
 spect manner. We cannot rush at conclusions, but must bo content
 cautiously, and often with much labour and anxiety, to piece together

1878.]         on Gradual Modification of Animal Forms.                 97
our facts, scrupulously observing the minutest hints, and following
out the direction indicated by often very obscure signs, before we can
reconstruct even an outline of the fabric from which we hope to gain
an idea of the past history of the beings of which we treat.
    I have selected for illustration of the subject this evening the divi
sion or order of Mammals called by naturalists Ungulata, or hoofed
animals, chiefly because it is tho one of which tho palaeontological
history—at least in the tertiary period (for beyond that we cannot
trace it)—is better known than any other, and as that of which tho
classification,—that is, the relations of its various sub-groups to each
other,—is on the whole better understood than in most other zoolo
gical divisions.
    The order includes the most familiar of our domestic animals,
and with the general appearance of the rest we are most of us well
acquainted, thanks to the Zoological Gardens. They are the various
forms of horses, asses, and zebras, the rhinoceroses and the tapirs, the
pigs, hippopotamus, camels, deer, antelopes, sheep, oxen, and goats.
    They are essentially herbivorous (though some few may be more
or less omnivorous), and their teeth are modified accordingly. Their
limbs aro adapted for carrying the body in ordinary terrestrial pro
gression, and are of very little use for any other purposo, such as
climbing, seizing prey, or carrying food to the mouth. They never
have clavicles or collar-bones, and their toes never exceed four in
number (tho digit which corresponds to the first of the complete
pentadactyle foot being always wanting), and have the ends encased
in hoofs instead of nails or claws. The species at present existing
are very numorous, and widely diffused over the earth's surface, being
wanting only in the Australian province. Theso Ungulate animals
are divided into two natural groups, each having very many cha
racters in common, the establishment of which, though contrary to
the views of the great naturalists at the beginning of this century,
has been a great gain to zoological science, especially as this division
pervades all the known extinct as well as recent forms ; and although
some forms of either group may present some partial approximation
to tho other, no directly intermediate species aro known. It is im
portant, therefore, to apprehend thoroughly tho distinction between
these groups, which have received from Professor Owen the names of
Perissodactyle, or odd-toed, and Artiodactyle, or even-toed, from one
of their most striking external characteristics. The first have the toos
of both feet arranged symmetrically to a line drawn through the
middle of what would bo the third toe of the typical pentadactyle
foot, which toe is always tho largest, and in some cases the only one
fully developed. In the second, the toes are arranged symmetrically
to a line drawn between the third and fourth toes, so that these two
toes are equally developed, and may be alone present, or may be sup
plemented by an outer pair (the second and fifth), often in a more or
less rudimentary condition. Besides these distinctions in the limbs,
there are so many others correlated with them in tho number of the

 98                              Professor Flower                     [April 25,
 vertebra, the structure of the cranial bones, of the teeth, of the
 digestive organs, &c., that there can be no question about their
 forming natural divisions, very important to palaeontologists, as it
 often happens that the position of an extinct and little-known form
 can be determined from a very small fragment of bono.
      Each of these groups is further divided into genera, the names of
 which in what appears, in the present state of knowledge, to be their
 natural position and relation to each other, are indicated on the diagram.
 From this, it will be seen, that the existing Perissodactyles (excluding
 Hyrax, the position of which is doubtful, though I am inclined to
 consider it as an aberrant member of this group) consist of three
 groups, the tapirs, the rhinoceroses, and the horses, each represented
 by but few species, and (except in the case of the horse, through the
 agency of man) of rather restricted geographical distribution.
      These groups at present are separated by very decided intervals,
 so much so, that one of them, containing the horses, has been considered
 by many naturalists as forming an order apart, the Solidungula.
      The existing Artiodactyles range themselves around two principal
 types, the tubercular-toothed, or bunodont, and the crescentic-toothed,
 or selenodont. * To the former belong the pigs in all their modifications,
 including the babirussa and wart-hogs, and the hippopotamus and
 peccary. To the latter the ruminants, i. e. vast numbers of species of
 animals included under the general designation of sheep, oxen, goats,
 antelopes, deer, musks, giraffes, and the two allied though aberrant
forms, the camels, and the Tragulidce or chevrotains, an interesting
 little group long confounded with the musk deer.
     The two extremes of this division, represented by the pigs and the
hollow-horned ruminants, seem to have very little in common at first
sight, and if we were acquainted with the organization only of the
existing species, we might be justified in treating them as belonging
to very distinct groups. But even among existing forms there are
some examples, which may almost be called intercalary types, so widely
do they depart from the group to which they are most nearly relative
in the direction of the other.
     These are among the bunodonts, tho little South American pec
caries (Dicotyles), and among the selenodonts, in a far greater degree,
the chevrotains (Tragulns). Tho latter in many remarkable cha
racters deviate strongly from the ruminants, and approach tho pigs,
or rather, as will be shown presently, to the generalized type of tho
entire group.
     Such being the present condition of the order, what does palaeon-
tology reveal of its past history ?
     In the first place, it is most necessary to bear in mind the pro
visional character of all classifications of extinct animals, because of
our imperfect knowledge of their structure ; but endeavouring to
    * I lxirrow those convenient terms from a paper lately read before the Royal
Society by Dr. W. Kowalevsky.

.-<U+0414>....

1873.]            on Gradual Modification of Animal Formi.               99
make the best use of what little we possess, I have added in tho
diagram all the best known extinct forms somewhere near the position,
in relation to the existing forms and each other, in which their
affinities would place them ; and by the different colours their relation
as regards time is shown.
    The tertiary period, with which we are now alone concerned, has
here been divided for convenience into six epochs. Of course, it were
possible to have gone into minute details and made many more
divisions, but it would have made the diagram less clear, and it is
best, perhaps, not to attempt to refine too much in this somewhat
tentative exposition of a biological history, especially as thero is still
much uncertainty as to the exact relative age of many of our fossi-
liferous strata.
    The epochs chosen are the recent (including the pleistocene),
the pliocone, late and early miocene, and late and early eocene, each
represented by a different colour. It is not meant that if a genus
or group is here assigned to one of these epochs, that some of its
members may not have extended in some degree beyond its limits
(as it must be always remembered that the boundaries of these epochs
are quite artificial), either before or after, but that the period assigned
to it was that in which it most chiefly flourished. When two colours
aro represented, one within another, it signifies that the group existed
in both, and of course in all intervening periods.
    To begin with the Perissodactyles. The earliest known forms
constitute a family called Lophiodontidce, composed of the genera
Lophiodon, Coryphodon, and Hyracothcrium. Of these animals little
is known except the teeth, which however indicate rather a primitivo
or root form, from which, by modification, all the other teeth of
Perissodactyles can be derived. The elevations and depressions of
the molar teeth of Lophiodon, for instance, are arranged on a pattern
which is the best key to that of all others of the sub-order; and it is by
going back, as it were, to it, that we can understand and compare all
the other variously modified, and often moro complicated, forms.
Moreover, these Lophiodonts possess a dental character which dis
tinguishes them from all other Perissodactyles, and brings them into a
more generalized ungulate type, for which reason I place them nearest
to the earlier forms of artiodactyles — that is, that all the premolars
are smaller and of a simpler form than the true molars. Whether
they possessed any modification of the limbs or other structures which
bear them out in this position, we unfortunately cannot say.
    At a somewhat later epoch in the earth's history appeared on the
scene the Palceoiheriidos, an important group, containing animals the
osseous structure and dentition of which are completely known, chiefly
through the famous researches of Cuvier into the fossils found in
the gypsum quarries at Montmartre. Theso were animals something
like existing tapirs, with three toes on each foot, complete and distinct
radius and ulna and tibia and fibula, complete typical number of
teeth, i.e. i § c \ p % m § = 44 ; but the molar teeth modified in pattern

100                              Professor Flower                  [April 25,
from tbat of the Lophiodonts. They flourished in the later eocene,
after which period they are no longer met with. They have been
divided into several genera, but Gaudry has shown that these are united
by transitional forms, and present a gradual series of modifications.
corresponding with successive geological epochs.* Another offset,
from the ancient Lophiodont stock (with which it appears to be con
nected through the American eocene Hyracahyus), constitutes the family
Tapiridce, first known in the miocone and continued with scarcely
any modification to our own day, and therefore a most interesting
form to contemplate in its living state, as it brings bock, in tho most
striking way, the general facies of tho fauna of those ancient times.
In one respect the tapir is remarkable among Perissodactyles, as it
has on its fore feet as many as four toes, thus retaining a primitivo
or generalized character. The other two existing forms, the rhi
noceros and the horse, appear to be more direct modifications of the
Palaootherium typo, though in different directions. Tho existing
rhinoceros closely resembles the Palaeotherium in the genoral structure
of its skeleton, limbs, number of toes, &c., and in the general pattern
of tho molar teeth ; it differs, however, in the greatly reduced number
of front teeth, incisors and canines, which in the African two-horned
species are often absolutely wanting; and also in the possession of
thoso singular epidermal appendages to tho face, the well-known horns,
either one or two in number. Now palaeontology points out with
tolerable precision the intermediate steps by which these modifications
have been brought about. A small ancient rhinoceros has been found
in the early mioceno of North America, to which Leidy has given tho
namo of Hyracodon, which had no horn, and had the complete number
of incisor and canine teeth, and was in many ways, at least as far
as tho skull and teeth are concerned, intermediate between Paleeo
therium and Rhinoceros proper. The earlier known European rhinoce
roses have had the name Aceratherium given to them, tho small size
of the nasal bones being apparently quite unfitted to support such a
weapon as a horn. The resemblance of their skull to Paleeotherium
has been pointed out by H. v. Meyer.
     The more recent fossil rhinoceroses present wonderfully inter
mediate forms between some of the existing species, as R. pachygnathus,
of Pikermi, as Gaudry has shown, is about equally related to the two
species of modern African rhinoceros, and might have boon (upon tho
derivative hypothesis) the ancestor of both. In tho same way the
Himalayan R. sivalensis appears to be related to the modern R. indicus
and sondiacus, and the R. schleirmacheri to the Asiatic two-horned
species. One special lino of variation indicated chiefly by the ossifica
tion of tho nasal septum culminated in tho R. tichorhinus, which became
extinct only in the most recent geological epoch. Tho history of this
small group alono in its bearings upon evolution, might occupy many
    * ' Renmrques sur les Paloplntherium,' Nouv. Archives du Museum d'Histoire
naturclle, tom, i., 1805, p. 15.

1873.]         on Gradual Modification of Animal Forms.              101
lectures ; I must content myself now only with one observation, bor
rowed from Mr. Boyd Dawkins, that in all modern rhinoceroses the
molar teeth have deeper crowns than in thoso which existed prior
to a certain epoch, so that the height of these teeth alone will serve
to distinguish a pleistocene from a pliocene form, in other respects
closely allied. The value of this observation will bo illustrated in
the sequel.
    The next line of modification from Palosotherium, is that which cul
minates in the most specialized of mammals, the modern horse, an
animal we are so accustomed to look at that we scarcely ever notice
the most remarkably adaptive character of its structure for its special
mode of life. If wo were not acquainted with the horse (and here
of course I include its immodiato allies, the asses and zebras,) we
could scarcely conceive of an animal whose only support was the
tip of a single toe on each extremity, to say nothing of the singular
conformation of its teeth and other organs. So striking have these
characters appeared to many zoologists, that the animals possessing
them have been reckened as an order apart called Solidungula ; but
paleontology has revealed that in the structure of its skull, its
teeth, its limbs, the horse is nothing more than a modified Pakeo-
therium ; and though still with gaps in certain places, many of the
intermediate stages of these modifications are already known to us,
being the Paloplotherium, Anchitherium, Merychippug, and Hipparion.
On this very interesting point, which looks more like a real gonea-
logical history than any other known, however, I need not dwell, as
it was so fully treated of in a lecture delivered in this theatre three
years ago by Professor Huxley—a lecture entitled the " Pedigree of
the Horse."
    Lastly, there is Macrauchenia, a curiously modified Perissodactyle
found in pleistocene times in South America, apparently another
derivative of the palaeotherium type, presenting resemblance (though
perhaps only analogical) to some of the artiodactyles, especially the
camels.
    Directly intermediate forms between Macrauchenia and the other
animals of its group are not yet known ; but considering how little
evidence we have of the animal life of the middle or older tertiaries
of South America, this is not to be wondered at.
    On the whole it will be seen, that taking actual anatomical charac
ters alone, paleeontological research, even so far as it has yet been
carried, bridges over most of the gaps existing between the modern
form of Perissodactyles, entirely abolishing for instance the order
Solipedia, as it is impossible to draw a satisfactory line where the
animal ceases to be equine and becomes a palaeotheroid ; some drawing
it between Anchitherium and Palosotherium, some between Anchitherium
and Hipparion. Moreover, and this is most important, the lines
from the modern more specialized forms converge towards the ancient
moro generalized forms ; so that if we could got a side-view of what
is shown in the diagram, the earliest forms at the bottom and tho

102                          Professor Flower                     [April 25,
latest at the top, we should have lines (broken it is true, here and
there) diverging from a common, or near a common centre, towards a
circumference above—a view, in fact, of the conventional genealogical
tree.
     We turn now to the Artiodactyles, represented at present by the
scattered groups before spoken of, clustering round two type forms so
widely sundered in their structure and habits as the pig and the ox ;
but the former history of this division yields a totally different state
of things. Of early eocene Artiodactyles we know very little at present ;
but in the later divisions of the same epoch forms appeared, such as
Anoplotherium, Dichvbune, Ghceropotamus, and Hyopotamus, which were
certainly neither pigs nor ruminants, but which partook remarkably of
the characters of both. They had the complete number of teeth, i. e. inci
sors and canines, like modern pigs, but molars with indications of the
crescentic pattern so characteristic of ruminants. They had two or
four toes ; but the metacarpals and metatarsals were not united to form
a cannon bone as in ruminants, and they wanted the horny appendages
to the head, so usually met with in the modern representatives of that
group. From some of these central forms, or more probably from a
still earlier allied group indicated by the genus Acotherulum, or by somo
other still undescribed remains from Maurcmont, transitions can be
traced with few breaks, through tho successively modified mioceno
genera Chozrotherium and Paiceochoarus to the genus Sus, or true pig, in
which the dentition undergoes somo remarkable specializations, as the
upturning of the upper canines, and great development and extremely
tuberculated character of the posterior molars, which are both singu
larly exaggerated in some modern offsets of the pig family, tho first in
the babirussa, and the second in the wart-hog (Phacochcerus). More
distantly related to the true pigs are the hippopotamus on the one hand,
and the peccary on the other. In relation to the first, not found
anteriorly to the latest mioccne, it is significant that the earliest known
forms had the more generalized number of incisor teeth (six) instead of
four as in the modern hippopotamus, and hence has been made into a
genus by itself, called Hexaprotodon.
     The researches of Leidy into the ancient (mioceno and early
pliocene) fauna of Nebraska have furnished evidence of a remarkable
group of animals now entirely extinct, the Oreodontidce, the characters
of which are perfectly intermediate between those of the pigs and the
ruminants; animals with pig-like feot and complete number of in
cisors, canines, and molars, but with the latter important set of teeth,
 formed precisely on the same type as those of the deer. Within this
 particular group Leidy has noted a curious series of slight modifi
 cations coinciding with the successive age of the strata in which the
 remains were found. Agriochcerus, the most ancient, approaches
 nearer to Ghceropotamus, has orbits open behind and very shallow-
 crowned teeth. Then follows Oreodon proper, and lastly Merychyus,
 more like the modern ruminants.*
       * ' The Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Daketa and Nebraska,' 1809.

1873.]           on Gradual Modification of Animal Forms.                  103
     To return to the European forms, in the genus Gelocus, where the
union of the two principal bonos of the metapodium first occurs,
Kowalevsky has noticed the gradual way in which this change seems
to have been brought about in successive epochs of eocene and early
miocene strata, at first free in the young, and only coalescing in old
animals, afterwards coalescing at a much earlier age. The gradual
perfecting of the foot by the development of the ridge round the lower
articular end of the metapodium in later forms, the ridge being quite
wanting in early forms of the same group, has been noticed by the
same author in many different series of Ungulates.*
     During the miocene period the peculiar dental characteristics of
the modern ruminants, especially the loss of the upper incisors, were
developed, all selenodont artiodactyles henceforth showing it. Of
this early race of imperfect ruminants, still retaining many generalized
characters, especially in the skull, the cervical vertebrae, fibula,
stomach, &c., the chevrotains (Tragulidai) are the survivors, especially
the West African Myomosehus, which has existed almost unchanged
since the late miocene of Sansans and Steinheim. Then for the first
time the appendages called antlers were introduced, but only in a
comparatively rudimentary condition, with long pedicles and few
branches, as in the modern Muntjaks. It was not till pliocene and
especially pleistocene epochs that the wonderful and luxuriant variety
of cervine antlers reached their full development. As offsets of the
deer group, the giraffe, the gigantic Siwalik Sivatherium, and the
Helladotherium of Greece may be mentioned, the two latter having
become extinct, apparently without descendants.
     Later still, the yet more specialized forms of hollow-horned
ruminants appear—forms which now dominate the earth, being of all
Ungulates the most widely diffused and most numerous in species,
in individuals, and in outward variety, though in essential structure
all alike. One of their principal characteristics is the modification
of their molar teeth in the same way as in the modern horses, to
which in some respects they seem to form a parallel group. The
difference between the molar tooth of a hollow-horned ruminant and
that of a deer consists in the great lengthening of the crown without
any change in the pattern of the enamel folds, and in the addition of
cement to support these folds. This alteration did not take place
suddenly, and the crowns of teeth of the artiodactyles before the timo
of deer were still shorter than in those animals.
     Among the deer themselves, as Lartet observed,! the most an
cient have very short-crowned molars, and the depressions on the
surface are so shallow that the bottom is always visible, while in
the Cervidae of the more recent tertiary periods, and especially the
pleistocene and living species, these same cavities are so deep that,
whatever be the state of dentition, the bottom cannot be seen. This
    * See also his interesting observations on adaptive and inadaptive modifica
tions of the feet.—Proc. Roy. 8oc., Feb. 6th, 1873.
    t 'Comptes Rendus,' 1868, toni. 66, p. 1119.

104     Professor Flower on Modification of Animal Forms.           [April 25,
(he says) is a perfectly roliable rule for distinguishing the ancient
from the more modern forms of doer, and can be applied to other
animals as well as the Cervidae. From it ho surmises that tho
duration of the life of modern is greater than that of ancient deer.
The same careful observer also remarks that a gradual progress is
observed in the volume of the brain and complexity of its surface,
as deduced from casts of the interior of the skull, from which fact
he concludes that a gradual growth of vital energy and intelligence
has occurred as the effect of the tendency of animated nature towards
improvement, of which the cause is always acting, and tho limits
indefinite.
    Thus the history of the Even-toed Ungulates tells the same story
as that of the Perissodactyles. The modern forms are placed along
lines which convergo towards a common centre. Moreover, the lines
of both groups, to a certain extent, approximate ; but within tho
limits of our knowledge they do not meet. Both artiodactyles and
perissodactyles existed low down in the eocene, just as Carnivores,
lnsectivores, bats, rodents, and other great groups then existed with
boundary lines as distinctly marked as now.
    Was the order, according to which the introduction of new forms
seems to have taken place since that epoch, then ontiroly changed ?
or did it continue as far back as the period when these lines would
have been gradually fused into a common centre ?
    Here we are landed in the region of pure speculation ; but bolder
travellers than I have endeavoured to penetrate its mysteries, as may
bo seen by a perusal of Professor Huxley's presidential address to the
Geological Society for 1870»
    I havo so far confined myself within the region of the known,
and shown that at least in one group of animals the facts which
we have as yet acquired point to the former existence of various inter
mediate forms, so numerous that they go far to discredit the view
of the sudden introduction of new species.
    They show also many cases of gradual modification of particular
organs, probably always to the benefit of the race, and also a general
progress from lower to higher or more specialized types ; though, as
in all other cases of progress (human civilization, for instance),
attended with many exceptions, some local and temporary, some only
apparent.
    Whether the inferences which seem to me to follow from these
facts are true or not, may still be an open question ; for the sake of
tho stimulus that an open question of this sort lends to scientific
research I am very glad that it is so ; but if true, if we are led by
them to the conclusion that the world we live in is a world of gradual
growth and progress, and orderly evolution, what grander view of
tho Creation and the history of that world can we have opened to us ?
                                                                [W. H. F.]
             * Republished in his ' Critiques and Addresses,' 1873.

1873.]                            Annual Meeting.                                105
                         ANNUAL MEETING,
                             Thursday, May 1, 1873.
        Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.B.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
     The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
1872 was read and adopted.
     Fifty-eight new Members were elected in 1872.
     Sixty-three Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were
delivered during the year 1872.
     The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1872 amounted to 95
volumes, making, with those purchased by the Managers, a total of
241 volumes added to the Library in the year, exclusive of periodicals.
     Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the Professors, for
their services to the Institution during the past year.
     The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers for
the ensuing year :—
          President—Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S.
          Treasures— George Busk, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.
          Secretary—William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. M.A. F.R.S.
               Managers.                                   Visitors.
George Berkley, Esq. C.E.                   Andrew Whyte Barclay, M.D.
William Bowman, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.        Hon. Robert Bourke, M.P.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.        John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
Francis Galton, Esq. F.R.S.                 Alexander John Ellis, Esq. F.R.S.
John Peter Gassiot, Esq. D.C.L. F R.S.      George Edward Eyre, Esq. M.A.
John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.      Thomas Williams Helps, Esq. M.A.
Sir William Robert Grove, M.A. F.R.S.       Alfred Gutteres Henriques, Esq. F.G.f
   Just. C.P.                               Thomas Hyde Hills, Esq.
 The Lord Lindsay.                          Robert Pilkington Linton, Esq. F.R.C.S
 William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.             William Millar, Esq.
 Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.       Edward Henry Moscrop, Esq.
Robert P. Roupell, Esq. M.A. Q.C.           A. C. Brisbane Neill, M.D.
 The Lord Arthur John Edw. Russell, M.P.    The Lord Josceline W. Percy.
 The Hon. John William Strutt.              William Salmon, Esq.
 Sir Charles Wheatstone, D.C.L. F.R.S.       Henry Vaughan, Esq.
 Colonel Philip James Yorkc, F.R.S.
    Vol. VII.      (No! 59.)

106                        Dr. J. Emerson Reynolds                         [May 2,
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, May 2, 1873.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                    in the Chair.
                          Dr. J. Emerson Reynolds,
 PROrBSSOR OP CHEMISTRT, ROTAL DURLIN SOCIETT, AND KEEPER OP THE MINERAL DEPARTMENT,
                       On Alcohols from Flint and Quartz.
In appearing before you this evening to lecture on " Alcohols from
Flint and Quartz," you will permit me at the outset to explain, and
even materially to extend, the title of my discourse.
     I do not propose to show that spirits can be extracted from flint
and quartz by mechanical processes ; but I hope to satisfy you that by
indirect and purely chemical means we can obtain from these familiar
and widely-diffused minerals, and from native silicates, bodies resem
bling in chemical action, and even in appearance, the well-known
alcohol of wine.
     Carbon has hitherto been considered the sole alcohol-forming
element; but we shall see that the chief constituent of flint and
quartz, namely, silicon, must now be admitted to share in this power,
and likewise in the ability to form other remarkable compounds that
it will be necessary for mo to refer to in the course of this lecture.
     In selecting this subject, I have done so in part because this most
promising field of research, opened up by the labours of Wohler, Buff,
Friedel, Crafts, Ladenburg, and others, has hitherto been but little
cultivated in this country, and therefore probably possesses some
novelty for the audience I have the honour to address ; and also
because we find in this new branch of chemical investigation most
interesting illustrations of the advantage we may derive from the
cautious use of the argument from analogy.
     As a preliminary to the inquiry I propose, we may consider very
briefly the chemical naturo of flint and quartz.
     The word " flint " is of very ancient origin, and was often used to
indicate any particularly hard rock. In this sense it is employed
several times in the Old Testament—first, in the Book of Deutero
nomy, viii. 15, and in Psalms, cxiv. 8, where the rock struck by
Moses is said to be " of flint." We now use the term to distinguish
a well-known uncrystalline mineral, which can be easily shown to be
a chemical compound of two so-called elementary forms of matter—
oxygen and silicon.
     Flint is identical in chemical composition with quartz or rock-
crystal, though physically different, as you will perceive by reference
to the fine specimens on the table, kindly lent by Mr. Bryce

  1873.J              on Alcohols from Flint and Quartz.              107
  M. Wright, the well-known mineral collector. The common name
  of " silica " is given to the chemical compound, and the terms flint,
  agate, quartz, rock-crystal, are reserved for the forms in which we
  meet with this remarkable substance in nature.
       Having cleared our ground so far, we have to find how the oxygen
  may be separated from any of those forms of silica, and the element
   silicon may be obtained. This cannot be directly accomplished, but
   by indirect means we can obtain the desired results. I have here a
  quantity of finely-divided flint mixed with some powdered fluor-spar ;
  when I pour oil of vitriol on the mixture, and apply heat, a colourless
   gas is obtained, which, when passed into water, produces a highly acid
  and gelatinous liquid. The gas is a compound of the element fluorine,
  with silicon—the tetrafluoride of silicon— and this, when brought in
  contact with water, produces an acid called hydrofluosilicic and a
   quantity of gelatinous hydrate of silica.
       The clear acid liquid, when treated with caustic soda, yields this
  white salt, the fluosilicate of sodium, from which we directly obtain
  the silicon, as you see, by simply heating with some metallic sodium.
  In this case, the sodium replaces the silicon, the latter separating, as
  you observe, in the tube as a dark brown substance.
       Having thus prepared silicon from flint, we are in a position to
  compare it with carbon, to trace out the analogies which subsist
  between them, and then to show that some of the alcoholic and other
  compounds of carbon have their strange and interesting analogues in a
  silicon series.
       First, then, we shall compare the elements themselves.
       We meet with nearly pure carbon under the well-known forms of
  charcoal, graphite, and diamond.
       We can easily prepare the corresponding varieties of silicon—the
  amorphous, the graphitoidal, and adamantine. With the aid of the
  phengascope, I shall now project on the screen images of specimens,
  in order that you may compare the varieties side by side. I have also
  on the table a very fine specimen of crystallized silicon, for which I
  have to thank Messrs. Hoplrin and Williams. [The lecturer showed
  a greatly magnified image of a fine crystallized diamond on the screen;
  a number of other specimens were exhibited in the same way.]
       As might be anticipated, the specific gravity of carbon is lowest
  in charcoal and highest in diamond. Corresponding differences in
  specific gravity are observed between the varieties of silicon. The
  two elements also correspond remarkably in variations of specific heat,
  with different states of aggregation. The specific heat of the diamond
. is lower than that of graphite, and the specific heat of adamantine
  silicon is lower than that of the graphitoidal variety.
       Passing now from the points of physical resemblance between
  carbon and silicon, I shall dwell more particularly on the chemical
  relations of the two elements.
       We are familiar with the fact that carbon burns in oxygen,
  producing, in an excess of that gas, the well-known gaseous oxide of
                                                               i 2

108                     Dr. J. Emerson Reynold*                 [May 2,
carbon, commonly called carbonic acid ; charcoal or coke burn readily
in oxygen, while graphite is consumed with considerable difficulty,
and the diamond is still more difficult of combustion. Amorphous
silicon burns as easily in oxygen as charcoal, and forms the oxide
silica, the same oxide that we find as flint or quartz. [Experiments
exhibited.]
    In this way we can reproduce, so far as composition is concerned,
the substance from which we originally obtained the silicon for our
experiments. Now, though amorphous silicon is easily burnt, tho
graphitic and adamantine varieties of the element resemble the corre
sponding forms of carbon in difficult combustibility. Crystalline
silicon may be raised even to a white heat in oxygen gas without
burning.
 * Unlike carbon, silicon in any of its forma easily combines directly
with chlorine, producing the liquid chloride which I have in this
tube. This is a very volatile body, boiling at 50° C, and is half as
heavy again as water. It can also be prepared from silica by heating
to full redness the finely-divided oxide and carbon in a current of
chlorine. In composition this chloride is the silicon representative
of tetrachloride of carbon.
     In addition to this chloride of silicon, the discovery of which we
owe to Berzelius, another has very recently been obtained by Friedel,
which corresponds to a well-known carbon hexachloride.
    We next pass to a compound of silicon with hydrogen. It may be
prepared in a pure state by means of a rather complex reaction I shall
have presently to refer to ; but we can easily obtain the impure gas
by Wohler's method, in treating a compound of silicon and magnesium
with hydrochloric acid. We thus obtain a colourless, spontaneously
inflammable gas, which burns with a bright light on contact with tho
air. In its pure condition, siliciuretted hydrogen is not spontaneously
combustible at ordinary pressure, but in a slightly rarefied atmosphere
it easily inflames. The compositions of these silicon and carbon com
pounds are shown in this table :—
                SiO,             Oxides.              CO,
                MCI,             Chlorides.           CC1,
                Si,Cl,               i)               0,01,
                Sill,            Hydrides.            CH,
    The siliciuretted hydrogen is evidently the chemical analogue of
marsh-gas, the tetrahydride of carbon.
    It is usual to regard marsh-gas as the typical carbon compound
from which some alcoholic series may be supposed to spring, and, in
fact, all the alcohols belonging to the group of which the well-known
wood-spirit and spirit of wine are the chief members, are commonly
regarded as derivatives of marsh-gas, in which a part, or all, the
hydrogen has been replaced by one or more compound radicals, such
as hydroxyl, methyl, ethyl, propyl, &c. In these cases, carbon of the
marsh-gas is the grouping^ element of the compound, or that con

 1878.]             on Alcohols from Flint and Quartz.                109
 stitucnt which serves to bind together the different materials of which
 the molecular edifice is constructed. In the same way the silicon in
 siliciuretted hydrogen may be shown to be the nucleus round which
 can be grouped hydroxyl, methyl, ethyl, &c., so as to form the alcohols
 whose compositions I shall presently have to refer to. Several of the
 less complex terms are still wanting, but their existence is rendered
 highly probable by the occurrence of bodies bearing the same close
 relation to the unknown alcohol that marsh-gas bears to wood-spirit,
 or the acid of vinegar (acetic acid) to common spirit of wine. As we
 ascend in the series, however, we meet with the true alcohols, in which
 silicon takes the place of carbon as the grouping element.
     It must be here admitted, however, that no well-defined alcohols
 have yet been discovered in which silicon acts in any other way than
as the nucleus of the compound ; carbon radicals in all these cases
playing the subordinate parts. But we have every reason to expect
 that complex alcohols containing silicon only will yet be obtained as
 researches extend.
     In 1857 Buff and Wohler obtained a volatile fuming liquid on
heating crystalline silicon nearly to redness in a current of dry hydro
chloric acid gas. The precise nature of this liquid was unknown
until 1871, when Friedel and Crafts published the results of their
admirable researches upon Buff and Wohler's liquid, and showed that
it was a mixture of chloride of silicon with a new body, which proved
to be the strict chemical analogue of our well-known chloroform,
silicon replacing carbon.
             SiHCl,             Chloroforms.            CHC1,
     This body is a colourless, mobile, and very volatile liquid boiling
at 35° C. I have a quantity of it in this tube. One of its most
remarkable properties is that of exploding with great facility when its
vapour is mixed with air. I shall now show you the experiment.
Ordinary chloride of silicon does not afford an explosive mixture when
its vapour is mingled with air. [Experiments shown.]
     When this remarkable body is made to unite with anhydrous
alcohol, a colourless ethereal liquid is obtained on distillation, having
an agreeable odour, and a boiling-point at 134° C. This body is
strictly analogous in composition to a substance obtained by William
son and Kay, by acting on ordinary chloroform with sodium alcohol.
    These ethers may each be regarded as derived from a glycerine or
triatomic alcohol, as shown below. Neither of these alcohols has as
yet been isolated.
                                                        (H
                          Formic ethers (tribasic).  C qc'iI3
                                                        fH
                                 ™
                                 Glycerins.          r,
                                                     C< OH
                                                         qII
                                                        (oh

110                    Dr. J. Emerson Beynolde                   [May 2,
     By the action of sodium on the silicon ether just referred to we can
obtain siliciuretted hydrogen in a state of purity. This is the only
known mode of obtaining the pure compound.
     .Returning to the silicon chloroform, about whose chemical nature
we can now have little if any doubt, we next have to inquire in what
direction, and how far, we can pursue the analogy between the great
pain-killer, discovered almost simultaneously by Soubeiran and the
illustrious chemist of Giessen, who has so recently passed away from
amongst us, and the curious body that we can obtain indirectly from
flint or other form of silica in the manner I have described.
     Ordinary chloroform is well known to be closely allied to common
wood-spirit, or methyl alcohol, in a way that will be evident on com
paring the formulae. In fact, chloroform is easily obtained by treat
ing wood-spirit with bleaching-powder. We cannot in any simple way
reverse this process and prepare wood-spirit from chloroform, but we
can do something in this direction, for we are able by the action of
caustic potash to obtain from chloroform formic acid, a body which is
one of the most remarkable products of oxidation of wood-spirit. The
relation of formic acid to the alcohol is shown in the table below ; and
it is there further pointed out that this formic acid should yield an
anhydride—a body capable of producing the acid by union with the
elements of water. This anhydride is not known, but the importance
of suggesting its existence will appear in a moment.
                H                                     H
                H                                      H
                II            Methyl alcohols.      C H
                OH                                     OH
                H
             Si O              Formic acids.        C 15
                OH                                     OH
                H                                      II
             Si O               Anhydrides.         C 0
                O(SiOH)                                O(COH)
     Regarding silicon chloroform from the same point of view, analogy
would lead us to look for a simple silicon alcohol similar to wood-
spirit or methyl alcohol ; but we would not expect the silicon chloro
form easily to yield this alcohol directly, though we would bo justified
in hoping that an acid, corresponding to formic acid, might be obtained.
As a matter of fact, no such alcohol has as yet been prepared even
indirectly; but a corresponding acid is very readily produced, and
more than this, for the anhydride at present wanting in the carbon
series is found in that of silicon. If I pass the vapour of silicon
chloroform into water nearly ice-cold, a white solid body is obtained
without any evolution of hydrogen, and an acid liquid produced. The
white solid then collected, washed, and dried at a low temperature,
forms a white inflammable powder, which was first described by Buff
and Wohler. Friedel and Ladenburg have shown that this remark
able body is the anhydride of the silico-formic acid. According to the

1873.]              on Alcohols from Flint and Quarto.                  Ill
results of my own investigations, the acid liquid to which I referred
just now contains, in addition to hydrochloric acid, the true silico-
formic acid— a body possessing nearly as energetic reducing proper
ties as the corresponding acid derived from wood-spirit. I shall now
demonstrate these facts. [The lecturer then exhibited the experi
ments referred to.]
    It will naturally be asked whether the silicon chloroform is capable
of acting as an anaesthetic like ordinary chloroform. But it is only
necessary to bear in mind the fact that it is very easily decomposed
by water into gelatinous matter, and highly corrosive hydrochloric
acid, in order to understand that its inhalation would be attended by
the speedy destruction of the lungs of any person persisting in the
experiment.
    Starting from silicon chloroform, then, we have been led, by ana
logical reasoning in the first instance, to infer the existence of a simple
silicon alcohol precisely corresponding to wood-spirit. On testing
this induction by experiment, we have obtained answers which are, so
far as they go, altogether favourable to the view just stated. In fact,
the results are as satisfactory as they can be short of the discovery of
the silico-methyl alcohol.
    I shall now endeavour to strengthen this position by showing that
the existence of three higher members of the alcoholic series has been
rendered highly probable by the discovery of closely-related bodies,
though the alcohols themselves have not been isolated ; and, finally,
I shall show that the alcohols of still higher terms have actually been
obtained.
    In the course of their elaborate and able investigation of silicon
compounds, Friedel and Crafts discovered that chloride of silicon
easily acts upon common alcohol, as I have already mentioned, pro
ducing a body which Friedel and Ladenburg have recently shown to
be easily attacked by a mixture of sodium with a curious substance
contained in this tube—zinc-ethyl. The product, when treated with
caustic potash, yields a body which bears the same relation to silico-
propyl alcohol that formic acid does to wood-spirit. This relationship
is shown in the formulae—
                (C,H5                                     (C,H,
              HilOH
                               Propyl alcohols.         °ffi
                                                          I OH
                (CSHS                                      |C„HS
              Si 0             Propionic acids.         CO
                 OH                                       |OH
    This silico-propionic acid is in this tube, and is a white combus
tible powder, like the silico-formic anhydride I have already shown to
you. It is soluble in warm caustic potash, but not in caustic soda ; by
which character it can be distinguished from silica. It is only
necessary to state that it can be obtained in aqueous solution, and in
the pure state, by Professor Graham's valuable dialytic process.

112                     Br. J. Emerson ReynoMs                   [May 2,
    In the amyl term, neither alcohol nor acid are yet known ; but by
the action of zinc-methyl on chloride of silicon we can obtain a light,
colourless, and very volatile liquid, which is silicon-methide, a body
that may, for reasons which will presently appear, be fairly considered
to stand in the same relation to silico-amyl alcohol that marsh-gas does
to wood-spirit. Thus—
                   04H9                               fO,H,
                   H
               Si. H
                   H
                                Amyl hydrides.      HiIh
                   C4H,                               fC4H,
               Si HU              Alcohols.         Hi
                   OH                                 lOH
    The researches of Friedel and Crafts have made us acquainted with
a body which may also probably be regarded as the hydride corre
sponding to silico-hexyl alcohol. This compound is prepared by the
action of zinc-methido and zinc-ethide in chloride of silicon.
                   C»H„                               ft'.H,,
               Sk1hti          Hoxyl hydrides.
                  Ih
                  fOaHu                               fCsHu
               Sii^            Hexyl alcohols.      C<]|
                  lOH                                 lOH
    Having, therefore, stated the grounds for inferring the existence of
silico-propyl, silico-amyl, and silico-hexyl alcohols, I shall now pass
at once to the second class of evidence, and show that the alcohols
of still higher terms can actually be prepared.
    In referring to the preparation of silico-propionic acid, it was
stated that when chloride of silicon acts upon absolute alcohol a body
is obtained which, on treatment with zinc-ethyl and sodium, yields an
ethereal product from which silico-propionic acid can be obtained by
treatment with caustic potash. If, however, instead of using the
caustic alkali we continue the action of zinc-ethyl and sodium, decom
pose the products with water in sealed tubes, and distil, a liquid is
obtained which contains one of the " alcohols from flint " we are in
search of. In this tube I have a small quantity of the alcohol, and
hero you will find its composition stated—
              rcA
            Si ft^»          Heptyl alcohols.
              (oh"
    You will observe that it is the silico-heptyl alcohol precisely cor
responding to a simple carbon alcohol recently discovered by Naha-
petian, both being tertiary alcohols. We owe to Ladenburg the
discovery of this lowest known term of alcohols containing silicon.

1873.]             on Alcohols from Flint and Quartz.               113
As you can observe it is a colourless liquid, not unlike the ordinary
alcohol of wine. It is insoluble in water, but easily dissolved by
spirit and ether. Chemically it acts just like any of the other
alcohols, producing ethers, and dissolving the alkali metals to form
sodium or potassium alcoholates. When common spirit burns you
are aware that its flame is nearly colourless, but I shall now burn
some of our alcohol from flint, and you will find, particularly when
we feed the flame with oxygen, that a bright light is emitted.
    Clearly defined though this alcohol is, it does not stand alone, for
at least one other compound of the same order is known. It was sug
gested in 1870, by Friedel and Crafts, that silicon ethide—a body
easily prepared by the action of chloride of silicon on zinc ethide—
might be regarded as the hydride of silico-nonyl, and should stand
in the same relation to an alcohol that marsh-gas does to common
wood-spirit, or ethyl hydride to ordinary alcohol. This happy idea,
when put to the test of experiment, was fully justified by the result,
for, on treating silicon ethide in essentially the same manner that we
should adopt in preparing wood-spirit from marsh-gas, a colourless
liquid, lighter than, and insoluble in, water is obtained. The boiling
point of this body is 190° C. It yields an ether with acetic acid, dis
solves sodium, forming an alcoholate, and, in fact, conforms to the
general habits of the alcohols of the series to which common spirit
belongs. The compositions of these bodies are thus represented—
                               Nonyl hydrides.
                                  Alcohols.
It is thus shown to be precisely similar to the nonyl alcohol prepared
by Pelouze and Cahours from American petroleum.
    Ladenburg has very recently advanced even beyond the point we
have now reached, and has shown that the ohlorido of silicon can be
made to yield two ethers, which correspond, as I may suggest, to
silico-nonyl diatomic and triatomic alcohols. Thus—
                          fCA                  rem,,
                       SiO&           «     SiOH
                          VOC.H,               lOH
                          fC,Hs                fC,H„
                           OC?Hs
                       Sl< r,r?u'     "'
                                      or    D,10H
                                            Sl< ,-.„
                           OC,Hs               lOH
    In all the preceding compounds it will havo boen noted that but
one atom of silicon is present, and though, as I pointed out in the
earlier part of this lecture, the silicon in these cases occupies the

 114          Dr. J. E. Reynolds on Alcohols from Flint, dec.    [May 2,
chief position as the grouping element, we should much like to see
silicon uniting with silicon, and forming a more condensed compound
with hydrogen. Happily, however, very important evidence, even
upon this point, is fortheoming, for Friedol and Ladenburg have dis
covered corresponding hexa-chloride, iodide, and bromide of silicon,
and treatment of the hexa-iodide with zinc-ethyl enables us to obtain
the ethide whose formula is given in this table—
                  Hydride.       Chloride.         Ethldc.
                     fH              (CI           ( C,H»
                       H               CI            C,H,
                  SijH           Si J CI         SiJC,H,
                  SiSH           SilCl           snc,^
                       H               CI           IC2H,
                      III            I CI           Ic.H,
It is not improbable that in the last-named compound we have the
starting-point of a new series of still more complex bodies, analogous
to derivatives of olefiant-gas rather than to those of marsh-gas.
     I trust you will now admit that the case I proposed to lay before
 you has been made out—namely, that we can obtain some alcohols
 indirectly from flint or other form of silica, and that we have solid
 ground for inferring the existence of many others.
     A rich and beautiful field for chemical research appears to lie
before us in tracing out the analogies between the compounds of
carbon and silicon, and recognising the chemical representatives of
many of the most complex " organic compounds " in the native sili
cates which form so large a part of the crust of this earth.
     Hitherto in this lecture I have avoided reference to subjects not
directly connected with the matter in hand, but, before concluding,
I would refer, necessarily in a very few words, to some inquiries in
this department of chemistry which have been carried on in the labo
ratory of the Royal Dublin Society. First, however, allow me to per
form an experiment. I have here a glass jar filled with dry ammo-
niacal gas; when I drop it into some chloride of silicon, a white
compound is obtained. This body was discovered by Persoz in 1830,
and the composition he assigns to it would, as ably suggested by Dr.
Hofmann, represent a mixture of sal-ammoniac with the hydrochlo-
rate of silicon-guanidine. If this white body be ignited strongly in
a closed vessel, an infusible white substance remains, which has been
examined by Deville and Wbhler, who have shown that it contains
silicon and nitrogen, and that the same or similar body can be pro
duced by intensely heating crystalline silicon in an atmosphere of
nitrogen.
     My examination of this curious body has led me to tho conclusion
that it is the silicon analogue of cyanogen—a well-known compound
of nitrogen with carbon, and the chief constituent of the deadly
poison prussic acid. This body, though little affected even at a very
high temperature, in the absence of moisture is easily decomposed by
steam—silica, ammonia, and hydrogen resulting. A similar decompo

1873.]                   General Monthly Meeting.                    115
sition is effected by heating with soda-lime. I may add that, when
this singular compound is fused with a small quantity of carbonate of
potassium, cyanide and silicate of the metal are produced; in this
case, carbon appears to displace silicon.
    If, in the experiments with ammoniacal gas, we substitute silicon
chloroform for the silicic chloride, a body is obtained from which this
compound of silicon and nitrogen can be easily extracted. Now we
know well that when ordinary chloroform is heated with ammonia gas,
chloride and cyanide of ammonium are obtained, and that under
certain circumstances a body called para-cyanogen is also produced.
Analogy would lead us to anticipate that silicon chloroform would
react in a similar manner, and the facts I have hitherto observed
justify this inference.
    It would be out of place to pursue this subject here, as the results
of the inquiry referred to have not yet been published. I have,
therefore, now simply shown to you one of the chief bodies to which
interest belongs, and ventured to point out the relationship I believe
it to bear to some of the well-known and remarkable compounds of
carbon with nitrogen.
    In concluding this lecture, I need simply remind the audience I
have the honour to address that the practical value of scientific re
search is rarely apparent at first. Who could have suspected that the
benzole discovered by the venerable philosopher whose name is so
inseparably connected with this Institution, would have proved, in
the able hands of Perkin and of Hofmann, the chief source of many
of the exquisite dyes now largely manufactured in this country ? Tet
in this, as in a hundred of other instances, the small and apparently
useless scientific seedling has gradually expanded into the strong tree,
yielding its rich store of useful fruit. Let us hope that a similar
future awaits some of the alcohols from flint which have been re
ferred to this evening, and that, in pursuing our studies of the silicon
analogues of the more complex carbon compounds, we may be led
to appreciate more fully than we have hitherto done the admirable
economy and harmony of Nature.                              [J. E. R.]
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, May 5, 1873.
       Sir Hkney Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                              in the Chair.
    The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year were an->
 nounced :—
         George Busk, Esq. the Treasurer,
         Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.
         The Lord Lindsay,
         William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. the Secretary.

116                         General Monthly Meeting.                       [May 5,
               Mrs. Bergheim,
               Maures Horner, Esq.
               Edwin Lawrence, Esq. LL.B. F.R.A.S.
               Hugh Mathcson, Esq.
               Miss Frederica Scott,
               Alexander Young Stewart, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The following communication to the family of the late Dr. Bence
Jones was read and adopted :—
    " The Managers of the Royal Institution were instructed by a
unanimous vote at the recent Annual Meeting of its Members, to
convey to the family of their late Honorary Secretary, Db. Henry
Bence Jones, the expression of their strongest sympathy in their
sorrow for the great loss they have sustained by his death,* and to
transmit to them also the expression of the deep sense the Members
entertain of the value of the great and eminent services which the
Institution has received from their late Honorary Secretary during his
long official connection with it."
    John Tyndall, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. was re-elected Professor of
Natural Philosophy.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FROM
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. V. Ne. 6. 8vo. 1872-3.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIII. No. 5. 8vo. 1873.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1872-3, Nos. 9, 10. 4to.
Chemicd Society—Journal for April, 1873. 8vo.
Cox, Edward W. Esq. Sergeani-at-Law, M.R.I, (the Author)—What am I? A Popular
     Introduction to Mental Philosophy and Psychology. Vol. I. 8vo. 1873.
Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1873. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for April, 1873. 4to.
  Chemical News for April, 1873. 4to.
  Engineer for April, 1873.
  Food Journal for April, 1873. 4to.
  Journal for Applied Science for April, 1873. Folio.
  Journal of Gas-Lighting for April, 1873. 4to.
  Nature for April, 1873. 4to.
  Nautical Magazine for April, 1873. 8vo.
  Once a Week for April, 1873. 8vo.
  Pharmaceutical Journal for April, 1873. 8vo.
  Telegraph Journal, No. 6. 8vo. 1873.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 567. 8vo. 1873.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Parts 1-12. 8vo. 1866-73.
  J. Glaisher : Reduction of Meteorological Observations, 1826-69. 8vo. 1871.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XII. No. 1. 8vo.
     1873.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, Jan. 1873. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Part 36. 8vo. 1873.
                                   * On April 20th.

1873.]          Mr. Grant Duff: A Fortnight in Asia Minor.                  117
Reeves, Messrs.—Comets' Taila no longer a Mystery. 16to. 1873.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXVL Part 4. 4to. 1873.
   Proceedings, Session 1871-2. 8vo. 1873.
Saxon Society of Science*, Royal—Abhandlungen, Band XVI. Nos. 1-4. 8vo. 1872.
   Berichte : PhU. Hist. Classe, 1870, 1871. 8vo. 1872.
SocieU Hollandaise del Sciences—Archives Ne'erlandaises, Tome VII. Nos. 4, 5.
     8vo. 1872.
Symont, G. J. Esq. (.the Author)— Symorut Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     April, 1873. 8vo.
 Victoria institute—Journal of Transactions, Vol. VI. Nos. 24, 25. 8vo. 1873.
 Wunburg Phytikal. Medeoin. GeseUtehaft—Verhandlungen, Band III. Heft 4.
      8vo. 1872.
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, May 9, 1873.
Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President, in the Chair.
                 Mountstuart E. Grant Dtjff, Esq. M.P.
                           A Fortnight in Asia Minor.
 Slowly the lights of Stamboul died out in the distance, and we
 glided away into the silent Sea of Marmora. Far off to the left, and
 not to be visited by us upon this occasion, lay, at the bottom of its gulf,
 Nicomedia, where Diocletian resigned the throne of the world, and
 retired to grow cabbages at Salona. There, likewise, was Broussa, at
 the foot of the Mysian Olympus, which had so tantalizingly kept its
 head shrouded in the clouds all the time we were in Pera, although
 our windows opened straight upon it. We had made various plans
 for going to Broussa, which attracted us not only by its beauty, but
 as the first centre of the Ottoman power in these regions, but they all
 broke down before the exigencies of time, that stern controller of
 autumn holidays.
      With Broussa went all chance of seeing Nierca, the scat of the first
 General Council, and one of the most famous places in the history of
 the first Crusade ; partly from its stout resistance to the Christians,
 and partly from the fact that Walter the Penniless died pierced by
 seven arrows before its walls.
      We passed on, however, as I say, although well-nigh every mile
 of these historic shores invited us to stay. There at Libyssa,
  Hannibal had ended by poison his earth-shaking career ; and there
 near Moudania, the port of Broussa, a more modern warrior, quite
 as great in his way— Count von Moltke—had run a considerable
 chance of being drowned, in the year 1836, as he himself has told us
 in his pleasant letters on Turkey.
      These places, however, and many others, though very near us, we
 could behold only with the eye of the mind, for brilliant as was the

118                           Mr. Grant Buff:                        [May 9,
starlight aided by a young moon, it enabled us to see but a very short
distance on either side of our vessel's track.
    In the first grey of the morning I came on deck, and found that
we had already left behind the marble island of Marmora, which gives
its modern name to the ancient Propontis, the peninsula of Procon-
nesus, at the landward end of which lay Cyzicus, the mouth of the
Granicus, made memorable by Alexander the Great's battle ; Gallipoli,
so famous in the history of the Crimean War ; and Lampsacus, which
was one of the cities assigned by the Great King for the support of
Themistocles.
    Passed also, no less, was a spot which some might have cared even
more to see, the hillock to which tradition has attached the name of
the Tomb of Memnon, that mysterious personage who, as the legend
said, came from some far-away country to assist the Trojans, and whose
last resting-place was kept watered from the river Sangarius by the
birds one still sees flying about on these seas, which the ancients
called " Memnoniae aves," and the moderns less gracefully term the
dmes damnes.
    The sun had risen over the hills on the Asiatic shore before we
ran between Sostos and Abydos, and drew near to the town which
Europeans call the Dardanelles, but which the Turks, with their
genius for the commonplace in names, call Tchanak Kalesi, or Pottery
Castle, from the flourishing manufacture of earthenware which exists
there. Presently a boat came alongside, bringing one of the English
residents in the town, to whose kind keeping we had been consigned
by friends. Here, after a visit to the Governor, a friendly and hale old
man who commanded the Turkish fleet when the Allies engaged the sea
ward batteries of Sebastopol, we spent half-an-hour in inspecting the
far-famed Castle of Asia, whose monster guns still bear the marks of
the balls which struck them when Duckworth, not too wisely, ran up
past them to Constantinople. * * * * The military Pasha gave us a
large boat with fourteen rowers, and we were soon afloat. After a row
of about two hours and a half, we approached a quiet little bay with a
shelving shore, white cliffs to the left, and a sandy hill to the right. We
touched land and stood upon the soil of the Troad, for the sandy hill
to the right was no other than the Eastern face of the Rluctean pro
montory.
    It was curious to think, as we drew near the beach, how many and
how different were the travellers in whose wake we were following.
Hither turned aside Xerxes on his way to attack Athens, and Alexander
on his way to conquer Persia ; so did Mindarus the Spartan, the hero
of the famous and characteristically laconic despatch ; Ovid came also
as a youth with his tutor Macer ; and Germanicus ; and Julia, the
daughter of Augustus, who, by-the-by, was all but drowned in the
Scamander. These are a few, and only a few, of the famous per
sonages of antiquity whom we know to have visited the Troad for
the same purpose for which we were now landing on its shores.
    And no wonder, for this little nook of a continent has been of

1873.]                  A Fortnight in Asia Minor.                   119
vast importance as well historically as poetically. I say historically,
because whatever may have been the foundation in fact for the tale of
Troy divine as told by Homer, it is at least clear that the father of
history considered the Trojan War to have been one of the most
important and determining events in that long series of actions and
reactions between East and West on which he dwells so much, and
which continuing through the ages has enshrined a Semitic religion
on the Tiber and the Thames, and has made a Hampshire country
gentleman an incomparably greater Asiatic ruler than ever was
Darius or Artaxerxes—Tamerlane or Nadir Shah.
    But great as is the historical importance of the Troad, its poetical
importance is far greater. Eliminate the story of the War of Troy
with all that came of it, and it is startling to see how much of Greek
and even of Roman literature will disappear. The Iliad and Odyssey
as they vanish will take with them the Agamemnon, the Choephoroe,
the Eumenides of iEschylus. the Electra, the Fhiloctetes, and the
Ajax of Sophocles, the JEneid of Virgil, some of the best odes of
Horace, some of the finest poems of Ovid, with I know not how
much else.
    How much of even our contemporary poetry has sprung from this
region. Wordsworth has written little finor than Laodamia ; Tenny
son nothing finer than Ulysses ; Morris nothing finer than the Death
of Paris.
    Mounting the horses which had been sent to meet us at the land
ing place, we rode up a short ascent, the edges of which were mado
bright by the yellow flowers of the Inula viscosa, a showy plant which
is very conspicuous in Attica in the autumn, but which I did not
observe at any other point of the Troad— where, indeed, almost all
herbaceous vegetation was utterly dead and burnt up.
    Soon we were standing by the wild fig-tree which has struck its
roots deep into the masonwork of the central chamber in the tumulus
of Ajax. That central chamber has long since been opened and
affords no new light to the antiquary. From it we looked across the
mouth of the Scamander to the Sigscan promontory, and all over the
line of flat shore where Homer has placed the station of the Grecian
ships. I was surprised to find the Scamander so considerable a stream
even at this, the driest moment of an exceptionally dry season (do not
be surprised by my adjective), for although exceptionally wet here,
1872 was exceptionally dry in the Troad. I have seen both the
Simois and the Scamander described as " historic rivulets," but that is
a mistake, at least with regard to the second river.
    From the tomb of Ajax we descended, and the sun being already
not far from its setting, set off, as hard as our horses would carry us,
across the plain and over the dry bed of the Simois to Hissarlik, one
of the two places which archaeologists please themselves by supposing
the site of Troy. It is at this point that Dr. Schliemann, an enthu
siastic and original German inquirer, is making immense excavations,
and is, as he confidently believes, unveiling stone by stone the old

120                             Mr. Grant Duff:                            [May 9,
poetic city. Here we tarried as long as the light served us, and then
rode through a wild region covered with low brushwood, and dotted
here and there by the fires of shepherds, to a farm built on the site of
the ancient Thymbra, and belonging to one of the gentlemen who had
accompanied us from the Dardanelles. * * * *
    The nest morning we made an early start, and followed the course
of the Thymbrius to its junction with the Scamander, passing on our
right the great tumulus known as the Hanai Tepe, that is, tumulus of
the place where there have been rains, which is supposed by some, as,
for instance, by the late Mr. Senior, to have been the burial-place of
the undistinguished mass of warriors who fell before Troy ; an opinion
to which I should, as at present advised, not be inclined to subscribe.
Certain, however, it is that it must record some considerable engage
ment in these parts. * * * *
    The name of this place makes one think of the well-known phraso
of Lucan, " Etiam pcriere ruin®,"—which, as it happens, occurs in a
passage describing this very district, in connection with an imaginary,
but well-imagined, .visit of Julius Caesar's. * • * *
    One of the ladies of our party handed to mo a translation of these
lines, which, whatever its merits may be, represents the characteristic
terseness of the original much better than Rowe's.*
           " Lover of fame he seeks Sigseum's sand,
             Rhseteum honoured with a hero's grave,
             Where Simois' waters wander thro' the land.
             (To muny a shade there genius glory gave ;)
             He roams around the burnt-out Trojan halls
             And views the relics of Apollo's walls.
           " Home of Assaracus ! the barren tree
             The rotten trunk above thy hearth have grown,
             The temples of thy gods are like to thee—
             The worn-out roots scarce cling around thy stone ;
             Thy ruins ruined, and .the thickets shroud
             In briar and brushwood, Pergamus the Proud.
           * " Sigeasque petit, famas mirator, arenas,
               Et Simoentis aquas, et Graio nobile husto
               Bhsoteon, et multum debentes vatibus umbras.
               Circuit exustae nomen memorabile Troise,
               Magnaque Phcobei quairit vestigia muri.
               lam silvre steriles, et putres robore trunci
               Assaraci pressere domos, et templa deorum
               lam lassa radice tenent ; ac tota teguntur
               Pergama Dumetis : etiam periere ruinae.
               Adspicit Hesiones scopulos, silvasque, latentes
               Anchissa thalamos : quo judex sederit antro ;
               Unde puer raptus coelo ; quo vertice Nais
               Luserit CEnono ! nullum est sine nomine saxum.
               Inscius in sicco serpentem pulvere rivum
               Transierat qui Xanthus erat. Securus in alto
               Gramine ponebat gressus : Phryx incola manes
               Hectoreos calcare vetat. Discussa jacebant
               Saxa, nee ullius faciem servantia sacri
               ' Hcrceas,' monstrator ait, ' non respiois aras ?'" * * * *

 1873.]                    A Fortnight in Asia Minor.                   121
            " He sees the woods that hid Anchises' suit,
              The rock to which Hesione was tied,
              The cave where Paris gave the golden fruit,
              Where Ganymede was snatched. Olympus' pride,
              The summit where the nymph CEnone played :
              No stone without its name, no wood, no glade.
            " Unconscious now the dusty, bed he passes,
              Where creeps divine Scamander's scanty wave,
              The Phrygian cries, ' Tread not those long dank grasses
              Spurn not what was the mighty Hector's grave.
              See,' says the guide, ' behold the Hercean fane,
              The scattered stones nor form nor place retain.' "
     The Thymbrius is at the best of times little more than a deep
brook, and when we saw it, it was only a thread of water. Such as it
is, however, it gives life to a great deal of vegetation, and is shrouded
in a thicket of clematis, wild vine, and agnus castus, a beautiful shrub
which is even in October made gay with many blossoms, and which a
few weeks earlier must be a great ornament to every thicket in this
country where there is a little water.
     Soon we forded the Scamander, and reached by a long ascent the
hill of Bounarbashi, the most usually received site of Troy. It is a
long eminence overgrown with hardy brushwood and little else, for the
rock comes to the surface in almost every part of it. Tho view on all
sides is magnificent, extending over tho whole Troad, over the islands of
Tenedos, Imbros, and Samothrace, as well as over a considerable slice
of tho European shore of the Dardanelles. Turning to the south we
had before us a very picturesque portion of the range of Ida, but not
tho portion to which I shall presently carry you. Below us tho
Scamander came out of the hills, flowing far down between well-
wooded precipitous banks, and reminding me of familiar scenes in tho
north of Scotland. Bounarbashi is, as I have said, the usually
received site of Troy. Now, I am not going to treat you to a disserta
tion upon that question, I am only going to express an opinion that,
wherever Troy was, it most certainly was not at Bounarbashi. * * * *
I defy any unprejudiced man to go up to Bounarbashi, and say that
there ever was a city there at all on the scale of tho Troy of Homer.
At the far southern end of the hill, just above the valley, there was
unquestionably a small Greek city, probably Gergis. There the ex
cavations of the Austrian antiquary, M. Von Hahn, have laid bare the
ancient walls ; but M. Von Hahn found nothing on that site to point to
any very remote antiquity, nothing that did not belong to a Greek city.
     On the very top of the hill of Bounarbashi, and at the northern
end, is a large tumulus, which has been christened, quite arbitrarily,
the tumulus of Hector. Into this tumulus a deep trench was driven
while we were on the spot, under tho superintendence of Sir John
Lubbock and of Mr. Frank Calvert, who is the great authority upon
all questions connected with the Troad. A considerable body of men
worked for threo days, and got quite down to the living rock without
finding anything of the slightest importance; but directions have
   Vol. Vn. (No. 59.)                                                 k

122                              Mr. Grant Duff:                          [May 9,
been left to complete the investigation under careful superintendence,
and to communicate the results.
     Passing the little Turkish village of Bounarbashi, we rode down
to look at the springs known as the Kirk Gheuz, or Forty Eyes, absurdly
identified with the Scamander by Lechevalier, whose errors and mis
representations were well exposed by the " Travelled Thane " in the
sixth volume of the ' Edinburgh Review,' and by Mr. Charles Mac-
laren in his admirable book published in 1822, but of which I have
only seen the enlarged edition published in 1863.
     The water from these springs now finds its way to the sea at
Besika Bay through a channel constructed in comparatively modern
times. Mr. Maclaren believes, and it is a harmless superstition
enough, that the marshes of which Homer speaks, as pasturing the
flocks of Erichthonius, were those which now surround these springs,
and which were, doubtless, much more extensive before an artificial
watercourse was cut.
     Next day we turned our horses' heads towards the sea, and
retraced the route that we had followed in the dark on the day of our
arrival in the Troad. I rode with our host, conversing with him upon
his experiences as a farmer as we cantered along over the swelling
eminences which border the plain of Troy, properly so called, covered
with the prickly oak, and with another species of oak which produces
the galls of commerce. Then, crossing the plain itself, we arrived at
the site of Novum Ilium and the scene of Dr. Schliemann's excava
tions. Here we examined the ruins pretty carefully, and came to the
conclusion that, whether Dr. Schliemann is or is not right in suppos
ing he has found the site of Troy, he has certainly found the site of a.
city of vast antiquity ; and here I will suspend my narrative for a few
minutes in order to read to you, by the kind permission of Sir John
Lubbock, a letter which he has just received from Dr. Schliemann,
and which will give you some idea of that gentleman's work, and of
the spirit which animates him.
                                                 ,      Trot, April 10th, 1873.
    Your Excellency is respectfully informed that, in company of Mrs. Schliemann,
I have resumed the excavations on the 1st February, and have worked over since
with 120 to 150 labourers. Our first occupation was to dig up the site of the
temple on the north side of the Pcrgamos, for I supposed that a substruction wall,
which I had discovered there last year, would lead us to the ancient Trojan temple
of Minerva. But the only result of this enormous excavation was to lay bare a
large part of that wonderful substruction wall which once covered the whole of
the N.E. slope of the hillock, whilst it is now 80 metres distant from the eastern,
and 40 metres from the northern descent. There is certainly no other mount in
the world which has increased in width to that extent, and the wonderful thing
is here—that only a layer 2 metres in thickness belongs to the time of from about
700 before Christ until now, and all the remainder of the rubbish derives from the
nations which had settled here before the arrival of the Greek colony.
    Our second great excavation was that of a vast building, 24 metres broad by
100 long, which I had struck by accident in digging for the great tower in a S.E.
direction. The numerous marble columns, &c., prove that this building had been
in the Corinthian style, and the inscriptions I found there prove that it was the
" Minerva " temple. Hoping to find in its depths the most ancient '' Minerva "

1873.]                     A Fortnight in Asia Minor.                          123
temple, we went on excavating it, and removed all its stones and pavements
except the 8. and N. walls and a reservoir. The foundations of the temple reach
nowhere deeper than 2 metres, and from this depth off, pottery, weapons, in fact
everything, are entirely different from anything you see in any museum. Please
observe that the Minerva temple's foundations are just 6 metres above the great
tower, on which I found a large house with eight chambers, and in one of the
larger rooms the skeletons of two warriors with helmets on, both helmets broken,
but their upper part is well preserved, and consists of a lower and an upper piece
into which the \6<pos tmrovpis was fastened ; both pieces are what Homer calls
the <pi\os, and therefore of the highest importance to science. With one of the
skeletons I found a long lance ; one of the skulls is broken, the other is well
 preserved, of large size, but very narrow. The house is built of small stones
joined with earth, and on some parts of the inner walls you see remnants of the
clay covering, which is usually painted yellow, but in one room it is white. In
some chambers the floor is of stones, in others it has been of planks, as is shown
by the fire-mark, which goes in a horizontal line all around the lower parts of the
rooms; there is also one wall which forms a half-circle. I found in the house a
vast quantity of beautiful pottery, also some idols of the owl-headed Ilian
Minerva, and several goblets on which her owl's head has a helmet; also a
number of vases on which the owl-headed goddess is represented holding her two
arms upright. * * * *
    If I had no other proof this owl-headed Minerva, which is constantly called
yXavKorrts by Homer, would alone prove that I am digging in the ruins of the city
to which Homer gives the name of Troy. It has been objected that if y\avKairn
means " with an owl's face," /Sowiru must necessarily mean " with an oxen face,"
and Juno must therefore have been represented with face of an ox. Certainly
such has been the case ; but it appears that already, in a pre-Homeric time, people
began to find it ugly that the greatest of all goddesses should have the face of an
ox, and they therefore gave her a human face with large eyes, which she must
already have had in the time of Homer, because, as Juno had retained of her oxen
face only the immense eyes, her former epithet &oSrrts continued to be in use, but
thenceforth it merely meant " with large eyes," so that this epithet is also given
by Homer to mortal women. But if your Excellency would dig up the ruins of
the ancient "Hpaiov, or temple of Juno, on Samos, to the virgin soil, ho would
beyond any doubt find these idols with the face of an ox, just as I find tho
yXavKanris in the depths of Troy.
    I also found in the house many form-stones for casting weapons and implements,
several of them had forms for twelve lances and instruments. Further, a crystal
OKifirTpov button in the shape of a lion of beautiful workmanship. But the most
curious thing I ever found here is a hippopotamus of terra-cotta, discovered in a
depth of 7 metres, painted red, and of such a splendid workmanship that no nrti.-t
now-a-days could make it better. At the foot of the anciint house is an altar
made of a huge stone of mica slate, the upper port of which is cut in the shnpe of
a crescent, and which is placed on a large table of the same stone, and below it is
a gutter for the blood of the animals. On the north side, at the foot of the house,
I find quite a labyrinth of ancient house-walls, all of which denote a tremendous
conflagration. On the west side I have cleared the great tower as far as my frame
house, at the foot of which, in a depth of 9 metres or 30 feet, I find, in the very
tower, a gateway, which is paved with splendid tablets of hard white stones. The
road in the gate slopes in a westerly direction towards the plain, and without any
doubt, by following up this road, one comes to the Skaean gate, which cannot
be further distant than 200 metres from this gate of the Pergamos, for its position
seems to be clearly indicated by the formation of the ground. No sooner bad I
discovered yesterday that splendid gate, when I started a new gigantic excava
tion in order to bring to light the princely buildings to which the gate appears to
lead, and in eighteen working days I shall have dug away the whole of that huge
mass of rubbish which, as your Excellency remembers, separates the great wall from
the tower and my magazine. * * * *
    I hope my excavations here will be terminated by the 15th June, for I intend
                                                                      K 2

124                              Mr. Grant Duff:                        [May 9,
excavating Mycenra and Olympia, and perhaps Delphi. I should be very happy
to see your Excellency here before the end of May ; certainly science would gain
greatly by your Excellency's visit. I would gladly show the drawings of all the
interesting objects found this yenr, for it is beyond human intellect to judge
of mountains of rubbish without having seen what has come out of them, and
particularly without having examined the pottery of each of the strata.—I remain,
           *'                            (Signed)      Dr. Henry Schxiemann.
    To His Excellency Sir John Lubbock, Bart., London.
     Descending from Hissarlik, we wandered for some time in the
plain looking for a ford, which we never found, over a long, narrow
channel having all the appearance of a small deep river, but really an
arm of the sea, into which the Simois discharges its waters when it
has any waters to discharge. At length wo crossed it by a bridge,
and fording the Scamnnder near its mouth, rode on to the tumulus of
Achilles upon the Sigaean promontory, enjoying the spectacle of a
perfect fleet of merchantmen running up the Hellespont with a fine
breeze. Whether the name of Achilles is rightly or wrongly connected
with this spot, wo cannot doubt that it was here that Alexander came
to visit the last home of his great predecessor ; and it is the place
that is described by Byron in some of the finest lines he ever wrote.*
     A long and hot ride took us from this point back to Bounarbashi,
whither we went to see how the excavations of the tumulus of Hector
were getting on, and from which we enjoyed a distant view, not only
of Lemnos, which we had seen the night before, but even of Athos in
Macedonia, the holy mountain of the Greek church at the opposite
side of the archipelago.
     Hero we lingered till the sun had set ; then, picking our way slowly
down the rough hill of Bounarbashi, we rode home by moonlight, cross
ing the Scamander, at a point where a close, heavy smell bore witness
to the fact that, at certain hours and certain times, many parts of this
district are dangerous from fever. Arrived at the farm, we found the
dogs of the establishment very much on the alert, and soon discovered
the cause, for not only were the jackals very near and very noisy, but
a hyena had come prowling about to add his unlovely voice to their
chorus. Thus ended our third day upon the plains of Troy.
     From these scenes of poetic and legendary interest wo passed to
others whose importance is purely historical ; for our next visit was to
Alexandria Troas.
     Retracing our steps to the bottom of tho hill of Bounarbashi, and
leaving the tumulus of Hector far on the left, we arrived after five
hours' riding, chiefly through oak-scrub, at the great Vallonca forest,
which spreads far and wide over and around the ruins of that place,
which are still known as Eski Stamboul—Old Constantinople.
     Alexandria Troas lies near the sea, and within view of all ships
making for the mouth of tho Dardanelles. Hence it was one of the
first classical sites in these countries which became familiar to the
                * 'The Bride of Abydos,' Canto II., ii., iii., and iv.

1873.]                  A Fortnight in Asia Minor.                     125
people of the west. One large mass of building, which was peculiarly-
prominent, received from mariners the name of the Palace of Priam,
though I need not say that Priam had nothing whatever to do with it.
That building, however, although it still stands, has been shorn of its
glories, for the Turks have used it as a quarry, and carried off many
of tho huge blocks, of which it was built, to Constantinople, and else
where. Alexandria Troas was founded by one of Alexander's generals,
and received from another of them, who afterwards became possessed
of it, tho name of his great master ; but in common parlance the word
Alexandria appears to have been dropped, and we find it spoken of in
the New Testament simply as Troas. It is a spot of peculiar interest
to the European traveller, bocause it was here that St. Paul had that
vision of a man of Macedonia begging him to come over to the oppo
site coast, which has had so important an influence upon the lives of
us and of our ancestors for many hundred years. It was here, too,
that ho met St. Luke, who was destined to become his biographer,
and who, through that biography, which we know as the Acts of the
Apostles, has himself exercised so remarkable an influence upon
Christian history. St. Luke was not, however, a native of Troas. He
appears to have been a European, born at or settled in the seaport of
Neapolis in Macedonia, still a place of some commercial importance
under the name of Cavalla.
     We passed the night of tho day on which we had visited the site
of Alexandria Troas in a small town not for off, the " descendant bien
descendu" of a city which was once, in the days of Constantino,
within an ace of becoming the capital of the world. Hero we were
lodged in the house of an Armenian gentleman engaged in the Val-
lonea trade. The Vallonea of commerce, as some, perhaps, of you
are aware, is largely used for tanning, and plays no inconsiderable
part in the export trade of Asia Minor. It is the rough cup of the
acorn of the Quercus ce.gilops, and its name is simply a corruption of
the old Greek word for acorn, [3a\avos. * * * *
     Not far from Alexandria Troas there rises a hill, which forms a
conspicuous object from most parts of the Troad, and is known to tho
natives as Chigri. This hill we were anxious to ascend, partly for the
sake of tho view, and partly to explore the ruins of the very consider
able Greek city of Neandria, which stood upon the top of it. We
wore not disappointed in either purpose. Tho viow is a very noble
one, although Chigri is too distant from tho plain of Troy, properly
so called, to enable one to discern its features with sufficient accuracy,
and the vast walls of Neandria are really a most surprising monument.
How so large a place stuck on the top of on eminence, which might
fairly think itself entitled to be called a mountain rather than a hill,
was ever supplied with the ordinary articles of consumption, it is not
easy to understand. As we descended we came upon a village of
Yurucks. These people, who are truo Turks in blood, lead a half or
wholly nomad existence all through the regions of which I am speak
ing. This particular colony of Yurucks lived in hovels, but both

126                          Mr. Grant Duff:                      [May 9,
before and afterwards we came upon some who lived in black tents,
not in anything that could even aspire to the dignity of a hovel. The
tent dwellers did not, however, seem to be by any means very poor.
One of the ladies of our party penetrated into one of the tents where a
woman was lying ill, and reported that it was full of carpets, and not
uncomfortable.
    It was on the southern slopes of Chigri that I came for the first
time in this district upon the myrtle. The scarcity of this shrub
shows how comparatively cold a winter climate this country has, con
sidering its latitude. In Italy the myrtle grows in vast abundance,
far to the north of Constantinople ; but a Russian botanist whom I
met at Therapia told me that he believed he had found on the Princes
Islands, in tho Sea of Marmora, the most northern station for the
myrtle in this part of the world.
     Winding round the base of Chigri through huge boulders of
granite, from under which here and there peeped the lovely little
cyclamen, we reached an ancient quarry, whence at some remote period
— probably in the days of the Roman Empire— a number of huge
columns had been hewn out of the granite. On this spot and on the
road between it and the sea, there are, I think, eleven of these giants,
37 ft. high by 5 ft. 3 in. in diameter. No one knows who cut them or
for what edifice they were designed. They reminded me of a scene in
southern Sicily, where on the edge of one of tho wild Palmetto wastes
I once came upon some huge drums of columns that were evidently
meant to form a part of the mighty temples of Selinus, lying there
unused and unthought of some 2000 years after the temples of Selinus
had been shaken into a mass of ruins.
     From the granite quarries of Troas, an easy ride of about an hour
and a half ought to have brought us to our night quarters, but a not-
too-wise negro, who was one of our guides, and very confident in his
local knowledge, led us astray, and we had some extremely rough
scrambling before we and our horses extricated ourselves from the
mountain defiles into which we had been taken, and came down
upon a pleasant and level track, at the end of which rose the minarets
of Ineh.
     At Ineh our party divided, some returning to the farm, but I, with
three others, riding over the plain in the direction of Ida to a place
called Bairamitch. The journey, one of about twenty miles, was
accomplished without adventures, and was not very interesting. At
 Bairamitch wo were most hospitably received by the Governor, who
lent me an admirable horse to replace a hired one which was a little
 overdone, and after three hours more we arrived at Evjilar, which lies
 by the banks of the Scamander on the slopes of Ida. Tho ride from
 Bairamitch was sufficiently picturesque, more especially two portions
 of it ; first, where we crossed a branch of the Scamander, and looked
 up along its course shaded by beautiful oriental planes, and secondly,
 when the ex-robber chief, who had undertaken to make the necessary
 arrangements for our going up Ida, received us at Evjilar by torch-light.

 1873.J                    A Fortnight in Asia Minor.                  127
     We passed along, the Scamander flowing in a rapid stream between
 rocks on our left, and soon reached on the right the noble pines which,
 here replacing the cypress, shade the tombs of the rude forefathers of
 Evjilar, whilst straight in front stood "topmost Gargarus," looking
 worthy to be the seat of Zeus, as is told in the 14tk book of the Iliad.
     Our ex-robber chief, who, by the way, was careful to have us
 informed that his robberies had been dictated by very different
 motives from those which are so common in Greece, had provided us
 with some picturesque and armed barbarians as guides, rather than as
 escort (for Ida is just at present quite safe), and following their lead
 we were soon amongst the oak woods. * * * *
     Very beautiful was the clearing of the mist off the mountain—
               " The swimming vapour sloped athwart the glen,
                 Put forth an arm, and crept from pine to pine,
                 And loitered slowly drawn."
     Still, I should be giving you an entirely false impression if I led
 you to believe that Ida, as we saw it, or Ida, indeed, as it must be even
 in spring, is at all like the Ida of the Laureate's fancy. It is very
 beautiful, but it is as the real Yarrow was to the Yarrow Which
 Wordsworth dreamt of.
     More especially did I search in vain for any spot that appeared
 to me to be like the place where Paris was judge of the goddesses,
 although I am bound to say that one of our party could not subscribe
 to this view.
     I nover in travelling was reminded of that beautiful description
except once, when turning sharply round a corner on Pentelicus, I
came upon a spot where the white marble out of which so many in
 comparable statues had been carved, lay bathed in a perfect flood of
the bright yellow Sternbergia. Then, indeed, the lines from GSnone
flashed into my mind—
                 " And at their feet the crocus brake like fire,
                   Violet, amaracus, and asphodel,
                   Lotus and lilies."
     By the way, what has gained such a place in poetry for so very
unpoetical a plant as the asphodel ? The asphodel is the plant which
used to be commoner than it is in our gardens under the name of the
silver rod, and it covers great breadths of country in many of the
classical regions, more especially in Sicily. I never could see that it
had the twentieth part of the merit of unnumbered plants which grow
in the same regions, and have been left unsung.
     But I am digressing, and must return to the oak woods.
     We soon found that great changes had taken place since our com
panion, to whose local knowledge we trusted, had been last upon the
mountain, some fifteen years before. The whole management of the
forests upon Ida had been altered. The old paths had disappeared,
and for miles together there was nothing that could, by any stretch of

128                         Mr. Grant Duff:                       [May 9,
courtesy, be called a track by any animal less given to climbing than
a goat.
     Long before we arrived at the spot, where under a mighty wall of
 limestone, the Scamander comes out of a dark and ice-cold cave, which
 has been explored for about 150 yards, but has still many secrets for
 the Alpine Club, we discovered that, so far from taking only five
 hours to go up and down, we should unquestionably take more than
 that even to go up. And so it proved, for considerably more than
 six hours had gone by, when having crossed the long belt of pines
which extends from the end of the oak woods to the limit of arboreal
vegetation, we entered upon the bare region of mica schist rock and
looso stones, the so-called Phalacra of the Ancients, which forms the
 summit of Gargarus, itself the summit of the long range of Ida.
     As we advanced I kept a sharp look-out for any flowers which the
long-continued drought might have spared, and I have since had my
scanty spoils carefully examined and identified at Kew. I found in
blossom one specimen, and one only of a Digitalis— the lcevigata, which
must a few weeks before have been extremely conspicuous, for I passed
many plants of it dried up and shrivelled. Higher up a crocus, per
haps Spceiosus, was growing in great quantities, and higher still near
the limit to which the pine ascends, a prickly Astragalus, which is, I
am told, either the Aristatus or very near it, was found in much
abundance.
     The vegetation of the Phalacra is amusingly unlike that which
Homer' describes as having sprung up at the command of Zeus, in that
locality. The Phalacra is as bare as the top of Ben Nevis, and not
very unlike it. I found upon it a small Alsine, a dwarfed yellow
Contaurea of the Cyanus group, and a small prickly Dianthus, which
has been named for me Erinaceue, and which, growing in small hum
mocks, has a strong general resemblance to the Silene acaulis of our
own higher mountains.
      There was a good deal of haze in the distance, though the sky was
cloudless ; but the summit of Ida is too far distant from any place which
was over imagined to bo Troy, for any one less keen sighted than the
Ruler of Olympus himself, to see that city ; let alone the movements
of rival armies. I should guess it nearly forty miles, as the crow
flies, from Hissarlik, and not much less from Bounarbashi.
     On tho northern side the view was not repaying, for we had seen
all wo saw, better from a lower elevation. The view on the southern
side was repaying, for it wus new to us and very beautiful. There at
our feet half veiled by soft mist, was the Gulf of Adramyttium, and a
small cluster of islands known as the Moschonisi, which lie on tho
landward side of tho channel of Lesbos. There, too, was Lesbos
itself, with just a peep of Scio in the remote distance. The range of
Ida divides two widely differing climates. To the north of it the
winds sweeping from Scythia prevent the growth of plants which are
intolerant of frost, while to the south of it the lemon and many other
trees flourish, which arc not at home in the Troad. We wore too far

1873.]                 A Fortnight in Ana Minor.                    129
away to see details of this kind, but the appearance of the country
was in harmony with the fact, and we could not forget that as we
turned towards the north we were looking towards Thrace, and as
wo turned towards tho south we were looking towards Ionia.
     At length, turning our back on the tomb of the Turkish saint
which now crowns the mountain of Zeus and Here, we descended by
a route which was made much longer than it need have been by tho
necessity for keeping in the moonlight amid these rugged solitudes.
And a glorious moonlight it was, searching out every recess of tho
mighty hills, and flooding crags and pinewood with its beams ! * * * *
     Wo were right glad to reach Evjilar, after an absence of just
twelve hours. Here rest and some Turkish coffee soon rovived us.
We mounted our now fresh horses, and by midnight wero back at
Bairamitch, with its friendly Governor.
     The next day dawned bright and cool ; and, turning away from
Ida, or rather from the great range of Ida—for I take it that nearly
all the hills in these parts were loosely called Ida—we crossed tho
Scamander for the last time, and struck right north for the town of
tho Dardanelles. I have seldom enjoyed a more perfect ride upon a
more perfect day. Soon after leaving Bairamitch we passed a little
hamlet ; and then for hours and hours our path lay among hills
covered from foot to summit with that same exquisite light green
pine which clothes the Isthmus of Corinth, and made tho " fading
garlands " of the Isthmian games. All this country is full of eagles.
In fact, we saw more eagles than any other birds ; and at one moment
a member of our party counted no less than fifteen in sight.
    At last, long after a moon as beautiful as that of the night before
had lit us for some honrs on our way, we got clear of the woody
defiles through which we had been journeying, and came out upon -the
plains that lie between them and the sea. A ride of about one hour
and a half or two hours brought us to the edge of tho Hellespont ;
and we followed along its soft rippling waves till we forded the river
Rhodius, and entered tho town of the Dardanelles, in which every
minaret had a chaplet of lamps in honour of the Sultan's birth
day. •*'*.'
    Next morning we embarked on board an Austrian Lloyd's steamer,
and were soon out of the Hellespont.
    We lay off Tenedos a long time, and had leisure to learn by heart
tho features of its wretched little capital, with its picturesque forts
and long line of windmills; time, too, to wonder how a place that
must always have been so insignificant had had the good luck to
make such a noise in the world. Its most considerable product
nowadays would appear to be wine—not that thero is very much of
that. Some, however, that we tasted was not to be despised. From
Tenedos we ran along the coast, with distant views of Alexandria
Troas, and of Chigri rising behind it, seeing, too, well the high
lands across which St. Paul must have travelled when ho walked
across to Assos, sending tho rest of his company round by sea. At

  130                          Mr. Grant Duff:                       [May 9,
  length we reached Cape Baba, the ancient Lcctum, the westernmost
  prolongation of the range of Ida; and, running close under it, with
  Lesbos, the island of Sappho, beautifully seen in front, we shaped
  our course to the eastward, as if we were going up the Gulf of Adra-
  myttium.
      Soon, however, just as the sun was setting, we turned to the south, and
  passed down the channel between Lesbos and the mainland, till we cast
  anchor in front of the town of Mytilene, which not only keeps its old
  Greek name, but has given that name to the whole Island of Lesbos.
      A line drawn almost directly inland from a point on the shoro
  opposite the place where we were lying would have struck Per-
  gamus, which was, as you remember, one of the seven churches, and
  which before the Christian period had been the site of a brilliant
 monarchy, to which monarchy learning owes, if not the invention, at
 least the improvement, of parchment. A little further on is the mouth
 of the river Caicus, which separated Mysia from /Eolia, and another
 place at which I would have given a good deal to have landed, because
 although it never has had its proper fame in the world, the time
 will, I trust, come when wo shall raise statues in honour of its
 citizens. The place to which I allude is Cyme, and the reason
 why I hope we shall do so is this :—The inhabitants of Cyme were
 the fathers of free-trade. It is hardly possible to believe it, but
 wo are positively assured that the inhabitants of this little town, in
 spite of the contempt that was poured upon them by the eleven other
cities of iEolia, stuck steadily for 300 years to their determination
not to raise any taxation on either imports or exports. Our own
enlightened country, in the midst of what is called a system of per
fect free trade, raises millions upon millions on her imports and
exports.
     When morning dawned we were running up the Gulf of Smyrna,
and ere long the houses of the Levantine capital began to rise out of
the water. We landed betimes, and were soon disembarrassed of any
illusions which the aspect of the city, as seen from the sea, might havo
raised in our minds. Save that it is built upon a flat, Smyrna has
every inconvenience of Constantinople, with no compensating advan
tages. The hotels are worse, the mosquitoes are more active, the
streets are quite as dirty, and there is nothing like the same amount of
colour or costume.
     The line of railway, which is worked by an English company, and
which runs from Smyrna to Aidin, the ancient Tralles, and the centre
in these degenerate days of the fig-trade, is not very studious of the
comfort of travellers in arranging its time-tables, and so it was neces
sary, in order to go and return from Ephesus in one day, that wo
should take a special train.
       *******
     Arrived at Ephesus, our first care was to explore the excavations
on the site of the temple of Diana, which are now being made by English
sappers and native workmen, under the superintendence of an archi

1873.]                   A Fortnight in Asia Minor.                  131
tect of the name of Woods, who was the first to discover the site of
this famous edifice. Antiquaries build many hopes upon his researches,
and some interesting objects have already been sent hence to the
British Museum.
    Escaped from these unfinished, and as yet not very intelligible
excavations, we proceeded to visit in their order all the more interest
ing points of Ephesus, which once spread far and wide over all the
desolate hills and more desolate marshes amidst which we wandered ;
for Ephesus was a place of first-rate importance, one of those busy,
seething, turbulent centres of human life of which there were not a
few in the Roman world, and amongst which Alexandria stood pre
eminent.
    One of the first places where we stopped is the cave which has
been identified with the story of the seven sleepers, those Ephesian
youths who, taking refugo with their dog from the persecution of
Diocletian, slept for 200 years, and returned to Ephesus to find,
to their utter astonishment, that the whole city had become Christian.
The Mahometan religion has taken possession of this legend, and
has, I am happy to say, accommodated the dog, whose name, it
appears, was Ketmehr, with a place in Paradise, which, I have no
doubt, like most of his kind, he richly deserves.
    The next spot that detained us for any time was the theatre,
attractive in itself, like all theatres of the ancient world, which form
such a contrast to tho bloodstained and hateful amphitheatres, but
peculiarly interesting, from the fact that this was the scene of the
tumult of Demetrius and the craftsmen, which is told so vividly in
the Acts of the Apostles.
    It lies on the edge of a hill, tier above tier of white marble seats,
and must have looked as so many of these theatres did over the sea,
which in old times came up far further into the plain of Ephesus than
it does at present. * * * *
    A short ride from this point brought us to the ruin, absurdly
called the prison of St. Paul, but which well rewarded our climb by
the view which it afforded of tho sea with the sites of Colophon, one
of the places which claimed to be the birthplace of Homer, Lebedos
famous in tho annals of the stage, and Teos the homo of Anacreon, to
be seen or guessed at in tho distance. The brief October day was
already done, when, after a long circuit amongst ruins and tombs, we
returned to the station, and to Smyrna.
    The line from Smyrna to Aidin runs south-east from Smyrna, but
another English company has carried a lino to the north-east.
    By this line we started one morning, and, passing along the
northern side of the beautiful Gulf of Smyrna, glided round the base
of the volcanic range of Sipylus, and followed the valley of the
Hermus to the exquisitely situated town of Manisa, the ancient Mag
nesia ad Sipylum, which lies between the river and tho hills, sur
rounded by great cotton fields in which the people were busily
engaged in picking tho ripe bolls. From Manisa we skirted the base

132                          Mr. Grant Duff:                      [May 9,
of Sipylus, passing tho famous rock bas-relief of the Niobe, one of
tho oldest sculptural monuments of the Greek world.
    At length we arrived at Cassaba, and mounting the horses that
had been provided for us, rode off to the eastward. Our course lay
along one of the great roads of the Turkish empire, and one of tho
oldest linos of communication in the world—the valley of the Hermus
—up and down which there is a constant stream of traffic. Every
few miles we met long strings of camels, or saw them resting by the
side of their loads a little way to the right or left.
    In front the plain extended for miles and miles, and several days
of riding beyond our destination would hardly have brought us to tho
end of it. Still there was nothing monotonous in the effect, for on
either side as well as behind stood up the most fascinatingly lovely
mountains. The forms more especially of Sipylus, on which we looked
back, and of Tmolus, which bounds the valley of the Hermus on the
south, are a constant delight to the eye. At last, after some five hours'
riding, we saw some scattered fragments of ruin, and forded a little
stream which crossed our path, on its way to the Hermus. The little
stream was no other than Pactolus of the Golden Sands, and the broken
fragments of ruin were all that remained of the mighty Sardis, the scat
of Croesus and the Lydian kings, whose story fills half the first book
of Herodotus.
    Wo pitched our tents in the shadow of- a ruin in a place where wo
ought, in accordance with all rule, to have caught fevers, which, how
ever, more by good luck than by good guiding we did not do ; and
after visiting next morning tho ruined Ionic templo of Cybele, tho
same which at a later period of Greek history—perhaps in the ago of
Alexander—replaced the temple, whose destruction by the Ionians led
to the burning by the Persians of the temples of Greece, we crossed
the Hermus, not far, I presume, from the spot where Cyrus overthrew
Croesus, and turned north to the extraordinary group of tumuli, called
by the Turks the " thousand and one barrows," and which we know
from Herodotus to be the tombs of the Lydian kings.
    Our destination was the largest of these—the tomb of Alyattes, the
father of Croesus, the building of which is fully described by Herodotus,
and which is compared by him to tho Pyramids. This tumulus has
been opened, and one of us penetrated into the very centre of it, to tho
infinite disgust of the bats. I preforred climbing to the top, from
which I enjoyed a magnificent view over all the plain of the Hermus
and the Lake of Gyges, which this huge tomb of Alyattes, being on tho
scale of a natural, not an artificial hill, had hitherto shrouded from the
view. The district over which I was looking was probably tho first
spot known as Asia—a name which, spreading little by little, has now
covered the wholo of the vast continent that extends from the shore of
the Egaean to the shores of the Pacific, unless, indeed, wo aro to seek
the first Asia a little further to the south, close to Ephesus and the
banks of tho Cayster.

1873.]                 A Fortnight in Ana Minor.                    133
    After lingering some time amongst those tombs of the Lydiau
kings, of which Sir John Lubbock counted sixty in sight at once, wo
returned across the plain by another route in some fow hours to Cas-
saba, were hospitably, and, indeed, sumptuously, entertained by the
railway company, and were carried over the fifty-eight miles that
separate Cassaba from Smyrna in two hours by a special train. This
was the end of our brief sojourn in these interesting lands.
    We embarked about two o'clock in the afternoon of the next day
on board a large French steamer, which destiny having determined to
make amends to us for the horrors of our middle passage from the
Dardanelles, we had almost to ourselves. Before we had cleared tho
roads the Imbat, or daily sea-breeze, began to blow furiously, and tho
gusts that came down the gullies of the range of the " Two Brothers "
upon our left gave promise of bad weather outside. The violence of
the wind, however, began to moderate before we had reached the
group of small islands close to the site of the ancient Clazomenae, on
which I looked with respect, because it has bequeathed to the world
some of the most exquisite coins which have ever been struck, one of
which by the way, a silver one forming part of a noble collection
which was secured last summer by the British Museum, was valued
at fully 200Z. We moved steadily on, and ere evening were off the site
of Phocaea, which we gazed upon with all the more interest because
our destination was that far-off Marseilles, which had been founded
by refugees from Phocaea when the generals of the Great King wero
ravaging Ionia. The sun set lurid and angry over Psara, the sceno
of one of the most terrible tragedies in the contest betweon the Greeks
and the Turks, and the ancient Mount Mimas, the Kara Bournou or
Black Cape of the Turks well deserved its name, as we, without any
of those hesitations to which Nestor owns in the Third Book of the
Odyssey, turned running close under it into the channel of Scio,
where the Psariot Canaris performed the most remarkable exploit of
the Greek War of Independence, by attaching a fire-ship to tho
gigantic vessel of the Capitan Pasha. When we were somewhere off
Ritri, the ancient Erythrae, so called from the red colour of its rocks
which contrast with those of the Black Cape to the northward, the
wind became very high, and we found it so rough that we began to
fear that the captain did not take too gloomy a view of the subject
when he talked of being obliged next day to run for the safe harbour
of Milo, an anticipation which happily was not realized. It gavo,
however, very appropriately, a further tingo of melancholy to our
thoughts as we said good-by to Asia, and came to tho end of a fort
night which was very agreeable to us, and which I wish I could
deceive myself into thinking I had succeeded in making not altogether
uninteresting to you.
                                                          [M. G. D.J

184                          Mr. Spottiawoode                    [May 23,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 16, 1873.
      Sir Henrt Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
                    Professor Sidney Colvin, M.A.
        On the Limits of Certainty in Taste or in Artistic Judgment.
                             [Abstract deferred.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 23, 1873.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                               in the Chair.
    William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. M.A. Treas. R.S. Sec. RX
                      On Spectra of Polarized Light.
Some apology is perhaps due to you on my part for proposing that you
should come together for such elementary experiments as those which
 I have to offer you this evening ; but the growing importance of the
 subject of polarization, both in general and in astronomical physics,
and the increased instrumental means at our command for the study
and the exhibition of the phenomena, all seem to indicate that an
 hour may be not unprofitably spent in trying to obtain a clearer
insight into the fundamental parts of the subject.
     The object which I propose on this occasion is to verify experi
 mentally the explanation furnished by the wave theory of the colours
produced by crystal plates when submitted to polarized light. Not
because the wave theory or its conclusions need in themselves any
verification, but because the line of argument ought to be continuous
throughout,—not like an electric current which leaps from one part of
a broken conductor to another. Each line, whether theoretical or
experimental, should be complete and continuous from one end to
another.
    Having this object in view, I propose to reproduce, by way of
memorandum, a few of the phenomena in question, so as to bring
them and their analysis in as close juxtaposition as possible ; and
for this purpose I have arranged two electric lamps, each furnished
with a complete polarizing apparatus, but the second having in addi
tion a pair of dispersive prisms, forming, in fact, a spectroscope. In
the first arrangement I would draw your particular attention to a

1873.]                on Spectra of Polarized Light.                  135
Nicol's prism or polarizer, superior in respect of size, and in the
opinion of those best capable of judging, not inferior in quality to
any hitherto constructed. We have, in fact, before us, first the pair of
Nicols constructed by Mr. Ladd, which accompanied Professor Tyndall
in his journey to the United States ; secondly, a larger one made for
him by Mr. Browning; and thirdly, the largest of all, by Messrs.
Tisley and Spiller. And lest it should seem that in thus proceeding
from large to larger we have been aiming merely at indefinite size, I
may explain that my object has been always a strictly definite one, viz.
to obtain a polarizer large enough to transmit the entire beam which
issues from the lantern ; in this I have now completely succeeded.
     Now it is well known that if a plate of selenite sufficiently thin be
placed between two such Nicol's prisms, or, more technically speaking,
between a polarizer and analyzer, colour will be produced. And the
question proposed is, What is the nature of that colour ? is it simply a
pure colour of the spectrum, or is it compound, and if so, what are its
component parts ? The answer given by the wave theory is in brief
this : In its passage through the selenite plate the rays have been so
 separated in the direction of their vibrations and in the velocity of
 their transmission, that, when re-compounded by means of the ana
 lyzer, they have in some instances neutralized one another. If this
 be the case, the fact ought to be visible when the beam emerging from
 the analyzer is dispersed by the spectroscope ; for then we have the
 rays of all the different colours ranged side by side, and if any be
 wanting, their absence will be shown by the appearance of a dark
 band in their place in the spectrum. But not only so ; the spectrum
 ought also to give an account of the other phenomena exhibited by the
 selenite when the analyzer is turned round, viz. that when the angle
 of turning amounts to 45° all trace of colour disappears ; and also
 that when the angle amounts to 90° colour reappears, not, however,
 the original colour, but one complementary to it.
    You now see in the spectrum of the reddish light produced by
the selenite a broad but dark band in the blue ; when the analyzer
is turned round the band becomes less and less dark, until when the
angle of turning amounts to 45° it has entirely disappeared. At this
stage each part of the spectrum has its own proportional intensity,
and the whole produces the colourless image seen without the spectro
scope. Lastly, as the turning of the analyzer is continued, a dark
band appears in the red, the part of the spectrum complementary to
that occupied by the first band ; and the darkness is most complete
when the turning amounts to 90°. Thus we have from the spectro
scope a complete account of what has taken place to produce the
original colour and its changes.
    It is further well known that the colour produced by a selenite, or
other crystal plate is dependent upon the thickness of the plate.
And, in fact, if a series of plates be taken, giving different colours,
their spectra are found to show bands arranged in different positions.
The thinner plates show bands in the parts of the spectrum nearest

136                           Mr. Spottiswoode                    [May 23,
to the violet, where the waves are shorter, and consequently give rise
to redder colours ; while the thicker show hands nearer to the red,
where the waves are longer, and consequently supply bluer tints.
    When the thickness of the plate is continually increased, so that
the colour produced has gone through the complete cycle of the
spectrum, a further increase of thickness causes a reproduction of the
colours in the same order ; but it will be noticed that at each recur
rence of the cyclo the tints become paler, until when a number of
cycles have been performed, and the thickness of the plate is con
siderable, all trace of colour is lost. Let us now take a series of
plates, the first two of which, as you see, give colours ; with the others
which are successively of greater thickness the tints are so feeble that
they can scarcely be distinguished. The spectrum of the first shows
a single band ; that of the second, two ; showing that the second series
of tints is not identical with the first, but that it is produced by the
extinction of two colours from the components of white light. The
spectra of the others show series of bands more and more numerous in
proportion to the thickness of the plate, an array which may be
increased indefinitely. The total light, then, of which the spectrum
is deprived by the thicker plates is taken from a greater number of its
parts ; or, in other words, the light which still remains is distributed
more and more evenly over the spectrum ; and in the same proportion
the sum total of it approaches more and moro nearly to white light.
    These experiments wero mado more than thirty years ago by the
French philosophers, MM. Foucault and Fizeau.
    If instead of selenite, Iceland spar, or other ordinary crystals, wo
use plates of quartz cut perpendicularly to tho axis, and turn the
analyzer round as before, tho light, instead of exhibiting only one
colour and its complementary with an intermediate stage in which
colour is absent, changes continuously in tint ; and the order of tho
colour depends partly upon the direction in which the analyzer is
turned, and partly upon the character of the crystal, i. e. whether it is
right-handed or left-handed. If we examine the spectrum in this
case we find that the dark band never disappears, but marches from
one end of the spectrum to another, or vice versd, precisely in such a
direction as to give rise to the tints seen by direct projection.
    The kind of polarization effected by the quartz plates is called
circular, while that effected by the other class of crystals is called
plane, on account of the form of the vibrations executed by the
molecules of eother ; and this leads us to examino a little more closely
the nature of the polarization of different parts of these spectra of
polarized light.
    Now, two things are clear : first, that if light be plane-polarized,
that is, if all the vibrations throughout the entire ray are rectilinear
and in one plane, they must in all their bearings have reference to a
particular direction in space, so that they will be differently affected
by different positions of the analyzer. Secondly, that if the vibrations
be circular, they will be affected in precisely the same way (whatever

1873.]                 on Spectra of Polarized Light.                 137
that may be) in all positions of the analyzor. This statement merely
recapitulates a fundamental point in polarization. In fact, plane-
polarized light is alternately transmitted and extinguished by the
analyzer as it is turned through 90° ; while circularly-polarized light
remains to all appearance unchanged. And if we examine carefully
the spectrum of light which has passed through a selenite, or other
ordinary crystal, we shall find that, commencing with two consecutive
bands in position, the parts occupied by the bauds and those midway
between them are plane-polarized, for they become alternately dark
and bright ; while the intermediate parts, •'. e. the parts at one-fourth
of the distance from one band to the next remain permanently bright.
These are, in fact, circularly polarized. But it would be incorrect to
conclude from this experiment alone that such is really tho case,
because the same appearanco would be seen if those parts were
unpolarized, i. e. in the condition of ordinary lights. And on such a
supposition we should conclude with equal justice that the parts on
either sido of the parts last mentioned (e. g. the parts separated by
eighth parts of the interval between two bands) were partially
polarized. But there is an instrument of very simple construction,
called a " quarter-undulation plate," a plate usually of mica, whose
thickness is an odd multiple of a quarter of a wave length, which
enables us to discriminate between light unpolarized and circularly
polarized. The exact mechanical effect produced upon the ray could
hardly be explained in detail within our present limits of time ; but
suffice it for the present to say that when placed in a proper position,
the plate transforms plane into circular and circular into plane polar
ization. That being so, the parts which were originally banded ought
to remain bright, and those which originally remained bright ought to
become banded during the rotation of the analyzer. The general
effect to the eye will consequently be a general shifting of tho bands
through one-fourth of the space which separates each pair.
    Circular polarization, like circular motion generally, may of course
be of two kinds, which differ only in the direction of the motion.
And, in fact, to convert the circular polarization produced by this
plate from one of these kinds to the other (say from right-handed to
left-handed, or vice versa), we have only to turn the plate round
through 90°. Conversely right-handed circular polarization will be
changed by the plato into plane-polarization in one direction, while
left-handed will be changed into plane at right angles to tho first.
Hence, if the plate be turned round through 9CP we shall see that the
bands are shifted in a direction opposite to that in which they were
moved at first. In this therefore we have evidence not only that the
polarization immediately on either side of a band is circular ; but also
that that immediately on the one side is right-handed, while that
immediately on the other is left-handed.
    If time permitted, I might enter still further into detail, and show
that tho polarization between the plane and the circular is elliptical,
and even the positions of tho longer and shorter axes and the direction
   Vol. VII. (No. 59.)                                           l

138        Mr. Spottiewoode on Spectra of Polarized LigJU.      [May 23,
of motion in each case. But sufficient has, perhaps, been said for our
present purpose.
    Before proceeding to the more varied forms of spectral bends,
which I hope presently to bring under your notice, I should like to
ask your attention for a fow minutes to the peculiar phenomena
exhibited when two plates of selenite giving complementary colours
are used. The appearance of the spectrum varies with the relative
position of the plates. If they are similarly placed, that is as if they
were one plate of crystal, they will behave as a single plate, whose
thickness is the sum of the thicknesses of each, and will produce double
the number of bands which one alone would give ; and when the
analyzer is turned, the bands will disappear and re-appear in their
complementary positions, as usual in the case of plane-polarization.
If one of them be turned round through 45°, a single band will be
seen at a particular position in the spectrum. This breaks into two,
which recede from one another towards the red and violet ende
respectively, or advance towards one another according to the direction
in which the analyzer is turned. If the plate be turned through 45J
in the opposite direction, the effects will bo reversed. The darknese
of the bands is, however, not equally complete during their whole
passage. Lastly, if one of the plates be turned through 90°, no bands
will be seen, and the spectrum will be alternately bright and dark,
as if no plates were used, except only that the polarization is itself
turned through 903.
    If a wedge-shaped crystal be used, the bands, instead of being
straight, will cross the spectrum diagonally, the direction of the
diagonal (dexter or sinister) being determined by the position of the
thicker end of the wedge. If two similar wedges be used with their
thickest ends together, they will act as a wedge whose angle and whoso
thickness is double of the first. If they be placed in the reverse
position they will act as a flat plate, and the bands will again cross
the spectrum in straight lines at right angles to its length.
    If a concave plate be used the bands will dispose themselves in •
fanliko arrangement, their divergence depending upon the distance of
the slit from the centre of concavity.
    If two quartz wedges, one of which has the optic axis parallel to
the edge of the refractory angle, and the other perpendicular to it,
but in one of the planes containing the angle (Babiuet's Compensator ),
the appearances of the bauds are very various.
    The diagonal bands, beside sometimes doubling themselves as with
ordinary wedges, sometimes combine so as to form longitudinal (in
stead of transverse) bands ; and sometimes cross one another so as to
form a diaper pattern with bright compartments in a dark framework,
and vice versa, according to the position of the plates.
    The effects of different dispositions of the interposed crystals
might be varied indefinitely ; but enough has perhaps been said to
show the delicacy of the method of spectrum analysis as applied to
the examination of polarized light.                            | \V . S.]

  1873.] The Earl of Rouse on Radiation of Heat from the Moon.       139
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 30, 1873.
       Sir Hknry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                in the Chair.
               The Earl of Rosse, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I.
 On the Radiation of Heat from the Moon, the Law of its Absorption by
       our Atmosphere, and its Variation in Amount with her Phases.
 In commencing his discourse, Lord Rosse remarked that of the three
 modes of action hy light at a distance, which are believed always, to a
 greater or less extent, to exist together, one only—that of the direct
action of the luminous rays on the eye—had been available to astro
 nomers until very recent times ; and ho read a passage from Arago's
 works, in which he mentions that up to the time at which he wrote
 (1832)* no chemical action of the Moon's light on chloride of silver,
nor heat effect on the most sensitive thermometer, had been detected
in the concentrated rays of the Moon ; also one from Sir J. Herschel's
'Outlines of Astronomy,'')- to the same effect as regards absence of
perceptible heat in the Moon's rays. He then described in order the
successive attempts which have since been made to employ the ther
mopile where tho thermometer had proved of inadequate sensitive
ness. First, Mclloni, having had placed at his disposal a segmental
lens of 3 feet diameter and 3 feet focal length, after one or two
unsuccessful attempts, was able to detect a heating effect due to the
Moon's rays collected at its focus. Then about ten years later (Aug.,
1856), Mr. Fiazzi Smyth, while on Teneriffe, on directing his pile,
armed with its polished conical reflector, alternately towards and away
from the Moon, satisfied himself that the radiant heat was appreciable.
     In 1861 Professor Tyndall experimented with a thermopile armed
with a large tin conical reflector ; but the smoke and heated air from
the surrounding chimneys, which were rather less numerous in the
direction of the Moon than in that to which he turned away his pile,
completely masked, or rather overpowered, the heating effect from the
Moon.
    Professor Joule, in 1863, by means of a cylindrical glass vessel,
              * ' Annuaire du Bureau des Longitudes ' for 1833.
              t Tage 285 (5th edition).
                                                                l2

140                              The Earl of Roste                        [May 30,
divided in a vertical direction by a blackened pasteboard diaphragm,
which extended to within one inch of the cover and of the bottom of the
vessel, and in the upper of which spaces was delicately suspended a
magnetized sewing needle furnished with a glass index, was able to
detect the heat from a pint of water heated 30°, placed in a pan at
9 feet distance, also that of a moonbeam, admitted through an open
ing in a shutter, as it passed across the apparatus.
      In the autumn of 1869 M. Marie-Davy, with a refractor of 9 inches
aperture, detected the Moon's heat in the focus, and estimated the rise
of temperature of the face of his thermopile at about twelve-millionthe
of a degree (Celsius) ; and a little earlier Mr. Huggins worked with
the thermopile, but directed his attention more to the Fixed Stars
than to the Moon.
      During the course of the year 1868* an arrangement was prepared
for measuring the heat in the image of the Moon, formed by the mirror
of the 3-foot reflector at Parsonstown. For the purpose of further con
centrating the heat of this image of 2 - 9 inches mean diameter on to
the face of a thermopile ^rd of an inch diameter, a concave mirror of
3^- inches diameter and 3 inches focal length was employed ; a rock-
salt lens being objectionable from its condensing moisture on its
surface, and, moreover, being hardly procurable of sufficient size.
      To secure greater steadiness of the needle than was otherwise
obtainable, a second similar concave mirror and thermopile were
placed by the side of the first, the similar poles of the thermopiles
 being connected with each other, and the others with the terminals of
 the galvanometer. Thus the deviations due to the Moon's heating
 effect were proportional to the sum of the effects due to each pile sepa
 rately, and those arising from disturbing causes, acting on the two
 piles, to the difference of tho effects due to each pile. To secure still
 greater steadiness of the needle, the two piles of four pairs each,
 which, having been made at different times by Messrs. Elliott, were
 not of equal power, were replaced by two more equal thermopairs
 constructed on the spot.f The apparatus was enclosed on all sides,
 except on that towards the mirror of the telescope, with a box of tin
 and glass, and the lattice-tube was covered with a cloth to keep
 draughts of air from the piles. Two covered wires led from the ther
 mopiles to the galvanometer in the observatory, and the heating effect
 was determined by directing the telescope so that the Moon's image
 fell alternately, for the space of one minute, on each of the two small
 concave mirrors.
      * See Proc. Royal Soc. 1869.
      t In the construction of the thermopairs which were substituted for the thermo
  piles previously employed, the requisite sensitiveness was obtained by making the
  cross-section of the two elements small compared with the area of face, so that a
  smaller proportion of heat might be lost by conduction along the bare. On being
  compared with two of the ordinary construction they were found to be of about
  equal power, and therefore from the simplicity of construction they would appear
  to be deserving of the attention of physicists. (See Proc. Royal Soc. 1870.)

1873.]             on the Radiation of Heat from the Moon.                      141
     The observations made during the seasons 1868-9 and 1869-70,
were found to follow pretty well Lambert's law for the variation of
light with phase. It was found also that a piece of glass which trans
mitted 80 per cent, of the Sun's rays suffered only about 10 per cent,
of the Moon's rays to pass through ; thus a large amount of absorp
tion before radiation from the Moon's surface was shown to take
place.*
     In the earlier experiments no attention had been paid to the cor
rection to be applied for absorption of heat by the Earth's atmosphere ;
but, as the apparatus was gradually improved, it became indispensable
to determine the amount of this correction before attempting to ap
proach more nearly to the law of variation of the Moon's heat with
her Phases than had been done in the earlier investigation.
      By taking long series of readings for lunar heat through the
greatest ranges of zenith distance available, a table expressing the
law for decrease of heat with increase of zenith distance, closely fol
lowing that deduced by Seidel for the corresponding decrease of the
light of the stars, was obtained.'! By the employment of this table, the
determinations of the Moon's heat at various moments of the lunation
 were rendered comparable and available for laying down a more accu
 rate " Phase-curve " than had been previously obtained.^ This curve
 was found to agree more nearly with Professor Zollner's law for the
 Moon's light, on the assumption that her surface acts as if it was
grooved meridionally, the sides of the grooves being inclined at the
 uniform angle of 52° to the surface, than with Lambert's law for a
perfectly smooth spherical surface.
      To supply the want of the diagrams, which in the lecture exhi-
     * Assuming Wollaston's estimate of 800,000 : 1 to be the correct value of the
 proportion between sunlight and that of Full Moon, and the percentage of heat
transmitted by glass to bo 10 per cent, for the Moon's rays, and 80 per cent, for
 the Sun's (the difference being due to absorption before radiation from the Moon's
 surface), the corresponding ratio for solar and lunar heat deduced was 80,000 : 1.
 The later observations on lunar heat would require some modifications of this
 value, but in the present uncertainty as to the value for the proportion between
 sunlight and moonlight for which
                Wollaston gives the value                      801,072
                Bouguer              „                         300,000
                Bond                  „                        470,980
                Zollner, 1st method „                          618,000
                    ,,   2nd „       „                         619,000
 further examination of the question would appear unprofitable.
     t Following the reasoning from which Pouillet concluded that the Earth's
 atmosphere absorbs solar heat as if it were a medium of uniform density of height
 equal to -fc of the Earth's radius, we deduced from the measurement of the Moon's
 heat, a height of J,7 of the earth's radius.
    X In deducing the observations previous to employing them in the formation of
a Phase-curve, corrections were applied for " Augmentation of the Moon's semi-
 diameter," for change in the value of the Moon's distance, for reduction of the
readings of the galvanometer from tangent to arc and variation of the Sun's distance.
 The last was not necessary in deducing the law of atmospheric absorption. Lam
 bert's law for change with Phase was assumed in deducing the absorption law.-

142                                 The Earl of Rosse                               [May 30,
bited the laws of absorption in the atmosphere, and of variation of heat
and light, with the phases, abbreviated tables are appended below.*
    The distribution of light on two white globes, constructed in accord
ance with Lambert's and Zollner's hypotheses, on which a beam from
the electric light was thrown, was shown to be very different in the
two cases ; the brightest spot on the former being at the centre, and
                   Zenith        Light of Stars trans     Moon's Heat trans
                  Distance.    mitted by Atmosphere.    mitted by Atmosphere.
                      o
                       0               1-000                    1-000
                     30                0-984                    0-988
                     40                0-962                    0-958
                     50                0-902                    0-907
                     60                0-800                    0-836
                     70                0-642                    0-698
                     80                0-407                    0-465
                     85                0-208
    N.B.—Beforo entering the Atmosphere the Moon's heat = 1-262, so that at
the Zenith fully |th is absorbed before it readies the Earth's surface.
Distance from Lambert's     Phase-curve Phase-curve for Curve representing Zottner's Formula
 Futt Moon.    Formula.       for Heat Heat transmitted Zotlners Photo
                            (Observed).       by Gtass.   metric Observations. for Moon's Light.
      o
     100           96             44
      90         128              62
      80         165              89
      70         205            117             11-4                88
      60         246            149             16-7              109
      50         286            186             22-0              132                 154
      40         324            228             273               166                 212
      30         355            276             33-5              212                 278
      20         381            335             46-3              271                 346
      10         398            394             64-3              342                 417
       0         404            403             69-5              390                 488
      10         398            367             56-7              327                 417
      20         381            323             44-5              269                 346
      30         355            278             33-5              218                 277
      40         324            234             24-4              167                 213
      50         286            191              18-1             122                 157
      60         246            155              14-5               84                109
      70         205             127             11-8               58                 71
      80         165            103               9-2               49
      90         128              78              6-5                                  —
     100           96             54              3-8              —                   —
      I.          II.           III.              IV.              V.                 VI.
    N.B.—To compare the heat transmitted by glass with Zollner's photometric
observations (Column V.) the quantities in Column IV. must be multiplied by
5-792.

  1873.]          on the Radiation of Heat from the Moon.                    143
 on the latter at 52° on each side from the centre at the time of Full
 Moon, and at other times on the former at the bright limb, from which
 it gradually decreases towards the terminator ; while on the latter
 there is a rapid decrease from the bright limb to a minimum about
 half-way to the terminator, after which it increases again, and then
 fades away on approaching the terminator.
     On examining the Phase-curve which had been obtained, a certain
 want of symmetry on the two sides of Full Moon was perceived, which
 was ascribed to the unequal distribution of mountain and plain on the
 lunar surface, as was shown by a rough diagram of the lunar surface
 with its so-called " seas." It had also been found that the percentage
 of the Moon's heat transmitted by a sheet of glass diminished from
 17-3 per cent. at Full Moon to about 13-3 per cent. at 22^°, 11 per
 cent. at 45°, and 10 per cent. at 67^-° distance from Full Moon ; a cir
 cumstance which might have been accounted for by supposing that
 there is a constant amount of radiant heat coming from the Moon in
 addition to that which, like the light, varies with the Phase, had it not
 been found that as the Moon approached tolerably near the Sun, as for
 instance, on March 27, 1871, when her distance from full was 138°,
 no perceptible amount of heat radiated from her surface.
     The less rapid decrease of the Moon's heat than of her light on
 going farther from Full Moon, and the increase of percentage of heat
transmitted by glass towards the time of Full Moon, may probably
bo explained on the assumption that when the Sun's heat and light
strike the Moon's surface the whole of the former and only a certain
proportion of the latter, depending on the intrinsic reflecting power
or " Albedo " of the surface, leave it again, and consequently the
shaded portions, which are inclined more towards the position of the
Earth at Quadrature than at Full Moon, reflect a larger amount of
heat as compared with the light at the former than at the latter time,
and a greater flatness of the Heat- than of the Light- Phase-curve is
the result.
     With the view of obtaining a decisive result on the question,
whether or not the Moon's surface requires an appreciable time to
acquire the temperatures due to the various amounts of radiant heat
falling on it at different moments, simultaneous determinations of the
amount of the Moon's heat and of her light were made, whenever the
state of the sky allowed of it, during the Eclipse of November 14, 1872.
The Eclipse was a very partial one, only about f\f of the Moon's dia
meter being in shadow ; but although this circumstance, coupled with
the uncertain state of the sky, rendered the observation far less satis
factory than it would otherwise have been, yet it was sufficient to
show that the decline of light and heat as the penumbra came over
the lunar surface and their increase after the middle of the Eclipse
were sensibly proportional.*
    Rather with the view of finding the value of the galvanometer
    * Both were reduced to about one-half what they were before the eclipse.

 144                        Professor Sidney Colvin                     [May 16,
readings in terms of the radiation from a surface of known tempera
ture, and capable of being reproduced by anyone at any future time,
than in the expectation of getting more than the roughest approxima
tion to the temperature of the lunar surface, readings of the galvano
meter were taken when the faces of the piles were alternately exposed
 for periods of one minute to the radiation from two blackened tin
 vessels filled with water of different temperatures. It was thus found
 that were the atmosphere removed, the surfaces of New and Full
 Moon might be respectively replaced by blackened tin vessels of equal
 apparent area to that of the Moon, and at temperatures of 50° and 247a
 Fahrenheit.*
     In conclusion, Lord Rosse expressed a hope that among the many
 subjects which engage the attention of astronomers that of radiation of
heat from the Moon might not be entirely lost sight of, more especially
 by those who live in a more favourable climate for such observations
than that of the British Isles.
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 16, 1873.
      Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.E.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                      Pkofessor Sidney Colvin, M.A.
        On the Limits of Certainty in Taste, or in Artistic Judgment.
                                   [Extracts.]
The taste, or judgment, about which we are going to think, is that
sensibility or sum of sensibilities within us which receives pleasure
from the visible work of man's hands. I meditate no philosophical
discussion of the nature of those sensibilities, nor any categoric survey
of those classes of works which are designed to give them pleasure.
 Every hearer at all conversant with such inquiries would set down as
an impertinence the attempt to do either within the limits of an hour's
 talking. On the other hand, it is safe to take for granted that, con
versant or not, every hearer recognizes within himself the sort of
powers which are meant when he is spoken to of his taste, or artistic
judgment, and the classes of productions which he submits to it ; and
to that recognition, since I shall speak the language of no school, nor
imply any other account of the matters in question than is in use in
daily life, it is for the present purpose safe to trust.
    * In fact, assuming Dulong and Petit's law of radiation to hold, the change of
radiation on going from Now to Full Moon was the same as that produced by raising
the temperature of the water through 197°, the initial temperature being 50° Fahr.

 1873.]        on Certainty in Taste, or in Artistic Judgment.        145
     I suppose there is none of us to whom the sense of a perpetual
 difference of taste has not at some time or another given perplexity.
 If we care for beautiful things, or things we think beautiful, and care
 also for our neighbours, the two kindnesses become sometimes hard
 to reconcile. You are absorbed, in a picture gallery, before some
 work which appeals, it may be, to the strongest powers of admiration
 you have. You meet your friend, and he says, "What, you care
 about that thing ! " or if he knows your susceptibilities, and has a soft
 heart, looks as much, and moves compassionately on. Turn to your
 newspapers, and we all know what kind of consent is to be found
 there. "A," writes one, "has eclipsed himself; who shall say but
 that great artist has set the seal of immortality upon his genius in
 his works, No. —." Of the same, " A," writes another, " has sunk even
 lower than we feared ; no one, after us, will henceforth venture to
 claim merit for this ignominious pretender." That is the way in
 which we judge of contemporary appeals to our artistic sense ; being
 conscious all the while that there ought to be some better agreement ;
 and longing, as human nature will long in this as in weightier things,
 to be one with the majority of our kind ; and that not with any
 ignoble majority of an hour, whom the next hour will silence, but
 with the high and elect majority whose voices, if we could hear them,
 are the spirit of the past and future. Turning to graver instances,
 we know how whole epochs of men have flouted the taste and the arts
 of other epochs, again to have their own flouted in their turn. We
«know how the eighteenth century flouted the arts and taste of the
 fifteenth century, and pitied the " hard manner of Perugino " ; we
 know, too, how the nineteenth century began by turning round upon
 the eighteenth, and what we think of Pope's rhapsodies in honour of
 the dauber Jervas. Or, since we are getting upon individual instances,
 what can be more to the point than to think of the two men who,
 if we had to choose out of all modern Europe, ought assuredly to
 be chosen of these muses the priests—spirits, in Virgil's phrase,—
 smitten through and through with a mighty love, to be the ministers
 of their worship ? The two men I mean are : for one, the German
 Winckelmann, who by passion as much as by learning penetrated a
 hundred years ago into the secrets of the Greek genius, before its best
 works were known, and is the father of the proper lovo and knowledge
 of antiquity in its monuments ; and for the other, who but Mr. Ruskin.
  .... Winckelmann, speaking of architecture, says : " There are no
 good buildings of any kind in Florenco ; Venice is better, because of
 some of the palaces of Palladio." Mr. Ruskin, the child of our century,
 and enthusiast of the Middle Age, has taught us, we know what, about
 Santa Maria del Fiore and Giotto's campanile at Florence, and has
 observed, in a somewhat different spirit from Winckelmann's, we re
 member, on the palaces of Palladio as compared with other buildings
 in Venice
     That such instances of dissenting judgment should be, and threaten
 always to be, is a thing which subjects the lovers of art to varieties of

  146                      Professor Sidney Calvin                  [May 16,
 troublesome questions from some who flatter themselves they have
 placed their affections more wisely. For example, the edifice in which
 I have the honour to address you is the home of the physical sciences,
 niid this hall is the arena of some of the most brilliant and memorable
 of all demonstrations in science. Now assuredly many of the masters
 of science are also enthusiasts in art. But I have, probably we all
 have, friends distinguished in science who are rather disposed to be
 sceptical about art. In their own pursuits they arc made familiar
 with exactness and certainty, and they are disposed to ask for exact
 ness and certainty in all that can occupy the mind of rational beings.
 They expect that positivencss in judgment shall be the sign of cer
 tainty, and vehemence of exactness. They find the lovers of art positive
 indeed and vehement in their judgments ; but not finding those judg
 ments agree—sometimes, as wo have seen, finding them even pretty
 strongly disagree —they ask for a right or wrong. They hear the pro
 fessors of the subject loudly asserting a right and wrong ; they listen, and
 find that two do not assert the same right or the same wrong ; and then,
 perhaps not being very strongly drawn to the study by their own tem
 perament and aptitudes, they pass on, and think slightly of it thereafter.
     Obviously, with one slighting our study on these grounds, we might
 argue thus : You ask for certainty, we might say, but what kind of
certainty? Do you, because your study is a study of the works of
nature, and ours also a study of visible things having their existence,
like the works of nature, in the material order of the universe, do yon
infer that it is a study like your own ? Nay, the objects of our studj»
(which besides are works of the human spirit, and not of nature) do
not exist, like the objects of yours, to prove anything ; they only exist
to please. And when we are positive about right and wrong in the
objects of our study, wo do not assert a fact, but a feeling. Herein
lies the initial difference. We both study visible objects in the first
instance, and it is required for both that our powers of seeing and
observing should be just and vivid. But there are two modes of see
ing justly and vividly. Each sensation of sight has two properties:
the property of awakening feeling within the mind, and the property
of setting the mind to compare and judge. One mode of seeing makes
most of that part in each sensation of sight which consists in feeling,
and is connected with currents of pleasure in the mind; the other
mode of seeing makes the most of that part of each sensation which
consists in comparison and judgment, and is connected with the
currents of reflection and calculation. Mine is the former mode of
seeing, that which cannot see without beginning to enjoy ; yours is the
latter mode, that which cannot see without beginning to reason. And
the difference so started runs right on. Your discriminative way of
using your eyesight runs on, and leads you out beyond your most sus
tained processes of observation, into infinite chains of abstract ratioci
nation up. in things observed. My enjoying way of using my eyesight
runs on, and leads me, through <U+0448><U+0443> richest variety of pleasures in the
mere colours and forms of things, into infinite combinations of pleasure

1873.]         on Certainty in Taste, or in Artistic Judgment.         147
imagined in association with the colours and forms. And so we have
found our way into two distant kingdoms. Yours is the abstract king
dom of demonstration and deduction ; mine is the concrete kingdom
of delight and emotion. You are positive in the assertion of your
facts, and with good reason. I am positive, perhaps reprehensibly, in
the assertion of my feelings. Perhaps it is reprehensible ; but it is the
nature of mankind to be positive, to be even vehement, in asserting
that which it feels strongly—to contend for the justice of its emotions
even more than for the justice of its proofs. But pleasure, but emo
tion, even of the senses, still more of imagination and association, is
 evidently a thing much more personal than proof, and more variable
 for various constitutions. Therefore, when you hear the lovers of art
 contending positively and vehemently for the justice of their judg
 ments, you must remember that their judgments are but the expression
 of their pleasures, and must not be surprised to find those pleasures
 not the same for them all, nor look among them for that kind of con
 sent which a demonstration of your own is accustomed to command.
 Again, consider what complicated elements, in any of the higher kind
 of works of art, are offered for the artistic sense to pass judgment upon.
 In passing judgment upon any painting or sculpture, or work of art
 that imitates the objects of nature, the artistic sense has to think, not
 only of the play of the forms and lineaments there presented to it, but
 of originals represented behind those forms and lineaments ; and of the
 relations the representations bear or do not bear to the models. If
 there is ample room for difference of feeling about the pleasurableness
 seen in actual presentation, how much more room for difference of it
 about things seen only in representation, called up only in idea, or in
 the idea of an idea behind the things actually seen !
      But, it may be said, is not Nature the standard ? Is not a know
 ledge of Nature the one means for judging well of those arts which
  imitate her. Alas ! but Nature, the conception of what is to bo under
  stood by that word, is so different for different people. In his famous
  seventh discourse, going over ground in part the same as that which
  I am attempting to traverse to-night, Reynolds divides the legitimate
  kinds of beauty, which may be a source of artistic pleasure, into two ;
  one kind which is permanent and always the same, and which ho
  identifies with Nature ; another kind which is transitory and always
  changing, which he identifies with fashion or custom. And Nature,
  understood in that sense, Reynolds is never tired of setting up as the
  only standard. But nothing can be more emphatic than the way in
  which he distinguishes this permanent or standard Nature from another
  kind of nature which somo understand by the word. The permanent
  and standard Nature, he says, is one and the same, which the consenting
  common-sense of mankind in all ages has established as such. To the
  consenting common-sense of mankind, and how that has fixed and
  interpreted the idea of Nature, you must look for your standard, and
  not to any particular or individual examples in actual nature. That

148                       Professor Sidney Colvin               [May 16,
is essentially an ideal conception ; whereas the other conception of
Nature, as a thing to he studied, imitated, and adhered to with scrupu
lous submission, in each ono of her individual examples to which the
artist has access, is an essentially real conception. It is the latter of
the two which we have most insisted on in recent times. In insisting
on the former of the two, the abstract or ideal conception, Rcynolds, I
think it is clear, was both right and wrong. Ho was right in feeling
that Nature for the existing artistic sense, Nature in the sense which
is almost synonymous with beauty, is something which the mind of
man prefers, and follows and selects by preference, out of the multi
farious shows of particular Nature, as point by point she is. He was
confused with metaphysical notions when he held that Nature in this
sense—that the chosen Nature, which is also Beauty—was one and
the same thing all over the world. ....
     This notion of the essential oneness of the beautiful, imported
from metaphysics, where it is in its place, into life, where it is out of
its place, has vitiated almost all theories of art, as here it vitiates
Reynolds's. The fact is, that the artistic sense of man— that com
bination of sensibilities for pleasurable seeing, which leads him to
prefer and pursue and take delight in some of the obscured points of
 Nature as she actually is, rather than others —the fact is, that this, in
various races and ages of man, has preferred and pursued very different
classes of observations. And the active and ingenious powers in the
race and age being set on to produce according to the preference of
the sensitive and enjoying ones, we have arts in which the modes of
 interpreting nature and feeling beauty vary very widely. No doubt
 you may collect all these and compare them, and find, in the world of
 facts, a general formula of excellence which shall include all kinds of
 beauty ; and from that again you may proceed to deduct your canon.
 But this will not help you, often as it has been tried in the actual ex
 ercise of artistic judgment, to the attainment of exactness and certainty
 in it. Taste does not work— the artistic sense does not judge—by the
 application of canons from experience, any more than of formulas
 from metaphysics. Nay, one might conceive it possible for observa
 tion to collect, and for the sciences to analyze, any number of instances
 of those combinations which have been held beautiful in art. Bring
 the anatomy in a picture to the test of anatomic science, measure the
 waves of colour, find the formulae of the curves, test the mountains by
 geology, and the animals by natural history : this is curious and inter
 esting—for a work of art represents to the imagination things of which
 all these are the sciences ; but it is not a help in judgment, or the
 action of taste.
      How does taste work ? It works by direct and intuitive decision
 upon tho merits of each case. The whole sum of powers which
 coalesce within us to form a taste, or aptitude for artistic judgment,
 take cognizance of the result of tho activities which have gone together
 to produce tho work of art submitted to them. There are two consti
  tuent groups of powers which anyone will recognize within himself as

 1873.]         on Certainty in Taste, or in Artistic Judgment.      149
 taking part in his artistic judgments ; tho group which constitutes a
 sense of what the work of art on the surfaco and in itsolf is like, and
 the group which constitutes a knowledge of what it further means and
 tells. The sense is a sense of the art, and the knowledge a knowledge
 of the meaning ; the one corresponds to what is sometimes called the
 form of a work of art, its play of lines, colours, and what things these
 at once suggest and represent to be right ; the knowledge corresponds
 to what is sometimes called its matter or contents, the meaning and
 intention of the things represented—the ideas and feelings which the
 artist has desired to oxprcss—in a word, the phase of the human spirit
 of which his work is the embodiment.
      Now, I should say that the only exactness, or certainty, of which
 artistic judgment properly so called is capable, is that which comes
 from the conjoint operation of these two groups of powers acting
 together in equal perfection. Perfect justice and keen susceptibility
 of the sense which apprehends and enjoys the form and appearance of
 a work of art, together with perfect knowledge of the circumstances
 and ideas that explain its matter and meaning. That is the only kind
 of certainty in such matters of which I have any knowledge. Tho
 one, the reverse of the former, must be perpetually stimulating and
 confirming the other, the knowledge of the matter, before either can
 be complete. Where both are complete, the two act inseparably
 together. It does not matter whether you call the state one of
 delighted intelligence or of intelligent delight ; but your taste is as
 certain and exact as it can be.
      Now, of these two constituent parts, the complex sense which
 apprehends in perfection the last subtleties of beauty, and the know
 ledge which informs upon the vital forco and shades of meaning behind
-the beauty. I apprehend that the sense part can only be trained to
 perfection by what in plain words I shall call attention; and the
 knowledge part, like any other proficiency in knowledge, by what I
 shall call culture— attention for cultivating a taste for tho beauty of
 art ; culture for supplying knowledge about its meaning. That sounds
 as if it need not have taken so much saying ; but, indeed, it comes to
 all I have to say.
      If there were time, I should like to compare tho kind of exactness
 in artistic judgment which I havo put before you as my ideal, with
 other kinds of exactness, which might be understood or supposed. For
 instance, the expert judges exactly, whose lifo is given to distin
 guishing between an ancient gem and a beautiful cinque-cento forgery, or
 between one state of an engraving and another, or between two exam
 ples of the same. Yes, the expert's attainment is an admirable and
 enviable one ; but unless he is an expert, and something more, he will
 not have certainty of taste in the high sense in which I understand it ;
 because his sense and knowledge of both of them ore of things acces
 sory rather than essential; such as the mineral substance of a gem, the
 water-mark of paper in a print, the grain of canvas or kind of wood in
 a picture ; and further, ho is by profession more concerned to discri

150                       Professor Sidney Colvin                 [Hay 16,
minato than to enjoy. There is the draughtsman's exactness, which
is another matter ; as it gives him precise knowledge of nature as she
point by point is in her various appearances, and makes him familiar
with the handicraft of whose results he is about to judge. If we were
discussing the modes of exercising attention, the practice of draughts
manship would evidently be among the first of them. But it would
not be everything ; since the perfected sense we require is precisely
a sense of those subtleties of lino and handling, infinitesimal to
measurement, infinite in their effect upon feeling, which are beyond
the reach of any draughtsmanship but such as first performed them ;
though not beyond the pursuit of the loving and attentivo eye.
       *»                *»**#»
     The first results of a zealous and feeling practice of the attention—
especially if it is carried on hand in hand with a search for the cognate
kinds of knowledge—will be partly negative. If the admiration of the
learner has lighted on good things at first, it will grow for those things
immeasurably deeper and more fervent with his progress. But many
 of the things which he has admired or accepted ho will give up. Not
to mention the crude and measurable kinds of fault in the imitative
 parts of art, attention will reveal to him, and knowledge of circum
 stances will confirm, whole classes of qualities deserving his aversion.
 He will find that those forms of art which do not spring from real
 sensibility, but only from the demands of civilization that art should
 be, are hollow and offend. Such is the art of most periods of national
 exhaustion and decadence. Such, unfortunately, from quite other
 reasons, is too much of tho ornament, a great deal of the architecture,
 not a little even of the imitative painting and sculpture of our own
 time. It is not the result of real or compulsive sensibilities at all, but
 of traditional demand. Then it becomes an effort and an affectation of _
 the productive activities, and the properly-prepared receptive powers.
      Here, then, as nearly as we can lay them down for common
thought and daily use, seem to me to be the practical limits of consent
 —that is, of exactness or certainty—in these matters. It must be
 acknowledged that tho certainty is neither of the logical nor scientific
 kind. It must be admitted that, though Metaphysic in her empyrean
 may think out the essential nature of the Beautiful never so wisely, and
 on her earth experience may never so justly build up canons of it, yet
error is likely to come in when it is begun to apply either kind of
 principles to practical cases. The artistic judgment may, if it chooses,
 verify and vindicate itself by reference to principles either of tho one
 kind or tho other ; but it docs not and cannot act by the application
 of them. The artistic judgment is a judgment passed in each case on
 its merits by a vast and marvellously organized coalition of sensibili
 ties and powers within the mind. To analyze that coalition down to its
 first constituents is the province of mental philosophy ; to use, to wield
it, is tho prerogative of tasto. We have spoken of the coalition roughly
 as having for two of its chief constituents a sense of beauty, or artistic
 sense, which judges of the visible form and immediate aspect of a work

1873.]         on Certainly in Taste, or in Artistic Judgment.          151
of art, or what it is like without inquiring further ; and secondly, forms
 of culture, learning, or knowledge, which judge of its spiritual contents
 and signification, or what it furthor means and tolls. Powers them
 selves, how complicated are these ! and having to pass judgment on
 matters that seem how abstruse ! And yet such is the nature of man
 that the two complex powers, by aptitude and exercise, may unite to
act with the surest and most instantaneous facility. Such is the nature
of art that the two obscures may combino into what—your completo
 work of art for its complete spectator—shall be one and as clear as
 day. Tho only legislation—the only jurisdiction is the proper word
 —the only jurisdiction that can regulate artistic judgments must come
 from those who to tho natural endowment which makes them in-
 stinctivo judges of the form—the artistic souse, the seuso of beauty
 —have added the information, the knowledge and conversance in
 various phases of the human spirit, which enables them to understand
 its spiritual contents. The two endowments—the instinctive (so far
 as it is indeed instinctive) and the acquired—will tend to help and
 enrich tho other. The knowledge of the meanings and spiritual con
 tents of various works of art, which are the ideas behind the forms,
will tend to enlarge and liberalize the natural sense of art's beauty and
perfection, to guard it from prejudice or exclusive partiality, and teach
it how unlike one beauty and one perfection may be to another. Tho
sense of beauty will allure, with a summons of ever-growing potency,
to the acquisition of knowledge and more knowledge yet, till the two,
 sense and knowledge, blend into each other as each is perfected, and
 the whole powers of the complete spectator take in at one wave of
delighted apprehension—one wave with many currents—the whole
 work and genius of the complete artist.
     Let this be the aim of all such as seek for certainty in taste. Lot
them, if they are conscious of the feeling for beauty, latent or developed,
within them, cultivate it sedulously by attention, and above all bo
sure that it shall be always sincere and real. Let them inform,
enlargo, and liberalize this instinctive sense with knowledge. Tho
first result will be that of which I have spoken —a consent in intoler
ance, or certainty in condemning and eschewing what is essentially
bad art. Show such an one what carries the marks of apathy beneath
the affectation of feeling—he will none of it. Show him that which
either on the side of form and the outward parts, is of essentially lax
or incompetent performance ; or else, on the side of matter and tho
spiritual parts, of essentially dull and cloddish conception—anathema !
Show him what, assuming to bo the work of art, is only the work of
mechanism, however ingenious and finished, ho will put it away.
     But within these confines, round about which shall huddlo and
gibber those banished spectators of tho false, tho customary, and the
mechanic — within them there shall be room for many shapes of
various delight. As inexorable as your finely-organized and freely-
informed spectator shall be for false art, so liberal shall he bo in
entertaining every various form of true. Ho will think it time that

152              Professor Oolvin on Certainty in Taste.       [May 16,
an end should be brought to those counter-currents and fluctuations of
taste, onset, and recoil, which have prevailed for so many ages. Ho
will desire no invidious exclusions, no oppositions of Greek and Gothic,
Classic and Romance. Nay, culturo has already got as far as that, and
seen that there need be nothing irreconcilable between those who love
best one or another of those two pre-eminent phases of the world's art.
One man shall love best the arts of Greece for thoir high serenity and
repose, their exquisite observance and combination of those elements
of proportion and symmetry, which, from the simplest observance and
combination may rise into the subtlest of our artistic pleasures,
their realization in humane divinity of divine humanity, their self-
centred strength, their clear completion, their rejection of all
elements that entangle and perplex. Another shall love best—not
quarrel with the first—the arts of mediaeval Europe and of Italy, for
their vexed aspiration struggling up, through abasement and per
plexity, into peace still more perfect than the antique peace, or into
a poignancy of rapture altogether new ; for that quality of their
beauty which comes of both a deepor plunge and a higher soar of
thought than antiquity knew, carrying the impress of imagination
enriched alike in joy and pain, and of hope entangled with despair.
The lovers of these two, I say, need no longer quarrel as they have
been disposed to do within our own memory. But there is a danger
that either one of them, full (as who would not fain bo full ?) of the
glory of what he delights in, will have no eye for lesser illumina
tions. The enthusiast of the great Greek or the great Italian phase
of art is apt to despise the minor and derivative phases, intermediate
or modern. That he ought not to do, any more than the enthusiast
of Alpine scenery ought to despise the hop-gardens of Kent or the
meadows of Ouso. He is apt to feel repelled from all alien or what
he thinks barbaric phases of art, although in one of the primitive and
strangest elements of pleasure— of colour—these phases are generally
the foremost. For example, there is an alien—or call it a barbaric —
phase of art which, in its way, many of us think a match for the
Greek—I speak of the Japanese. A match for the Greek in types
and representations of humanity?—no, indeed. In loftiness and
serenity of the imagination, no ; for the Japanese has an imagination
more grotesquely intense and bedevilled than any Goth ; but in the
decorative parts, and not only of colour, but of the design, that and
the parts that deal with plants and animals—yes. Look at the yelping
and the pecking eagle side by side on the coins of Agrigentum, and
then at any Japanese representation of eagles, and you will see that
 the two artists are akin. And so the more phases of such art you
love, the better and more intelligently you are likely to love each
of them. According to the spiritual antecedents and complexion of
each spectator, his preferences will cling about one or another of the
multifarious sorts of visible things, which the lands and ages that
contained thom for thoir pleasure have bequeathed to us. Let be, so
long as each chooses some genuine end, and is not taken in with a

  1873.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                   153
  vulgarity or a deception. One man in the modern, world may have
  his face set to the past, and care for no art that does not represent it.
  Another may live only in his own time, and care for none representing
  anything but that. According as the ethical susceptibilities in one
  spectator are pure and tender, he will turn away from art that repre
  sents anything sullied or rude. According as another has those sus
  ceptibilities indifferent or refined away, or reserved for exercise in
  life only, he will not care what it is that art represents, so long
  as it represents that thing well and with a spirit. One imagination
  shall be all for the pathetic or squalid mysteries of Rembrandt;
  another, all for the frivolous sparkle of Watteau ; another, all for the
  playful, thoughtful innocence and beloved grace of Reynolds. But
  none of these shall quarrel with the other, nor true culture with any
  of them. True culture shall rejoice, rather, that each has in his
  hand the key that fits it best, into an avenue, like none other for
  directness and delight, of communion with whatever the spirit of man
  in other ages and in our own has conceived with the most of joyful-
  ness and freedom for performance with the most of love and skill.
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, June 2, 1873.
       Sir Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. Presidont,
                                 in the Chair.
               Miss Busk,
               V. Carey-Elwos, Esq.
               Charles W. Roberts, Esq.
              The Hon. Edward Southwell Russell,
              Col. William Henry Seymour, OB.
               James Taylor Smith, Esq.
              John Berger Spence, Esq. F.G.S.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     With reference to the communication adopted at the preceding
Meeting, the following letter from Lady Millioent Benoe Jones to
the Secretary was read :—
                                               " 84, Brook Street,
" Dear Mr. Spottiswoode,                                         '
           "You have given his children and myself the greatest
consolation that it is possible for one human being to impart to another
in a sorrow such as ours ; and next to the highest of all comfort is that
of knowing that others are sorrowing with us, and boaring testimony
   Vol. VII. (No. 59.)                                           m

 154                        General Monthly Meeting.                     [June 2,
to the excellence of the great and noble spirit that has left the world
the poorer by his loss—a loss we must realize each day more fully.
      " Wo are all most anxious to express our deep sense of the honour
conferred upon my husband's memory, and the great kindness shown
to those he has left, by the kind and most welcome message of sympathy
 which you have conveyed to us from the Managers and Members of
 the Koyal Institution, and I must trust to you, in grateful return for
 the kindness, to express for us as you judge best the sincere thanks of
the wife and children of him who has for so many years taken the
deepest interest in all connected with the Royal Institution.
     " It is a great support to me to meet with so much sympathy from
those who were best able to appreciate his greatness, and all in him
that makes his loss so deeply felt; and what you say of him comes
homo to my feelings in a way that words can poorly express.
     "I can only thank you again for the comfort your letter has
given me, and also for your kind wish to be of use to me, for which
I feel grateful to you.
                                           " Ever gratefully yours,
                                                         "M. Benck Jones."
      The special thanks of the Members were returned to Sir Henry
 Holland, Bart, the President, for his Fifteenth Annual Donation of
Forty Pounds.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     From
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 91. 8vo. 1873.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIII. No. 6. 8vo. 1873.
Bertier, Dr. F. (the Author)—Dea Eaux Minerales de la Savoie. (L 1C) 8vo.
     1873.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1872-3, No. 11. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Hcmiptera Heteroptcra, Part 7.           8vo.
      1873.
   Catalogue of Syriac MSS. Part 3. 4to. 1872.
   Handbook of Shield Reptiles. 8vo. 1873.
CJiemical Society— Journal for May, 1873. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1873. 8vo.
   Athenssum for May, 1873. 4 to.
   Chemical News for May, 1873. 4to.
   Engineer for May, 1873.
   Food Journal for May, 1873. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for May, 1873. Folio.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for May, 1873. 4to.
   Nature for May, 1873. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for May, 1873. 8vo.
   Once a Week for May, 1873. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for May, 1873. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal, No. 7. 8vo. 1873.
Ella, Professor (the Author)—Lectures on Dramatic Music. (M 9) 4 to. 1872.
Elliot, John Lettsom, Esq. M.R.I.—The Life of Lloyd, first Lord Kenyon, Lord
     Chief Justice of England. By the Hon. Geo. T. Kenyon. 8vo. 1878.

  1873.]         Professor Odling on Evaporation and Diffusion.              155
  Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 568. 8vo. 1873.
  Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 114. 8vo. 1873.
  IAvervool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 26.
    Index, Vols. 1-25. 8vo. 1871-2.
 Meteorological Society—-Quarterly Journal, No. 6. 8vo. 1873.
 Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 240, 241. 8vo. 1872.
 Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Jan. 1873. 8vo.
 Roma, Iteale Accademia dei Lincei—Atti, Tomo XXV. Sess. 7. fol. 1873.
 Rotate, Professor H. E., F.R.S. &c. (the Author)—Spectrum Analysis. 3rd Edition.
       8vo. 1873.
 Royal Society of Tasmania—Monthly Notices of Proceedings. 1871. 8vo.
    Besults of Meteorological Observations for Hobart Town. 4to. 1872.
 Royal University of Norway—Various Memoirs. 4to. 1872-3.
    Norske Meteorologisk Aarbog. 1871. 4to.
    G. O. Sars : On Animal Life from the Great Deeps off Norway. 4to. 1872.
    8. A. Sexe : On the Rise of Land in Scandinavia. (M 9) 4to. 1872.
 Seaman, Ezra C, Esq. (the Author)—Views of Nature. 12mo. 1873.
 Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXVI. Part 1. 8vo. 1873.
 Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
       May, 1873. 8vo.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 71. 8vo. 1873.
 Wild, B. (the Director)—Annalen des Physikalischen Central-Observaforiums.
       1871. 4to. St. Petersburg. 1873.
 Torlcshire Philosophical Society—Communications, 1872. 8vo. 1873.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, June 6, 1873.
       Siu Henry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                  in the Chair.
                       Professor Odling, M.A. F.R.S.
                         On Evaporation and Diffusion.
Of the circumstances on which the rate of evaporation of the samo
volatile substance chiefly depends, one very influential circumstance,
namely, the nature of the atmosphere into which the vapour proceeds
and distributes itself, does not appear to have been made the subject of
careful examination. There is, however, one familiar experiment on
the subject ; and it consists in passing up a little ether into two
equal volumes, one of hydrogen and the other of air, contained in
similar cylinders standing over water." Evaporation of the ether takes
place in both cases ; though far more rapidly into the hydrogen than
into the air, as shown by the far more rapid expansion of the hydro
genous than of the aerial space, from the addition to it of the ether-
vapour. This experiment is usually cited in illustration of the greater
rapidity at which ether-vapour diffuses itself into an atmosphere of
                                                                    m 2

166                          Professor Odling                    [June 6 ,
light hydrogen than into an atmosphere of comparatively heavy air.
It is doubtful, however, whether the explanation in this precise form
is strictly correct, the diffusive mobility of any gas or vapour being
a property altogether special to itself, irrespective of extraneous con
ditions. Thus, in a particular experiment, Mr. Graham found that while
the quantity of hydrogen which in one minute of time passed through a
graphite plate into a vacuum was 1 - 289 c. c., the quantity of hydrogen
which in the same time passed through the same graphite plate into
the surrounding air was 1 - 243 c. c., or almost exactly the same.
     A novel experiment on the influence due to the nature of the con
tiguous atmosphere upon the rapidity of the process of evaporation,
consists in introducing into each of two similar tall cylinder bottles a
sealed glass bulb containing a little iodine. The one cylinder being
filled with hydrogen, and the other with air, and each having sus
pended from its mouth a piece of starched paper or cloth, the bulbs
are then broken by concussion of the containing cylinders. But, in
this case, the test paper or cloth suspended in the cylinder of air
 becomes affected by the iodine considerably before that suspended in
 the cylinder of hydrogen ; or, contrary to what happens with ether,
 the iodine appears to volatilize more quickly in file comparatively
 heavy air than in the much lighter hydrogen. Similarly, if some
 weak aqueous ammonia contained in a sealed glass bulb be set free in
 a tall bottle of hydrogen, and also in a tall bottle of air, a piece of
 turmeric paper suspended from the stopper of each bottle becomes
 affected by the ammonia vapour more quickly in the bottle of air than
 in the bottle of hydrogen.
     Water may be taken as the type of a volatile substance, and the
 nature of the process of evaporation be conveniently studied in rela
 tion thereto. Now, in a hermetically-closed vessel exhausted of air,
 but partly filled with water, the matter of the water exists in two
 states—a portion of it in the liquid state, and another portion in tho
 aerial, or vaporous, or evaporated state ; and, with excess of liquid
 water present, the quantity of vaporous water that can exist in an
 otherwise vacuous space, or the density of the vapour filling the
 space, is found to vary solely with the temperature. Thus 100 cubic
 inches of space will contain at 58° C, 3 grains of vaporous water ; at
 100° C, 15 grains; at 144° G, 58 grains, and so on ; or the densities of
tho vapour of water at these different temperatures are as the numbers,
 3, 15, and 58, respectively. Now, the quantity of water-vapour that can
 exist at any particular temperature in a volume of otherwise vacuous
 space, is almost identical—it used to be considered absolutely identical,
 —with the quantity of vapour that can exist in the same volume of space
already occupied by air. In other words, a cubic inch of water-vapour,
 and a cubic inch of air saturated with water-vapour, contain the same
weight of the matter of water. Hence it is found that with con
 tinuous increase of temperature, a greater and greater quantity of
liquid water ceases to be liquid and becomes vaporous, or is, in
other words, evaporated into the adjoining space, whether vacuous or

1873.]                on Evaporation and Diffusion.                   157
aerial; and conversely with decrease of temperature, a greater and
greater quantity of vaporous water ceases to be vaporous, and is
deposited in the liquid state. Thus, upon cooling a globe of trans
parent warm moist air, it is at once filled with an opaque mist, which,
left to itself, soon becomes deposited in the form of drops ; but which
may be readily made to disappear or re-vaporize by gently heating
the globe. The deposition of dew on cold surfaces brought into a warm
moist room is familiar to all.
     The tension or spring of water-vapour varies with the quantity of
vapour filling the space—that is, with the density of the vapour, and
consequently with its temperature. Thus the tension is equal at
 15° C, to a pressure of 13 millimetres of mercury ; at 60° 0., to a pres
sure of 149 millimetres ; at 100° C, to a pressure of 760 millimetres ;
at 144° C, to a pressure of 3040 millimetres. At the temperaturo of
 100° C, the tension of the vapour of water being equal to a pressuro
 of 760 millimetres of mercury, balances the tension or pressure of
the atmosphere, as measured by the height of the barometric column.
Hence on continuing to heat water already at the temperature of 100°,
it boils, or is converted into vapour, having a tension equal to that of
the atmosphere. And so with a less or greater external pressure,
water boils at a lower or higher temperature—in each case at the
particular temperature whereat the elastic force of the water-vapour
balances the particular external pressure. Under a pressure of 149
millimetres, for instance, water boils at 60° C. ; under a pressure of
3040 millimetres, it boils at 144° C. The occurrence, then, of ebulli
tion at some particular point of temperature may be viewed as a mere
accident of the process of evaporation —a more and more rapid evapo
ration, with production of vapour of higher and higher density and
 elasticity, proceeding continuously with the continuous increase of
 temperature, although, indeed, at a far more rapid rate than the rate
 of increase of temperature.
     In the conversion of liquid water into water-vapour, heat is
 absorbed. It was at one time considered that the quantity of heaj
 absorbed was independent of the temperature and correlative tension
 of the vapour yielded, and that it varied only with the quantity yielded.
 It was held, for example, that in the conversion, say, of a gramme of
 liquid water into a gramme of water-vapour—whether of tenuous
 vapour at a low temperature, or of dense vapour at a high tempe
 rature—the same quantity of heat was absorbed. This rule, though
 now known to be only approximatively true, is nevertheless sufficiently
 truo to allow of the amount of cold, or absorption of heat, resulting
 from any evaporation, being taken as an indication or measure of the
 amount of that evaporation. The depression of temperature caused
 by the evaporation of water, is familiarly shown in the use of the wet-
 bulb hygrometer. This instrument consisting simply of a couple of
 thermometers, one of which has its bulb kept continuously moist, the
 difference in way of doficit between the temperature manifested by
 this wet-bulb thermometer and the temperature manifested by the

158                         Professor Odling                     [June 6,
other thermometer, is a measure of the amount of water evaporating
from the surface of the moistened bulb.
    What is true of liquid water and of water-vapour is true, in prin
ciple, of other volatile liquids and of their several vapours. At any
givon temperature some of these bodies volatilize much more rapidly,
others of them much less rapidly, than one another, and than water ;
and in the process of their evaporation some of them absorb a much
greater amount of heat than others, though for the same weight of
vapour formed no one of them is known to absorb so large an amount
of heat as water. Bisulphide of carbon, ether, and alcohol, are fami
liar examples of bodies more volatile than water; aniline, mercury,
and molten silver, of bodies less volatile. It is well known that water
when required pure is distilled—that is to say, it is first vaporized by
heat and then re-liquefied by cold ; and silver when required absolutely
pure is sometimes submitted to the same process of distillation.
Evaporation is, moreover, a property not only of liquid, but also of
solid bodies, as of sal-ammoniac, iodine, camphor, ice and snow, solid
carbonic acid, &c. Many of the phenomena of evaporation can bo
illustrated more conveniently with other volatile substances than with
water. Thns the cooling produced by evaporation may be strikingly
illustrated by means of ether, and still more strikingly by means of
some liquefied gas, as liquefied sulphurous or nitrous oxide.
    The necessaiy influence of some conditions on the rate of evapora
tion is obvious. Evaporation being a direct result of the absorption
of heat, and the higher the temperature the greater the quantity of
vapour capable of existing in a given space, it is found that at higher
and higher temperatures water evaporates or dries up more and more
rapidly, in proportion approximatively to tho increasing density of the
vapour at higher and higher temperatures. Wet linen, for example,
is habitually dried by being hung before the fire or placed in heated
chambers or ovens.
    Similarly with regard to tho influence of the extent of liquid
surface on the rate of evaporation, it is found that the evaporation
of a given weight of liquid water takes place more rapidly when the
water is spread out in a wide dish than when it is contained in a
narrow tube, in proportion to tho greater extent of surface from
which the evaporation can take place in the one case than in the
other. Thus, while half a pint of water in a tumbler will remain for
an almost indefinite time without becoming dried up, half a pint of
water absorbed in a thick towel exposing on its two sides more than a
dozen square feet of surface, will become dried up in the course of
twenty-four hours.
     Again, the influence exerted by tho greater or less dryness of the
adjacent space, whether or not aerial, upon the evaporation of water is
obvious. Into a space already saturated with vapour no further
evaporation whatever can take place ; and other conditions being
alike, the drier the space the greater the amount of evaporation that
can take place with it, and the more rapid the process of evaporation.

1873.]               on Evaporation and Diffusion                    159
In the laboratory, moist substances are made dry by allowing the
water from them to evaporate into spaces kept artificially dry by
means of desiccating agents, such as oil of vitriol, quicklime, chloride
of calcium, &c., which absorb the water-vapour from the space as
fast as it is produced therein. Moreover, evaporation proceeding
into any space, vacuous or aerial, until the space is saturated with
water-vapour, and more rapidly in proportion to the removal from
saturation of the space, it is obvious that, other conditions being
equal, evaporation proceeds more rapidly into a large space re
quiring for its saturation a considerable weight of water-vapour
than into a small space capable of being saturated by a minute
quantity of the vapour.
    The influence of the extent of aerial space into which a vapour
can distribute itself upon the rato of formation of the vapour, leads
to a consideration of the effect of the movement of tho contiguous
air upon the rate of evaporation from a given surface. With an
absolutely quiescent atmosphere, the layer of atmosphere in imme
diate contact with the surface of evaporating liquid must become
quickly saturated with vapour ; and but for somo spontaneous means
of removal of the vapour itself, or of the air saturated with it, from
the surface of the liquid, all further evaporation would be arrested.
The nature of these spontaneous means of removal will be considered
presently ; but the influence of the artificial removal of the more or
less saturated air from the surface of the evaporating liquid can be
easily manifested. Thus on allowing a strong current of air to play
upon a surface of ether contained in a thin glass vessel standing on a
stratum of water, the stratum of water becomes quickly frozen by
reason of the heat abstracted from it, in the rapid production of ether-
vapour which takes place in the current of air. For whereas with
the ether in the vessel left to itself, the interior of the vessel soon
becomes saturated with ether-vapour, and further evaporation with
correlative cooling effect is almost arrested ; with a current of air
blown on to the surface of the ether, the liquid ether is in continuous
contact with a fresh unsaturated atmosphere, into which it continues
to evaporate with rapidity.
    In connection with the above influences, it is observable that
the evaporation of water from growing plants is favoured by the
three conditions of extent of leaf surface, movement of the more or less
dry atmosphere, and heat of the summer sun. An early and very
striking experiment on the extent of this evaporation was made by Dr.
Stephen Hales in 1724, and is recorded in his 'Vegetable Statics.'
He found that with a healthy full-grown sunflower more than a yard
high, planted when young in a suitable pot, the evaporation from the
plant itself amounted on the average to 20 ounces in a twelve hours'
day, the maximum quantity being 30 ounces. Some very interesting
and exact modern experiments on this subject were conducted in 1850
by Mr. Lawes at Rothamstead. As an example of tho results obtained,
he found that a plant of barley, during a period of 172 days' growth,

 160                         Professor Odling                   [June 6,
 in which it acquired 419 grains of dry organic, and 46 grains of dry
 mineral matter, evaporated not less than 120,000 grains, or upwards of
  17 lbs. of water ; so that for every grain of dry matter, organic and
 mineral, fixed by tho plant during its period of growth, 257 grains of
 water wore absorbed and evaporated.
     A most important condition affecting the rate of evaporation is the
 pressure on the surface of the volatile substance. Into a vacuum
 indeed, where there is no pressure, evaporation is practically instan
 taneous. Thus on letting up a little water, alcohol, or ether into the
 vacuum of a barometer, the mercury is at once depressed to the maxi
 mum extent producible by the tension of the particular vapour at the
 particular temperature. Again, on breaking a sealed bulb of iodine,
 within and at the lower end of a long sealed vacuous tube, a piece of
 starch-paper at the upper end of the tube is almost immediately
 affected by the iodine vapour. Further, the cooling consequent on
 the rapid evaporation of ether, ammonia, &c., into a vacuum, is taken
 advantage of in the construction of several well-known freezing ma
 chines. Again, in Leslie's celebrated experiment, the evaporation even
 of water into a vacuous space, from which the water-vapour is removed
 by some desiccant as fast as produced, takes place with such rapidity
 and correlative absorption of heat, as to effect the freezing of the
 residual water from which the evaporation is proceeding. The same
result is effected in Wollaston's cryophorus, the water-vapour in this
case not being absorbed by oil of vitriol or other desiccant, but being
simply condensed by cold applied to the other and distant bulb of the
twice bent vacuous tube. Moreover, it was long ago shown by Daniel
that evaporation of water into the same dry atmosphere takes place at a
rate inversely proportioned to the pressure of tho atmosphere. Thus
in a particular set of experiments, the pressures of the air being
30 • 4, 15*2, and 7*6 inches of mercury, the quantities of water eva
porated in half an hour were found to be 1 • 24, 2" 97, and 5* 68 grains
respectively.
     That the nature of the atmosphere into which a vapour can dis
tribute itself has an important influence on the rate of formation of
the vapour may be manifested by several experiments, in addition to
those shown at the beginning of the lecturo. Thus with a couple of
thin glasses standing on a stratum of water, and containing each some
rectified wood-spirit, if the ono portion of spirit be blown upon by a
strong current of hydrogen, and the other portion by a strong current
of air, the stratum of water underlying the glass of spirit blown upon
by the hydrogen, will alone become frozen, by reason of the excessive
vaporization of, and heat-absorption by, the spirit in contact with the
atmosphere of hydrogen. Again, a series of experiments has recently
been made by the speaker on the relative rates of evaporation of water
into limited atmospheres of hydrogen, air, and carbonic acid respec
tively, alike kept dry by contact with a large surface of oil of vitriol.
In theso experiments, tho evaporation was found to take place most
rapidly in hydrogen, and least rapidly in carbonic acid ; and as a mean

1873.]            .   on Evaporation and Diffusion.                    161
of seven tolerably concordant results, the ratio of the rate of evapo
 ration in hydrogen to the rate of evaporation in air, under the particular
 conditions of the experiment, was found to be as 2 • 68 : 1.
     The influence of the particular contiguous atmosphere on the rate
of evaporation of any particular liquid may be, and probably is, of a
very complex nature. There are, however, two easily intelligible
ways in which the particular atmosphere may act by virtue of its
 specific gravity. Thus a lighter or heavier gas or vapour ascends or
 descends bodily through another at a rate proportionate to the differ
ence in their specific gravities, a very slight difference sufficing to
 bring about an upward or downward current of considerable activity.
This upward or downward movement is well shown by introducing
first heavy ether-vapour, and then light coal-gas, through a lateral
opening made at about the middle of the length of a tall somewhat
wide perpendicular glass tube, open at both ends; when it will bo»
found that the ether-vapour, descending by reason of its heaviness,
can only be inflamed at the bottom of tho tube, while the coal-gas,
ascending by reason of its lightness, can only be inflamed at the
top. Now, the specific gravities of hydrogen, aqueous vapour, and
air at the same temperature, being to one another as the numbers 1,
9, and 14 '5 respectively, it is obvious that whereas hydrogen satu
rated with water-vapour is heavier than dry hydrogen, air saturated
with water-vapour is lighter than dry air. Accordingly, with a sur
face of water exposed to an atmosphere of originally dry hydrogen,
the hydrogen in actual contact with the water will not, by becoming
moist, acquire a tendency to rise up through the dry hydrogen, and so
be removed from the surface of the liquid ; whereas, with a surfaco of
water exposed to an atmosphere of originally dry air, the air in actual
contact with tho water will, by becoming moist, acquire a tendency to
rise up through the dry air, and so become removed from the surface
of the liquid. And having regard to this influenco alone, water when
occupying an inferior position, should evaporate more rapidly into air
than into hydrogen. It must be borne in mind that any given volume
of moist air or gas is the sum of the volume of its constituent water-
vapour, and of the volume of its constituent dry air or gas ; and that
the tension of tho moist air or gas is the sum of tho tension of its
constituent water-vapour, and of the tension of its constituent dry air
or gas, actually or virtually expanded by the addition to it of a certain
volume of water-vapour. So that with water boiling in a deep open
vessel, there may exist in close proximity to each other, almost pure
wator-vapour, different mixtures of water-vapour and air, and com
paratively dry air, all having alike a tension of 760 millimetres of
mercury.
     But independently of their bodily movements in the form of cur
rents, gases and vapours distribute themselves among one another by
a proper molecular movement of diffusion—tho relative diffusive
mobilities of different gases or vapours being inversely as the square
roots of their several specific gravities. Accordingly, with equal

162                         General Monthly Meeting.                     [July 7,
surfaces of water exposed respectively to an atmosphere of hydrogen
and to an atmosphere of air, the vapour produced from the surface of
the water is interpenetrated and distributed through the contiguous
space with greater rapidity by the highly-diffusive hydrogen than by
the feebly-diffusive air, in proportion to their relative diffusion-velo
cities, 3 - 8 and 1 - 0 respectively. And it is, doubtless, to the more
rapid diffusion of hydrogen than of air into the vapour as formed, and
the consequent more rapid supply to the liquid of an unsaturated
atmosphere into which it can evaporate, that the more rapid evapo
ration of water, ether, and wood-spirit into an atmosphere of hydrogen
than into an atmosphere of air, as in the experiments, for instance,
already shown and described, is substantially due.
                                                                      [W. 0.]
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, July 7, 1873.
      Sir Hknry Holland, Bart. M.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. President,
                                   in the Chair.
                Colonel Charles EL Bushe,
                Matthew Greene, Esq.
                Walter Raleigh Trevelyan, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     Tho Secretary having reported that Dr. Odlinq had resigned the
Pullerian Professorship of Chemistry on July 3rd,
     Resolved, That the best thanks of the Meeting be given to
Dr. Odling for his efficient services as a Professor of tho Institution,
and that the Meeting regret on behalf of the Institution the loss
of his future services.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      Froh
Alcock, CoL M.R.I, {the Author)—The Relative Power of Nations. 8vo. 1873.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Memoirs of Count Rumford. By G. E.
      Ellis. 8vo. 1871.
American Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1872. 8vo.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 89. 8vo. 1873.
Asiatic 8ociety of Bengal—Journal, Part 1, 1872, Nos. 2, 3 ; 1872, Part 2, No. 4.
      8vo.
   Proceedings, 1872, No. 10 ; 1873, No. 1.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIII. No. 7. 8vo. 1873.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1872-3, No. 12. 4to.
 Chemical Society—Journal for June, 1873. 8vo.
 Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—Fortieth Annual Report. 1872. 8vo.

1873.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                         163
Cox, E. T. Esq. ((he Author)— Third and Fourth Bcports of the Geological Survey
      of Indiana. 2 vols. 8vo. 1872.
Editor!—American Journal of Science for June, 1873. 8vo.
   Athenaum for June, 1873. 4to.
   Chemical Newa for June, 1873. 4to.
   Engineer for Jnne, 1873.
   Fowl Journal for June, 1873. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for June, 1873. Folio.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for June, 1873. 4to.
   Nature for June, 1873. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for June, 1873. 8vo.
   Once a Week for June, 1873. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1873. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal, No. 9. 8vo. 1873.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 569. 8vo. 1873.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, 1873, No. 2. 8vo.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. VIII. No. 2. 8vo. 1873.
Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, New Series, Vol. IV. Part 13. 8vo. 1873.
Linncan Society—Journal, Nos. 70-72. 8vo. 1873.
Mayer, Professor A. M. (the Author)—Lecture Notes on Physics. 8vo. 1868.
   Various Pupers. 8vo. 1869-73.
   The Earth a Great Magnet. (O 16) 16to. 1872.
Melbourne Industrial Museum—Lectures. 8vo. 1 872.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 242. 8vo. 1872.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Mouatsberichte, Feb. 1873. 8vo.
St. Pftersbourg, Academie Imperiale det Sciences—Memoires, 7" Se'rie, Tome XVIII.
      Nos. 8-10 ; Tome XIX. Nos. 1, 2. 4to. 1872.
   Bulletins, Tome XVII. Nos. 4, 5. Tome XVIII. Nos. 1, 2. 4to. 1872.
Scottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. VIII. Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1871-3.
Spilsburi/, W. if. Esq. Librarian, Lincoln's Inn ((he Author)—Lincoln's Inn.
      2nd" edition. 16to. 1873.
Squire, Ralmanno, Esq. (the Author)—Influence of Age on the Causation of Skin
     Disease. 16to. 1873.
Stanford, Mr. E.—M. Wagner : The Darwinian Theory, and the Laws of the
     Migration of Organisms, translated by J. Laird. (K 99) 8vo. 1873.
Suxmurick, Miss Anna, M.R.I, (the Translator)—The Dramas of ^schylus. 2 vols.
      16to. 1873.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     June, 1873. 8vo.
Telegraph Engineers, Society of— Journal, Vol. I. No. 3. 8vo. 1873.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal : Appendix to Vol. XVI. 8vo. 1873.
Victoria Institute—Annual Address of the President. 8vo. 1873.
Yorkshire Archseological and Topographical Association— Journal, Part 8. 8vo.
      1873.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vd. VIH. Parts 4, 5. 4to. 1873.
   Proceedings, 1872, Part 3. 8vo.

164                           General Monthly Meeting.                    [Nov. 3,
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                               Monday, Nov. 3, 1873.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                     in the Chair.
     The Secretary announced the decease of Sir Henry Holland, Bart.
the President, on Oct. 27th.
                Henry Adolphus Pocking, Esq.
                Major John Andover Wood,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were given to Charles
Woodward, Esq. F.R.S. for his Present of his work on the " Polariza
tion of Light," and of much valuable apparatus illustrating the subject;
and also to William Salmon, Esq. M.R.I. for his second Donation
of Ten Pounds for the Promotion of Scientific Research in the Royal
Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     Froh
The India Office—F. Day : Report on the Fresh-water Fish and Fisheries of India
     and Burma. 8vo. 1873.
The French Government —Documens Inedits sur l'Histoire de France : 1" Eerie,
      Histoire Politique : Negotiations de la France aveo Toscane. Tome IV. 4to.
      1872.—Lettres Missives de Henri IV. Tome VIII. 4to. 1872.
   3" Eerie: Archeologie—Inscriptions de la France du V" an XVIII" Siecle
      Tome I. 4to. 1873.
   Monographic de la Cathe'dralo de Chartres : Atlas, 8" et 9" Livraisons. Fol.
      1865.
   Statistique Monumentale de Paris: Cartes, &c. 34", 35", et 36" Livraisons. Fol.
The Spanish Government—Estadistica Minera de EspaDa, 1870. 4to. 1873.
Actuaries, Institute of— Journal, No. 92. 8vo. 1873.
American Association', for the Advancement of Science—Proceedings at the 20th
      Meeting, Aug. 1871. 8vo. 1872.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. VI. No. 1. 8vo. 1873.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1873, Part 1, No. 1 ; Part 2, Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
   Proceedings, 1873, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIII. No. 8. 8vo. 1873.
Basel Katurforschende Gesellschaft —Verhaudlungen, Vter Theil, 4tes Heft. 8vo.
      1873.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1872-73. Nos. 13, 14. 4to.
British Association for the Advancement of Science—Report of the 42nd Meeting
      at Brighton, Aug. 1872. 8vo. 1873.
British MitMum Trustees— Catalogue of Greek Coins—Italy. 8vo. 1873.
Chemical Smiety—Journal for July to Oct. 1873. 8vo.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. VI. 8vo. 1873.

1873.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                         1G5
Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science— Report find Transactions
     for 1873. Vol. VI. Part 1. 8vo. 1873.
Editors—American Journal of Science for July to Oct. 1873. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for July to Oct. 1873. 4to.
  Chemical News for July to Oct. 1873. 4to.
  Engineer for July to Oct. 1873.
  Food Journal for July to Oct. 1873. 4to.
  Journal for Applied Science for July to Oct. 1873. Folio.
  Journal of Gas-Lighting for July to Oct. 1873. 4to.
  Nature for July to Oct. 1873. 4to.
  Nautical Magazine for July to Oct. 1873. 8vo.
  Once a Week for July to Oct. 1873. 8vo.
  Pharmaceutical Journal for July to Oct. 1873. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal for July to Oct. 1873.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 570-573. 8vo. 1873.
Geneva, Societi de Physique—Me'moires, Tome XXII. 4to. 1873.
Geographical Society, Boyal—Proceedings, 1873, Nos. 3, 4, 5. 8vo. 1873.
   Journal Vol. XLII. 8vo. 1872.
   The Lands of Oazembe. Lacerda's Journey to Cazembe in 1798, translated by
     R. F. Burton ; &c. 8vo. 1873.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrhuch, 1873. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
   Verhandlungen, 1873. Nos. 1-9.
   Abhandlungen, Band V. Heft 4, 5. fol. 1873.
Geological Society of Ireland—Journal, N.S. Vol. III. Part 3. 8vo. 1873.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 115. 8vo. 1873.
Gore, George, Esq. F.R.S. (the Author)—National Importance of Scientific Research.
     (West. Bev. April, 1873.)
Ilensloic, Rev. George, M.A. (the Author)—The Theory of the Evolution of Living
     Things and the Application of the Principle of Evolution to Religion. (An
     Actonian Prize Essay.) 12mo. 1873.
Bills, Thomas Hyde, Esq. M.R.I,—Dr. J. A. Hessey's Sermon on tho Funeral of
     Sir E. Landseer. (K 99) 8vo. 1873.
Hull Royal Institution—Annual Report, 1873. 8vo.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1873, Vol. I. 8vo.
Jabhmowski'schen Gesellschaft—Preisschrift XVII.—H. Zeissberg, Die Polnischo
     Geschichtschreibung des Mittelalters. 8vo. 1873.
Kirhaldy, David, Esq. (tite Author)—Results of an Experimental Inquiry into the
     Mechanical Properties of Fagersta Steel. 4to. 1873.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 56, 73. 8vo. 1873.
   Proceedings, 1872-3. 8vo.
   Transactions, Vol. XXVUI. Part 3 ; Vol. XXIX. Part 2. 4to. 1873.
Loume, B. Thompson, M.R.C.S. F.L.S. (the Author)—The Philosophy of Evolution.
     (An Actonian Prize Essay.) 16to. 1873.
Lubbock, Sir John (the Author)—Note on the Macas Indians. (Ethnol. Journal,
     II.) 8vo. 1873.
Manchester Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XII. Nos. 12, 13. Vol. XIH.
     Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1873.
Marshall, Lieut.-Col. W. E. (the Author)—A Phrenologist among the Todns, South
     India. 8vo. 1873.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, May, 1873. 8vo.
Mensbrugghe, G. Van dor (the Author)—Sur la Tension Superficiclle des Liquides,
     2nd Memoire. 4to. 1873.
Meteorological Committee of the Royal Society—Report for 1872. 8vo. 1873.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Report, 1872. Part 3. 4 to.
   Meteorology of the Antarctic Regions. 4to. 1873.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, New Series, No. 7. 8vo. 1873.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 243. 8vo. 1873.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaflen—Monatsberichte, Miirz, April, Mai.
      1873. 8vo

166                          General Monthly Meeting.                     [Dec. 1,
Radford, W. T. M.D. M.R.I.—G. B. Binuccini: Embassy in Ireland, 1645-49;
     translated by Annie Hutton. 8vo. 1873.
Bigg, Rev. A., M.A. (the Author)—Easy Introduction to Chemistry. 16to. 1873.
Rome, Accademia dei LineA—Atti, Anno XXVI. Sess. 1. 4to. 1873.
Royal Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXIV. Science, Parts 16, 17. Vol.
     XXV. Science Parts 1-4. 4to. 1870-3.
   Proceedings, Vol. X. Second Series, Vol. I. Nos. 2-8. 8vo. 1867-73.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions for 1872, Part 2. 4to. 1873.
   Proceedings, Nos. 145, 146. 8vo. 1873.
Sabine, General Sir Edward, K.C.R. F.R£. M.R.I, (the J uttor)—Contributions to
      Terrestrial Magnetism, No. 13. (Phil. Trans. B.S. 1873.)
Smithsonian Institution—Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. XVIII.
      4to. 1873.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXVI. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1873.
SL Ptiersbourg, Acadejnie Impe'riale des Sciences—Me'moires, 7" Se'rie, Tome XIX.
     Nos. 3-7. 4to. 1873.
   Bulletins, Tome XVII. Nos. 4, 5. Tome XVIII. Nos. 1, 2. 4to. 1872.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Sjmoarf Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     July to Oct. 1873. 8vo.
Taylor, Alfred S. M.D. F.R.8. M.R.I, (tlte Author)—The Principles and Practice
     of Medical Jurisprudence. 2nd Ed. 2 vols. 8vo. 1873.
Tyndatt, Professor, LL.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. (the AuthoiySix Lectures on Light,
     delivered in America in 1872-1873. 16to. 1873.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Nos. 72, 73. 8vo. 1873.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Jan.-
     April. 1873. 4to.—F. Kohl, Geschichte der Jacquard-Maechine nebst dcr
      Biographic Jacquards. 4to. Berlin. 1872.
 Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 26. 8vo. 1873.
 Vincent, B. (the Editor)—Haydn's Dictionary of Dates and Universal Information.
      14th Edition. 8vo. 1873.
 WovJward, Charles, Esq. F.R.S. (the Author)—Familiar Introduction to the Study
     of Polarized Light. 3rd Edition. 12mo. 1861. [With much Optical
     Apparatus.]
   Papers on Polarized Light, 4c. By Dr. H. B. Leeson and Dr. Pereira. 8vo.
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, Dec. 1, 1873.
        George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
     The following Letter to the Family of the late President was
unanimously adopted bj the Members present :—
     " The Memrers ot the Royal Institution beg to be permitted to
express to the Family of their late President, Sir Henry Holland,
their deepest sympathy in the great loss they have recently
sustained.
     " It is a loss in which the Institution largely shares ; and it has
to deplore a President esteemed by all for his distinguished scientific
and literary attainments, for the abilities and varied experience he
brought to the performance of his duties ; and beloved for the uniform
kindness and consideration with which he discharged them.

 1873.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                    167
     " In the published record of his life Sir Henry Holland has acknow
ledged that his connection with the Royal Institution had been very
valuable to him. It is now for the Members of the Institution to
testify their profound sense of the exceeding advantages conferred
by that association upon the Royal Institution.
     " In it, as he himself has related, he stood by the cradle of some of
the most wonderful discoveries of the age, and watched their progress
to maturity and fame. He was one of the earliest to witness the
production of the Alkaline Metals by Davy, and among the first to
see the small luminous spark elicited from the magnet by Faraday.
In later times he was foremost in establishing the Royal Institution
Research Fund, and was unceasingly generous in his own large
personal contributions to it.
     " As President he was always at his post, ever prompt with assist
ance and counsel; a sound adviser and a courteous friend. The
recollection of his presence in the Institution will not soon be for
gotten, and will long remain to be cherished by its Members with
affection and regard.
     " The close of such a career must be noted with no ordinary feelings
of interest and regret, and the Members of the Royal Institution
desire to assure the Family of their lamented President how fully
they enter into the universal sorrow for his death."
     The Duke of Northumrerland, D.C.L. was unanimously elected
President of the Royal Institution, in the room of the late Sir Henry
Holland.
               Mrs. Walter Faweett,
               Charles Craddock Underwood, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Leoture         Arrangements for the ensuing season were
announced : —
    PROFEssoB Ttndall, D.O.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Six Lectures on The Motion
and Sensation of Sound, on Deo. 27, 30, 1873 ; Jan. 1, 3, 6, 8, 1874.
                            Before Easter, 1874.
    Professor Rutherford, M.D. F.R.S.E. Five Lectures on Respiration, on
Tuesdays, Jan. 13 to Feb. 10.
    [PBorEssos Rutherford will give Six Lectures on the Nervous System after
Easter.]
    Professor Ttndall, D.O.L. LL.D. F.R.S. Six Lectures on the Physical
Properties of Gases and Liquids, on Tuesdays, Feb. 17 to March 24.
    Professor P. M. Duncan, F.R.S. Six Lectures on Palaeontology, with
reference to Extinot Animals and the Physical Geography of their Time, on
Thursdays, Jan. 15 to Feb. 19.
    Professor W. 0. Williamson, F.R.S. Five Lectures on Cryptogam ic
Vegetation, on Thursdays, Feb. 26 to March 26.
    Professor G. Oroom Rorertson, University College, London. Four Lectures
on Kant's Critical Philosophy, on Saturdays, Jan. 17 to Feb. 7.

1G8                         General Monthly Meeting.              [Dec. 1, 1873.
     B. Bosworth Smith, Esq. M.A. Four Lectures on Mohammed and Moham
medanism, on Saturdays, Feb. 14 to March 7.
     Charles Thomas Newton, Esq. M.A. Keeper of Greek andRoman Antiqui
ties, British Museum. Three Lectures on Epuesus, on Saturdays, March 14, 21,
and 28.
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on tho
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      From
The Lords of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac for 1877. 8vo. 1873.
Agricultural Society Royal—Journal, 2nd Series, Vol. IX. Part 2. 8vo. 1873.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings Vol. V. No. 8. 8vo. 1873.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIII. No. 9. 8vo. 1873.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal—Sitzungsberichte. 1872; Heft 3. 1873;
      Heft 1. 8vo.
Beni-Barde, Dr. (the Author)—Traite' Thebrique et Pratique d'Hydrotherapie. 8vo.
      Paris, 1873.
British Architects,'Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1873-74, No. 1. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Hemiptera Heteroptera, Part 8. 8vo.
      1873.
Chemical Society—Journal for Nov. 1873. 8vo.
Davison, J. W. Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Beport on the Fossil Plants of
      Canada. 8vo. 1873.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Nov. 1873. 8vo.
   Athenseum for Nov. 1873. 4to.
   Chemical News for Nov. 1873. 4to.
   Engineer for Nov. 1873.
   Food Journal for Nov. 1873. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for Nov. 1873. Folio.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Nov. 1873. 4to.
   Nature for Nov. 1873. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Nov. 1873. 8vo.
   Once a Week for Nov. 1873. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Nov. 1873. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal for Nov. 1873. 8vo.
Geneva, Socie'te' de Physique—Me'moires, Tome XXni. Partie 1. 4to. 1873.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 116. 8vo. 1873.
Leighton, John, Esq. F.S.A. M.R.I,—The New Testamont in Ancient Slave. 16lo.
Manchester Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XIII. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo. 1873.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Transactions, Vol. LVI. 8vo. 1873.
Meteorological Committee of the Royal Society—Notes on the Cyclones inihe South
      Indian Ocean. 8vo. 1873.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 8. 8vo. 1873.
Mivart, St. George, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Man and Apes. 12mo.
      1873.
 Olivera, Carlos, Esq.—Boletin de la Esposicion Nacional en Cordoba (Argentine
      Bepublic). 7 vols. 8vo. 1869-73.
 Owen, Professor, F.R.S. (the Author)—Anatomy of the King Crab (Limulus
      Polyphemus). 4to. 1873.
 Photographic Society—Journal, No. 244. 8vo. 1873.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Juni-Aug. 1873.
      8vo.
Scott, Robert H. Esq. F.R.S. (the Author)—On the Connection between Colliery
       Explosions and Weather in 1871. (Met. Soc. Journal, 1873.)
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Beports, Vol. IX. 8vo. 1873.
 Victoria Institute—Journal, Nos. 8 and 27. 8vo. 1873.
  Walford, Weston S. Esq. F.S.A. M.R.I,—Papworth's Ordinary of British
       Armorials. Parts 19, 20, 21. 8vo. 1873.

          l&onal institution of <£reat Britain.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, January 16, 1874.
   William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Treas. R.S.            Secretary and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
              Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
     On the Acoustic Transparency and Opacity of the Atmosphere.
This discourse embraced the scientific results of an inquiry on Fog-
signals, undertaken at the instance of the Elder Brethren of the
Trinity House, and communicated with their friendly concurrence to
the Royal Society and the Royal Institution.
    The investigation was begun on the 19th of May, 1873, and con
tinued till the 4th of July. It was resumed on the 8th of October,
and continued to the end of November. It also includes observations
made during the dense fog which enveloped London on December 9
and the succeeding days.
    Gongs and bells were excluded from this investigation, in conse
quence of their proved inferiority to other instruments of signalling.
Tho experiments were made with trumpets blown by powerfully com
pressed air, with steam-whistles, guns, and a steam-syren, associated
with a trumpet 16 feet long.
    Daboll's horn, or trumpet, had been highly spoken of by writers
on fog-signals. A third-order apparatus of the kind had been reported
as sending its sound to a distance of from 7 to 9 miles against the
wind, and to a distance of 12 to 14 miles with the wind. Holmes
had improved upon Daboll ; and with two instruments of Holmes, not
of the third but of the first order, our experiments were made. On
the 19th of May, at 3 miles distance, they became useless as a fog-
signal ; at a distance of 4 miles, with paddles stopped and all on
board quiet, they were wholly unheard. At a distance of 2 miles from
the Foreland the whistles tested on May 19 became useless. The
12 o'clock gun, fired with a 1-lb. charge at Drop Fort in Dover, was
well heard on May 19, when the horns and whistles were inaudible.
On the 20th of May the permeability of the atmosphere had somewhat
increased, but the steam-whistle failed to pierce it to a depth of 3 miles.
At 4 miles the horns, though aided by quietness on board, were barely
heard. By careful nursing, if I may use the expression, the horn-
sounds were carried to a distance of 6 miles. The superiority of the
  Vol. VII. (No. 60.)                                             n

 170         Professor Tyndall on the Acoustic Transparency    [Jan. 16,
 18-pounder gun, already employed by the Trinity House as a fog-
 signal, over horns and whistles was on this day so decided as almost
 to warrant its recommendation to the exclusion of all the other
 signals.
     Nothing occurred on the 2nd of June to exalt our hopes of the
 trumpets and whistles. The horns were scarcely heard at a distance
 of 3 miles; sometimes, indeed, they failed to be heard at 2 miles.
 By keeping everything quiet on board, they were afterwards heard to
 a distance of 6 miles—a result, however, mainly due to the improved
 condition of the atmosphere. Considering the demands as to sound-
 range made by writers on this subject, the demonstrated incompetence
of horns and whistles of great reputed power to meet these demands
 was not encouraging. On the 3rd of June the atmosphere had changed
 surprisingly. It was loaded overhead with dark and threatening
clouds; the sounds, nevertheless, were well heard beyond 9 miles.
 On June 10 the acoustic transparency of the air was also very fair,
the distance penetrated being upwards of 8f miles. The subsidence
 of the sound near the boundary of the acoustic shadow on the Dover
 side of the Foreland, and before entering the shadow, was to-day
 sudden and extraordinary, affecting equally both horns and guns.
 We were warned on June 3 that the supremacy of the gun on one
 occasion by no means implied its supremacy on all occasions; the
 self-same guns which on May 20 had so far transcended the horns
 being on this day their equals and nothing more. The 11th of June
 was employed in mastering still further the facts relating to the sub
 sidence of the sound east and west of the Foreland; the cause of
this subsidence being in part due to the weakening of the sonorous
waves by their divergence into the sound shadow, and in part to
interference.
     The atmosphere on the 25th of June was again very defective
acoustically. The sounds reached a maximum distance of 6^ miles ;
but at 4 miles, on returning from the maximum distance, they were
very faint. The day had, as it were, darkened acoustically. On this
day the guns lost still further their pre-eminence, and at 5^- miles
were inferior to the horn. No sounds whatever reached Dover Pier
on the 11th ; and it was only towards the close of the day that they
succeeded in reaching it on the 25th. Thus by slow degrees the
caprices of the atmosphere made themselves known to us, showing us
subsequently that within the limits of a single day, even within a
single minute, the air, as a vehicle of sound, underwent most serious
variations. The 26th of June was a far better day than its prede
cessor, the acoustic range being over 9£ miles. The direction of the
wind was less favourable to the sound on this day than on the pre
ceding one, plainly proving that something else than the wind must
play an important part in shortening the sound-range.
     On the 1st of July we experimented upon a rotating horn, and
heard its direct or axial blast, which proved to be the strongest, at a
distance of 10^ miles. The sounds were also heard at the Varne

1874.]                and Opacity of the Atmosphere.                  171
light-ship, which is 12f miles from the Foreland. The atmosphere
had become decidedly clearer acoustically, but not so optically ; for
on this day thick haze obscured the white cliffs of the Foreland. In
fact, on days of far greater optical purity, the sound had failed to
reach one-third of the distance attained to-day. In the light of such
a fact, any attempt to make optical transparency a measure of acoustic
transparency must be seen to be delusive. Ou the 1st of July a
12-inch American whistle, of which we had heard a highly favourable
account, was tried in place of the 12-inch English whistle ; but, like
its predecessor, the performance of the new instrument fell behind
that of the horns. An interval of twelve hours sufficed to convert the
acoustically clear atmosphere of July 1 into an opaque one ; for on
the 2nd of July even the horn-sounds, with paddles stopped and all
noiseless on board, could not penetrate farther than 4 miles.
     Thus each succeeding day provided us with a virtually new
atmosphere, clearly showing that conclusions founded upon one day's
observations might utterly break down in the presence of the pheno
mena of another day. This was most impressively demonstrated on
the day now to be referred to. The acoustic imperviousness of the
3rd of July was found to be still greater than that of the 2nd, while
the optical purity of the day was sensibly perfect. The cliffs of the
Foreland could be seen to-day at ten times the distance at which they
ceased to be visible on the 1st, while the sounds were cut off at one-
sixth of the distance. At 2 p.m. neither guns nor trumpets were able
to pierce the transparent air to a depth of 3, hardly to a depth of
2 miles. This extraordinary opacity was proved conclusively to arise
from the irregular admixture with the air of the aqueous vapour raised
by a powerful sun. This vapour, though perfectly invisible, produced
an acoustic cloud impervious to the sound, and from which the sound
waves were thrown back as the waves of light are from an ordinary
cloud. The waves thus refused transmission produced by their re
flexion echoes of extraordinary strength and duration. This I may
remark is the first time that audible echoes have been proved to be
reflected from an optically transparent atmosphere. By the lowering
of the sun the production of the vapour was checked, and the trans-
missive power of the atmosphere restored to such an extent, that, at
a distance of 2 miles from the Foreland, at 7 p.m., the intensity of the
sound was at least thirty-six times its intensity at 2 p.m.
     That layers of dried air alternating with layers of air saturated
with the vapour of a volatile liquid can powerfully intercept sound,
has been experimentally established.
     On October 8 the observations were resumed, a steam-syren and a
Canadian whistle of great power being added to the list of instruments.
A boiler had its steam raised to a pressure of 70 lbs. to the square inch ;
on opening a valve this steam would issue forcibly in a continuous stream,
and the sole function of the syren was to convert this stream into a
series of separate strong puffs. This was done by causing a disk with 12
radial slits to rotate behind a fixed disk with the same number of slits.
                                                                n 2

172         Professor Tyndall on the Acoustic Transparency     [Jan. 16,
When the slits coincided a puff escaped ; when they did not coincide
the outflow of steam was interrupted. Each puff of steam at this
high pressure generated a sonorous wave of great intensity ; the
successive waves linking themselves together to a musical sound so
 intense as to be best described as a continuous explosion.
     During the earlier part of October 8 the optical transparency of
the air was very great ; its acoustic transparency, on the other hand,
 was very defective. Clouds blackened and broke into a rain- and
hail-shower of tropical violence. The sounds, instead of being
deadened, were improved by this furious squall ; and, after it had
lightened, thus lessening the local noises, the sounds were heard at a
distance of 7^ miles distinctly louder than they had been heard
through the preceding rainless atmosphere at a distance of 5 miles.
At 5 miles distance, therefore, the intensity of the sound had been at
least doubled by the rain—a result entirely opposed to all previous
assertions, but an obvious consequence of the removal by condensation
and precipitation of that vapour the mixture of which with the air
had been proved so prejudicial to the sound. On this day a depen
dence was established between the pitch of a note and its penetrative
power—the syren generating 480 waves being slightly inferior to the
horns, while generating 400 waves a second it was distinctly superior.
The maximum range on October 8 was 9 miles. On October 9 the
transmissive power had diminished, the maximum range being
7£ miles. On both these days the syreu proved to be superior to the
horns, and on some occasions superior to the gun.
     On the 10th and 11th, a gale having caused our steamer to seek
safety in the Downs, we made land observations. The duration of
the aerial echoes was for the syren and the gun 9 seconds, for the
horns 6 seconds. The duration varies from day to day. We sought
to estimate the influence of the violent wind, and found that the sound
of the gun failed to reach us in two cases at a distance of 550 yards
to windward, the sound of the syren at the same time rising to a
piercing intensity. To leeward the gun was heard at five times, and
certainly might have been heard at fifteen times the distance attained
to windward. The momentary character of the gun-sound renders it
liable to be quenched by a single puff of wind ; but sounds of low
pitch generally, whether momentary or not, suffer more from an
opposing wind than high ones. We had on the 13th another example
of the powerlessness of heavy rain to deaden sound.
     On the 14th the maximum range was 10 miles, but the atmosphere
did not maintain this power of transmission. It was a day of extreme
optical clearness; but its acoustic clearness diminished as the day
advanced. In fact the sun was in action. We proved to-day that by
lowering the pitch of the Canadian whistle, its sound, which had
previously been inaudible, became suddenly audible. The day at
first was favourable to the transmission of the longer sound-waves.
After a lapse of three hours the case was reversed, the high-pitched
syren being then heard when both guns and horns were inaudible.

 1874.]               and Opacity of the Atmosphere.                 1 73
 But even this state of things did not continue, so rapid and surprising
 are the caprices of the atmosphere. At a distance of 5 miles, at
 3.30 p.m., the change in transmissive power reduced the intensity of
 the sound to at least one-half of what it possessed at 11.30 a.m.,
 the wind throughout maintaining the same strength and direction.
 Through all this complexity the knowledge obtained on July 3
 sheds the light of a principle which reduces to order the apparent
 confusion.
     October 15 was spent at Dungeness in examining the performance
 of Daboll's horn. It is a fine instrument, and its application was
 ably worked out by its inventor ; still it would require very
favourable atmospheric conditions to enable it to warn a steamer
 before she had come dangerously close to the shore. The direction
in which the aerial echoes return was finely illustrated to-day, that
direction being always the one in which the axis of tho horn is
 pointed.
     The lGth was a day of exceeding optical transparency, but of
 great acoustic opacity. The maximum range was only 5 miles. On
this day the howitzer and all the whistles were clearly overmastered
by the syren. It was, moreover, heard at 3^ miles with the paddles
going, while the gun was unheard at 2^ miles. With no visible
object that could possibly yield an echo in sight, the pure aerial
echoes, coming from the more distant southern air, were distinct and
long continued at a distance of 2 miles from the shore. Near the
base of the Foreland cliff we determined their duration and found it
to be 11 seconds, while that of the best whistle echoes was 6 seconds.
On this day three whistles, sounded simultaneously, were pitted
against the syren, and found clearly inferior to it.
    On the l7th four horns were compared with the syren and found
inferior to it. This was our day of greatest acoustic transparency,
the sound reaching a maximum of 15 miles for the syren, and of more
than 1 6 for the gun. The echoes on this day were continued longer
than on any other occasion. They continued for 15 seconds, their
duration indicating the atmospheric depth from which they came.
    On October 18, though the experiments were not directed to deter
mine the transmissive power of the air, we were not without proof
that it continued to be high. From 10 to 10.30 a.m., while waiting
for the blasts of the syren at a distance of 3 miles from the Foreland,
the continued reports of what we supposed to be the musketry of
skirmishing parties on land were distinctly heard by us all. We
afterwards learned that the sounds arose from the rifle-practice on
Kingsdown beach, 5^ miles away. On July 3, which, optically con
sidered, was a far more perfect day, the 18-pounder, howitzer, and
mortar failed to make themselves heard at half this distance. The
18th was mainly occupied in determining the influence of pitch and
pressure on the syren-sound. Taking the fluctuations of the atmo
sphere into account, I am of opinion that the syren, performing from
2000 to 2400 revolutions a second, or, in other words, generating

 174          Professor Tyndall on the Acoustic Transparency   [Jan. 16,
 from 400 to 480 waves per second, best meets the atmospheric con
ditions. We varied the pressure from 40 to 80 lbs. on the square inch ;
 and though the intensity did not appear to rise in proportion to the
 pressure, the higher pressure yielded the hardest and most penetrating
 sound.
     The 20th was a rainy day with strong wind. Up to a distance of
 5^ miles the syren continued to be heard through the sea- and paddle-
 noises. In rough weather, indeed, when local noises interfere, the
 syren-sound far transcends all other sounds. On various occasions
 to-day it proved its mastery over both gun and horns. On the 21st
 the wind was strong and the sea high. The horn-sounds, with paddles
 going, were lost at 4 miles, while the syren continued serviceable up
to 6£ miles. The gun to-day was completely overmastered. Its
puffs were seen at the Foreland ; but its sound was unheard when the
 syren was distinctly heard. Heavy rain failed to damp the power of
 the syren. The whistles were also tried to-day, but were found far
 inferior to the syren. On the 22nd it blew a gale, and the ' Galatea '
 quitted us. We made observations on land on the influence of the
 wind and of local noises. The shelter of the Coastguard Station at
 Cornhill enabled us to hear gun-sounds which were quite inaudible to
 an observer out of shelter ; in the shelter also both horn and syren
 rose distinctly in power ; but they were also heard outside when the
 gun was quite unheard. As usual the sound to leeward was far more
 powerful than those at equal distances to windward. The echoes from
 the cloudless air were to-day very fine. On the 23rd, in the absence
 of the steamer, the observations on the influence of the wind were
 continued. The quenching of the gun-sounds, in particular, to wind
 ward was well illustrated. All the sounds, however, gun included,
 were carried much farther to leeward than to windward. The effect
 of a violent thunderstorm and downpour of rain in exalting the sound
 was noticed by observers both to windward and to leeward of the
 Foreland. In the rear of the syren its range to-day was about a mile.
 At right angles to the axis, and to windward, it was about the same.
 To leeward it reached a distance of 7^ miles.
     On the 24th, when observations were made afloat in the steam-tug
' Palmerston,' the syren exhibited a clear mastery over gun and horns.
The maximum range was 7J miles. The wind had changed from
W.S.W. to S.E., then to E. As a consequence of this, the syren
was heard loudly in the streets of Dover. On the 27th the wind
was E.N.E. ; and the syren-sound penetrated everywhere through
Dover, rising over the moaning of the wind and all other noises. It
was heard at a distance of 6 miles from the Foreland on the road to
Folkestone, and would probably have been heard all the way to
Folkestone had not the experiments ceased. Afloat and in the axis,
with a high wind and sea, the syren, and it only, reached to a distance
of 6 miles ; at 5 miles it was heard through the paddle-noises. On
the 28th further experiments were made on the influence of pitch, the
syren when generating 480 waves a second being found more effective

  1874.]               and Opacity of the Atmosphere.                175
 than when generating 300 waves a second. The maximum range in
  the axis on this day was 7£ miles.
      The 29 th of October was a day of extraordinary optical trans
 parency, but by no means transparent acoustically. The gun was the
 greatest sufferer. At first it was barely heard at 5 miles ; but after
 wards it was tried at 5J-, 4£, and 2^ miles, and was heard at none of
 these distances. The syren at the same time was distinctly heard.
 Tho sun was shining strongly ; and to its augmenting power the
 enfeeblement of the gun-sound was doubtless due. At 3^ miles, sub
 sequently, dead to windward, the syren was faintly heard ; the gun
 was unheard at 2 J miles. On land the syren and horn-sounds were
 heard to windward at 2 to 2.h miles, to leeward at 7 miles ; while in
 the rear of the instruments they were heard at a distance of 5 miles,
 or five times as far as they had been heard on October 23.
     The 30th October furnished another illustration of the fallacy of
 the notion which considers optical and acoustic transparency to go
hand in hand. The day was very hazy, the white cliffs of the Fore
 land at the greater distances being quite hidden ; still the gun- and
 syren-sounds reached on the bearing of the Varne light-vessel to a
 distance of 11^- miles. The syren was heard through tho paddle-
 noises at 9 j miles, while at 8J- miles it became efficient as a signal
 with the paddles going. The horns were heard at 6.J miles. This
was during calm. Subsequently, with a wind from the N.N.W., no
sounds were heard at Gl miles. On land, the wind being across the
direction of the sound, the syren was heard only to a distance of
3 miles N.E. of the Foreland ; in the other direction it was heard
plainly on Folkestone Pier, 8 miles distant. Both gun and horns
failed to reach Folkestone.
     Wind, rain, a rough sea, and great acoustic opacity characterized
October 31. Both gun and horns were unheard 3 miles away, the
syren at the same time being clearly heard. It afterwards forced its
sound with great power through a violent rain-squall. Wishing the
same individual judgment to be brought to bear upon the sounds on
both sides of the Foreland, in the absence of our steamer, which had
quitted us for safety, I committed the observations to Mr. Douglass.
He heard them at 2 miles on the Dover side, and on the Sandwich
side, with the same intensity, at 6 miles.
     A gap (employed by the engineers in making arrangements for
pointing the syren in any required direction) here occurred in our
observations. They were resumed, however, on November 21, when
comparative experiments were made upon the gun and syren. Both
sources of sound, when employed as fog-signals, will not unfrequently
have to cover an arc of 180°; and it was desirable to know with
greater precision how the sound is affected by the direction in which
the gun or syren is pointed.
     The gun, therefore, was in the first instance pointed on us and
fired, then turned and fired along a line perpendicular to that joining
us and it. There was a sensible, though small, difference between

176         Professor Tyndall on the Acoustic Transparency      [Jan. 16,
the sounds which reached us in the two cases. A similar experiment
was made with the syren ; and here the falling off when the instru
ment was pointed perpendicular to the line joining us and it was very
considerable. This is what is to be expected ; for the trumpet asso
ciated with the syren is expressly intended to gather up the sound and
project it in a certain direction, while no such object is in view in the
construction of the gun. The experiments here referred to were amply
corroborated by others made on November 22 and 23.
    On both of these days the ' Galatea's ' guns were fired to windward
and to leeward. The aerial echoes in the latter case were distinctly
louder and longer than in the former. The experiment has been
repeated many times, and always with the same result.
    In front of the Cornhill Coastguard Station, and only 1£ mile
from the Foreland, the syren, on the 21st, though pointed towards us,
fell suddenly and considerably in power. Before reaching Dover
Pier it had ceased to be heard. The wind was here against the
sound ; but this, though it contributed to the effect, could not account
for it, nor could the proximity of the shadow account for it. To these
two causes must have been added an acoustically flocculent though
optically transparent atmosphere. The experiment demonstrates con
clusively that there are atmospheric and local conditions which, when
combined, prevent our most powerful instruments from making more
than a distant approach to the performance which writers on fog-
signals have demanded of them.
    On November 24 the sound of the syren, pointed to windward,
was compared at equal distances in front of and behind the instru
ment. It was louder to leeward in the rear than at equal# distances to
windward in front. Hence, in a wind, the desirability of pointing
the instrument to windward. The whistles were tested this day in
comparison with the syren deprived of its trumpet. The Canadian
and the 8-inch whistles proved the most effective; but the naked
syren was as well heard as either of them. As regards opacity,
the 25th of November almost rivalled the 3rd of July. The gun
failed to be heard at a distance of 2'8 miles, and it yielded only a
faint crack at 2 A- miles.
    Meanwhile this investigation has given us a knowledge of the
atmosphere in its relation to sound, of which no notion had been pre
viously entertained. While the velocity of sound has been the subject
of refined and repeated experiments, I am not aware that sinco the
publication of a celebrated paper by Dr. Derham in the ' Philosophical
Transactions' for 1708, any systematic inquiry has been made into
the causes which affect the intensity of sound in the atmosphere.
Derham's results, though obtained at a time when the means of inves
tigation were very defective, have apparently been accepted with
unquestioning trust by all subsequent writers—a fact which is, I
think, in some part to be ascribed to the a priori probability of his
conclusions.

1874.]                mid Opacity of the Atmosphere.                  177
     Thus Dr. Robinson, relying apparently upon Derham, says, " Fog
is a powerful damper of sound," and he gives us physical reason why it
must be so. " It is a mixture of air and globules of water, and at each of
the innumerable surfaces where these two touch, a portion of the vibra
tion is reflected and lost." And he adds further on, " The remarkable
power of fogs to deaden the report of guns has been often noticed."
     Assuming it, moreover, as probable that the measure of " a fog's
power in stopping sound" bears some simple relation to its opacity
for light, Dr. Robinson, adopting a suggestion of Mr. Alexander Cun
ningham, states that " the distance at which a given object, say a flag
or pole, disappears, may be taken as a measure of the fog's power "
to obstruct the sound. This is quite in accordance with prevalent
notions ; and granting that the sound is dissipated, as assumed, by
reflexion from the particles of fog, the conclusion follows that the
greater the number of the reflecting particles, the greater will be
the waste of sound. But the number of particles, or, in other words,
the density of the fog, is declared by its action upon light ; hence the
optical opacity will be a measure of the acoustic opacity.
      This, I say, expresses the opinion generally entertained, " clear,
 still air " being regarded as the best vehicle for sound. We have
 not, as stated above, experimented in really dense fogs ; but the
 experiments actually made entirely destroy the notion that clear
 weather is necessarily better for the transmission of sound than thick
 weather. Some of our days of densest acoustic opacity have been
 marvellously clear optically, while some of our days of thick haze
 have shown themselves highly favourable to the transmission of
 sound. Were the physical cause of the sound-waste that above
 assigned, did that waste arise in any material degree from reflexion
 at the limiting surfaces of the particles of haze, this result would
 be inexplicable.
      Again ; Derham, as quoted by Sir John Herschel, says that
 " falling rain tends powerfully to obstruct sound." We have had
 repeated reversals of this conclusion. Some of our observations have
 been made on days when rain and hail descended with a perfectly
 tropical fury ; and in no single case did the rain deaden the sound ;
 in every case, indeed, it had precisely the opposite effect.
      But falling snow, according to Derham, offers a more serious
 obstacle than any other meteorological agent to the transmission of
 sound. We have not extended our observations at the South
 Foreland into snowy weather ; but an observation of my own made
 on December 29, in the Alps, during a heavy snowstorm, distinctly
 negatives the statement of Derham.
      Reverting to the case of fog, I am unable in modern observations
 to discover anything conclusive as to its alleged power of deadening
 sound. I had the pleasure of listening to a very interesting lecture
 on fog-signals delivered by Mr. Beazeley before the United Service
 Institution ; and I have carefully perused the printed report of that
 lecture, and of a paper previously communicated by Mr. Bcazelcy to

 178     Acoustic Transparency and Opacity of the Atmosphere. [Jan. 16,
 the Institution of Civil Engineers. But in neither of these pains
 taking compilations can I find any adequate evidence of the alleged
 power of fogs to deaden sound.
     Indeed during the discussion which followed the reading of Mr.
 Beazeley's paper, an important observation in an opposite sense was
 mentioned by Mr. Douglass, to whose ability and accuracy as an
 observer I am able to bear the strongest testimony. Mr. Douglass
 stated that ho had found in his experience but little difference in the
 travelling of sound in foggy or in clear weather. Ho had distinctly
 heard in a fog, at the Smalls rock in tho Bristol Channel, guns fired
at Milford Haven, 25 miles away. Mr. Beazeley, moreover, has
 heard the Lundy-Island gun " at Hartland Point," a distance of
 10 miles, during dense fog. Mr. Beazeley's conclusion, indeed,
accurately expresses the state of our knowledge when he wrote. In
winding up his paper, he admitted " that the subject appeared to be
very little known, and that the more it was looked into the more
apparent became the fact that the evidence as to the effect of fog upon
sound is extremely conflicting." When, therefore, it is alleged, as it
is so often alleged, that the power of fogs to deaden sound is well
known, the disjunctive not is to be inserted before the predicate.
     The real enemy to the transmission of sound through the atmo
sphere has, I think, been clearly revealed by the foregoing inquiry.
That enemy has been proved to be not rain, nor hail, nor haze, nor
fog, nor snow—not water in fact in either a liquid or a solid form,
but water in a vaporous form, mingled with air so as to render
it acoustically turbid and flocculent. This acoustic turbidity often
occurs on days of surprising optical transparency. Any system of
measures, therefore, founded on the assumption that the optic and
acoustic transparency of the atmosphere go hand in hand must prove
delusive.
    There is but one solution of this difficulty: it is to make the
source of sound so powerful as to be able to endure loss by partial
reflexion, and still retain a sufficient residue for transmission. Of all
the instruments hitherto examined by us the syren comes nearest to
the fulfilment of this condition ; and its establishment upon our coasts
will, in my opinion, prove an incalculable boon to the mariner.
    An account of the observations made during the recent fog adds
the force of demonstration to others recorded in the paper, that fogs
possess no such power of stifling sound as that hitherto ascribed to
them. Indeed, the melting away of fog on December 13 was accom
panied by an acoustic darkening of the atmosphere, so great that,
at a point midway between the eastern end of the Serpentine, where
a whistle was sounded, and the bridge, tho sound possessed less than
one-fourth of the intensity which it possessed on the day of densest fog.
    Thus, I think, has been removed the last of a congeries of errors
which for more than a century and a half have been associated with
the transmission of sound by the atmosphere.                     [J. T. |

1874.]          Professor Sylvester on Conversion of Motion.                     179
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, January 23, 1874.
      George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                J. J. Sylvester, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.S.
                  CORRESPONDING MEMBER OF THE INSTITUTE OF FRANCE.
         On recent Discoveries in Mechanical Conversion of Motion.
The speaker stated that the subject he proposed to bring under the
notice of the meeting related mainly to the discovery of a perfect
parallel motion,—that is to say, of a mode of producing motion in
a straight line by a system of pure link-work without the aid of
grooves or wheel-work, or any other means of constraint than that due
to fixed centres, and joints for attaching or connecting rigid bars. This
important discovery was made by M. Peaucellier, an officer of Engineers
in the French army *—and first published by him, in the form of a
question, in the ' Annales de Mathematique ' in the year 1864, and
subsequently formed the subject of two communications to the " Societe
Philomathique " of Paris by Captain Manheim, but seems not to have
received the attention it deserved from that learned body, and may
be said to have passed into oblivion ; so much so, that when redis
covered by a young student of the University of St. Petersburg, of the
name of Lipkin, several years subsequently, the discovery was attri
buted to Lipkin instead of to Peaucellier even in works published in
the French language, and so recently as 1873 by M. Colignan, in his
' Traite de Cinematique.' The eminent Professor Tchebicheff had long
occupied himself with the question, but with less than his usual success
in overcoming difficulties insuperable to the rest of the world. Lipkin
was a student in his class, and may thus havo had his attention turned
to the question ; at all events, Professor Tchebicheff's warm interest in
the subject was displayed by his bringing Lipkin's name before the
Russian Government, and securing for him a substantial reward for his
supposed original discovery. Before Peaucellier's time all so-called
parallel motions were imperfect, and gave merely approximate recti-
    * Now Colonel Peaucellier, and in command of the fortress of Toul ; at the
time of his discovery lieutenant and offlcierd'ordonnance on the staff of the " illus
trious Marshal Niol."

  180                            Professor Sylvester                          [Jan. 23,
  linear motion ; * in substance they will be without exception found to
 be merely modifications of Watt's original construction, and to depend
 on the motion of a point in, or rigidly connected with, a bar joining
 the extremities of two other bars rotating round fixed centres, which
 may be described briefly as three-bar motion.                   Peaucellier's exact
     * The late lamented Professor Rankine, in his treatise on Mill work, and else
 where, mentions a so-called " exact parallel motion," the invention of which he
 dubiously assigns to Mr. Scott Russell. In its exact form this is no parallel
 motion at all, for it works by means of a slide, and in its modified form it ceases
 to be exact, the motion produced being no longer truly rectilinear.
      Mr. Kaulbach, a mechanical draughtsman, resident in London, has shown the
 speaker a sketch of a very ingenious guasi'-parallel motion, which he took the first
 steps to patent a year or two ago, but has not thought it worth his while to pro
 ceed with it further. Its principle depends upon finding a curve made to rotate
 about a fixed point, and enjoying the property that the tangent to each point of
 it, as that point passes a given vertical line, shall take up a horizontal position.
A piston-rod is guided in the direction of such vertical line, and the beam,
which always presses on a friction wheel attached to the rod, is so shaped in its
outward contour as to satisfy the above condition ; the consequence is that tho
reaction on the piston-rod can only take effect vertically, i. e. in the direction of its
motion, and no lateral pressure is produced.
      Peaucellier's invention effects the perfect conversion of circular into linear
motion. An easy practical deduction from this is the conversion of spherical
into plane motion, by aid of universal joints and other familiar modes of effecting
free motion in space, of a shaft about a fixed point or round another shaft. The
announcement of these facts has occasioned many persons unacquainted with the
technical language of mechanism to suppose that the discovery of Peaucellier is
connected with the quadrature of the circle or cubature of the sphere, and led to
the idea that tho speaker was in possession of some secret for flattening spheres
and turning circles into right lines. Such a misconception was one (as indeed
the wide extent of its prevalence demonstrates) quite likely to occur even to intel
ligent persons untrained in mathematical science. Technical names are a frequent
occasion of traps to the uninitiated. A lady present at ono of Mr. Norman
Lockyer's course of lectures on Spectral Analysis, near the close of it was over
heard inquiring with some anxiety as to " when the spectres might' be expected
to make their appearance." Names are of course all important to the progress of
thought, and the invention of a really good name, of which the want, not pre
viously perceived, is recognized, when supplied, as having ought to be felt, is
entitled to rank on a level in importance with the discovery of a new scientific
theory. Imagine plane, straight, circle, and you are potentially a geometer. Think
the meaning of the one word 8yzygy, and the logic of algebra has become part of
your being. But, on the other hand, there are cases where over-naming does
harm. The speaker has no doubt that if reading music on the piano with the
fingers were taught without the intervention of learning the names of the notes,
twice the velocity of execution (and quick reading is here tho sine-qua-non for the
existence of every other kind of excellence) might be acquired in half the time
required under the present system. The names of the notes of course would
have to be learned at a later stage as a medium for discourse ; but they should
not be used as a vehicle for obtaining command of digitation, as such use amounts
to throwing upon the brain the labour of going through two steps when one would
suffice, and the passage of a direct nervous current from the eye to the touch in
the act of reading, even at an advanced stage, becomes by force of habit inter
rupted and diverted into a broken channel. The new method for learning to
read on the pianoforte here suggested may be distinguished as the abnominal or
undenominational or tactile mothod. The writer is prepared to show in detail
how it can be carried out in practice.

 1874.]                       on Conversion of Motion.                          181
 parallel motion depends on a link-work of seven bars moving like
 Watt's, and the other imperfect parallel motions of the same class
 round two fixed centres.*
     * The perfect parallel motion of Peaucellier looks so simple and moves so
 easily that people who see it at work almost universally express astonishment
 that it waited so long to be discovered. The idea of the facility of the result by
a natural mental illusion gets transferred to the process of conception, as if a
 healthy babe were to be accepted as proof of an easy act of parturition. No
 impression can be more erroneous. The speaker, on the contrary, the more he
reflects upon the problem that was to be solved, and the nature of the solution
(essentially a process of transformation operating on polar co-ordinates), wonders
the more that it was ever found out, and can see no reason why it should have
been discovered for a hundred years to come. Viewed a priori there was nothing
to lead up to it. It bears not the remotest analogy (except in the fact of a double
centring) to Watt's parallel motion or any of its progeny. In the three-bar motion
the two fixed points are so to say one as good as the other, there is no distinction
to be drawn between them ; whereas the two fixed centres (hereafter designated as
the fulcrum and pivot) in Peaucellier's seven-bar arrangement are absolutely dis
similar in position and function. Peaucellier's apparatus naturally resolves itself
into a cell and a spare link ; no such decomposition presents itself in the three-
bar motion. Again, looking at the matter a posteriori, it occurs to many well-
grounded mathematicians to suppose that, as the most general motion of a link-
work of seven or any number of bars for each possible mode of conjunction and
centring must be capable of being expressed by a general algebraical equation,
the particular combination for rectilinear motion, when, such motion is possible,
ought to be contained therein and inferrible therefrom by studying under what
conditions the characteristic of the general equation can degenerate into a power
of a linear function or, as might perhaps happen (and would be sufficient if it
did), into such power multiplied by a function incapable of changing its sign.
But the answer to this is that practically there could be little or no hope of
ever obtaining the general equation. In one-bar motion the general curve (''. e.
a circle) is of the 2nd order; in three-bar motion, as is well known, of the 6th
order ; very likely, therefore, in five-bar motion it would be of the 24th order at
least; and in seven-bar motion, of the 120th order at least. The equation or
system of equations of the 120th order, supposed to be applicable to seven-bar
motion, one could hardly dream of obtaining, or of being able to manipulate if
obtained. Written out at full length in a handwriting of moderate size, the area
of a very large room might be insufficient to contain the whole of its terms,
which would consist of 7381 groups, and might be tens or hundreds of thousands
in number. No ; it must either have been fallen upon in a chance or experi
mental way, and subsequently verified theoretically, or else hit off in some sudden
glow of insight akin to but of a much intenser degree of illumination than that
under which Professor Stokes was able to see that the hydrody tinmical theorem
of Lagrange before him, proved imperfectly by its author and others, and correctly
but with great difficulty by Cauchy, was an immediate inference from the pretty
nearly self-obvious fact of the complete time-derivatives of the three quantities
to be proved if ever then always zero, being by virtue of the well-known general
hydrodynamical equations, syzygetic functions of these quantities themselves.
Dr. Tchebicheff has informed the writer that he has succeeded in proving the
non-existence of a five-bar link-work capable of producing a perfect parallel
motion ; he is probably therefore in possession of the actual numerical order of
the general equation or system of equations applicable to this ease. It is not
proved, and may not be true, that Peaucellier's is the only seven-bar link-work
that will solve the problem of a perfect parallel motion. Who shall say whether
there may not exist some other combination of seven bars in which the same or
an analogous zig-zag symmetry to that which exists in the three-bar arrangement

182                            Pro/easor Sylvester                        [Jan. 23,
     To understand the principle of Peaucellier's link-work, it is con
venient to consider previously certain properties of a linkage * (to coin a
new and useful word of general application), consisting of an arrange
ment of six links, obtained in the following manner :—first conceive a
rhomb or diamond formed by four equal links joined to one another ;
and now suppose a pair of equal links to be joined on to two opposite
angles of such figure and to each other. All six links are supposed to
lie (and to be constrained by the nature of their attachments to remain)
in the same plane. The point of junction of the last-named pair of links
(which it will be found convenient to call the fulcrum), according as
they are greater or smaller than the sides of the diamond, will lie out
side or inside the diamond. The linkage consisting of the six links
may be termed a positive cell in the one case and a negative cell in the
other.'}1 It is easily seen, as a geometrical necessity, that the fulcrum,
may reappear! This is a point which should not be allowed to remain subject to
doubt.
    * A link-work consists of an odd number of bars, a linkage of an even number.
A linkage may be converted into a link-work odditively by fixing one point of it
as a fulcrum and attaching a second point disconnected from the first by a new
link to another fulcrum, or ablutively by fixing two ends of a link, which may
then be removed. When one point only of a linkage is fixed, any other point
may be made to describe an arbitrary curve, but then the path of every other
point becomes prescribed. In order for a combination of links to fulfil this so
to say fatalistic condition, and to entitle it to the name of a linkage in the
speaker's sense, which when greater precision is required may be distinguished
as a perfect linkage, equivalent to the French systeme de tiges a liaison complete, a
numerical relation must be satisfied between the number of links and the number
of joints, viz. three times the number of links must be four greater than twice
the number of joints. In applying this rule it must be understood that, if three
links are jointed together, the junction counts for two joints ; if four are jointed
together, for three joints; and so on. A compass or a pair of scissors is the
simplest kind of linkage ; a set of lazy-tongs is another ; a Peaucellier cell, sub
sequently described in the text, a third. If no three joints lie on the same link,
the above numerical relation between joints and links may be stated in another
form, viz. twice the number of joints is four greater than the number of links.
But in applying the rule in this form all joints count alike as units, and for a
simple compass the ends must be reckened as joints.
    t Mr. Penrose, the eminent architect and surveyor to St. Paul's Cathedral,
the scientific expositor and elucidutor in succession to Mr. Pcnnethorne of the
surprising law of curvilinearity in the temples of the Greeks, has put up a house-
pump worked by a negative Peaucellier cell, to the great wonderment of the
plumber employed, who could hardly believe his senses when he saw the sling
attached to the piston-rod moving in a true vertical Hue, instead of wobbling as
usual from side to side. There seems to be no reason why the perfect parallel
motion should not be employed with equal advantage in the construction of
ordinary water-closets. The author has been admitted to see the geometrical
pump at work in Mr. Penrose's kitchen at Wimbledon. A sister pump of the
ordinary construction stands beside it. The former, although quite as compact
as its neighbour, throws up a considerably larger head of water with the same
sweep of the handle. Its elegance, and the Motionless ease with which it can be
worked (beauty as usual the stamp and seal of perfection) have made it the pet of
the household. Some circular steps outside St. Paul's Cathedral very lately re
quiring repair, Mr. Penrose employed a circulo-circularly-adjnsted Peaucellier
cell to cut out templets in zinc for the purpose. The radius of the steps is about

  1874.J                       on Conversion of Motion.                            183
  in whatever way the linkage is moved about, will always lie in a
  straight line with the two free angles of the diamond, which may be
  called its poles, and the distances of these poles from the fulcrum, or
  40 feet, but to the great comfort and delectation of his clerk of the works, they
  were able to operate with a radius of not more than 6 or 7 feet in length. General
  Sir H. James, R.E., lately gave a lecture on the subject at Southampton, and
 informs the writer that this has been the means of inducing a gentleman of
 fortune residing there, well known in the yachting world, to fit up a marine
 engine with a Peaucellier parallel motion to use on board a steam yacht.
     A very good idea of the form and operation of a negative cell may be gained by
 putting together the fore-fingers and ring-fingers of the two hands, and placing one
 middle finger a little over the other so as to keep all six fingers in the same plane.
 The first Peaucellier cell constructed in this country was a positive one, made by
 the speaker's friend, the eminent musician and inventor of the laryngoscope, Mr.
 Manuel Garcia, Ph.D., who happened to visit him shortly after his memorable
 interview with Dr. Tchebicheff, in which that great mathematician announced
 in answer to his inquiries after the progress of the disproof of the impossibility
 of the exact conversion of circular into rectilinear motion, which had eo long
 occupied the attention of his illustrious guest, that it, the thing itself, not the
 proof of its impossibility, had been actually effected in France, and subsequently
 in Russia, by a freshman student in his own class. He showed Mr. Garcia the
 drawing of the cell and mounting left by Tchebicheff, and the next day was
 gratified by receiving from him a model constructed with a few pieces of wood,
 fastened together with nails as pivots, which, rough as it was, worked perfectly,
 and drew forth the most lively expressions of udmiration from some of the
 most distinguished members of the Philosophical Club of the Royal Society
(not mathematicians, but naturalists, geologists, chemists, and physicists), when
 it was brought in with the dessert, to be seen by them after dinner, as is the
 laudable custom among the members of that eminent body in making known to
 each other the latest scientific novelties. Presently after the speaker exhibited the
 same model in the hall of the Athenamm Club to his brilliant friend Sir William
 Thomson, of Glasgow, who nursed it as if it had been his own child, and when a
motion was made to relieve him of it, replied, " No ! I have not had nearly enough
of it—it is the most beautiful thing I have ever seen in my life." This rude but
invaluable model ought to be preserved in some physical laboratory as a historical
relic. It served as an instrument by which the speaker in every case where
it was seen gained immediate converts to the belief of the importance of Peau-
cellier's great discovery, whereas a mere geometrical diagram would have been as
little regarded as a figure of the celebrated asses' bridge in Euclid at last, so
great is the difference of the impression produced on the practical English mind
by the esse and the posse—being told how a thing ought to act, and seeing it actu
ally going. Considering the extraordinary conversions worked with Mr. Garcia's
model, it would not be unsuitable to write in letters of gold on the board attached
to it which gives support to the two frail centres, the famous motto of Con
stantino—" In hoc siguo vinces."
     Apropos of the mistaken impressions of great men. Did not Newton live and
die in the belief of the incurability of chromatic dispersion ; Cayley, affirm the
infinitude of the number of the aszygetic invariants of binary quantics beyond
the sixth order, thereby arresting for many years the progress of the triumphal
car which he had played a principal part in setting in motion ; Pontecoulant the
possibility of the existence of a rotating fluid ellipsoid of equilibrium for other
than forms of revolution ?
     And as regards the speaker himself, twenty years ago he emitted in the
1 Philosophical Magazine ' a conjectural criterion for distinguishing a priori, geo
metrical propositions capable only of indirect demonstration from those suscep
tible of direct, when, lo and behold ! but a few days ago came over a seemingly
incontrovertible refutation of his supposed law, addressed to the Vice Chancellor

  184                          Professor Sylvester                       [Jan. 23,
 the ideal lines which represent those distances, may be called the arms
 of the cell. It is upon the geometrical relation between those arms
 that the remarkable mechanical properties of Peaucellier's cell depend.
 The cell may be made to change its form like a set of lazy- tongs or
 any other kind of linkage, by closing or opening the diamond : as this
 is done evidently the lengths of the arms alter ; but it will be found,
 and is capable of easy geometrical proof, that they remain subject to a
 very simple condition, viz. one increases just as much as the other de
 creases, so that their product remains invariable ; this product is
 equal to the difference between the square of either of the links
 (called the connectors) proceeding to the fulcrum and the square of
 any side of the diamond, to which we may give the name of the
 modulus of the cell. The speaker illustrated this property experi
 mentally, using a negative cell for the purpose. When the fulcrum
 was midway between the two poles each arm was 12 inches in length.
 When one arm was made 18 inches the other was found to be 8 ;
 when again it was stretched to the length of 24 inches the other was 6,
 and so on, the product of the two remaining always 144 ; or, recken
 ing in feet, to the lengths 1, £, 2, 3 of one arm corresponded the
 lengths 1, §, £, £ of the other ; showing that the length of one arm
 was so governed by the length of the other as that the numbers
 denoting the two were always inverse or reciprocal to each other
 when the modulus is taken as unity. Hence a Peaucellier's cell may
be conveniently termed a Reciprocator or Inverter. If we were to sup
pose the connectors at their free ends, instead of being attached to the
side angles of the diamond, to be joined on to two adjoining sides in
such a manner as to become parallel to the other pair of sides, this
parallelism would continue to subsist for all positions of the linkage,
and the arms or distances of the fulcrum from the opposite angles or
poles of the diamond would still remain in the same right line, but
the relation between them would now be one of direct instead of
inverse proportion. Conceive the fulcrum in such an arrangement to
become fixed. Since we can not only alter the angles of the diamond,
but make the whole arrangement turn round the fixed point, we can
make either pole describe any plane curve whatever : the other pole
will then describe a curve precisely similar in shape, but drawn on a
different scale, as in any ordinary pantigraph.*
of our University of Cambridge, (as a sort of Patriarch of the West, and recog
nized Official Defender of the Faith (as it is in Euclid) for the British isles), by-
Miss Chart, of Oakland, California, U.S., which it is to be hoped will speedily
appear in the same journal where the erroneous hypothetical dogma first saw
the light. His sin, after so long a delay, and travelling half round the world in
the interim, has found him out. It ought to be added that Miss Chart does not
claim for herself the merit of the refutation, but represents herself as having
received it some years ago from a gentleman bearing the, to geometrical ears,
auspicious-sounding name of Hesse.
    * Sometime, according to the authority of a quostionist in the ' Educational
Times ' for the current month, called a Pentegram. Theoretically two Peaucellier
cells are equivalent to a Pentegram ffor we may change r into — by one, and

   1874.]                      on Conversion of Motion.                             185
       But if we revert to the Peaucellier cell or Reciprocator, whether
  of the positive or negative form, and treat it in the same manner as
  the supposed pantigraphic arrangement, fixing the fulcrum, and
   making one of the poles — i. e. an extremity of one of the arms —
  describe any plane curve, tho other pole will no longer describe a
  similar curve, but what in the language of geometry is termed an
  inverse of the curve in question, the fulcrum being the origin of the
  inversion.
       Suppose now one of the poles is made to describe a circle, the
  other will describe the inverse of a circle, which geometricians are
  well aware will in general be another circle, subject to the exception
  that if tho arc described by one pole is part of a circle passing
  through the fulcrum, which is hero the origin of the inversion, the
  path of the second pole will bo no longer a circle, but a perfect
  straight line, which, under a mathematical point of view, may be
  regarded as a circle with an infinite radius. If then, in addition to
  fixing the fulcrum, we still further constrain the motion of the
  Peaucellier cell by attaching one of tho poles to a centre (which for
  the sake of distinction from the other fixed point above defined wo
  may term the pivot) round which it can revolve, situated at an equal
  distance from that pole and the fulcrum, the other pole will describe
  a perfect straight line perpendicular to tho lino joining the fulcrum
  and the pivot. We have thus a combination of seven radiating bars
 attached to two fixed centres, one point of which describes a truo
 rectilinear path, and thus the long-aought-for problem of a perfect
 parallel motion meets for the first time its complete solution.*
 that into Kr by the other), but whilst combinations of the former are adequate
 to the transformation of r into any algebraio function of r, tho latter are abso
 lutely sterile, leading only to the one single sort of transformation (if it may be
 called so), r into K r. It seems then going too far to say (as does tho writer
 alluded to above) that the germ of Peaucellier's invention is contained in the
 Penti'gram.
     * The centre above spoken of may be taken in the line itself, which joins the
 poles and the fulcrum. If it be taken not too far out of this position of symmetry
 it will in the course of the motion be brought into such position ; but if it be
 taken at starting (as it may be), at a sufficiently great distance from t\,e cell, the
 position of symmetry mny never be attained throughout the whole possible course
of the motion. This circumstance has been generally overlooked, and accordingly
too narrow a rule has been given for the construction of a Peaucellier parallel
motion, viz. it is laid down that the pivot is to be taken midway between tho
 fulcrum and one of the poles for some certain position of the instrument. The
position of the fulcrnm relative to the two poles gives rise to the distinction
 between a negative and positive cell ; but the preceding remark shows that there
is a further subdivision of Peaucellier parallel motions depending on the length
of the mounting radius, and that positive and negative mounted cells each of
them embrace two radically different forms or genera, which may be distinguished
as the symmetrical and non-symmetrical respectively ; in the one form there exists
a position where the first lies in the line containing the fulcrum and the two poles,
in the other, no such position can be found. In the ordinary rule given for the
construction of a P. P. M. only tho former of these two genera is included which,
as machines, differ between themselves as much as do the ellipse and hyberbola
as curves.
    Vol. VII. (No. 60.)             »                                      o

186                             Professor Sylvester                          [Jan. 33,
     The speaker illustrated these results by various models con
structed in wood. By changing the length of the radial bar
connecting one pole of the cell with p. fixed point, the free pole was
shown to describe arcs of circles convex or concave to the fulcrum,
    It ought to be ndded that the motion of the parallel-point is always perpen
dicular to the line of centres, and in every position makes, with the line contain
ing the fulcrum and the poles an angle equal to the angle contained in the segment
of the circle (of which one polo describes an arc), which lies between it and the
fulcrum. If we join the two fixed centres by a new link, and then unfix them, we
obtain a linkage of eifrht bars, possessed of very remarkable properties, of one of
which Peaucellier has availed himself to obtain a mechanical description of the
Limacon of Pascal, which is the inverse of a conic in respect to the focus as the
organ of inversion.
    By a combination of such linkages it is possible to cause any number of points,
otherwise free, to remain always in a straight line with each other. The speaker
believes that he is in possession of a bond fide valid proof of the proposition assumed
on totally insufficient grounds by Peaucellier, ri>. that every algebraical curve
may be best described by link-work. The proof is founded on the union of the
above statement (or still better, one founded on his own Kiuomatical Paradox
subsequently referred to) with Grussman's method of describing algebraical curves
by means of an apparatus of fixed points and lines ; this proposition, as far as con
cerns curves of the first nine genera (t. e. of a cursality, or, so to say, circuit-com-
plexity not transcending the 9th degree), and also for curves of the first six orders,
or for any order where the degree of one of the variables in the representing
equation is 5 or less, he had already demonstrated by a direct method. In using
this method he found it necessary to prove that a general algebraical equation of
the fifth degree could always be reduced to a trinomial form by real transforma
tions, which, by Tschirnhausen's (the only method hitherto applied), as often as
not, is incapable of being done. By an extension of the principle of Tschirnhausen's
method he succeeded in establishing this important algebraical proposition. A
very much more important conclusion relating to the representation of every
algebraical function (i. e. the function that one quantity is of another connected
with it by any algebraical equation), under a quasi-explicit form, he believes
he can show may be deduced from the transformed Grassmanian construction
above alluded to : by quasi-explicit, meaning a form capable of being obtained
by the elementary processes of addition, multiplication, change of sign, and reci-
Sroeation with that of general form-inversion superadded. Thus Peaucellier's
  iscovery seems likely to throw open a new chapter in the highest summits of
Analysis, no less important in the theoretical direction than its numerous appli
cations to the mechanical arts in the direction of practice.
      In the lineo-circular or parallol-motion adjustment imagine the connectors to
be detached from the angles of the diamond, and joined on to the two sides of the
diamond, which meet at the " parallel point," at equal distances from it. Then
the motion of that point will no longer be in a straight line, but in a circle.
    This method of producing one circular motion from another (which was first
given by the speaker in the ' Educational Times ') may probably be found to
possess important practical advantages over the circulo-circular adjustment of
the Peaucellier cell described in the text above.
    The speaker exhibited another modification of the Peaucellier cell; like it
consisting of six links, but having the property that the sum of the squares of the
two arms (instead of their pro luct) remains constant. This he calls a quadratic-
binomial extractor.
    By means of this cell, mounted with a suitable radius, a perfect lemniscate
may be described ; and what is very interesting, and flows from this construction
(but was first observed by Dr. Heurici), the same curve may be described by
means of a binomial-extractor, of a certain kind, reduced to a link-work by the

i874.]                       on Conversion of Motion.                           187
according as the ideal circle, in an arc of which the first-named pole
moved, fell short of the fulcrum or contained that point within it ; in
the limiting case, when it passed through the fulcrum, the path was
shown to be neither convex nor concave, but a straight line free from
all curvature in either direction. This was further verified mechani
cally by connecting together at their free poles two perfectly equal and
similar mounted cells. If the tendency of either of these was to deviate
from the straight path, the tendency of the other would be to deviate in
the contrary direction ; so that either the pair of mounted cells would
become an absolute fixture, or the two would crush or tear each other
to pieces ; but in the experiment exhibited the pair of mounted cells
were seen to move together (as if in happy wedlock), without let or
hindrance to each other's motion. The circular motion of the free
pole of a single mounted cell in the general case was also verified
experimentally, and even more simply than in the rectilinear case,
by the addition of a second radial bar, taken of a suitable length,
determined by previous mathematical calculation. As a general rule,
the total number of bars in a link-work machine must be odd, but
hero there were eight bars, and yet tho combination admitted of being
set in free motion,—any one of the eight being, in fact, what may be
termed a lazy-bar, and capable of being removed without disturbing
the motion, very much in the same way as any one of the four legs
of a table may be removed without disturbing the equilibrium.*
      The speaker pointed out the important applications of the two
kinds of motion above referred to (which he proposed to call the
circulo-linear and the circulo-circular respectively) to various con
structions in machinery, such as the steam-engine, planing and
grinding machines, the construction of maps on the stereographic
ablative method of fixing one of tho links : in other words, a perfect lemniscate
 may be described throughout its complete extent by means of 5-bar motion.
 Peaucellier refers to, without specifying, a combination, " assez compliquee," of
cells (or, as he terms them, compound compasses) by means of which a lemniscate
may be traced; whereas, in the method above described the number of links
employed is less by a pair than in the single mounted Peaucellier cell.
     * Suppose four circles to be given, and that it is proposed lo inscribe upon
them a quadrilateral whose four sides are piven in length.
     This is a determinate problem which will in general admit of a definite number
of solutions. (The method of correspondence and of bipartite equations founded
thereon seeming to indicate thirty-two as the total number of such solutions, some
or all of which may be imaginary.) But now the question mny be put, " Under
what circumstances can the number of such solutions become infinite and tho
problem undeterminate?" It follows from what is stated in the text above that
this may happen (other conditions being satisfied) when two of the oircles coin
cide and the four given lengths are all equal. It remains to be ascertained whether
with any new set of conditions a like undeterminateness can be brought about for
the case of four circles all distinct. If so, a solutiou would be obtained of tho
problem of converting by link-work circular into circular and conceivably (ns an
extreme case) into linear motion by an arrangement radically distinct from Peau-
cellier's, and involving the use of three instead of two fixed centres, but with the
same number of links.
                                                                        o 2

188                               Professor Sylvester                       [Jan. 23,
projection, millwrights' work, laying out of railway curves, dioptric
apparatus for lighthouses, ornamental tracery, pendulum suspension
to effect motion in a practically exact cycloidal arc, &c., &c., and
referred to the use which, as he was informed hy the authorities at
Woolwich, might have been mado of the circulo-circular adjustment in
saving several weeks' work, inconvenience, and expense in cutting out
the fish-bellied torpedo casings recently constructed in the laboratory
department at the Royal Arsenal there, and the use contemplated to
be made of the circido-linear, or perfect parallel motion, for guiding
a piston-rod in certain machinery connected with some new apparatus
for the ventilation and filtration of the air of the Houses of Parlia
ment, now under course of construction.
     He next referred to the unlimited command over the motion
of a point furnished by a combination of cells. Returning to the
simple Pcaucellier cell, its use may bo modified in a very remarkable
manner by setting free the point of junction of the two connectors
(termed, in what precedes, the fulcrum), and fixing one of the poles as
a centre of rotation in its place. If now tho liberated fulcrum be
made to describe any curve, the free pole will describe a curve
corresponding to it, according to a certain easily-stateable mathema
tical law. Imagine tho first-named curve to be part of a circle
passing through the fixed point—it may be shown that in that case
the freo pole will describe the inverse of a conic section in respect
to a vertex of the conic as tho origin of the inversion ; consequently,
by combining with this cell a second, used as a Reciprocator, we may,
mounting with a suitable radius a pair of Pcaucellier cells duly
adjusted, cause a point to move in a parabola, ellipse, or hyperbola.
     The speaker exhibited a combination of this kind, and caused a
point to describe portions of an ellipse, a parabola, and of the two
branches of a hyperbola in succession ; the traversing pole of tho first
cell, which might bo termed the first follower, being seen to describe
beautiful nodal cubics (or the inverses of the conies), whilst the free
pole of the second cell or second follower described the conies
themselves.*
    * The nodal cubics or conic-inverses above described are for the parabola, the
common cissoid, and for the ellipse and hyperbola curves which may be termed
trans-cissoid and cis-cissoid, or less barbarously and more euphoniously the hyper-
cissoid and hypo-cissoid respectively. The common cissoid, as is well known, has a
cusp which here coincides with the fulcrum. In the hyper-cissoid this becomes a
detached, or, as it is ordinarily termed, a conjugate point, and in the hypo-cissoid a
node on the curve, which in this case possesses a loop in addition to an infinite
branch. When the first follower moves in this infinite branch, the second follower
describes a portion of that branch of the hyperbola in which the fulcrum lies—
but of course can never reach the vertex, which coincides with the fulcrum ;
when tho first follower moves in the loop the second follower describes the oppo
site branch of the hyperbola, and can be made to pass through the vertex of that
branch.
    The geometrical construction for the common cissoid, or cissoid proper, is well
known to be as follows. Imagine a pencil of rays proceeding from one extremity

   1874]                        on Conversion of Motion.                             189
        He next went on to state that by a combination of cells properly
   proportioned and suitably attached to each other in succession in a
   manner similar or analogous to that in which simple machines, as for
  example a number of levers, may bo combined to produce a complex
   of a diameter of a circle, and meeting a tangent to the circle drawn at the other
  extremity. Then if the portion of each ray intercepted between the circle and
  tangent be shifted along tho ray nntil one point of it coincides with the centre of
  the pencil, the other point will mark out the cissoid. Now imagine everything to
  remain as above, with the exception that the tangent is moved parallel to itself
  and becomes fixed in a new position nearer to or further from the centre of the
  pencil than it was at first, then the curve marked out becomes the hypo-cissoid or
  hyper*-cissoid respectively, a remark due to Mr. Howard Elphinstone. The smooth
  ness of the motion, and the facility with which the eisaoidal curves and the
  corresponding curves were drawn was matter of general surprise and admiration
  to the audience. This circumstance, due in part to the skill of Dr. Henrici in
  choosing the proportions of the parts, ably seconded by the mechanical experience
  and ingenuity of Mr. Grant, modeller to University College, at the same time
  served to evince the extraordinary superiority of pure link-work motion, i. e.
  motion due exclusively to the action of radiating bars about centres, over motion
  effected in whole or in part through the intervention of grooves and slides. It
  was the analogous superiority enjoyed by circular over linear construction for the
  purpose of graduating instruments of precision that actuated Mascheroni (the
  favourite geometer of the first Napoleon) in devising his admirable, most valuable,
  and most tedious exposition of the geometry of the compass. The superiority
  in question was still more strongly evinced in the triple-ocll combinations em
  ployed in the instrument for the extraction of cube-roots and the trisection of an
  angle.
      Clairant has given a method of constructing an instrument for extracting
 the mots of an equation by means of linear measarements described in Borgrii's
 ' Tr;iite do Mecaniquo Applique'e' (volume on 'Machines Imitatives.' p. 226);
 but the author's method, founded on Peaueellier's discovery, is beyond all com
 parison superior in the rango of algebraical operations which come within its
 scope, in the simplicity, homogeneity, and smaller number of its parts, in the
 facility of its application, and the smoothness of the resulting motion. His
 instrument for solving cubic equations is far less complicated than that of Clai-
 raut for quadratics (which he does not suppose have ever been realized) and in
finitely easier of application. For instance, in working his cube-root machine, one
 point of the instrument is fixed as the zero-point ; a second point, called the setter,
 is drawn out to a division on a scale corresponding to any proposed number; a
 third point, called the finder, will then automatically place itself over the division
 on the same sc.de, corresponding to the cube root of that number. The zero setter
 and finder points in the calculating linkage are identical (or, as in tho transforma
 tion scene of a pantomime, may be said to change characters) with the fulcrum,
 power and weight (or driver and follower), points in the corresponding link-work
 used as a machine. In Clairant s and other similar machines the calculations
 are made by means of measurements made upon curves described by the machines.
 The author's method is direct and does not involve tho use of any such inter
 mediary process.
      Returning to the subject, which has led to this digression, it will be noticed
that by the method referred to in the text a mounted double reciprocating cell,
i. e. an apparatus of thirteen links, serves to describe a conic. Peaueellier's method,
founded on the combination of what may be termed a collineator or radial pro
tractor, with a mounted reciprocator. involves the use of fifteen links, besides a
cross-piece rigidly attached to one of them, and, so far, is less simple, as well as
leas symmetrical than the author's method ; but this must not be supposed to be
said in derogation from the merit of the admirable invention of the collineator

190                             Professor Sylvester                      [Jan- 23,
one, we are able to bring about any mathematical relation that may be
desired between the distances of two of the poles of a linkage from a
third, and are thus potentially in possession of a universal calculating
machine. Ho exhibited and worked a cube-root extracting machine
constructed on this principle, and claimed to have given the first really
practical solution of the famous problem proposed by the ancients of
the duplication or multiplication of the cube. This machine consisted
of a combination of three cells ; by changing the modulus of one of
the three, he explained that it was also quite easy to solvo the cubio
equation involved in the analytical solution of the problem of tho bi
section of the angle; and a working model of an instrument of this
kind executed in zinc was exhibited by Professor Hcnrici after the
lecture. He concluded by expressing his great obligations to this
gentleman, without whoso aid he would have been able to do little
more than adumbrate in general terms the results which, thanks to
his friend's practical knowledge and skill, he had had the pleasure of
exhibiting in a tangiblo form, and submitting before his audience to
the test of actnal experiment ; and expressed his conviction that Peau-
ccllier's unhoped-for discovery (even if viewed merely on its practical
side as a new vital element of mechanism) was destined to produce
lasting and important results through innumerable applications to the
useful and ornamental arts, and would hand down the name of its
inventor to posterity as one of the benefactors of mankind.
itself, by which Peaucellier has solved tho beautiful and most important Kine-
matical problem of devising a perfect linkage, enjoying the property, that however
it is turned about, or drawn in and out, one point of it shall always remain upon
or in the direction produced of a physical line rigidly attached to the linkage, but
in different positions upon such line. It is believed that a conic-describing
instrument (may one say eonicograph ?) on Peaucellier's plan has not been
actually executed, and that a pure link-work for effecting conical motion was
witnessed for the fir.-t time since the creation of the world in the lecture-room
of the Royal Institution on the 23rd of January, 1874. Although it may be
presumed that the Peaueellier conicograph wo«ld not work so simply as the one
exhibited, it possesses a superiority in one respect, ci>. that the fulcrum on this
arrangement lying off the curve at the focus, the part of the curve described
may be made to include the vertex of the parabola, which cannot be reached by
the other method. It has been thought by competent judges, conversant with
practical mechanism, that this (the writer's) method might be applied with ad
vantage to constructing parabolic light-house reflectors ; and as these, from the
nature of the case, are made without bads, consisting of two paraboloids of revolu
tion, situated dos-a-<ios, having a common foeus, at which the source of light is
placed, from which the rays stream through the opening upon the surfaces of the
two reflectors, the fact of the tracing or cutting or grinding instrument not being
able to reach the vertex, would be no disadvantage in this case, since the portion
of the surface in the neighbourhood of that point is not required, and, indeed, it-
formed would have to be subsequently cut away. But it should be added that by
a generalized single-mounted cell an approximation to the parabolic form can be
 attained to a degree of precision far in excess of all practical needs.

1874.]                   aw Conversion of Motion.                   191
                             POSTSCRIPT.
    In some possibly fortheoming number of 'Nature' a detailed
account, which was expected to appear two months ago, will be given,
illustrated with the necessary diagrams, of the cube-root extractor
and angle-trisector : the materials for this purpose are in the hands
of the editor of that journal, and have been entrusted by him to the
most competent person to draw them out into form—the writer not
feeling within himself the necessary energy for accomplishing this
task. He thinks it, however, desirable (indeed almost a moral duty
on his part) to supplement those materials by the desultory remarks
which follow, in order that some results, which he believes to be
important to the progress of mechanical and algebraical science, may
be rescued from the chances of total oblivion and virtual annihilation.
    The first question which presents itself relates to the square-root
extractor. It is a remarkable fact that a cellular system for extract
ing square roots is much more complicated than what is required for
the cube root ; and so in general all even-degreed extractors require
a more extensive apparatus of link-work than is required for the odd
degrees. Such extractions may be performed in all cases by a system
consisting of Peaucellier cells exclusively ; but the process may be
abridged in the case of even degrees by the interpolation of another
form of cell, alluded to in a previous foot-note under the name of the
quadratic-binomial extractor, which deserves a somewhat more detailed
description. It is figured in the diagram below. F A P B is a jointed
rhomb or diamond ; P C and P D are each
doubles of the sides of the rhomb and C W,
D W are two equal links. The difference
between the squares of C P and C W is
the modulus. F P, F W are the arms, and
the difference between their squares is
equal to the modulus. This is the instru
ment which, when F is fixed and P moves
in a circle passing through W, describes a
curve which may be called the Lemni-
scatoid, having the same general kind
of relation to the Lemniscate that the
Hypercissoid and Hypocissoid bear to
the Cissoid proper. This Lemniscatoid becomes the Lemniscate
when a certain simple arithmetical relation subsists between the
modulus and diameter of the circle described by P. If A as well as
F be fixed, P will move in a circle passing through F, of which 0 P
will be the radius, and consequently the five-bar link-work, consisting
of the links C W, C P, D W, D P, F B (centred at F and A), will
serve to describe the Lemniscate when the arithmetical relation
above referred to subsists between C P and the modulus, i. e. between
C P and the difference of the squares of C P and C W ; consequently,
when the lengths CP, CW have a certain simple arithmetical

192                              Professor Sylvester                        [Jan. 23,
 proportion to each other, W will describe the Lemniscate : this
 proportion, it will be found, is such that when W comes to F the
 angle at P is a right angle. So much for the binomial-root extractor :
 obviously by aid of this kind of linkage when one arm is the tangent
 of any angle, the other arm may be made equal to the secant, and
 vice versa. Again, it should be observed that, as in the Peaucellier
 cell (used as a reciprocator), the arms may be taken as x and - by
 interchanging the fulcrum with one of the poles, i. e. reckoning the
 two arms as the distance between the fulcrum and one pole from the
 other pole to the arm x, the new arm may be made to become                         x,
                                           2x
which may bo reciprocated into -               2 by the use of a second Peaucel
lier cell. Hence by two Peaucellier cells an arm denoted by tan. 6
may be, so to say, transformed into an arm tan. 2 6. Thus we see that
we may pass through the following series of transformations
                cos. 6, sec. 6, tan. 6, tan. 2 6, sec. 2 6, ^ cos. 2 6
 by means of a P. C, a Q. B. E., a pair of P. C.'s, a Q. B. E., and a
 P. C,—i. e. by an apparatus containing four Peaucellier cells and two
cells of the new kind—making a linkage of six cells or 36 links in
all. In other words, by means of such a linkage the arm x may be,
so to say, converted into a;" — ^.
     If, therefore, by a Q. B. E. we first convert x into the square root of
x1 -f- ^ by superadding to this the linkage last named, i.e. by a linkage
of seven cells or 42 links, x becomes converted into x1. Thus, then,
seven cells are required for a squaring or square-root extractor in
strument analogous to the cubing or cube-root instrument for which
only three cells are required.*
     The above investigation leads to a further construction of extra
ordinary interest, which the speaker is wont to describe as the
Kinematical Paradox : every new flight in physics and mathematics,
and the same seems equally true of politics, ethics, and philosophy,f
    * The much simpler scheme for converting x into x3, which explains the prin
ciple of the cube root machine, is as follows :—
                                                1       xs — 1
                        First conversion, x       .i.e.           •
                                                x           x
                        Second conversion, -,-—=x        1 , i'.f. -= 1 •
                                             x' — 1      X          X' — X
                        Third conversion, (x3 — x) + x, i. e. x*.
    For the trisection of the angle it is necessary to solve Kinematioally the equa
tion between cos. 3 6 and cos. 6, to effect which it is only necessary to replace the
third conversion above by 4 (xs — x) + x, i. e. 4 x* — 3 x.
    t As ex. gr. Cramer's paradox (the foundation of the highest modem geometry)
the irov uri of Archimedes and the hydrostatic paradox, '• The king can do no
wrong" "It is better t" suffer than to du wrong" "All proof is reducible to

 1874.]                      on Conversion of Motion.                            193
 is apt to commence with a paradox. Two perfect linkages have been
 described above, one of six, the other of seven cells. Let these
 linkages both be constructed simultaneously; they will have two
 detached points of the one (viz. the two extremities of the arm x) coin
 cident with two of the other : their union will itself (according to a
 general principle) form a perfect linkage. In this linkage of 13 cells
 two points will lie in the same straight line with the original zero
 point from which the arms are measured, ono at the distance x2, the
 other at the distance x2 — £ therefrom. Hence there will bo two points
 in this linkage which are disconnected, but in whatever way the other
 links are drawn in and out, retain an invariable distance from each
 other ! Any other two points of the apparatus may be made to vary
 their distances from each other, but no force that can be applied at
 these two points to force them nearer to or separate them further from
 each other can be of any effect. There is no immediate rigid connection
 between them, and yet they are as good as rigidly connected. Imagine
 now that they become connected by a material link : the linkage will not
 be a fixture, but a perfect linkage as before, consisting, however, of an
 odd number, viz. 79 links; any one of these may be regarded as a
 lazy-bar, and may be removed without affecting the motion of which
 the apparatus is susceptible. Returning to the original state of things,
 where there are 13 cells, if we fix the two points of invariable distance
 the instrument will not become a fixture (as would be the case if any
 two other disconnected points in it were fixed), but a free link-work
 with a superfluous or lazy-bar, represented by any of the links at will ;
 for by fixing these particular two points, not four, but only three degrees
 of liberty are abstracted. By fixing one of them two such degrees are
 taken away ; but as the other is then not free, but compelled to move
 in a circle, fixing it takes away only one additional degree of liberty
 of motion.
     By this link-work of 78 bars (one superogatory) a remarkable
Kinematical problem has been solved (and it is probably the simplest
solution of which it admits), which may be stated as follows : —
" Required to construct a link-work fixed or centred at two of its points,
such that (when the machine is set in motion) some other point or
points therein shall be compelled to move in the line of centres."
     There are some similar questions to this, which ought, in a strict
logical order, to have preceded it, which we may now take into con
sideration. By a single mounted Peaucellier cell fixed at two centres,
one point is made to move perpendicular to the line of centres. Sup
pose now it were required to devise a link-work such that a point
should move parallel to such lino.
     The motion perpendicular to the line of centres is due to the fact
that by the Peaucellier cell the radius vector C cos. 8 is transformed
syllogisms, and the syllogism can prove nothing " " A heavy body begins to fall
with no velocity." The Kantian antinomies. Helmholtz's vortices. A variable
!'unc:ion which never varies, i.e. an Invariant as distinguished from a Cons-tnnt.

194                         Professor Sylvester                 [Jan. 23,
into C sec. 6 ; in like manner to get the parallel direction a means
must be found of passing from the cosine to the cosecant. Now
although a single cell serves to change the tangent into the secant,
or vice versa, and consequently a single imaginary cell will serve to
change the cosine into the sine (which of course could then be immedi
ately Peaucelliorized into the cosecant), he is not aware of any direct
real process simpler than that about to be stated by which this can
be effected. His actual law of deduction is as follows : Cosine ; secant ;
tangent ; cotangent ; cosecant, involving the use of two Peaucellier
cells and two quadratic-binomial extractors.
     With one cell more, i.e. with five in all, the cosine becomes con
verted into the sine, and consequently by introducing a pantigraphic
cell cos. 0 may be converted into cos. (6 -\- a), and this reciprocated
into sec. (6 -f- a). Thus it seems (at all events after the present
method) that four cells are required to obtain by link-work recti
 linear motion parallel to the line of centres, and seven cells to
 convert it into motion oblique to the line of centres ; or taking into
 account the mounting radius 7, 25, 43 links are required to obtain
 motions respectively perpendicular, parallel, and oblique to that
 line. In the Kinematical Paradox it will have been seen that there
 are 13 cells employed, i. e. 78 links, of which any one is liable to
 removal at will, so that for motion in the very line of centres 77 links
 are requisite. Consider this system in its entirety. In a straight
 line with the two fixed points there will be 13 other medial points ;
 and two parallel ranks on both sides, each also containing 13 points.
 The whole apparatus admits of being moved with a sort of see-saw
 motion backwards and forwards ; and it may assist the imagination
 of tho reader if he will conceive such an instrument armed with
 13 picks in the line of centres, each at work to remove the asphalt of a
 pavement under repair ; an idea suggested by a member or visitor at
 a soiree of the Amateur Mechanical Society of London, of which the
 ingenious and accomplished " Senior Member for Greenwich " acts as
honorary secretary. Or we might describe the Kinematical Paradox as
 a kind of compound saw. If the " two points of invariable distance "
 be set free, and some other of the medial points be fixed as a fulcrum,
 the instrument may be used like Peaucellier's second invention re
ferred to in a previous foot-note as a radial protractor to change the
 curve
                        p = a given function of 0
 into the curve
                    p + c = the same function of 6 ;
 as, for instance, to pass from the circle to the limacon of Pascal,
 or from a straight line to a conchoid. For while one of the two
 points of constant distance described any curve, the other would
 describe the same curve with all its radii vectores reckened from the
 fixed point lengthened or shortened by a constant quantity. The
 Einematical Paradox ought not to be regarded in the light of a mere
 luxury of speculation ; it serves to represent a constant as a Kine

1874.]                      on Conversion of Motion.                              195
matical function of the independent variable (corresponding to the
uso of the zero power of x to represent unity in algebra), without
which the general analytical theory of linkages, and the very impor
tant theory of algebraical functions founded thereon, would fall to
the ground, or rather be incapable of being constructed.
     It would be difficult to quoto any other discovery which opens out
such vast and varied horizons as this of Peaucellier —in one direction,
as has been shown, descending to the wants of the workshop, the sim
plification of the steam-engine, the revolutionizing of the millwright's
trade, the amelioration of garden-pumps, and other domestic con
veniences (the sun of science glorifies all it shines upon), and in the
other soaring to the sublimest heights of the most advanced doctrines
of modern analysis, lending aid to, and throwing light from a totally
unsuspected quarter on the researches of such men as Abel, Rieman,
Clebsch, Grassman, and Cayley. Its head towers above the clouds,
while its feet plunge into the bowels of the earth.
     Prophetic and well-timed were the parting words to the speaker
of the illustrious Tchebicheff : " Take to Kinematics, it will repay
you ; it is more fecund than geometry ; it adds a fourth dimension to
space." So also said Lagrange.
     In the course of the foregoing exposition, incidental reference has
been made to the addition of perfect linkages to each other.* This
gives rise to the important distinction of all perfect linkages into
prime and composite—prime ones being such as can be resolved into
the sum of two others, and composite those for which no two such
components can be found. As an example of one kind, imagine an
octagon with its four pairs of opposite angles (or, which will do as
well, its four pairs of opposite sides) connected by links. There will
then bo 12 links and 16 joints; and since 3 X 12 — 2- 16 = 4, the
linkage will be perfect. Such a linkage is prime, for it will be found
impossible to resolve it into two others. Whereas, every cell pre
viously described is capable of being formed by the successive
accretions of single pairs of links, thereby justifying in a new and
specialized sense the title of Compound Compass, used by Peaucellier
to designate his cell. Moreover, cells belong to a very special class
of compound linkages, those namely which by successive processes of
decomposition can eventually be reduced to depend on sets of link-
pairs, and which may accordingly be termed Dyadisms. Dyadisms,
again, require to be classed according to their order. A dyadism of
the first order is one that can be obtained by successive additions of
single duads at a time. A dyadism of the second order is one that
can be formed by successive additions of single dyadisms of the first
order at a time, and so on ; and it is very essential to notice that the
addition together of two dyadisms of a given order will not in general
    * Viz. by pivotting together two disconnected points of the one with two dis
connected points of the other, each with each. The sum of two perfect linkages
so connected will satisfy the same numerical linear equation between joints and
links as its two constituents, and thus will itself constitute a perfect linkage.

  196                           Professor Sylvester                        [Jan. 23,
  be a dyadism of the came order. Thus we see that a pure tactical
  theory of colligation underlies the subject of linkages, a theory of the
  same nature as that which is known to underlie the doctrine of
  crystallography and polyhedra ; and as that which, under the name
  of ramification (proposed by the speaker), gives the clearest notion of
  the modern chemical doctrine of the atom-groupings of the hydro
  carbons, and in a manner supplies an a priori ground for the formula
  of the saturated hydro-carbons C„ • Hrt+,t which, for the simpler case of
  the hydro-borons (if such scries existed), would become C„ B<+,
      It may be shown that every ramification may be subjected to a
  process of reduction, (a sort of divulsion process, the number of steps of
  which fixes its genus, or order) which leads eventually to a single intrinsic
  centre or a pair of intrinsic centres, and consequently may be referred
  to one or the other of two great classes of forms which may be termed
  central and axial respectively ; and it seems only reasonable to antici
  pate that the physical properties of such chemical compounds as tho
  hydrocarbons will eventually be found to correspond to this distinc
  tion between their representative ramifications; and that they will
 accordingly range themselves under one or the other of two great
 families distinguished by properties at least as important and specific
 as those which serve to distinguish the crystalloidal and colloidal states
 of matter. The theory of ramification is one of pure colligation, for it
 takes no account of magnitude or position ; geometrical lines are
 used, but have no more real bearing on the matter than those
 employed in genealogical tables have in explaining the laws of pro
 creation.
      The sphere within which any theory of colligation works is not
 spatial but logical—such thoory is concerned exclusively with the
 necessary laws of antecedence and consequence, or in one word of
 connection in the abstract, or in other terms is a development of the
 doctrine of the compound parenthesis. M. Camille Jordan, indepen
 dently of and anteriorly to the author, discovered and published in a
 memoir, the title of which would never suggest the notion of ramifi
 cation, the existence of tho intrinsic centre and centres here referred
 to —without having any suspicion of its bearing on modern chemical
doctrine. He has moreover discovered the existence of another kind
of intrinsic centre of ramification which was unknown to the author of
theso lines.
     A ramification, it ought to be added, is a rootless tree, i.e. one in
which the root only ranks the same as the terminal of a branch, and
saturated hydrocarbons are typified by ramifications in which every
joint is trifurcated, meaning thereby that in tracing the wood outwards
from any terminal assumed as the root, it splits and splits again, so
that trifurcation takes place at each joint, or in other words, four lines
radiate out from each joint;* the joints are supposed to adumbrate the
carbon atoms and tho terminal points tho hydrogens.
    * Observe that if there were no Splitting, as in a bamboo cane, tvo lines would
issue from eaeh joint.

1874.]                        on Conversion of Motion.                         197
     To conclude, as he has begun, with the principal personage of his
story, the author thinks it will be useful to several of his readers to
have before their eyes the figure which contains
the property of the admirable linkage which
lies at the root of Peaucellier's conicograph.
     In tho given figure APBW is a rhomb.
PA is equal to PB, GP to GF, and G' is a
point lying on F G, or F G produced such that
F G"W is a right angle. Then, however the links
aro moved about, the motion of W relative to F G
will bo always perpendicular to F G, from which
it follows that F G'W will always continue to
be a right angle, and consequently an upright
piece attached at G' perpendicular to F G will
always continue to point to W. When W is
fixed, the instrument serves as a radial protractor.
One point of the upright can doscribo any curve, and any other point
a radial protraction (or retraction) of that curvo. When one point of
the upright perpendicular is fixed, the combination becomes ideally
equivalent to a revolving slot, in which W is freo to traverse. The
inverse of a conic in respect to a focus {i.e. the Limacon of Pascal) is a
protraction or retraction of the circle. Hence the use of the in
strument for describing conies.
     In the abovo linkago let a pair of equal links G P, G W be sub
stituted for tho pair G P, G F. It is easy to provo that if O be the
intersection of the diagonals of the rhomb, G O and F O will then be
at right angles to each other, and the sum of their squares will be a
constant. If now any one link of the rhomb is transferred parallel to
itself so as to pass through O, and is jointed on to tho sides at the
points where it meets them, and O is fixed, and F made to move in a
circle containing O, the path of G will be the inverse in respect to O of
a conic of which O is the centre, so that by the aid of a radius and a
reciprocator in addition to the transformed linkage above described,
a point may bo mado to move in any conic round its centre as a fixed
point.* This is rather a simpler construction than Peaucellier's for
motion in a conic round the focus as a fixed point, for the number of
links is no greater, and the ungainly cross-piece disappears. More
over, it possesses all the advantages of Peaucellier's method arising
from the fulcrum lying off tho curve to be described. Finally, as
regards the most general motion that can be produced by a Peaucellier-
mounted cell in its generalized form, if F be the junction of two
links on which F A, F B are two equal segments, and F C, F D
two other equal segments, and PA, PB and W C, W D bo two pairs
of equal links in the same plane with tho first pair, such combination
    * It follows as a particular case nf the abive, that nn apparatus of nine links
moving round two fixed centres will serve to generate motion in a circle whose
centre is in a right line drawn through one of the given two, perpendicular to the
line joining it to the other.

198        Professor Sylvester on Conversion of Motion.                 [Jan. 23,
of three pairs is the generalized form of cell in question. In apply
ing it to draw curves, P may be fixed, and a mounting radius of any
length attached to P or W, or P or W may be fixed, and the mounting
radius attached to W or P, or P or W be fixed, and the mounting
radius attached to F. In a resume of this general kind it would be
out of place to enter into a discussion of the forms thus generated.*
                                                                     [J. J. S.]
   AtHENjKUM CLCB, AND 60, MaDDOX StBEET, W.
    * It is too late to make any change in the many places where the term
perfect linkage appears in the text, but the author regrets to have used the
word perfect when complete would have expressed the meaning more clearly, and
suggests this change of nomenclature to any writer who may hereafter have
occasion to employ the term—besides being better in itself, it comes nearer to
Peaucellier's " systeme de tiges a liason complete ; " two words (and those much
more expressive) supplying the place of six. The existence of such words as
surplusages, curtilage, equipage, assemblage, and many similar ones in the
English language, appears quite sufficient to justify the innovation in the use
of the final syllable in linkage. A question of great interest remains over, vti.
" how to extend the above inquiry to linkages in space : " any two links being
supposed free to move by means of universal joints in all directions round each
other. As regards surfaces of revolution, the solution of the problem is virtually
contained in the theory of plane linkages, and consequently as a plane may be
regarded as a surface of revolution, the difficulty does not begin to be felt until
the problem of producing motion in an ellipsoid or other surfaces of the second
order, by means of solid link-work, comes under consideration. It seems to be
a problem well worthy of being investigated and thought out, especially for the
sake of its analytical consequences and the light it might be expected to throw
upon the theory of algebraical functions of two variables.

1874.]        Sir Julius Benedict on Weber and his Times.              199
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, January 30, 1874.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.8. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                          Sir Julius Benedict
                        On Weber and his Times.
                                [Abstract.]
Werer's father, Franz Anton, Baron von Weber, born in 1734, was a
most eccentric character ; an ex-lieutenant in the Guard of the Elector
of the Palatinate, ex-financial Counsellor and District Judge to the
Bishop of Lubeck and Eutin. At all times attached in a wayward
manner to music and the drama, he at last, under an assumed name,
started as director of a wandering troop of actors. After having pre
viously squandered the fortune of his first wife, who died of a broken
heart, Franz Anton, in his fiftieth year, and father of five children, was
married again at Vienna to Genovefa de Brenner, a fair, delicate girl
of sixteen. Unsuccessful in the Austrian capital, he returned to
Eutin, and there became the town musician. It was under these
circumstances, on tho 18th Dec., 1786, Carl Maria von Weber was born,
a sickly, weak child, suffering from a disease of the hip-bone, which
was subsequently the cause of his permanent lameness.
    His father, whose brother's daughter had married Mozart, had
long determined to have a prodigy in his own family, and his poor
boy, who could not walk till his fourth year, was taught to put his
tiny fingers on the piano and to sing almost before he was able to
speak. Baron Weber visited various towns in Germany with his
strolling company, his wife and child following till they reached
Salzburg. There poor Genovefa breathed her last, before her darling
son had reached his twelfth year, who meanwhile suffered much both
morally and physically. . . . With an incomplete education, and
not even conversant with the fundamental rules of harmony, he was
forced to write all kinds of music, amongst other things an opera,
' The Power of Love and Wine.' . . .
    At Carlsbad the manager of the theatre, Chevalier von Steinsberg,
conceived a great interest for the young genius, and even trusted to
his hands the libretto of an opera written by himself, ' The Dumb
Girl of the Forest,' which was first performed at Chemnitz, and after
wards, on the 24th November, 1800, at Freiberg in Saxony, with little

   200                      Sir Julius Benedict                    [Jan. 30,
   or no effect, when Franz Anton's disappointment was terrible. A few
  concerts in the provinces enabled father and son to return to Salzburg,
   where Carl resumed his studies with Michael Haydn, and formed a
   lasting friendship with his fellow-pupil, Sigismund Neukemm, known
  in England as the composer of various oratorios and of the favourite
  song ' The Sea.'
       Here, in complete retirement, a comic opera, ' Peter Schmoll and
  his Neighbours,' was written, which, at its production at Augsburg in
   1803, left no trace of cither failure or triumph. At the end of that
  year the young composer is heard of at Vienna, where his father
  selected, in preference to a sound musician for his teacher, the fashion
  able composer and organist of the period, Abbe Vogler, through whose
  recommendation Weber obtained the appointment of conductor of the
  opera at Breslau at the age of eighteen. Here he acquired his perfect
  knowledge of the stage, and advanced to the highest degree of proficiency
  on the piano. A dreadful accident now pretty nearly put an end to
  his career. Ho was laid up for two months, and his enemies availed
  themselves of his temporary illness to ronder his position impossible
  to be held. Fortunately he found a happy asylum in the house of
  Duke Eugen Friedrich of Wiirtembcrg, at Carlsruhe in Silesia, where
  he passed a few peaceful months, conducting a small but excellent
  orchestra. But the disastrous war with France in 1806 began to tell
 heavily on the social stato of Germany ; yet, though obliged to givo
 up his establishment, Duke Eugen did not forget his protege, but
 recommended him warmly to his brothers, the King and Duke Ludwig
 of Wiirtembcrg, and Weber became private secretary to tho latter.
      When at Stuttgardt he made acquaintance with the sculptor Dan-
 neker, Matthison the poet, Louis Spohr, and Danzi, then the clever
 conductor of the opera. Through an unpardonable indiscretion on
 the part of his father, Weber was compelled to leave Wiirtembcrg,
 and went to Mannheim. There, in the house of his namesake, the
 celebrated theorician, Gottfried Weber, he found an asylum for his
 father, to whom, though suffering from the mischief he had done him,
 he was attached with a filial devotion, and resumed his studies with
 Vogler.
      From that period the real development of Weber's genius may be
said to have begun. Another of Vogler's pupils, Jacob Mayer
 Beer (since Meyerbeer), was tho son of one of the wealthiest bankers
 in Berlin. From his boyhood ho evinced undeniable talent for
music, and, forgetting his millions, took to it in right earnest, being
already, then in his seventeenth year, one of the most eminent
pianistcs of his time. This led Carl Maria to display a restless
activity. His first pianoforte concerto, a great number of his most
popular Lieder, six sonatas for piano and violin, and his operetta,
' Abu Hassan,' were all produced in the same year. On the 17th
September, 1810, his opera, ' Sylvana,' was first performed at Frank
fort ; but a balloon ascent, by tho famous Madame Blanchard, so
absorbed tho public that tho theatre was nearly empty. The work

 1874.]                  on Weber and his Times.                      201
 itself, then only a feeblo " riffocimento " of his first opera, « The
 Dumb Girl of the Forest,' though applauded by the scanty audience,
achieved merely a succes d'estime. The principal part was performed
 by a charming young artiste, then in her eighteenth year, Caroline
 Brandt, who was destined to become Weber's partner for life.
      At tho beginning of 1811 Carl Maria began his great artistic
journey through Germany and Switzerland, first alone, then in com
 pany with Baerman, an eminent virtuose on the clarinet. On the
 20th February, 1812, Weber took up his abode at Berlin, in the
princely house of Meyerbeer's father, where he was received as a son
and brother. It was the first time he remained long enough in tho
great North German city to allow its peculiar intellectual and artistic
tendencies to exercise any permanent effect on his own organization.
He succeeded in having his opera, 'Sylvana,' brought out at the
Opera House. It was received apparently with much favour, but
neither then, nor at its reproduction in 1814, did the work outlivo
more than a few representations, though it contains much to be
preserved from oblivion. During the struggle relative to the produc
tion of ' Sylvana,' Carl Maria received from Gottfried Weber the news
of his father's death, which affected him deeply
     Setting out again on his wanderings he arrived at Prague, where
he was appointed Musical Director of the theatre, and being charged
by the Impresario to provide artists for the season, ho secured as one
of tho vocalists Caroline Brandt, who contributed greatly to his first
success. He eventually declared his attachment to her, and was
accepted.
     Arrived at Berlin, he suddenly found himself in an atmosphere
of agitation and excitement pregnant with aspirations—the vastness
and unanimity of which were new to him. The German people, by
its own will, its own power, and its own sacrifices, had subdued its
great oppressor ; and it stood, after its victory, like a young lion that
had first felt its strength. There was but one feeling in all hearts,
the feeling of self-won victory, power, and freedom. Weber carried
all his impressions with him to Grafen-Tonna, an old castle in
Thiiringen, where, en route to Prague, he stopped at the wish of his
friend and admirer, the Duke of Saxe-Gotha, and wroto the two in
spirations which were to thunder throughout Germany, 'Lutzow's
Wild Hunt,' and the ' Song of the Sword.'
     On Christmas day, 1816, ho received the long-expected engagement
as Capellmeister to the King of Saxony, with a very modest salary,
and now began the period of combined fame and suffering which did
not terminate until his death in 1826. Hero his wedding took place
on tho 4th of November, 1817.
     The King, Frederick August, who had a horror of any innovation,
only yielded reluctantly to the representations made on all sides, that
in regenerating Germany a German opera was requisite, Italian opera
only boing recognized by the crowned heads of tho German Con
federation            Count Einsiedel, the King's " Alter Ego," a
   Vol. VII. (No. 60.)                                          p

202                        Sir Julius Benedict                 [Jan. 30
haughty, heartless courtier of the old school, conceived a dislike to
Weber at his first interview. Ho delighted in worrying the young
Capellmeistor, whilst ho showered his favours upon his colleague and
rival, Morlacchi, a composer of the third order, but a wily and un
principled intriguer.
    Weber's creative powers were very slightly tasked during all this
stormy period at Dresden, and it was only on the 23rd February, 1817,
when he received from Frederick Kind the first act of an opera, ' The
Hunter's Bride,' that, when reading it over, as it were a spring of
melody bubbled up in him. Not until four months later did he write
a note of it ; but his mind grasped the subject, and the complete work
stood before him long before he gave it a substantial form. There is
not a single piece of music in it that he did not turn over twenty times
in his mind, until he so felt it that he could write it down in a firm,
clear hand, almost without altering a note. He may be said, then, to
have been always composing. The world appeared to him a world of
tones ; colour, form, space, time, were transformed by a mysterious
process of his inward man into sounds. But happy as might be these
ideas, Weber was slow at writing them down.
    Many other works, including his first and second Mass, his cantata
for the Golden Wedding of the King, his wonderful ' Volkslieder,'
a charming set of eight pieces for two performers on the piano, and
his popular ' Invitation a la Valse,' as well as the last of his grand
sonatas, belong to this period.
    The interesting sketch, ' Invitation a la Valse,' has its historical
value. It marks the transition to modern dance music. The valse
had been previously a sort of mere animated minuet, but Weber threw
a fiery allegro into the dance. Tho simple, almost childish senti
mentality of the beginning of the century, with its pale, insipid style
of dancing, had sighed itself out. Weber bestowed upon his music a
fine chivalric tone, mixed with human passions and feelings. Dignity
and simplicity had both found their representative music in the ball
room, then why should not love ? Ho was the founder of dance music
expressive of deep feeling, and of the school to which Strauss after
wards belonged. He showed how profoundly he was imbued with the
spirit of his age, and sarabandes, gavottes, and minuets were banished
through his influence for ever.
     Meanwhile ' The Hunter's Bride' was again rising to the surface
of Weber's artistic life. Notwithstanding a serious illness which had
laid him low, the death of his dearly-beloved first child and number
less other troubles, the news that the theatre would probably be opened
before the close of the season 1820 spurred him on to fresh exertions,
and on the 13th of May of that year the last note of the opera was
written. The work was accepted after a change of the title from ' The
Hunter's Bride ' to the ' Freyschiitz.' Scarcely was this accomplished
when another engrossed all his time. The musical drama of ' Preciosa,'
written by the eminent actor Wolff, was to bo produced at tho Grand
Opera House at Berlin immediately. The subject interested tho

1874.J                        on Weber and Ms Times.                 203
fertile composer so much that he finished the work in less than two
months.
     At the beginning of February, 1821, it was my happy lot to be
accepted as Weber's pupil. I shall never forget the impression of my
first meeting with him. Ascending the by no means easy staircase
which led to his modest home on the third story of a house in the old
market-place, I found him sitting at his desk, and occupied with the
pianoforte arrangement of his ' Freyschiitz.' The dire disease which
but too soon was to carry him oft* had already mado its mark on his
noble features : the projecting cheek-bones, the general emaciation,
told their sad tale ; but in his clear blue eyes, which were but too
often concealed by spectacles ; in his mighty forehead, fringed by a
few straggling locks ; in the sweet expression of his mouth, in the
very tone of his weak but melodious voice, there was a magic power
which attracted irresistibly all who had the privilege of approaching
him. He received me with the utmost kindness, and though over
whelmed with double duties, as in the temporary absence of Morlaccbi
he conducted both the German and the Italian operas, he found time
to give me daily lessons for a considerable period.
     His previous operas had only achieved a moderate success, and
Weber felt that his new work would either raise him to a high pinnacle
or carry him to the grave with scorn and mockery. When I joined
him at Berlin, on the 24th of May, the rehearsals were in full swing.
Weber had the whole orchestra under his control. Not a wrong note,
not a false accent escaped his searching ear, and though in appearance
not demonstrative nor excited, in his direction he infused his spirit
and energy on all the performers.
     The first performance was fixed for the 18th of June, the anniver
sary of the battle of Waterloo. On the preceding morning the general
rehearsal took place, and was successful beyond expectation, but the
accessories, machinery, &c., were still wofully deficient.
    [Sir Julius described the very great success and commented on various
details of the first performance.]
     However, the profound and genuine enthusiasm of the public
was not shared by the press of the day. Zelter, in writing to Goethe,
treated the subject with derision, and finished by saying that out of a
small nothing the composer had created a colossal nothing. Tieck
spoke of tho ' Freyschiitz ' as the most unmusical uproar ever heard
upon tho stage. Spohr wrote : " As I never had a great opinion of
Weber's talent as a composer, I wanted to hear this opera to discover
the secret of its wonderful success ; but this riddle was by no means
solved, and I can only explain it by the gift possessed by Weber to
write for the general masses." Weber resented the sting of those
harsh and unjust criticisms very much. He had been working
earnestly, enthusiastically for what he considered a real advance in
art, and it was painful to him in the extreme to be so entirely mis
understood, chiefly by those on whose sympathy and encouragement
                                                              p 2

 204                         Sir Julius Benedict                  [Jan. 30,
 he had reckoned bo much. . . . He had observed in his long career
 as conductor, that the form of operas sanctioned for so many years
 did not entirely answer the requirements of the age. Each piece
 in the lyric drama, belonging to the Italian repertoire, whether an
 aria, a duet, or a morceau d'ensemble, was perfect in itself as a
 musical composition, and might bo performed without scenic effects,
 and without the aid of the vocalists, choruses, &c. The result was
 that these elaborate pieces became cloying by their sameness, nay,
 by their very finish and perfection. There was no attempt at in
 dividuality. Not so with Weber. His first aim was to endow each
 of his operatic works with a distinct colour of nationality. For
instance, the contrast between the simple ' Hunter's Bride,' with her
surroundings, and ' Euryanthe,' with the stately French court, could
not be more striking. But he was not satisfied with this general
result ; he made each character stand out in bold relief. . . . With his
memory the foundation of the Romantic school will always be asso
ciated. Meyerbeer's ' Robert le Diable ' would not have been written
but for ' Freyschiitz ' ; and Richard Wagner's ' Tannhaiiser ' and ' Lohen
grin ' can be traced to ' Euryanthe.' In his pianoforte sonatas, Weber
comes nearest to Beethoven ; in his Masses ho approaches Haydn ;
and his ' Concert-stuck ' is, as it wore, a pioneer of Mendelssohn's
concertos. He may also, with Schubert, bo called the father of tho
German Lied ; and thus, in his short but glorious career, embracing
almost every branch of music, he gave an impulse to his art of which
the beneficial consequences can never be overrated. It is, however,
in the hearts of the people he found his truest acknowledgment, and
in them he will live for ever.
     On his return to Dresden, he found his little nest on tho ' Alt
Markt' transformed into a veritable garden of roses through the
affection of his friends ; but not the slightest notice of his well-earned
triumph was taken by his colleagues, his superiors, his theatrical
subjects, or the public. The only difference he found was a fearful
increase of professional jealousy. Things went on in their despairing
monotony. . . .
     The unexampled success of Berlin was completely thrown into tho
shade by the frantic reception of the ' Freyschiitz ' at Vienna in 1822.
Every theatre in Germany followed in the track of the two capitals ;
and everywhere without exception was the work received with accla
mation. At Paris Castil-Blaze made a fortune with ' Robin des Bois,'
a disgraceful pasticcio. At London tho Lyceum and Covent Garden
Theatre produced the opera almost simultaneously, with the garbled
versions and interpolations of Cooke and Bishop, to crammed and
enthusiastic houses ; yet poor Weber only received a small compensa
tion from W. Hawes, and not a penny from France. The total receipts,
including pianoforte score, and copyrights from sixty theatres, did not
amount to 700?., whilst Mr. Lecocq, the composer of ' La Fille do
Mme. Angot,' has oarned to this day nearly 6000Z. for authors and
copyrights, and Verdi's ' Aida ' brought its author moro than 10,0002.

1874.]                  on Weber and his Times.                     205
Offers of engagement from all sides poured now upon Weber. Bar-
baja, the former billiard marker, and now Impresario of the three
theatres, Vienna, Milan, and Naples, gavo him the choice of either
for a new opera. The direction of the grand opera of the Acadomio
Royale at Paris loft the selection both of subject and time to Weber's
option. Copenhagen and Stockholm were also among tho postulants.
He decided for Vienna, but before concluding a binding engagement
there, the too conscientious maestro had offered to complete a comic
opera, ' The Three Pintos,' for the Dresden stage, and as homage to
tho king, which was declined.
    The chief difficulty now arising was how to find an appropriate
libretto. F. Kind, his clever literary colleague, had taken offence
that his sharo in the success of the ' Froyschiitz ' was never suffi
ciently acknowledged by the press, and persistently declined furnish
ing another subject. Weber, who had felt dreadfully annoyed at tho
sneering remarks that after all ' Freyschiitz ' was only a drama with
music, and not a regular opera, resolved to composo a grand work,
without spoken dialogue, in the true heroic style, in order to give tho
lio to his galling detractors. Frau Helmina von Chezy, a middle-
aged lady, who had acquired a certain celebrity by her readings of
hyper-sentimental songs and by a fatal facility for writing verses, was
chosen to furnish the canvas for Carl Maria's grand musical picture.
A more inane, uninteresting, antidramatio patchwork was never
offored to a composer than this miserable burlesque of Shakespearo's
' Cymbeline,' mixed with absurd ingredients of her own invention. Tho
modifications proposed by Tieck and Holtei, dramatic authors of great
experience, were unfortunately rejected, and with an almost unnatural
activity Weber went to work, being elated by the birth of his eldest
son, Max, on tho 28th April, 1822.
    In his Tusculum at Hosterwitz, where he was very often glad
dened by tho visits of Jean Paul Richter, Tieck, and Wilhelm Miiller
(the poet of Greece and father of Professor Max Miiller), I had tho
happiness to spend one of the most interesting periods of my life with
him and his family. Watching the progress of his opera, ' Euryanthe,'
from the first note to its completion, I had the best opportunity of
observing his system of composing. Many a time might he be seen
early in the morning, some closely-written pages in his hand, which
he stood still and read, and then wandered on, muttering to himself,
through forest and glen. He was learning by heart tho words of
' Euryanthe,' which he studied until ho made them a portion of himself,
his own creation, as it were. His genius would sometimes long lay
dormant, during his frequent repetition of the words, and then the idea
of a whole musical piece would flash into his mind like the bursting of
light into darkness. It would then remain there uneffaced, gradually
assuming a perfect shape, and not till this process was attained would
he put it down on paper. His first transcriptions were generally
penned on the return from his solitary walks. He then noted down
the voices fully, and only marked hero and there tho harmonies or

206                         Sir Julius Benedict               [Jan. 30,
tho places whore particular instruments were to be introduced. Some
times lie indicated by signs, known only to himself, his most charac
teristic orchestral effects ; then he would play to his wife or to me
from these incomplete sketches the most striking pieces of the opera,
invariably in the form they afterwards maintained.
    The whole was already so firmly stereotyped upon his brain, that
his instrumentation was little more than the labour of a copyist ; and
tho notes flowed to his pen with the marks of all the shading of
expression, as if copporplated on tho paper. By this'peculiar mental
process the enormous quantity of work which he was able to accom
plish in an almost incredibly brief period can be explained. Tho
scoring of the opera of ' Euryanthe ' from his sketches occupied only
sixty days.
    In the afternoon of the 21st September, 1823, Weber arrived at
Vienna, accompanied by me.
    Great changes had taken place since his last visit ten years before.
Beethoven now reigned supreme. A now light had arisen in Franz
Schubert, whose songs, ' Erl-King ' and ' Margaret,' and whose opera,
' Rosamund,' foreshadowed his future celebrity, and Rossini had
brought an entire bevy of song-birds such as had never before
enchanted the ears of tho fickle and impressionable Vionneso.
    The rehearsal of the opera began almost immediately. All the
artists had taken to their parts with great zeal—none more so than
tho charming Hcnriette Sontag, then in her eighteenth year, to whom
the principal part was allotted. The choruses went admirably—the
orchestra was almost perfect.
    On the surface all seemed smiling and prosperous, but the heart
of the public was not with him as at Berlin in 1821. Artists found
fault with the work.       Franz Schubert spoke in a manner which
proved that there was no sympathy between these eminent composers.
Advantage was also taken of the alleged feud with Beethoven, brought
about by a foolish satire against tho ' Eroica,' written more than
twelvo years previously, and which Weber never ceased regretting.
Everything was done to foster that hostile feeling, but the mighty
Ludwig was above small talk and mischievous gossip, and most
warmly received Weber at an interview desired by himself.
    At the performance on the 25th of October the outer demonstrations
were certainly far noisier, the demands for encores more frequent,
than on the first performance of ' Freyschutz,' but not even the
gorgeous ' mise en scene," the admirable interpretation of the work
by chorus and orchestra, under the master's own direction, and the
precious gems of melody, so lavishly spread over the whole, could
save the opera from the fatal and heavy weight of its plot.
    The performance had lasted for five hours, and the Italian clique
said that 'Euryanthe' should be called 'Ennuyante,' and that as
Weber was writing for eternity, his opora must be eternally long.
The author himself used the pruning knife mercilessly, but the public
had been unfavourably impressed, and on the fourth performance, the

 1874.]                   on Weber and his Times.                      207
 evening of his departure from Vienna, the theatre was empty. He
 had scarcely left when the magnificent creation, now generally ac
 knowledged as his masterpiece, was cut almost to shreds by Herr
 Kreutzer, and withdrawn after tho comparatively insignificant number
 of twenty representations.
      A pause now ensued in the exercise of Weber's creative powers.
 During fourteen months after the production of ' Euryanthe,' not a
 melody was awakened in his soul, not a scrap of song was noted down.
 His inactivity became so habitual to him, his antipathy to work so
great, that ho shrunk from the consciousness of this state of mind with
a kind of terror. His increasing weakness rendered it imperative for
him to diminish all his labours not immediately connected with his
 official duties, and thus I was compelled to part with my beloved
friend and master
      He then fell a prey to distressing presentiments for which he could
not account. The feeling was more than ever deeply rooted in him
that the end of his earthly existence was at hand, and his ardent wish
to provide for his increasing family became almost painful. Though
most unwilling to increase Weber's anxieties, his physician, Hedenus,
at last yielded to his ceaseless entreaties. " If you will abandon your
every day's drudgery," ho said, " forget music and composition, and
seek relief in a southern climate ; though you may not, even then,
recover your health entirely, tho disease being too deeply rooted, you
may still live some years." " And if not ? " replied Weber. " Then
it is only a question of a few months," was the disheartening answer
of the old doctor.
     Weber had been to Marienbad during the month of August, and on
his return entered upon tho last phase of his life. In tho beginning
 of September, 1824, Charles Komble wroto him a most flattering
 letter from London. Being the lessee of Covent Garden, he was anxious
 to give additional eclat to his direction by a new opera composed by
the author of ' Freyschiitz ' (only a few weeks earlier a similar pro
posal had been made by the Grand Opera at Paris). Weber, who had
always felt a strong sympathy for England and for the illustrious
family represented by Kemble, accepted tho London offer. ' Faust '
or ' Oberon ' (taken from Wieland's poem) would have been equally
welcome to the lessee of Covent Garden ; but tho composer having
chosen tho subject of his former friend and admirer, the tact, ex
perience, and talent of Planche wore immediately put in requisition,
and on the 30th December Weber received the first act of the libretto.
     The poor sufferer, struggling with death, began only then to study
tho English language, which by unremitting exertions he acquired in
a short time to an astonishing degree. . . .
     How in his state of prostration he could find the freshest, perhaps
the most original melodies his fertile pen ever produced, seems almost
marvellous. There is a perfume of oriental roses in the song,
' Araby, dear Araby !' and the mermaid's song, ' O 'tis pleasant to float !'
will be as fascinating fifty years hence as it was fifty years ago.

 208                        Sir Julius Benedict                  [Jan. 30,
     The wholo opera, excepting the overture, was completed on tho
 25th January, 1820, and on the 7th of February ho startod on his
 ill-fated journey. That there was not a moment to spare, that ho
 must recken with a miser's avarice every pulso of tho life so quickly
 ebbing from him, and that each must bo used to tho advantage
 of wifo and children, was his uppermost conviction. His wife
 manoeuvred in secret for his friends to induce him to renounce his
 fearful journey, when all her own affectionate efforts to this intent had
 failed ; but his answer was tho same, " Whether I undertake this
 journey or not, it is all one ; within a year I am a dead man ; but my
 children will have bread."
     Fiirstenau, a distinguished flute-player, a member of the Royal
 Chapel, and devoted to him, was his travelling companion. The
parting was most distressing ; still the novelty of tho journoy in France
 acted as a diversion, and on the 25th he arrived at Paris. Though
 resolving at first to remain incognito, he could not resist the desire to
 make tho personal acquaintance of the great masters, Cherubini,
 Rossini, and Auber, by whom he was received in the most friendly
and courteous manner. Each visit to the theatre brought an ovation,
gratifying to his feelings, but still more undermining his shattered
frame.
     On a cold, unfriendly March morning, Weber left Paris with
Fiirstenau. At Calais tho consequences of his exertions at Paris well-
nigh ended his life. For a long time ho gasped for breath, but by
forco of will he rallied at last ; and on arriving in London accepted
the hospitable invitation of the late Sir Georgo Smart, and tho kind
ness and sympathy there bestowed on him were the solace of his last
days.
     Ho was enthusiastically received at Covent Garden on his first
appearance, and still more so when at tho same theatre he took his
place as conductor of Oratorio concerts.
    On the 9th of March the rehearsals of ' Oberon ' began, and on tho
9th April he completed his overture, writing at the end of his score,
as was his wont, " Soli Deo Gloria !" There is no similar instance in
the history of music of a work at once so tender and so vigorous, so
original and yet so musician-like, being written under such conditions.
It also embodies more than any other the bold innovations ho intro
duced in the construction of his last overtures. Tho generally
adopted plan of tho most celebrated composers, with regard to tho
instrumental introductions of their grandest works for tho stage, had
always been to " prepare " the minds of tho auditors rather than
" anticipate " effects which belonged to the " action " of tho musical
drama, and aroso from situations or incidents in the course of its
development. With Gluck, Mozart, Cherubini, and even Beethoven,
an overture was a complete piece of music by " itself," quite indepen
dent, and nearly in every instance without any " direct " reference
to the lyrical drama it preceded.
    In his earlier works, ' Sylvana,' ' Petor Schmoll,' ' Turandot,'

1874.]                  on Weber and his Times.                     209
'The Ruler of tho Spirits,' &c., Webor hod followed in the footsteps
of his predecessors, but with the ' Freyschiitz ' he began to tread an
entirely now path. Employing tho chief materials of his opera,
moulding and knitting its various elements together, like the laborious
and skilful workmen of Florence or Rome, the joints and rivets of this
artful mosaic became only discernible to the practised ear of tho
musician. His idea was to give a complete epitome—nay, the very
essence of the opera to follow — before the rise of the curtain.
This system, according to tho most competent critics, interfered
materially with the perfect musical form of his overtures; but tho
effect produced was magical ; and though perhaps deficient or faulty
in construction, their success is even more universal now than at their
first appearanco, nearly fifty years ago. There can be no doubt that
for colouring, and poetical characteristic feeling, these orchestral
preludes are unparalleled and matchless.
     At last the 12th April arrived.      Tho house was crammed to
suffocation—Weber's recoption perfectly overwhelming. The over
ture was encored. Huon's great air, sung admirably by Braham, was
re-demanded, as wero the ballad and romance of ' Fatima,' sung by
Madame Vcstris. When the curtain fell thero occurred an incident
as yet unprecedented in England. The name of Weber was called
louder and louder still, until the whole house joined in one cry, and
the composer, trembling and exhausted, appeared before tho applauding
crowd, which now burst into a perfect frenzy of enthusiasm. His
task being accomplished, his almost indescribable yearning for home
and a bright sky increased with every day. Each stipulated repre
sentation of his ' Oberon ' under his own direction was scored off with
trembling hands. It was with a heavy heart that the suffering man
now proceeded to play his last trump-card, upon which his greatest
hopes wero fixed. Ho began tho preparations for his concert. The
celebrated Miss Stephens (present Dowager Countess of Essox), of
whose talent Weber was a great admirer, had offered to appear at his
concert.
     Being desirous of singing some new composition by the Master,
Weber could not resist her wish. The words chosen were from
Mooro's ' Lalla Rookh '—" From Ghindara's warbling fount I como " ;
but the effort for him was fearfully painful, and twice he flung
down his pen in utter despair. At last, on the morning of the 18th
May, the great artist's fleeting genius came back once more, but tho
poor hands were unable to write down more than the melody for the
voice. From this sketch Weber rehearsed the song with the celebrated
artist, and accompanied it from memory at the concert. Unfortunately
the evil star, of which he so often complained, had not forsaken him
on this occasion. On tho 26th May, tho day of the concert, Epsom
Races took place. The same afternoon Signor Begrez gavo his
concert at tho Duke of St. Albans', at which all the high society of
London was present. Torrents of rain poured down from heaven,
and the concert hall in the Argylo Rooms was almost empty. At last

 210                         Sir Juliua Benedict                [Jan. 30,
 Weber tottered in supported by Sir George Smart. He looked around,
 a bitter, painful smile distorted those features, usually so placid in
 the midst of every suffering. Miss Stephens warbled his song to the
 words of Moore. These tones were the last he ever produced. The
 enthusiastic applause of the scanty audience failed to cheer the heart
 of the dying man. After the closing note of the overture to ' Eury-
 anthe,' Fiirstenau led him from the room. He fell on a sofa in an
 utterly shattered state, almost breathless. Friends and artists sur
 rounded him, but he gave little heed. He only murmured in a faint
 voice, " What do you say to that ? That is Weber in London."
     His heart was broken. On the first of June the painful symptoms
 of tho poor sufferer had so much increased that Dr. Kind considered
his stato highly precarious. His friends wrung from him the promise
that he would conduct no more, and even givo up his own benefit.
 This resolution appeared to bestow fresh spirits on him. It enabled
him to hasten his return. One thought alone occupied his whole soul,
 to be at home again amongst his own, to see them if but once. He
 fixed his departure for the 6th, arranged all his pecuniary affairs with
minuteness, and employed his friends in purchasing presents for his
 family in Dresden. The attempt appeared impossible to all, but
 not to increase his irritation they seemed to enter into his views. In
 his last letters to his beloved Lina, he pours out his loving soul. He
 writes thus with a gleam of his old spirit : " You will not have many
 more letters from me, and so receive now my high and mighty com
 mands. Do not answer this to London, but poste restante, Franefort.
 You are astounded ; well, I am not coming home through Paris ; what
 should I do there ? I cannot walk, I cannot speak. I will have
 nothing more to do with business for years to come ; so it is far
 better I should take the straight way home by Calais, through Brus
 sels, Cologne, and then by the Rhine to Franefort. What a charming
journey ! I must travel very slowly, however, and probably rest for
half a day now and then. I shall gain a good fortnight thus, and by
 the end of Juno I hopo to be in your arms."
     Once more, on the 2nd of June, his trembling hand traced the fol
lowing lines :—" What a joy, my own dear darling, your letter gave
mo. What a happiness to mo to know that you are well. As this
letter requires no answer, it will be but a short one. What a comfort
it is not to have to answer. Oh ! were I but amongst you again. I
kiss you with all my heart and soul, my dearest one. Preserve your
affection for me, and think of him who loves you above all." (Thy
Carl.) On the evening of the 4th another friend of Weber's, Goschen,
the father of the present Secretary of Stato, came with Moscheles to
take leave of him. He spoke almost in a whisper, but always of his
journey. At ten o'clock the friends Smart and Fiirstenau insisted on
his retiring, and conducted him to his room. He refused the latter's
offer to sit up with him, and would not even leave his door unlocked.
His last words were, " Now let me sleep." The next morning Sir
George Smart's servant knocked early at the door, as he was wont to

1874.]                  on Weber and his Times.                     211
do; not recoiving any answer he knocked again, and loudor. The
alarmed servant rushed to Sir George, who hurried to the room.
Fiirstenau was sent for ; to their repeated knocking no answer was
returned. It was now resolved to force the door. All was still
within. Only the ticking of the watch was heard. The bed-curtains
were torn back. There lay the beloved friend, his head resting on
his left hand, as if in tranquil sloep—not the slightest trace of pain
and suffering on his noble features. The soul yearning for the dear
objects of its love had burst its earthly covering and fled. There was
peace after all the struggle. The immortal master was not dead ; he
had gone home. Early in the morning of the 21st of June, a long
line of mourning carriages wound their slow and weary way to the far
distant chapel of Moorfields. To the solemn strains of the ' Dead
March in Saul,' and Mozart's 'Requiem,' sung by Miss Stephens,
Miss Paton, Braham, and Lablache, the coflin had been lowored into
the vault, and there, far from homo and all his heart prized most,
rested the body of Carl Maria von Weber.
    Years passed away, but it seemed as if that yearning for homo
which was the great master's last feeling, had not died out with him.
It continued to haunt those he had so fondly loved. In the year 1844,
mainly by the energy of Richard Wagner, then Capellmeister at
Dresden, and a stanch friend of the widow and children, Weber's
last wish had been fulfilled. He was again to be at home, and the
flowers on his grave were tended by his beloved Lina. Richard
Wagner's farewell to Weber at his grave, though in rather high-flown
language, may be quoted here, as embodying the feelings of his
countrymen :— " There never was a more German composer than thou.
In whatever fathomless realms thy genius carried thee, thou didst
remain chained by the most tender links to the heart of thy German
people, with whom thou didst cry or smile like a believing child
listening to the legends and tales of its country. Yes, it was thy
child-like simplicity which guided thy manly spirit like a guardian
angel, and kept it pure and chaste, and that purity was thy chief
characteristic. Till death didst thou preservo that supreme virtue.
Thou wouldst never sacrifice or alienate this beautiful inheritance of
thy German origin ; thou couldst never betray us. Behold, tho Briton
does thee justice, the Frenchman admires thee, but only the German
can love thee ! Thou art his own, a bright day in his life, a drop of
his blood, a particle of his heart 1 "
                                                              [J.B.]

212                      General Monthly Meeting.                    [Feb. 2,
                   GENEEAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, February 2, 1874.
          The Duke of Northumrerland, D.C.L. President,
                                  in the Chair.
               The Rev. Frederic Braithwaite, M.A.
               Robert Stephen Faulconer, Esq.
               The Right Hon. G. J. Goschen, M.P.
               The Lady Claud Hamilton,
               Henry Forsyth Harwood, Esq.
               Surtees Harwood Harwood, Esq.
               Robert John Taylor, Esq.
               Joseph Caesar Zambia, Esq.
wero elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    With reference to tho Letter from the Managers and Members to
the Family of their late President, the following Letter from his
son, Sir Hknrt T. Holland, Bart, to the Secretary, was read :—
                                                    " 65, Rutland Gate,
                                                            "December 5, 1873.
"My dear Spottiswoode,
    " I have just returned from abroad, and found your letter enclosing
the letter from the Managers and Members of tho Royal Institution.
    " I beg you to return to them the sincere thanks of myself and of
the other members of the family for the kind expressions of sympathy
contained in their letter.
    "My father received many honours in his lifetime, but I think
none gave him greater satisfaction, or was more highly valued by him,
than his election to be President of the Royal Institution. It is,
therefore, deeply gratifying to us to learn how truly his conduct in
that high office was appreciated by those who had the best opportunity
of estimating the way in which he performed his duties as President.
    " May I beg you to bring my reply under the notice of the Mana
gers, and to assure them that their letter will be treasured by us as a
most valuable record of our father's services, and still more of the
affection and rogard entertained towards him by those for whom and
with whom he worked for so many years.
                               " Believe me to be, very truly yours,
                                                          "H. T. Holland."
    The Presents received since the last Meeting wero laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     From
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No.- 93. 8vo. 1873.
Anonymous—Tho Empire of Brazil at the Vienna Universal Exhibition.        8vo.
     1873. (With Maps.)

 1874.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                           213
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1873-4, Nos. 2, 3, 4. 4to.
 British Museum Trustees— Handbook of Edentate, Thick-skinned, and Buminant
       Mammals in the British Museum. By Dr. J. E. Gray. 8vo. 1873.
    Catalogue of Prints and Drawings. Division I. Political and Personal Satires,
       Vol. II. 1689-1733. 8vo. 1873.—Facsimiles of Ancient Charters. Folio. 1873.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of—Minutes of Proceedings, Vols. XXXV. XXXVL
       8vo. 1873.
 Clarke, Hyde, Esq. (the Author)—Memoir on the Comparative Grammar of Egyp
       tian, Coptic, and Ude. (K. 99) 8vo. 1873.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for Dec. 1873. 8vo.
    Astronomical Begister for Dec. 1873 and Jan. 1874. 8vo.
    Athenseum for Dec. 1873 and Jan. 1874. 4to.
    Chemical News for Doc. 1873 and Jan. 1874. 4to.
    Engineer for Deo. 1873 and Jan. 1874. Folio.
    Food Journal for Dec. 1873 and Jan. 1874. 8vo.
    Journal for Applied Science for Dec. 1873 and Jan. 1874. Folio.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Dec. 1873 and Jan. 1874. 4to.
   Nature for Dec. 1873 and Jan. 1874. 4to.
    Nautical Magazine for Dec. 1873 and Jan. 1874. 8vo.
    Once a Week for Dec. 1873 and Jan. 1874. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Dec. 1873 and Jan. 1874. 8vo.
   Quarterly Journal of Science for Jan. 1874. 8vo.
    Telegraph Journal for Dec. 1873 and Jan. 1874. 4to.
Elliot, The Lady—The History of India as told by its own Historians, by Sir H. M.
      Elliot, Vol. V. 8vo. 1873.
 Greenwich, Royal Observatory—Greenwich Observations for 1871. 4to. 1873.
   Description of the Water Telescope (in Observations, 1871). 4to. 1871.
Hall and Co. Messrs.—The Treasury of Languages. l(ito. 1874.
India Office—Meteorological Observations at Simla, 1841-5. 4to. 1872.
JahlonovoshCschen GeseUschaft— Preisschriften XIV. XV. 8vo. 1869.
James, Sir Henry, R.E. F.R.8. &c.—Comparison of Standards of Length of Eng
      land, France, &c. By Capt. A. Clarke. 4to. 1866-73.
Lisbon Royal Academy of Sciences—Memorias da Academia, Nova Serie.
         I"Classe: TomoI.-IV. 4to. 1854-70.
         11" Classe : Tomo I. II. Parto 2. III. IV. Parte I. 4to. 1854-72.
   Jornal de Sciencias Mathematicas, Physicas, e Naturaes. Tomo 1.—111. 8vo.
       1868-71.
   Portugallse Monumenta Historiea :—
         Leges et Consuetudines. Tomo I. Fasc. 1-6. Folio. 1856-68.
         Scriptores. Tomo I. Fasc. 1, 2, 3. Folio. 1856-61.
         Diplomata et Chartse. Tomo I. Fasc. 1, 2, 3. Folio. 1868-72.
Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 27. 8vo. 1873.
Lubbock, Sir John, Bart. M.P. F.R.S. M.R.I, {the Author) -Origin and Metamor
      phoses of Insects. 16to. 1873.
Manchester Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XIII. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1873.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, July 1873, Part 1. 8vo.
Pharmaceutical Society—Catalogue of Library. 8vo. 1873.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 245, 246. 8vo. 1873.
Royal Society of Literature—Transactions. 2nd Series, Vol. X. Part 3. 8vo. 1873.
Swan wick, Miss Anna, M.R.I, {the Translator)—The Dramas of iEschylus : with
      thirty-three Illustrations from Flaxman's Designs. Folio. 1873.
Upsal Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta, Serie III. Vol. VIH. Fasc. 2. 4to.
      1873.
   Bulletin Me'teorologique Mensuel de l'Obscrvatoire de l'Universite" d'Upsal.
      Vol. IV. Nos. 1-12. Vol. V. Nos. 1-6. 4to. 1872-3.
Yorkshire Archwological Association—Journal, Parts 9, 10. 8vo. 1873.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. VIII. Part 6. 4to. 1873.
   Proceedings, 1873. Parts 1, 2. 8vo.

 214                          Mr. A. H. Oarrod                  [Feb. 6,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 6, 1874.
       Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                        Alfred H. Garrod, Esq.
                   Fellow of St. John's College, Cambridge,
                  On the Heart and the Sphygmograph.
In the same way that by the spectroscope much can be learned as to
tho chemical constitution and the physical changes going on in the
sun, so by tho sphygmograph applied to the artery at the wrist many
of tho most important phenomena occurring in the heart can be studied
with a facility that cannot be otherwise attained. Till the introduc
 tion of tho sphygmograph of Marey the pulse was considered to be
 little moro than a simple up and down movement, because the instru
ments employed to register it, such as those of Herisson, Ludwig, and
 Vierordt, developed so much momentum that the details of the true
 trace were disguised. In the instrument as at present employed, the
substitution of counterbalancing springs instead of weights has so far
improved its efficiency, that the pulse is now known to form a de
cidedly complicated curvo if its movements are allowed to record
themselves on a moving paper. The sphygmograph trace, as thus
produced, gives indications in two directions ; first, as to the action
of the valves of the heart ; and secondly, as to the manner in which
the muscular walls of the ventricles perform their work. It is to the
former of these subjects that most physiologists have directed their
observations in employing the instrument ; but it is to the latter, the
more important of tho two, that it is my intention to direct attention
on tho present occasion.
     The heart, being nothing more than a pump of a peculiar con
struction, much may be learned by comparing it with other artificially
constructed machines for the same purpose. In most such machines
the force which keeps the pump at work is constant in power : in other
words it does not vary automatically in efficiency with the amount of
work that is expected of it. In the locomotive engine, however, there
is an arrangement by which the furnace becomes hotter as the speed
at which it moves is increased, the waste steam pipe opening into the
funnel and so varying the amount of tho draught through the boiler
tubes. With this arrangement it is nevertheless evident that there is
a great waste of fuel in the construction of tho furnace.
     It is quite possible to construct a steam-engine on much more

1874.]           on the Heart and the Sphygmograph.             215
economical principles, and tho accompanying figure illustrates the
manner in which the small engine on tho table is at present working
(see Figure). The boiler (a) being sufficiently heated, drives the
engine (b), which performs work by pumping coal-gas from the tubo c

216                          Mr. A. H. Garrod                       [Feb. 6,
through tho pump d, into tho clastic reservoir e. From this elastic
bag most of the coal-gas escapes, through the tube /, into an ordinary-
gas-bag, but a tube (g) carries some of it to supply the Bunsen's
burner (A) which heats tho boiler. It is evident that with this
arrangement the size of the flame of the Bunsen's burner (7i), and
thereforo the pressure of steam in the boiler, which is the same as
saying the efficiency of the engine, varies with the amount of work
required of that engine ; for the greater the pressure in the elastic
bag, the harder is it for tho engine to perform the work required of it,
and the greater is the burner-flame. With a certain proportion bo-
tween the sizes of tho orifices of the taps and the extensibility of the
elastic bag and tubes, it would bo possible to arrange this engine in
such a manner that, within certain limits, the velocity of the fly-wheel
would not vary with the prossure in the elastic bag ; in other words,
with the work to bo done. That the heart is a pump, constructed on the
same principle as this engine, is the teaching of the sphygmograph, as
far as it is in my power to interpret its curves ; the proof resting on
tho following considerations.
    First, tho analogy between tho anatomical distribution of the
arteries and the different parts in connection with tho engine is not
difficult to trace. The coal-gas corresponds to the blood, the boiler
(a) together with tho engine (b) to tho muscular tissue of tho heart,
whose left ventricular cavity has its analogue in that of the bellows
(d). The elastic reservoir, together with the tubes, corresponds to
the systemic arteries, the gas-bag connected with the tube / (the
capillaries) to tho systemic veins ; and tho tube g to the coronary
arteries, which supply the muscular tissue of the heart with nutrient
blood, just as it does the boiler by means of the burner h. This,
however, does not show that the pumping power of the heart varies
diroctly as tho blood-pressure ; that such is the case depends on the
opportunity offered by the sphygmograph trace for the estimation of
tho length of the ventricular systole under different circumstances.
Each beat or revolution of the heart is divided into two main parts—
(1) the period of contraction or systole, and (2) tho period of repose
or diastole. The former of these occupies tho interval between the
commencement of the primary rise and that of tho dicrotic rise in
tho sphygmograph trace; the latter from the dicrotic rise to the
commencement of the succeeding primary riso. In all good tracings
from healthy pulses, theso two points, the primary and dicrotic rises,
aro readily found ; and their relative lengths can bo estimated with
great accuracy. A large number of measurements have enabled me
to prove that the relative lengths of the systolic and diastolic portions of
the pulse-trace do not vary for any given pulse-rate. But, as will be
granted by most physiologists who have worked at the subject, the
blood-pressure in the arteries is quite independent of the pulse-rate.
Consequently the heart may be doing very different amounts of work
without any variation in tho pulsc-rato, which is tho samo thing as
saying with the samo length of systole ; which makes it evident that,

1874.]              on the Heart and the Sphygmograph.                217
as in the above-described engine, the force of the cardaic muscular
contraction varies directly as the blood-pressure, knowing what we do
about the flow of fluids through capillary tubes, and the capacity of
the arterial system under different degrees of blood-pressure.
    The sphygmograph trace tells us more than this. Though the
length of the systolic portion of the beat does not change with
any given pulse-rate, nevertheless it does so greatly with different
rapidities of pulse ; my observations showing that the length of the
systole varies as the cube root of the whole beat, being found from
the equation xy' = 47 V x when x = the pulse-rate and y' = the
ratio borne by the systole to the whole beat. From this no other
inference can be drawn than that the length of the diastole, or period
of cardaic rest, during which fresh blood is circulating through the
ventricular walls, must modify the contractile force of its muscular
substance. The exact extent of this influence can be more readily
estimated by a study of the cardiograph trace, which is obtained by
applying the sphygmograph to the side of the chest at any spot where
the pulsations of the heart are to be felt. It may, from the thus
obtained curves, be demonstrated that, if not exactly, approximately
at least, the nutrition of the heart's walls must vary as the square root
of the length of the diastolic period.*
    There is much, therefore, as I hope I havo been able to show, to
be learned respecting the action of the heart from measurement of
sphygmograph tracings, and it is scarcely too bold to extend the
generalization to the properties of muscular tissue generally ; for the
fact that each beat depends entirely for its efficiency on the peculiari
ties in the blood-pressure and the duration of the previous diastole,
removes all complication as to incompleteness of exhaustion, and all
doubts as to the exact amount of work done by the muscular fibres
themselves of that most perfect of engines, whose extreme perfection
enables it to complete in most of us something like 750,000 beats in a
week, and nearly thirty thousand million revolutions in a person by
the time he is sevonty years of age.
                                                             [A. H. G.]
       * 'Journal of Anatomy and Physiology,' May and November, 1873.
   Vol. VII.     (No. 60.)

218                            Dr. Doran                         [Feb. 13,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 13, 1874.
 William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Treasurer R.S. Secretary and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                   John Doran, Esq. Ph.D. F.S.A.
                     On the Opponents of Shakespeare.
Dr. Doran, after commenting on the little knowledge we possess of
the life of Shakespeare, and the absence of any of his autograph letters,
characterized Dryden as his first and greatest opponent, than whom
no one had more disparaged that poet, although no one had spoken
of him in higher terms of praise. The Monarchy and the stage fell
together ; but Shakespeare was re-enthroned at the Restoration, soon
after which Dryden began his jealous attacks by mutilating and horribly
debasing ' The Tempest.' To the indignation of the Shakespearian
public Dryden replied by some scornful lines in the Epilogue to
' The Conquest of Granada' (Part 2), and then attempted to justify
himself in his vigorous pamphlet, ' The Defence of tho Epilogue,' in
which he speaks of Shakespeare as uncultivated by education or by
converse with courts. Dryden placed Shakespeare on a level with
Fletcher. He maintained that there was not a page in either poet
that was not disfigured by " some solecism in speech, or some noto
rious flaw in sense," and he subsequently adds, " of language." In
this ' Defence ' Dryden pronounced the ' Winter's Tale ' ' Measure for
Measure,' and ' Love's Labour Lost,' to be so meanly written that the
comedy neither caused your mirth nor the serious part your concern
ment. Dryden did not hesitate to say that Shakespeare was open to as
much contempt as admiration ; that ho was as often asleep as awake :
and that he constantly fell into " a carelessness and a lethargy of
 thought." Dryden asserted that in the hands of poets since Shake
speare, the English language had improved ; he ascribed to Waller the
merit of introducing the " well placing of words for the sweetness of
pronunciation ! " and he found a proof of the weakness of Shakespeare
in his (alleged) inability to carry out the character of Mercutio beyond
 the third act. Dr. Doran proceeded to show tho ill effects of Dryden's
 general course, 1st, on dramatic criticism, as illustrated in the persons
of Rymer and others who followed Dryden's lead. 2ndly, on the stage,
where Dryden was the real founder of that abominable school of
 English comedy, the appalling indecency of which was not compen

1874.]                on the Opponents of Shakespeare.                 219
sated for by any wit ; and 3rdly, on Shakespearian literature, that is, on
Shakespeare's plays, which were treated as Dryden had treated ' The
Tempest,' by a long line of the opponents of Shakespeare, who called
themselves his " improvers." The speaker showed how these improvers
had missed both the object of the poet and the moral of his plays, by
examples from Davenant's perversion of ' Macbeth ' to Lord Lans-
downe's as absurd perversion of ' The Merchant of Venice.' Dr. Doran
described Jeremy Collier's denunciation of the theatre as Dryden and
his followers had made it, to bo in reality an advocacy of " the well-
trod stage " of which Milton had approved ; and he rendered such
justice as was due to Dryden, who in the noble ' Ode on the Death of
Mrs. Killigrew,' expressed his grief at having flooded the English
stage with pollution, but who got the better of his grief, wroto
comedies in the old immoral strain, and laid the blame on the town,
which, he said, liked nothing better.
     Dr. Doran next referred to " the Shakespeare Ladies," and " the
 Beaumont and Fletcher Ladies," who aro noticed in Fielding's play,
 ' The Historical Register.' He explained the objects of these respec
 tive opponents and supporters of Shakespeare, and narrated how the
 Shakespeare ladies enabled the managers to put his plays on the stage,
 by liberally subscribing towards their being splendidly represented
 and according to the original text. This was described as a fitting
 preparation for the coming of one of the most intelligent interpreters
 of Shakespeare's sentiments, and one of the noblest representatives of
 Shakespeare's heroes—David Garrick. When Garrick visited Paris,
 he met the fiercest of Shakespeare's opponents on the Continent, in
 the opinions of Voltaire. Dr. Doran illustrated the history of this
 opposition by various aneedotes ; he showed also how Ducis attempted
 to adapt Shakespeare's plays to Voltaire's so-called " system," and how
 the adapter became more Shakespearian at each attempt. Having
 sketched the history of the various endeavours to place Shakespeare's
 plays on the French stage, and having told how the English poet
 triumphed there through the great actor, Talma, and how he has been
 added to the stock of French poetry by the admirable translation of
 Francois Hugo, Dr. Doran concluded by pointing out the rarity of the
 true poet, and insisting that no man could be supreme in the snblimest
 faculty of poetry, but under a divine influence. This influence enabled
  Shakespeare to display the mightiest of poetical power through the
  very simplest of means,—enthralling the sense by, perhaps, a few one-
 syllabled words ; and Dr. Doran asserted that in the best teachings of
  the best of his poetry, Shakespeare was not only our national poet, but
  more essentially, practically, and profitably, our national saint than
  any one of the Worthies who are called the Champions of Christendom.
  "Their shrines," said Dr. Doran, "are but the impalpable webs of
  Fancy ; their works only tho fond imaginings of Romance ; but the
 shrine of our Shakespeare still sanctifies his native Avon, and his
  works are, for the civilized world, a joyous possession for ever."
                                                               Q 2

220                Mr. Vernon Heath on the Autotype            [Feb. 20,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 20, 1874.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                           Vernon Heath, Esq.
    On the Autotype and other Photographic Processes and Discoveries.
 Photography, young as it is amongst the sciences, and still younger
in its alliance with art, has made during the comparatively few years
of its existence the most astonishing progress.
     In the year 1842 I was working out the marvels of Mr. Fox
 Talbot's calotype process with something more than merely keen
 interest, for his discovery was to me an absolute realization of that
 which for a long time had been continually the subject of my
 thoughts. I was accustomed, in the days I refer to, to sketch a great
 deal out of doors, using for assistance a form of camera-obscura which
 was then made for that purpose, and, with the image before me,
 which the lens of my camera formed on its copying screen, how often
 did I wonder whether, within the wide realms of chemical science,
 there existed means by which that image could be secured ! Day
 after day I thought and dwelt upon this, as others no doubt had done
 before, until at last there came one eventful Friday evening. On the
 25th January, 1839, 1 had the privilege to be present in this theatre,
 and hear, to my intense surprise and gratification, Mr. Faraday
 announce the two discoveries—the daguerreotype and Mr. Fox
 Talbot's invention, then named by him " photogenic drawing."
 Mr. Faraday invited his audience to inspect the specimens displayed
 in the library of this Institution, and I, being one of those who did
 so, was from that moment in heart and spirit a disciple of the new
 science—Photography.
      Here are the results from some negatives I obtained last summer ;
 but let me for a moment go back to the period I just now referred to
  and its results. Here are prints from some calotype negatives I
  obtained during the summer of 1842. Let me show you one of these
 prints by the side of this (the calotype print was C x 1J inches, the
ennt-^jred autotype 48 x 38 inches), in order that, in some measure,
you may ' gee the degree of progress that has been made in so short a
 period as thirty-one years. I am sure that I may be suffered to say

  ifs 1874.]      and other Photographic Processes and Discoveries.        221
      that to myself this is a comparison of extremely great interest, though
      I doubt whether I should have drawn your attention to it but that it
      enables me, by pointing to the progress it evinces, to say that the
      advance photography has made in all its branches and applications is
      just as marked and equally as great. But, successful as it has been,
      varied as are its uses, it has had to contend with one very serious
      drawback—the unstable condition of the photograph itself. All
      photographs by any of the ordinary methods are subject to gradual
      and spontaneous chemical change, from which arises their want of
      permanence. This, though, is so well and so generally known that it
      is unnecessary that I should dwell upon it, beyond saying that as
      soon as it was recognized it became the end and aim of a large
      number of patient, earnest workers, in all parts of the world where
      photography was known, to provide a remedy; and that now, to
      quote from an article in ' The Times ' upon this subject, " by the
      cumulative effect of successive inventions and improvements, means
      have been found for accomplishing this end."
r         Of the processes which have had this object in view the autotype
      is entitled to take very high rank, both for the beauty and complete
      ness of its results. The word " autotype " signifies, as you will have
      determined, self-printing ; and by those who proposed and adopted it
      it was intended to express the power of producing, independently of
      any aid or action other than that which belongs to the process, a
      picture in monochrome, " whether," to use the language of a well-
      known writer, Mr. Tom Taylor, " it be in red or black chalk, India
      ink, sepia, common ink ; in short, any colouring matter that can be
      incorporated with gelatine ;" and he adds that " as only the pigments
      which are the most permanent that are known to art are used in the
      process the finished autotype is as permanent as the pigment which is
      selected for its production."
          In the explanation I am about to give you of autotype printing
      and productions, I will ask permission to pass over a great deal of
      that which is historical, as well as a great deal of that which is
      technical. I fear that this is but scant justice to the process, as well
      as to its numerous discoverers ; but even if time permitted me, I
      doubt whether I should be able to do the justice I desire to the many
      eminent persons who have been associated, in some form or other,
      with its discovery or applications.
          I must content myself with giving an explanation of its most
      important principles, and with mentioning merely the names of those
      whose researches and discoveries have, during the last few years,
      brought it to its present state of perfection and ease of manipulation.
      Foremost among these are Mr. Mungo Ponton and M. Poitevin ; the
      late Mr. Blair, of Perth ; prominently, Mr. Swan, of Neweastle-on-
      Tyne ; materially and importantly, Mr. Johnson, of the Autotype
      Fine-Art Company ; then Mr. Ernest Edwards and Mr. Window ;
      and last, though very far from least, Mr. J. A. Spencer and Mr. Sawyer
      who are now members of a well-known firm engaged in the production

222                 Mr. Vernon Heath on the Autotype           [Feb. 20,
of autotype work. For assistance and contributions for this evening
I am greatly indebted to several persons ; but to Messrs. Spencer,
Sawyer, Bird and Co., I am under tbe greatest obligations, for they
have not only supplied me from their factory at Ealing Dean with
means and appliances for my discourse, but Mr. Spencer has very kindly
given me the aid of his valuable services for my demonstrations.
     Gelatine plays a most important part in the autotype and all its
kindred processes. The colour of an autotype picture is due alone to
the pigment which is used. Here is some gelatine in the state it is
before the pigment has been incorporated with it ; and here some
with which various colours have been mixed—" pigmented gelatine,"
as it is called. Paper suitable for the purpose is coated on one side
with this preparation, and if not needed for immediate use is allowed
to dry. fiore are a number of sheets which have been so treated. In
this state it will keep any reasonable time ; light has no action upon
it ; it may even, without injury, be soaked in cold water and again
dried ; but if put into warm water the gelatine is dissolved, and the
pigment washed away.
     To render this preparation photographic—that is, to render it
sensitive to the action of light—it has to be immersed for a short time
in a solution of bichromate of potass. Here is a sheet which has been
so immersed, though in no way that is apparent are certain properties
of the original preparation altered ; that is, it will keep a reasonablo
time if not exposed to light, and it is still readily soluble in warm
water.
     But expose this film of bichromatized gelatine to light and a most
important action is set up. Ordinary photography, you know, is
based entirely on the property light possesses of acting on nitrate of
silver in contact with organic matter, the colour of an ordinary photo
graph being due to the reduction of the silver, and its subsequent
toning with gold. But in the autotype, and all like processes, the
photographic action is not so much a colour change as in the silver
print, but a change in the character of the bichromatized gelatine of
this nature —that which, before exposure to light, was readily soluble,
becomes by exposure to light, insoluble. By the way, it will be
convenient now and hereafter to call this compound of gelatine and
colour by the name that has been given to it—" tissue." It is
unsensitized tissue before immersion in the bichromate, sensitized
tissue afterwards.
     Suppose, now, we place this card, with the openings I have cut
upon it, on a piece of sensitized tissue, and expose them to light in the
ordinary printing-frame of the photographer, all those portions of the
tissue which can be scon through the openings of the card, are, by the
action of light, rendered insoluble, while the protected parts remain
soluble and can be readily washed away, giving in the end the result
I have here. Now, although this illustration answers my immediate
purpose, and exhibits the particular change I have referred to, it
explains little indeed of the whole change light is able to effect in the

 1874.]      and other Photographic Processes and Discoveries.         223
 sensitized tissue. This, as we go on, we shall see is far more in
 teresting, far more important, and, I may add, far more wonderful.
 The absolute action of light upon the tissue may be epitomized thus :—
 The degree of insolubility that is attained, or the degree of solubility
 that is preserved, is in exact proportion to the degree in which light
 is shut out from, or let into, the coating of bichromatized gelatine;
 that is, suppose we intervene between the tissue and the light a means
 of resistance constructed on an exact scale of gradation of tones
 running from transparency to opacity, wo should translate that re
sistance into the same exact gradations of the pigment which had been
mixed with the gelatine.
     [This proposition, involving as it does the most important prin
ciples of the process, was fully explained and illustrated by the use of
 a large diagram, by which the relative degrees of insolubility and
 solubility were exhibited as the result of the light's action under
 certain particular circumstances ; the diagram being also used for the
purpose of showing that where the insoluble film was the thickest
 there would be the darkest tone of colour, and where it was the thinnest
 there was tho lightest tone, and that between thoso extremes all
 the other gradations of tone are formed. A large autotype landscape
 of the Vale of Festiniog, from a negative taken by the speaker, was
referred to as proof of this, the varying planes of distances being
rendered in the most perfect way. Mr. Spencer and his assistants
 then proceeded to develop an autotype print of unusual size, the
 speaker again using the diagram for the purpose of explaining why
the transfer paper was attached and the original paper support
removed. Mr. Spencer succeeded most admirably in the develop
ment of the print, the subject of which was Windsor Castle from the
Thames.]
     The speaker, having explained certain points which it was necessary
to make clear during the process of developing his Windsor Castle
picture, said :—Now, regarding autotype pictures of this character, and
of the larger size behind me, since this discourse was announced I have
been so frequently asked to explain the special method employed for
their production that I am led to think it has sufficient general interest
to justify my doing so, especially as my description will be very short.
Our illustration here, as well as these and the many other examples
which have at different times been exhibited in the library of this
Institution, are all enlarged from negatives of this size (12 x 10
inches). The method used is extremely simple, and is itself of much
earlier date than the autotype process. I find from the ' Journal of the
Photographic Society of London,' that nearly twelve years ago I de
scribed, at one of the meetings of the Society, a plan of enlarging
which at that time I was using extensively, and which, practically, is
identical with that now used for tho production of these pictures,
with the exceptions that an autotype transparency is substituted for a
silvor-on-collodion one and an autotype for the final resulting print in
lieu of the usual silver print. The operations aro these : —A tissue

224                itf»\ Vernon Heath an the Autotype            [Feb. 20,
print is made from and by contact with the negative to be enlarged,
and this print, being transferred for its permanent support to clear
transparent glass, is therefore what is termed a " transparency."
This tissue transparency, if made from a good negative, is extremely
beautiful, and is immeasurably superior to any photographic print
that could be obtained from the same negative by ordinary means,
and greatly superior to a transparency produced by the old method
of silver-on-collodion. It is really to the perfect character and
quality of the autotype transparency that the great success of the
enlargements resulting from it is due. The merit of first using a
tissue transparency for enlarging is, I believe, due to Mr. Window, of
Baker Street.
     Suppose the transparency is in all respects satisfactory, it is set up
in front of a lens ; the size of the resulting negative depending upon
the focal length of the lens, and on the distance the transparency, the
lens, and the position for the negative are apart. The negative so
produced is an ordinary silver-on-collodion one, and to avoid inver
 sion in the resulting autotype print tho transparency is put film side
outwards. As to magnitude, a negative can be produced of any size
within the limits of a camera and its adjuncts. The size of the plates
for the negatives from which these pictures are produced are each
48 x 3S, and I see no difficulty in obtaining equally perfect results
 on plates doublo the size. By the exercise of care and skill in the
 manipulation there need be no loss of detail or sharpness ; whatever
 in such respects is the condition of the original negative, so is the
 condition of the reproduction, without reference to the amount of
 enlargement.
     Doubtlessly a great deal is due to the ability and technical know
 ledge Messrs. Spencer, Sawyer, Bird and Co. have brought to bear in
 working out the details of the process ; but the character and quality
 of the original negative affects most materially the character and quality
 of the resulting enlargement. Partly duo to the long period over
 which my own experiments in enlarging processes extend, my landscape
 negatives are found to possess a distinctive and peculiar fitness for
 autotype work ; but, as this is a matter I could not, nor should not,
 discuss, I will merely say that, in the event of anyone desiring to see
 the character of my negatives, I have had four representative specimens
 put in the library.
      I pass now to the concluding branch of my discourse. Thus far my
 explanations have been limited to considering the autotype process as
 a substitute for certain of the usual photographic processes ; but it has
 yet another application, the nature of which is such that those who
  hear of and see it for the first time do so with very great surprise.
  Poitevin, who was one of the early discoverers of that which resulted
  in autotype, found that the surface of gelatine rendered insoluble by
  light acquired the property of repelling water as from a greasy surface,
  thus enabling a design to be inked with printing-ink and an impres
  sion to be taken from the inked surface on to paper— a process

1874.]       and other Photographic Processes and Discoveries.         225
analogous to the operation known as lithography. Founded on
Poitevin's discovery is that which is now known as the " mechanical
autotype printing process," by which, on a plate prepared more or
less by the means used for autotype productions as I have explained
them, a print from a negative is obtained, and the plate being then
placed in a printing-press copies of it can be produced in printers' ink
or in any permanent pigment with great rapidity ; whilst the proofs
themselves, in their delicacy of texture, gradation, and faithful render
ing of the minutest detail, leave little to be desired.
     The principle upon which this method of printing is based is
this :—Avoiding the actual details of the manipulation, a plate, which
in this case is a thick piece of finely-ground glass, is coated with a
solution of gelatine and bichromate, and, when dry and hard, is
exposed under a negative. Much —indeed all—depends upon the
proper hardening of the film, the method of accomplishing this being
that for which a patent was taken out in October, 1869, now the pro
perty of the Autotype Fine-Art Company.
     After the exposure under a negative it is washed in cold, not hot,
water, as in the ordinary autotype process—not with a view to remove
any portion of the gelatine, but simply to get rid of the bichromate,
and to permit the gelatine to become saturated with moisture, which
it will absorb in the inverse ratio of the action of light. This film,
after treatment with water, is just in the condition of a moistened
lithographic stone. If a roller charged with greasy ink be applied
to . its surface, the ink will be repelled by the moist portions, but
will adhere to the dry or insoluble portions, as it would to the
greasy image on the stone. The ink adheres to the image in the
exact ratio of its freedom from moisture. An exact transcript of
the negative is thus secured in printing-ink on the layer of gelatine,
and a sheet of paper being placed upon it, and suitable pressure
applied, a print is produced.
      By the kindness of Messrs. Spencer, Sawyer, Bird and Co. I am
 enabled to show you the production of prints by this method. Here,
 in its place in this printing-press, is a plate upon the surface of which
 is a result obtained from contact with a negative and exposure to light
 as in our former illustrations. And now, as Mr. Spencer has been
 good enough to bring with him one of his skilled assistants, I cannot
 do better than leave the completion of the demonstration in his hands.
 The operations are, as you see, strictly analogous to those of litho
 graphy. The ink adheres to those portions which refused to take the
 water, and in exactly the same degree as the repellent action was
 manifested. Now it is ready for printing ; so the paper is carefully
 placed upon it, and now, proceeding just as does the lithographer, we
 shall then have our result.
      This, then, is the autotypo process divided into its two classes—
 that which substitutes the ordinary photographic methods, and that
 which results from the printing-press in a manner analogous to litho
 graphy. To summarize: each class possesses great pictorial excellence

  226           Mr. Vernon Heath on the Autotype Process.        [Feb. 20,
  and beauty, both render, as you have seen, with the utmost delicacy
  every gradation of tone ; and any tint of monochrome possible to the
  painter can be obtained in their production, and this, too, with a
  tenure of permanency which may fairly be assumed to be as secure as
  the Indian-ink drawing, to which experience enables us to assign a
  stability of at least somo centuries. In both classes there is great
  simplicity and practicability, the object of each operation is perfectly
  clear and well understood, each step in the process follows the other
  in regular and unvarying sequence, and all the manipulations are
  easily performed. There is no complexity requiring unusual intelli
  gence to understand, and there are no uncertain conditions in which
  success is left to chance or guess-work.
      Before concluding, I ought to say that there are several other
 processes now in extensive use the basis of which is gelatine and
 bichromate of potass. The Hcliotype, the Woodbury system, and the
 various processes which, under Sir Henry James, arc in use in the
 Ordnance Departments—all more or less depend upon the use of
 gelatine and bichromate of potass. Remembering the position Mr. Fox
 Talbot holds as the pioneer of the photographic processes in this
 country, it is due to him to mention that he was amongst the earliest
 —if not really the earliest—discoverers of the gelatine and bichromate
 of potass process.
      In the library you will find, thanks to my many contributors,
 several interesting and striking illustrations of the various processes I
 have spoken of. You will find also special applications of these pro
 cesses : of these I will particularly mention the beautiful specimens of
 the Woodbury process, and the marvellous reproductions of the Old
 Masters and other subjects of the greatest interest contributed by the
 Autotype Fine-Art Company.
     Here, then, my task finishes—imperfectly and incompletely, I fear.
 I will, however, permit myself to hope that I may rely, not merely on
your generous and liberal interpretation of it, but that I may even
consider I have furnished a fairly sufficient answer t-> the question I
hear so often asked—" What is autotype?" and that from what has
been said and done to-night, you will be convinced that in autotype
we have an additional and important aid to photography, especially as
it affects its progress. On this point I think I cannot more appropri
ately close my discourso than by using the identical words Mr. Faraday
spoke from this place on tho January Friday evening when he intro
duced Mr. Fox Talbot's photogenic drawings. Speaking of them,
Mr. Faraday said :—" No human hand has hitherto traced such lines
as these drawings display ; and what man may hereafter do, now that
Dame Nature has become his drawing-mistress, it is impossible to
predict."
                                                                [V.H.]

1874.]            Mr. Francis Galton on Men of Science.              227
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                      Friday, February 27, 1874.
     Geokok Busk, Esq. F.R.8. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
                  Francis Galton, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I.
           On Men of Science, their Nature and their Nurture.
The purport of this discourse is to specify the chief qualities by which
the English men of scienco of the present day are characterized, to
show the possibility of denning and roughly measuring the amount
of any of those qualities, and to conclude by summarizing the opinions
of the scientific men on the merits and demerits of their own educa
tion, giving an interpretation of what, according to their own showing,
they would have preferred. My data are obtained from a largo
collection of autobiographical notes, most obligingly communicated
to me by a large part of the leading members of the scientific world.
Applications were addressed to 180 Fellows of the Royal Society,
who, in addition to their " F.R.S.," had gained medals or filled posts
of recognized scientific position ; 115 answers have already been
received, of which 80 or 9 are full and minute replies to my
long and varied series of questions. But I can deal with only a few
deductions from this valuable material, and must refer to a forth
coming work for the rest.
    It is of interest to know the ratio which the numbers of the
leading scientific men bear to the population of England generally.
I obtain it in this way. Although 180 persons only were on my list,
I recken that it would have been possible to have included 300 of the
same ages, without descending in the scale of scientific position ; also
it appears that the ages of half of the number on my list lie between
50 and 65, and that about three-quarters of these may be considered
English. I combine these numbers, and compare them with that
of the male population of England and Wales, between the same
limits of age, and find the required ratio to be about one in 10,000.
What then are the conditions of nature, and the various circumstances
and conditions of life,— which I include under the genoral name of
nurture,—which havo selected that one and left the remainder ? Some
may feel surprise that so many as 300 persons are to be found in the
United Kingdom who deserve tho title of scientific men ; probably
they have been accustomed to concentrate their attention upon a few

228                          Mr. Francis Oalton                  [Feb. 27,
notabilities, and to ignore their colleagues. It must, however, be
recollected that all biographies, even of the greatest men, reveal
numerous associates and competitors whoso merit and influence were
far greater than had been suspected by the outside world. Great
discoveries have often been made simultaneously by workers ignorant
of each other's labours. This shows that they had derived their
inspiration from a common but hidden source, as no mere chance
would account for simultaneous discovery. It would appear that few
discoveries are wholly due to a single man, but rather that vague and
imperfect ideas, which float in conversation and literature, must grow,
gather, and develop, until some more perspicuous and prompt mind
than the rest, clearly sees them. The first discoverers beat their
contemporaries in point of time, and it is therefore due to them, not
that science progresses, but that her progress is as rapid as it is. We
must neither underrate nor overrate their achievements. I would
compare the small band of men who have achieved a conspicuous
scientific position, to islands, which are not the detached phenomena
they appear, but only tho uppermost portions of hills, whose bulk is
unseen. To pursue this metaphor ; the range of my inquiry dips a
few fathoms below the level at which popular reputation begins.
    I proceed to speak of the qualities which the returns specify as
most conspicuous in scientific men, and I shall endeavour to make
them tell their own tale by quoting anonymous extracts from their
communications.
    The first in order of importance is energy, both of body and of
mind. It appears to be possessed in an unusual degree by three-
fourths of the men in my list. I should mention that the list
contains a very few names of travellers of extraordinary endurance,
such as the late Dr. Livingstone ; but that I do not speak of these in the
following extracts : —1. " Have rowed myself in a skiff 105 miles in
21 hours whilst undergraduate at Cambridge." (This is, I believe, a
feat that not one undergraduate in 500 could do.) " Rowed in every
race during my stay at the University ; rowed two years in the
University crews." 2. " Walked many a timo 50 miles a day
without fatigue, and kept up five miles an hour for three or four
hours." 3. " Excelled at school and college in athletic sports,
especially in jumping (18 feet). Almost incapable of mental fatigue
up to the age of 38. Usually engaged in literary work until long
after midnight." 4. " As a boy of 17, 1 worked for three months all
day and all night with not more than four or five hours' sleep. When
full of a subject and interested in it, I have written for seven or eight
hours without interruption."
    Severe scientific work is often done during the night hy men
engaged all day in anxious business ; thus :—" In early life as a boy,
I was engaged in business from twelve to fourteen hours a day, yet
always found time to study and make my own instruments. Later
on, my studies and scientific work wore always accomplished after
business hours, and it was generally my habit to commonco after

1874.]                     on Men of Science.                         229
dinner, and to work at science until 2, 3, or 4 a.m., and to begin
business again at 9 a.m. I never thought of rest if I had anything in
hand of interest."
    I may mention that energy appears to be correlated with smallness
of head, a fact which comes out conspicuously here, although the
average circumference of head among the scientific men is great.
Energy is also, as we have seen, strongly marked among them ; but
it is much the more strongly marked among those who have small
heads. I have ninety-nine returns, many of which I have verified
myself, using the hat-maker's whalebone-hoop and measuring inside
the hats. It appears that the average circumference of an English
gentleman's head is 22J- to 22£ inches. Now, I have only thirteen
cases under 22 inches and eight cases of 24 inches or upwards. The
general scientific position of the small-headed and large-headed men
seems ' equally good ; but the fact is conspicuous that, out of the
thirteen of the former, there are only two or three who have not
remarkable energy ; and out of eight of the latter there is only one
who has. A combination of great energy and great intellectual
capacity is the most effective of all conditions ; but, like the combina
tion of swiftness and strength in muscular powers, it is very rare.
    The excellence of the health of the men in my list is remarkable,
considering that the majority are of middle and many of advanced
ages. One quarter of the whole have excellent or very good health, a
second quarter have good or fair, a third have had good health since
they attained manhood, and only one quarter make complaints or
reservations. Here are two examples of excellent health :—1. "Only
absent from professional duties two days in thirty years ; only two
headaches in my life." The next is from a correspondent who is
between 70 and 80 years of age. 2. "Never ill for more than two
or three days except with neuralgia ; no surgical operations except
inoculation, drawing of one tooth, and cutting of corns." It is
positively startling to observe in these returns the strongly
hereditary character of good and indifferent constitutions. I have
classified the entries, each entry giving the health of the scientific
man, of his father and of his mother respectively, and find as follows :
—First, a long row of such terms as these : " Excellent ; excellent ;
excellent ;" or " Good ; good ; good ;" then comes another row in
which some ailment is specified by the scientific man as affecting
himself, and as having also affected one or other of his parents.
Examples:— 1. "Excellent, but hay fever; father, excellent, but
severe hay fever." . 2. " Good in early life, subject to headache ;
father, good, subject to headache." 3. " Delicate in early life, one
lung seriously affected ; mother delicate and phthisical." I can find
only two cases, neither very strongly marked, in which both parents
were described as unhealthy, although marriages between such persons
are not infrequent. These returns seem to show that the issue of such
marriages are barely capable of pushing their way to the front ranks
of life. All statistical data concur in proving that healthy persons

230                          Mr. Francis Gallon                [Feb. 27,
are far more likely than others to have healthy progeny ; and this
truth cannot be too often illustrated, until it has taken such hold of
the popular mind, that considerations of health and energy shall be
of recognized importance in questions of marriage, as much so as the
more immediately obvious ones of rank and fortune.
    Steady perseverance is a third quality on which much stress is laid,
but this might have been anticipated, and it is unnecessary to quote
instances.
    Some prevalence of practical business habits might also have been
anticipated, but it proves much more common than I had expected.
Among those who have sent me returns, I count no less than seventeen
who are active heads of great commercial undertakings. There are
also ten medical men in the highest rank of practice, and eighteen
others who fill or have filled important official posts. A most emi
nent biologist wrote as follows, in reply to the inquiry whether he had
any special tastes bearing on scientific success, in addition to those
for his own line of investigation :—" I have no special talent except
for business, as evinced by keeping accounts, being regular in corre
spondence, and investing money very well." It is clear that method
and order are essential to the man who hopes to deal successfully with
masses of details.
    Next, as regards the more special qualities ; those already men
tioned, of energy, health, steadiness of pursuit, and business habits
being of general application. The first of these is independence of
character. Fifty of my correspondents show that they possess it in
excess, and in only two is it below par. Here are a few examples :—
1. " Left let. 12 " [that is, ran away from] " a school where I had re
ceived injustice from the master." 2. " Opinions in almost all respects
opposed to those in which I was educated." 3. " I have always taken
my own independent lino. My heresy prevented my advancement."
4. " Preference for whatever is not the fashion, not popular, not rich,
not very able to help itself, yet with qualities unworthily overlooked
or unjustly oppressed." The home atmosphere which the scientific
men breathed in their youth was generally saturated with the spirit of
independence. Examples:—1. "My father was extremely indepen
dent, in some respects more so than I am. He never took off his hat
to anyone in his life, and never addressed anyone as Esq." 2. " My
father was a Liberal when Liberalism (then styled Jacobinism) was
highly obnoxious, an early denouncer of slavery and advocate of reli
gious liberty, a free trader when the world was protectionist, and an
opponent of unrighteous war when war was most popular. He was for
mitigating our criminal code when hanging was regarded as the sheet-
anchor, and, in a word, was politically and socially a very independent
spirit." In confirmation of the assertion that the scientific men were
usually brought up in families characterized by independence of dispo
sition, I would refer to the strange variety of small and unfashion
able religious sects to which they or their parents belonged. We all
know that Dalton, the discoverer of the atomic theory, and Dr. Young,

1874.]                     on Men of Science.                        231
of the nndulatory theory of light, were both Quakers, and that Faraday
was a Sandemanian. So I find in these returns numerous cases of
Quaker pedigree ; and I know of one man, not as yet technically on
my list, who was born a Sandemanian. There are also representatives
of several other small sects, as Moravians and Bible Christians, and
the Unitarians are numerous. It will be understood that the object of
saying this is not to throw light on the religious tendencies of the
scientific men (concerning which I have much material), because so
off-hand a statement would mislead, but to prove that they and their
parents had the habit of doing what they preferred, without con
sidering the fashion of the day. The man of science is thoroughly
independent in character.
    We now come to what I look upon as the salt of the character of
most scientific men, namely, strong innate taste for science or for some
special branch of it. It is not universal even among those who have
had the highest success, but it is very common, and it sometimes
attains to the height of a passion which is not transient, but abides.
Though decidedly hereditary in numerous cases, its appearance is more
capricious than health or energy, and it often happens that the
scientific man is the only member of his family in whom the taste has
shown itself. The following are a few examples of innate taste :—
1. " Thoroughly innate; I had no regular instruction, and can think
of no event which especially helped to develop it. Bones and shells
were attractive to me before I could consider them with apparent
profit, and I had a fair zoological collection by the time I was 15."
2. " If any tastes be innate, mine were. They date from beyond my
recollection. They were not determined by events occurring after
manhood, but I think the reverse; they were discouraged in every
way." 3. " I should say innate. As to whether they were largely
determined by events occurring after manhood, I think not. All I can
say is, that neither profession, nor marriage, nor sickness, have been
able to affect them." 4. "As far back as I can remember, I loved
nature and desired to learn her secrets, and I have spent my whole
life in searching for them. While a schoolboy I taught myself . . .
under great difficulties."
    Let us now put these results together. We have seen that energy,
health, steady pursuit of purpose, business habits, independence of
character, and a strong innate taste for science, are characteristics of
scientific men. Probably one half of the men on my list possess
every one of thom in a considerable and some of them in a very high
degree. If one or more of these qualities be deficient, success becomes
impossible, unless its absence is supplemented by other and as yet
unclassified conditions. The want of time prevents me from entering
into these, and I must postpone further results to a future publication.
However, two groups of cases may be specified in which only a few of
the above-mentioned qualities are present, and which end in an
abortive career. The one is the possession of energy, health, and
independence of character in excess, and little else to control them.

232                         Mr. Francis Galton                  [Feb. 27,
These are dangerous gifts. Those who have them are apt to renounce
guidances by which the great body of mankind move safely, and to
follow out a career in which they are almost certain to blunder and
fail egregiously. Probably every large emigrant ship takes out many
such men, full of unjustifiable self-confidence, who, to use a current
phrase, " knock about in the world," waste their health, youth, and
opportunities, and end broken down. Another common group of cases
are those where a strong innate taste for science is accompanied by
independence of character and steadiness of pursuit, but with no other
quality helpful to success, and who therefore fail. There is hardly
a village where some ingenious man may not be found who has ideas
and much shrewdness, but is crotchety and impracticable. He wants
energy and business habits, and so he never rises. There are many
who brood over subjects like perpetual motion, whose peculiarities are
well illustrated in De Morgan's book of paradoxes. We also fre
quently meet persons of the stamp that justifies the old-fashioned
caricature of scientific men, being absorbed in some petty investigation,
utterly deficient in business habits, and noted for absence of mind. I
may add that even idiots have often strongly quasi-scientific tastes, as
love for simple mechanism, or objects of natural history, and they have
a pleasure in collecting. Also, we all know that madmen have often
persistency, as shown by their brooding on a single topic.
     Lastly, I wish to give some idea of the very general prevalence of
mechanical tastes among the scientific men generally. One would
have expected to find it among mechanicians and physicists, but it is
just as strong among the biologists and others. One chemist made a
12-inch reflecting telescope ; two eminent surgeons have an extra
ordinary aptitude for and love of mechanical manipulation ; two very
eminent biologists had a passion for it, and both, if they had followed
the bent of their own minds, would have been engineers by profession.
     All tends to show that the scientific mind is directed to facts and
abstract theories, and not to persons or human interests. The man of
science is deficient in the purely emotional element, and in the desire
to influence the beliefs of others. Thus I find that two out of every
ten do not care for politics at all ; they are devoid of partisanship.
They school a naturally equable and independent mind to a still more
complete subordination to their judgment. In many respects their
character is strongly anti-feminine. It is a curious proof of this,
that in the very numerous answers which have reference to parental
influence, that of the father is quoted three times as often as that
of the mother. It would not have been the case, judging from inquiries
I elsewhere made, if I had been discussing literary men, commanders,
or statesmen, or, still more, divines.
    I regret much that time makes it impossible for me now to dive
deeper into the rich mine of facts contained in my returns. It becomes
necessary for me to leave this branch of the subject and to pass on to
some interesting considerations regarding the measurement of qualities
such as those we have been engaged upon. These considerations are

1874. J                     on Men of Science.                        233
of the most general application, and are as applicable to magnitude as
they are to intellect and morals, and to every form of animal or
vegetable life as they are to men. I shall therefore speak about the
 size of nuts, and peas, and acorns, as being easily experimented on,
and deduce from these the results which I would fain apply to the
moral and intellectual qualities of mankind.
     The law of statistical constancy may be taken for granted. It is
evidenced by the experience of insurance offices against firo, death,
shipwreck, and other contingencies, always with the proviso that the
facts are gathered with discretion, on well-known general principles.
 Hence we may say with assurance, that although two common nuts
may differ, yet the contents of different packets, each containing 1000
nuts, will be scarcely distinguishable, for the same number of nuts of
different sizes will be found in each. Let the contents of the several
packets be each arranged in a long row, in order of size, beginning
with the biggest nut and ending with the smallest, and place the
rows rank behind rank ; then by the law of statistical constancy the
nuts in the same files will in all cases be closely alike (except the
outside ones, where more irregularity prevails). Again, if we incor
porate two rows into one of double length, still preserving the arrange
ment as to regular gradation in size, the centre nuts of the two origi
nal series will still be found at or near the centre of the compound
series, the nuts in quarter positions will still be in quarter positions,
and so on. Hence, whatever be the length of the series the relative
 position in it of the nut will be a strict criterion of its size. This is
 of course equally true of all groups of qualities or characters what
 ever, in which the law of statistical constancy prevails, the series, in
each case, being arranged according to gradations of the quality in
question. Each individual is measured against his neighbour, and
it is quite unnecessary to have recourse to any external standard. As
regards a scale of equal parts, I make use of a converse application of
the law of " frequency of error " [this was illustrated by many expe
riments], which shwos that in a row (say as before) of nuts, if we
take those which occupy the three quarterly divisions (1st quarter,
centre, 3rd quarter) as three elementary graduations of size, a
continuous scale of graduations will be determined by the following
series, in which the places of the nuts are supposed to be reckened
from the end of the row where the large nuts are situated, and to be
given in per-thousandths of the entire length of the row. It might
be called the " Common Statistical Scale" (S. S.). The place of -f 4°
would be at 4 thousandths from large end; + 3° at 21 thousandths ;
 + 2° at 89 ; + 1° at 250 ; 0° at 500 ; - 1° at 750 ; - 2° at 911 ;
 - 3° at 979 ; and - 4° at 996, or 4 thousandths from the small end of
the row. Thus if wo say that the size of a nut is + 2° S. S., we
absolutely define, or rather identify, what we are speaking about.
Anybody can procure such a nut independently by getting a quart of
nuts and arranging them. Also we know that the difference between
a nut of -f- 4° S. S. and + 1° S. S. is 3°, and therefore three times as
   Vol. VII. (No. 60.)                                            R

234                         Mr. Francis Galton                   [Fob. 27,
great as between one of -f- 2° S. S. and the latter. It cannot be
affirmed that this is a precise scale of equal parts for all qualities, but
it is found to hold surprisingly well in a great variety of vital statis
tics ; perhaps, too, the mere thickness of tissues may be a chief cle
ment in the physical basis of life. This scale appears, at all events,
more likely to bo nearly approximative to one of equal parts, for qua
lities generally, than any other that can be specified, and it certainly
affords definite standards subject to the law of statistical constancy.
The habit should thereforo be encouraged in biographies, of ranking
a man among his contemporaries, in respect to every quality that is
discussed, and to give ample data in justification of the rank assigned
to him. By the general use of a system like the above, which is uni
versally applicable, social and political science would be greatly raised
in precision.
     I now pass on to the education which tho scientific men had in
their youth, in the hope that my results may give assistance to those
who are endeavouring to frame systems of education suitable to the
wants of tho day. What I have to say, is very partial ; it refers
solely to the opinions the scientific men entertain of tho merits and
faults of their own several educations. Their views are remarkably
unanimous, considering tho very different branches of inquiry they
are interested in, and the great dissimilarities in their education. I
should mention, that one-third have been educated at Oxford or Cam
bridge, one-third at Scotch, Irish, or London Universities, and the
remaining third have been at no University at all. I am totally
unable to decide which of the three groups occupies the highest
scientific positions, they seem to me vory much aliko in this respect.
Tho merits they all ascribe to variety of education are to be gathered
from the following examples :— 1. " Not tied down to old courses of
 classics and mathematics." 2. " Sufficient groundwork in many sub
jects to avoid error." 3. " Early introduced to many subjects of
 interest." 4. " A well-balanced education, including chemistry, botany,
 logic, and political economy." 5. " A variety of subjects, and atten
 tion to details." 6. " Coming in contact with persons of every rank
 and sitting in tho same form " [in a Scotch school] " with the sons of
 tradesmen, and ploughmen, as well as gentlemen." In contrast to this,
 here are some examples as to the faults of their education :— 1. " No
 mathematics, nor modern languages, nor any habits of observation or
 reasoning." 2. "Enormous time devoted to Latin and Greek, with
 which languages I am not convorsant." 3. " Omission of almost
 everything useful and good, except being taught to read; Latin,
 Latin, Latin ! " 4. " In an otherwise well-balanced education, three
 years were spent on Latin and Greek grammar, a blank waste of time."
 6. " Neglect of many subjects for the attainment of one or two ; not
 pushing mathematics to a useful end." Evidence such as this, which
 could be largely added to, establishes the advantage of variety of
 study. Ono group of men speak gratefully because they had it, and
 another group speak regretfully because they had it not. I find none

1874.]                     on Men of Science.                        235
who had a reasonable variety who disapproved of it, none who had a
purely old-fashioned education who were satisfied with it. The
scientific men who came from the large public schools usually did
nothing when there ; they could not assimilate the subjects taught,
and have abused the old system heartily. There are several serious
complaints about superficial and bad teaching which I need not quote.
Overteaching is thoroughly objected to ; thus, in speaking of merits of
education, I find :—1. " Freedom to follow my own inclinations, and
to choose my own subjects of study, or the reverse." 2. " The great
proportion of time left free to do as I liked, unwatched and uncon
trolled." 3. " Unusual degree of freedom." I should add, that there
are many touching evidences of the strong effect of home encourage
ment and teaching. As regards the subjects specially asked for,
even by biologists, mathematics take a prominent place. Two of
my correspondents speak strongly of the advantages derived from
logic, and the weighty judgment of the late John 8. Mill powerfully
corroborates their opinions. Accuracy of delineation is also spoken
of, and, owing to the extraordinary prevalence of mechanical apti
tudes, I believo that the teaching of mechanical manipulation
would be greatly prized. The interpretation that I put on the
answers as a whole, is as follows: To teach a few congenial and
useful things very thoroughly, to encourage curiosity concerning as
wide a range of subjects as possible, and not to overteach. As regards
the precise subjects for rigorous instruction, the following seem to me
in strict accordance with what would have best pleased those of the
scientific men who have sent me returns : — 1. Mathematics, pushed as
far as the capacity of the learner admits, and its processes utilized as
far as possible for interesting ends and practical application. 2. Logic
(on the grounds already stated, but on those only). 3. Observation,
theory, and experiment, in at least one branch of science ; some boys
taking one branch and some another, to ensure variety of interests in
the school. 4. Accurate drawing of objects connected with the branch
of science pursued. 5. Mechanical manipulation, for the reasons
already given, and also because mechanical skill is occasionally of
great use to nearly all scientific men in their investigations. These
five subjects should be rigorously taught. They are anything but an
excessive programme, and there would remain plenty of time for that
variety of work which is so highly prized, as : ready access to books ;
much reading of interesting literature, history and poetry ; languages
learnt, probably best during the vacation, in the easiest and swiftest
manner, with the sole object of enabling the learners to read ordinary
books in them. This seems sufficient, because my returns show that
men of science are not made by much teaching, but rather by awaken
ing their interests, encouraging their pursuits when at home, and
leaving them to teach themselves continuously throughout life. Much
teaching fills a youth with knowledge, but tends prematurely to satiate
bis appetite for more. I am surprised at the mediocre degrees which
tho leading scientific men, who were at the Universities, have usually
                                                              r 2

236              Mr. Francis Gallon on Men of Science.            [Feb. 27,
taken, always excepting the mathematicians. They prefer to fix of
their own accord on certain subjects, and seem averse to learn what
is put before them as a task. Their independence of spirit and cold
ness of disposition are not conducive to success in competition, they
doggedly go their own way and refuse to run races.
    Science has hitherto been at a disadvantage compared with other
competing pursuits, in enlisting the attention of the best intellects of
the nation, for reasons that are partly inherent and partly artificial.
To these I will briefly refer in conclusion, with especial reference to
the very important question, as to how far the progress of events tends
to counterbalance or remove them.
    If we class energy, intellect, and the like, under the general name
of ability, it follows that, other circumstances being the same, those able
men who have vigour to spare for extra professional pursuits, will be
mainly governed in the choice of them by the instinctive tastes of
their manhood. The majority will address themselves to topics
nearly connected with human interests, a few only will turn to science.
This tendency to abandon the colder attractions of science for those
of political and social life, must always be powerfully reinforced by
 the very general inclination of women to exert their influence in
the latter direction. Again, those who select some branch of science
as a profession, must do so in spite of the fact that it is more un-
remunerative than any other pursuit. A great and salutary change
has undoubtedly corao over the feeling of the nation since the time
when the present leading men of science were boys, for the stato of
education was then such as an enemy might have invented on purpose
to exterminate science. It crushed the inquiring spirit, the love of
observation, tho pursuit of inductive studies, tho habit of independent
thought, and it protected classics and mathematics by giving them the
monopoly of all prizes for intellectual work, such as scholarships,
fellowships, church livings, canonries, bishoprics, and the rest. This
gigantic monopoly is yielding, but obstinately and slowly, and it is
unlikely that the friends of science will be able, for many years to
come, to relax their efforts in educational reform. As regards the
future provision for successful followers of science, it is to be hoped
that, in addition to the many new openings in industrial pursuits,
the gradual but sure development of sanitary administration and
statistical inquiry may in time afford the needed profession. These
may, as I sincerely hope they will even in our days, givo rise to tho
establishment of a sort of scientific priesthood throughout the kingdom,
whose high duties would have reference to the health and well-being
of the nation in its broadest sense, and whose emoluments and social
position would be made commensurate with the importance and variety
of their functions.
                                                                 [F. 0.1

  1^74.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                         237
                      GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, March 2, 1874.
        Gkorgr Busk, Esq. F.It.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                   in tho Chair.
               Capt. Alexander Baillie,
               Walter Frederick Ball, Esq.
               Thomas R. Run mm, Esq.
               The Rev. Fitzwilliam Bowyer,
              Mrs. Arthur Brandreth,
               Charles James Busk, Esq.
              John W. Busk, Esq.
              William Henry Challis, Esq.
              James Grant Eraser, Esq.
              Miss Louisa Garrard,
              Miss Harriet Gassiot,
              Charles Addington Hunbury, Esq.
              William Thomas Fitzherbert Mackenzie Ingall, Esq.
              The Hon. Archibald Michie, Q.C.
              Capt. W. David Miller
              John Samuel Phene, Esq. F.S.A. F.G.8.
              Septimus Rivington, Esq.
              Augustus Burke Shepherd, Esq.
              A. M. Silber, Esq.
              Mrs. Charles Southwell,
 were elected Members of tho Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were given to John Browning,
 Esq. M.R.L for his Present of a Browning's Electric Lamp.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for tho same, viz. :—
      From
 The Government of India —Memoirs of the Geological Survey of India, Vol. X.
      Part 1. 8vo. 1873— Records, Vol. VI. Parts 1-4.
   Pahcontologica Indica. Cretaceous Fauna, Nos. 3, 4. fol. 1873. Jurassic
     Fauna, VoL I. No. 1. fol. 1873.
American Academy of Arts ami Science*—Memoirs, New Series, Vol. IX. Part 3.
     4to. 1873.—Procwdin-s, Vol. VIII. Nos. 52-U2. 8vo 1872-3.
American Association for the Advancement of Science—Proceedings at the 21st
     Meeting, Aug. 1*72. 8vo. 1873.
Armstrong, Professor II. E. Ph.D. F.C.S.—Inlroduction to the Study of Organic
     Chemistry. 16to. 1874.
Atiatic .<ocieiy of Bengal—Journal, 1873, Part 1, No. 2 ; Part 2, No. 3. 8vo.
   Proceedinga, 1873, No*. 5-8. 8vo.

238                          General Monthly Meeting.                 [March 2,
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIV. Noa. 1-3. 8vo. 1873- .
Boston Society of Natural History—Memoirs, Vol. II. Port 2, Nos. 2, 3.
   Proceedings, Vol. XIV. Nos. 15-27. Vol. XV. 8vo. 1872-3.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1873-4, Nos. 5, 6. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Guides to Egyptian Boom and Blade's Prints. 16to.
     1874.
Chemical Society—Journal for De<:. 1873, Jan. and Feb. 1874. 8vo.
Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences—Transactions, Vol. II. Part 2. 8vo.
     1873.
Cunningham, D. Douglas, M.B. (ihe Author)—Microscopic Examinations of Air.
     fol. 1873.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Jan. 1874. 8vo.
   Astronomical Register for Feb. 1874. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for Feb. 1874. 4to.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1874. 4to.
   Engineer for Feb. 1874. fol.
   Food Journal for Feb. 1874. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for Feb. 1874. fol.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for Feb. 1874. 4to.
   Nature for Feb. 1874. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Feb. 1874. 8vo.
   Once a Week for Feb. 1874. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb. 1874. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal for Feb. 1874.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 574-576. 8vo. 1873.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1873. No. 3. 8vo.
  Verhandlungen, 1873. Nos. 11-13.—Abhandlungen, Band VI. Theill. fol. 1873.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 1 17. 8vo. 1873.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 57, 74. 8vo. 1874.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Beport, 1873, Part 1. 4to.
Negretti and Zamhra—Treatise on Meteorological Instruments. 8vo. 1874.
New York State Library—Subject Index. 8vo. 1872.
   Annual Beport. 8vo. 1873.
Nystrom, John \V. Esq. C.E. (the Author)—Principles of Dynamics. 8vo. 1874.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Sept. Oct. uud Dec.
      1873. 8vo.
 Rome, Accademia iei Lincei—Atti, Anno III. 4to. 1873.
Royal, Society of London—Philosophical Transactions for 1873, Part 1. 4to.
   Proceedings, Nos. 147, 148. 8vo. 1874.
Royal Society of Victoria—Beports of the Exploration Committee, 1863-72. fol.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Abhandlungen, Band XVI. Nos. 5, 6. Band
     XVII. No. 1. 4to. 1873.
   Berichte: Phil. Hist. Classe, 1872. Math. Phys. Classe, 1872, Nos. 2, 3, 4,
      1873. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
Smithsonian Institution—Smithsonian Bnport for 1871. Svo. 1873.
   Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections, Vol. X. 8vo. 1873.
Spencer, Sawyer, Bird, and Co. Messrs. —The Autotype Process. Third Edition.
     12rao. 1873.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXVI. Part 4. 8vo. 1873.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)— Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     Feb. 1874. 8vo.
Taylor, Alfred S. M.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Manual of Medical Jurisprudence.
     Ninth Edition. 16to. 1874.
 United Service Institution, Royal— Journal, Nos. 75, 76. Svo. 1874.
   Lectures to Volunteer Officers. 8vo. 1873.
 United States Geological Survey—F. V. Hayden : Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, and
      Utah. 8vo. 1873.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Mai bis
      Oktober. 1873. 4to.'
 Wisconsin Academy of Sciences, Arts, and Letters—Transactions, 1870-2. 8vo.

1874. J     Sir S W. Baker on Sulrpresmon of the Stove Trade.       239
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 6, 1874.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.3. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                Sir Samuel White Baker, M.A. F.R.S.
         On the Suppression of the Slave Trade on the White Nile.
                                (Abstract.)
 In the work just published on the ' Heart of Africa,' by the distin
 guished German traveller Dr. Schweinfurth, an excellent account is
 given of the Central African slave trade, and his views upon tho
 subject coincide with my own opinions of Mohammedan countries.
 In page 434, vol. ii., he writes :—" But the task is gigantic, and no
 one can be more sensible of this than the traveller who has lingered
 at any of the sources of the slave trade. One point there is upon
 which all are unanimous—that from Islamism no help can be expected,
 and that with Islamism no compact can bo made                 Islamism.
 the child of the Desert, has everywhere spread desolation, and
 wherever it has penetrated, deserts have arisen bleak and bare as
 tho rocks of Nubia and Arabia, and under its influence every nation,
 from Morocco to the Isles of Sunda, has congealed into a homogeneous
 mass ; inexorably it brings all to one level, remorselessly obliterating
 all traces of nationality or race          That Islamism is capable of
 progress is merely a supposition that has been hatched up from books,
 and has no foundation."
      In another portion of his work he remarks :—" The ill-feeling and
 smothered rage against Sir Samuel Baker's interference, nurtured by
  the higher authorities, breaks out very strongly amongst the less
 reticent lower officials. In Fashoda, and even in Khartoum, I heard
  complaints that we (tho Franks) were the prime cause of all the
  trouble, and if it had not been for our eternal agitation with tho
  Viceroy, such measures would never have been enforced."
      In page 477 ho continues his remarks :—" Notwithstanding that
  Sir Samuel Baker was still on tho upper waters of the river, the idea
  was quite prevalent in all the seribas, that as soon as the 'English
  pasha ' had turned his back upon Fashoda (the government station in
 the Shillook country), tho Mudir (governor) would relapse into his
  former habits, and levy a good round sum on the head of every slave,

240                        Sir Samuel W. Baker                  [March 6,
 and then let the contraband stock pass without more ado. But for
 once the seriba people were reckening without their host. The Mudir
had been so severely reprimanded by Baker for his formor delin
quencies that he thought it his best policy, for this year at least, to be
as energetic as he could in his exertions against tho forbidden trade ;
and his measures were so summary, and executed with such methodical
strictness, that unless I had known him I could scarcely have believed
him to bo a Turk."
    I may here mention that this officer, the governor of a largo pro
vince, was put in irons and disgraced publicly by the Khedive's orders,
upon my representation of his slave-hunting.
    Quotations from such a traveller as Dr. Schweinfurth are valuable,
as he is not a casual visitor who might catch the gossip of a country
through which he might pass, but ho is a man eminent in science,
who as an explorer and professional botanist has been for somo years
behind the scenes at the very sources of the slave trade.
    I have not the pleasure of his acquaintance, but his opinion
agrees so thoroughly with my own, that, combined with tho reports of
well-known travellers who have added their testimony to the painful
fact of official connivance with the slave trade, I must beg you to
accept without hesitation this assertion:— The Mohammedan officials
of Egypt, and tho Mohammedan people generally, will return to the
slave trade the instant that they may be relieved from the pressure of
foreign restraint. The Khedive of Egypt may issue the most stringent
orders, but they will be disobeyed, and he will bo deceived.
    I have stopped the slave trade of the White Nile, but the traffic
may and will be resumed should European commanders be withdrawn.
Even should the Whito River remain pure, the slaves will be con
veyed across the desert via Darfur and Kordofan. Large markets will
be established to which the traders will concentrate from all parts of
Africa to purchase slaves. These will be dispersed in gangs, and be
distributed through all tho slave-dealing countries of the East.
    The governors of Egyptian provinces are to a man in favour of
the slave trade ; thus the prohibition of slavery is to them a mine of
wealth. The law gives to them the power to seize and confiscate all
slaves in the hands of dealers. Thus the arrival of a caravan with
500 slaves would be tantamount to a present of 1000Z. or more to the
government official, who would receive a toll of 21. a head, and let
them pass free.
    There is a simple method in attacking this great evil that would, I
am convinced, be eminently successful. It is European influence
alono that will effectually suppress the slave trado, and this same
influence will alone save Turkey and Egypt from irretrievable ruin.
    In a former work, ' The Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia,' I fully
exposed the depredations of the soldiery when employed as tax col
lectors in the Soudan. By over-taxation and pillage by officials tho
peasantry are literally eaten up. Thousands upon thousands have
forsaken the country, and have commenced a life of brigandage as

 1874.]    on Suppression of the Slave Trade on the White Nile.        241
 slave-hunters among the negro tribes. Nine years ago, when I was
 descending the Nile from Khartoum to Berber, a distance of 200 miles
 by river, the fertile soil on either bank was in the highest state of cul
 tivation. This valuable extent of country was watered by 4000
 sakyeers, or water-wheels. By day and night the irrigation was con
 tinued, and the discordant hum and creaking of the machines, if dis
 turbing a night's rest, nevertheless assured the traveller that industry
 was wide awake, and that prosperity would be the reward of labour.
 When I returned to that same country in January, 1870, I looked for
 the past scene in vain.
     A steamer and a diahbiah were awaiting me at Berber. As we
 steamed against the strong current for 200 miles to Khartoum I
 looked with astonishment and dismay upon the country. Now and
 then a tuft of neglected date palms might be seen ; but the river
 banks, formerly verdant with heavy crops, had become a wilderness.
 Villages once crowdod had entirely disappeared. The population was
 gone. The night, formerly discordant with the creaking of the water-
 wheels, was now silent as death. There was not a dog to howl for a
 lost master. The discord of a water-wheel would to my ears have
 been harmony. Industry had vanished ; oppression had driven the
 inhabitants from the soil ; tho most fertile land on earth had been
 abandoned to hyenas. This was Egyptian rulo, and I was on my path
 to conquer fresh lands for Egypt I
     This terrible desolation was caused by the Governor-General of
 the Soudan, who, although himself an honest man, was a fanatical
 Mohammedan, who left his territory to the sole care of God. He
 simply increased the taxes, and trusted in Providence. In one year
 he sent to the delighted Khedive his master, at Cairo, more than
 100,000Z. in dollars wrung from the poor peasantry of tho Soudan.
 In the following year it was difficult to get change for a sovereign.
 It must be borne in mind that a tax suddenly imposed in the Soudan
that would produce 100,000Z. surplus revenue, would be in real fact
a tax of 200,000Z., as an equal amount is always extorted from the
peasantry by the collectors.
     The population of the richest portions of the Soudan thus aban
doned the country, and tho greater portion betook themselves to the
slave trade of the White Nile, where in their turn they might trample
upon tho rights of others ; where, as they had been plundered, they
could now plunder ; where they could reap the .harvest of another's
labour, and where undisturbed they might indulge in the great enter
prise of slave-hunting.
     Having passed through the deserted country from Berber, I arrived
at Khartoum. Nothing was ready for my expedition, but I found that
tho Governor-General had just prepared a squadron of eleven vessels,
with several companies of regular troops, to form a settlement at the
copper mines on the southern frontier of Darfur. This expedition had
been placed under the command of a man named Kutchuk Ali, who
was one of the most notorious ruffians and slave-traders of the White

212                        Sir Samuel W. Baker                [March 6,
Nile ! Thus, at the same time that the Khedive of Egypt had em
ployed me to suppress the slave trade of the Nile, a Government
expedition had been entrusted to the command of a well-known slave-
hunter !
     This was only one peculiarity in the policy of the Soudan authori
ties. The great outcry for money had caused an increase of taxation,
which, as has been already shown, had caused the flight of large
numbers of the population to the White Nile slavo parties.
     The Governor-General of the Soudan now bethought himself : " By
what right do these people make fortunes in unknown lands beyond
the upper Nile?" It was easy to understand that they had no right.
This was a golden opportunity for the Governor, who accordingly
established a tax upon every trader to the White Nile, in the peculiar
form of a lease. According to the position and importance of each
trader, a lease was made out, by which the Government let to him for
a certain term of years an undefined portion of Central Africa which
did not belong to Egypt, and over which the Khedive had neither
right nor authority. These leases enabled the traders, for the annual
payment of several thousand pounds, to establish stations, and engage
in their so-called trade in distant lands belonging to individual tribes,
where no government was represented, and where an armed and orga
nized Arab force would be able to commit any atrocity at discretion.
There is no doubt that the actual wording of the lease was admirable,
inculcating moral precepts, and warning the adventurers against a
participation in the slave trade ; but if the Governor-Genoral or any
other authority should presume to declare himself ignorant that the
 real object of the enterprise was slave-hunting, he is simply stating
 that which is false.
     Now to exhibit a picture of a " house divided against itself," I will
 quote the leading passages of the instructions I received in writing
 from the Khedive Ismail Pacha, prior to my departure for the expe
 dition. In these it will be seen that the suppression of the slave trade
 was the prime object of the enterprise. Thus, while the Khedive of
 Egypt determines upon a reform which is the first step towards civili
 zation, his chief officer, the Governor-General, is not only conniving
 at, but actually making revenue out of the slave trade by leasing out
 Central Africa to slave-hunting companies.
      This is the text of the orders I received from the Khedive, dated
 19 May, 1869 :—
      " We, Ismail, Khedive of Egypt,
      " Considering the savage condition of the tribes which inhabit the
 countries in the Nile basin ;
      " Considering that neither government, nor laws, nor security exist
 in those countries ;
      " Considering that humanity enforces the suppression of the slave-
 hunters who occupy those countries in great numbers ;
      " Considering that the establishment of legitimate commerce
 throughout those countries will be a great stride towards future civi

1874.]     on Suppression of the Slave Trade on the WlUte Nile.       243
lization, and will result in the opening to steam navigation of the
great equatorial lakes of Central Africa, and in the establishing of a
permanent government, .... Wo have decreed and now decree as
 follows : —
    " An expedition is organized to subdue to our authority the
countries situated to the south of Goudokero,
    " To suppress the slave trade ; to introduce a system of regular
commerce ;
    " To open to navigation the great lakes of the equator ;
     "And to establish a chain of military stations and commercial
depots, distant at intervals of three days' journey, throughout Central
Africa, accepting Gondokero as the base of operations.
    " The supreme command of this expedition is confided to Sir
Samuel White Baker for four years, commencing from the 1st April,
1869; to whom also we confer the most absolute and supreme power,
even that of death, over all those who may compose the expedition.
    " We confer the same absolute authority to him over all those
countries belonging to the Nile basin south of Gondokero."
     Can any orders be clearer or more concise ? The slave trade is to
be suppressed ; legitimate commerce is to be introduced ; protection is
to be afforded by the establishment of a regular government. And to
achieve this task an Englishman is selected ; and he is armed with
a despotic power that never before was entrusted by a Mohammedan
to a Christian.
    Here lies the difference between the Khedive and his subjects.
The one is far from a fanatic ; ho is a man of the world, intelligent
and experienced ; but his active energy is always working against a
passive resistance.
     To suppress the slave trade was to compliment tho powers of
Europe ; to denote the superiority of Egypt over other Oriental
nations ; to lay the first stone in the foundation of a new civilization ;
and to save to Africa a population that was now rapidly disappearing.
To effect this great reform it was necessary to annex the Nilo Basin,
and establish a government in countries which had hitherto been
without protection, and a prey to the adventurers from the Soudan.
To convey steel steamers from England, and to launch them upon the
Albert Lake, and thus open up tho resources of Central Africa ; to
establish legitimate trade in a country which had hitherto been a
field of rapine and of murder ; to protect the weak and punish the
evildoer, and to open the road to a great future, where the past had
been all darkness and the present reckless spoliation— this was the
grand object in which the Khedive was thoroughly sincere.
    In this humane enterprise he was firmly supported by his two
Ministers, Nubar Pacha and Cherif Pacba (an Armenian and
a Circassian). The young princes, his sons, who are well-educated
and enlightened men, took the greatest- interest in the undertaking,
but beyond these few persons all were evil-wishers, who trusted that
the expedition would end in failure.

 244                      Sir Samuel W. Baker.                 [March 6,
      This explanation of the state of feeling in the country, and of the
 general position of affairs, will be sufficient to prove that there is
 little hope of success in the Soudan, unless the Khedive shall
 determine upon the reform I have suggested. If the authority should
 be vested for a certain term of years in European officers, the sudden
 change of system would be quickly appreciated by the population.
 Confidence would be restored by the establishment of an honest
 government, and the fertile lands that have been forsaken would
 shortly be restored to cultivation. The beneficial result of this
 reform would be felt throughout Egypt. European capitalists would
 invest in Egyptian securities without fear, as they would have
 confidence in the future development of almost boundless resources.
      Fow Europeans at present have any idea of the producing power
 of the Soudan. Those tourists who have been sufficiently hardy to
 encounter the Nubian deserts can hardly believe that beyond that
 rainless zone there are lands of extraordinary fertility, only waiting
 for an opportunity to become one of the most important cotton-
 producing countries in the world. But what capitalist would be
 mad enough to invest money in cotton cultivation in Upper Egypt
 under native administration ? Every obstacle would be thrown in
 his way, and he would be subjected to the passive hostility and petty
jealousies and fatal obstructions that have driven every European
out of Khartoum, except the Austrian consul and a German tailor,
 who are now the sole representatives of European civilization.
     Formerly there were many European residents and merchants in
the Soudan ; now there is not one, except the two individuals abovo
mentioned. ,
     It may be easily understood, that where the chief object of the
authorities of the Soudan has been to conceal the slave trade, it was
their direct policy to get rid of all European witnesses. In this they
have thoroughly succeeded. The Khedive is endeavouring to correct
this evil generally ; and not only has he recalled the former governor-
general, but he has altogether abolished the appointment. Instead of
a supreme head who directed the Soudan, he has divided this extensive
territory into several independent districts, each of which is under
the control of an independent governor. All that is now necessary
is to place Europeans, properly qualified by their antecedents, in
these posts. In five years the country would hardly bo recognized.
     The great difficulty in all distant inland countries is the want
of transport. It is useless to produce, unless there is a means of
carrying off to a market the produce of the soil at a remunerative
rate. The Soudan would never bo fitted for general cultivation
unless a railway were established from Khartoum to Cairo. But the
Khedive, with his accustomed energy, has already commenced this
railway, to which a portion of his new loan was to have been applied.
This railway communication will be the key to the development of
Central Africa.
    The present Khedive of Egypt has taken the lead by introducing

 1874.]    on Suppression of the Slave Trade on the White Nile.      245
 all modern improvements for the benefit of his country. I never so
 much appreciated the electric telegraph as upon my return from
 Central Africa to Khartoum. I had been two years and five months
 without any communication, locked up in the very heart of Africa ;
 but not only could I telegraph through 1400 miles of sandy deserts
 upon my arrival at Khartoum, but 1 captured my greatest enemy,
 the chief of the slavers, by telegram at Cairo. This ruffian, who had
 escaped from me in the upper country, had made a quick camel journey
 across the desert, but he had forgotten the existence of the telegraph.
     Not only has the Khedive established telegraphs which now com
municate throughout the distant Soudan, and even with the Red Sea
ports, but ho has already constructed upwards of 1100 miles of railway
throughout Egypt. . . .
     When the centurions of Nero first halted at the obstructions and
turned back from the insurmountable difficulties of the White Nile,
they would hardly have believed that steamers at a futuro timo would
traffic upon that desolate river. There are now eleven steamers on the
Upper Nile, six of which I sent from Cairo, and one new vessel that I
erected at the remote limit of navigation, Gondokoro, N. lat. 4° 54'.
     I have remarked elsewhere upon the extraordinary effect produced
upon the minds of the natives by a steamer. The vessel launched at
Gondokoro was conveyed in sections from England, and most success
fully constructed by the shipwrights sent out by Messrs. Saumda's firm.
The natives had thus an opportunity of seeing a steamer of 108 tons
commenced and completed. They afterwards sailed in her upon her
trial trip, and were so interested in the performance of the high-
pressure engines, and the general success of the vessel, that the
expedition gained more respect by this instance of British superiority
than by all our military successes. . . .
     The first great step has been taken in the war declared against the
slave trade. In the large district under my command that traffic no
longer exists, and I entirely purged my territory from the so-called
merchants.
     The Government has now the entiro monopoly of tho ivory trade
beyond the 5° N. lat. The natives of Unyoro, for the first time intro
duced to real legitimate trade, were delighted to exchange their ivory
for various European manufactures. Manchester goods, cutlery,
crockery-ware, and in fact almost all European articles were gladly
accepted.
     When proper means of transport shall be introduced, the countries
between the 4° N. lat. and the equator will be invaluable for the pro
duction of coffee. Situated at a mean altitude above the sea level of
about 3800 feet, with a wonderfully fertile soil, combined with an
agreeable climate and a regular season of rains extending over nine or
ten months of the year, there could not be a more favourable position
for coffee cultivation. The native population is largo, and now that
they are protected by the Government they would work for wages. The
lower grounds, especially that important country inhabited by the

246                        Sir Samuel W. Baker                [March 6,
Shillooks, bctweon the 9° and 12° of latitude, is specially adapted for
the cultivation of cotton. The plant is indigenous throughout those
districts, and the cotton is spun into threads and formed into a fringe
by the natives to form aprons for their women. The Shillooks are
excellent people ; the tribe numbers above a million, and they are in
dustrious agriculturists. It was in that country that I first liberated
cargoes of slaves, and insisted upon the Governor returning to their
homes all those whom he had kidnapped. It was most touching to
witness the effect of this sudden liberation upon the crowd of unhappy
women and children, who, tied neck to neck by ropes, sat huddled
together undor the charge of the Government soldiers. At first they
could not believe in the truth of my order, and did not realize their
freedom ; but when I insisted upon their liberation, and myself started
them on their homeward march, their joy knew no bounds.
    I formed an encampment with 1500 men, and remained in the
Shillook country seven months. During this time I never had to
complain of the people, and I was much struck with their honesty.
Women were extremely scarce in my expedition ; thus my troops ex
perienced great difficulty in grinding their corn. It was accordingly
their habit to entrust the corn to the Shillook natives, who took it to
their villages to grind, and after a day or two they returned with the
flour. I never had a complaint of deficiency of measure ; and it should
be explained that corn was scarce in the neighbourhood, owing to the
raids that had been made by the Governor of Fashoda ; thus it might
have been natural that the Shillooks would steal a portion from that
entrusted to them.
    The fact of my having liberated the slaves was acknowledged by
the gratitude of the tribe throughout, and the news of this emancipa
tion spread through the most remote lands, as described by Dr. Schwein-
furth in his recent work.
    The Shillooks are now producing cotton on an extended scale.
They exchange the raw produce for Manchester goods, and there is
the prospect of general prosperity, provided the Government remains
honest. I introduced the seeds of the finest quality of cotton from
Egypt, which throve exceedingly.
     The capital town of the Shillook is Fashoda. This is a fortified
post garrisoned by two Egyptian regimonts. It completely dominates
the White Nile, and it would be absolutely impossible for slave-
traders to pass if the Governor did his duty.
     As I have before stated, I have no confidence in Egyptian officers.
The most striking proof of their connivance at the slave trade was
afforded a few months ago on my homeward route. As tho new
steamer was towing my diahbeeah down tho White Nile, I overtook
three vessels belonging to the principal trader, Agad, with seven
hundred slaves on board ! Thus, after all that I had dono in sup
pressing the slavo trade in the distant south, tho traders were actually
presuming to pass the Government station of Fashoda, thus proving
that there was no danger from tho vigilance of the officials.

1874.J     on Suppression of the Slave Trade on the WJtite Nile.     247
     Upon my arrival at Fashoda, where two large steamers were lying,
I gave the necessary orders to the Governor, whom I held responsible
for the capture of the three slavers. In a few days they were taken,
with 600 slaves on board, about 100 having perished by the small-pox
since I parted from them.
     The Governor of Fashoda was a now man, only recently appointed ;
but I had satisfactory proofs that during my absence of some years in
the interior, the former governor had been in the habit of pocketing a
toll per head for each slave, and asking no further questions. There
can bo no excuse for the authorities if a slave vessel descends the
White Nile.
     The present difficulty lies at Darfur, the Sultan of which country
is a fanatical Mohammedan and slave dealer. Darfur is the great
emporium of the slave trade, and I heard with pleasure within the
last few days that tho Sultan has had the audacity to invade the
frontier and attack tho Egyptian forces —in which attack he suffered
a severe defeat. This will end in the annexation of Darfur by Egypt,
which (always providing that European officers are to command) will
bo the most fatal blow to the Central African slave trade.
     If the English Government is serious in tho desiro to suppress the
slave trade, tho time has arrived for action. It will not bo effected
 by empty preaching to Oriental powers.
     My task has been arduous and thankless as an Englishman and
 Christian employed by a Mohammedan Government to stamp out a
 cherished Mohammedan institution. It was natural to expect every
 species of intrigue and opposition. This has been used unsparingly,
 which has led to much difficulty and ended in much bloodshed in
 literal self-defence. I trust, however, that the expedition I have lately
 concluded will be the foundation for a great future. I most thoroughly
 cleansed the White River from the slave trade, and established a
 government in the heart of Africa that was respected and loved by
 the inhabitants. It remains for others to continue and to improve the
 work I have done. I can only trust that by overcoming the difficulties
 and opposition that I met with, I may have cleared and made easy the
 path for my successor, an officer well known by reputation, who will
 do all that is possible for British energy to accomplish.
      In taking leave of Africa I felt some pangs of regret that my time
  was too limited to permit me to see good fruit as the result of my
 labour ; but I saw enough in tho gratitude of the native population to
 convince me that if Englishmen take the work earnestly in hand,
  Africa will at length emergo from the barbarism which has dis
  graced her.
      The Khedive has taken the work most earnestly in hand, and
  having now retired from his service, I with pleasure acknowledge tho
  kindness that I have always received at his hands and from the
  principal members of his family. I feel convinced that no one more
  sincerely regretted tho difficulties and tho opposition I encountered
  than Ismail Pacha, the Khedive of Egypt, who, on my return to

248             Dr. Alder-Wright on the Chemical Changes        [March 13,
Khartoum, was the first to congratulate me by telegram on my
success.
    Although in the recent expedition I have been the active instru
ment, tho great credit and honour are due to the Khedive of Egypt,
who is tho first Mohammedan ruler who has dared to strike at the
greatest of Mohammedan abominations.
                                                             [S. W. B.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 13, 1874.
    Sin Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Manager, in the Chair.
                   Dr. C. R. Alder-Wright, F.C.S.
On the Chemical Changes accompanying the Smelting of Iron in Blast
                                 Furnaces.
Notwithstanding that the operation of iron-smelting is one dating from
a very early epoch, and in spite of its magnitude at the present day,
and the consequently numerous series of observations and experiments
made thereon by various chemists, it is nevertheless true that until
recently our knowledge of the chemical changes which occur during
the process was extremely limited.
    It will not be necessary for me to-night to enter into any detailed
description of the apparatus and machinery now in use in this manu
facture ; the blast furnace, as you are all aware, is virtually a gigantic
vertical tube into the top end of which the materials used are con-
tinually inserted ; these consist of the ore to be smelted, the fuel, and
lime or limestone as a flux. At the lower end of the tube air usually
heated to 300°-500° is continually injected by a blowing engine
through nozzles termed tuyeres, whereby the fuel is burnt and the
necessary heat generated : the earthy materials of the ore and the lime
of the flux unite, forming a fusible " slag," which is continually drawn
off at tho base, whilst the molten reduced iron accumulates below the
slag, being specifically heavier, and is drawn off from time to timo into
moulds of sand, when it constitutes the pig iron of commerce.
    Ordinarily the air injected, or " blast," is previously heated by
passing through tubes of iron or piles of brickwork, themselves heated
by the combustion of the waste gases that escape from the furnace
itself ; to collect these, the top of tho furnace is closed by a
bell-shaped valve which serves for the introduction of materials
when open, but which when closed compels the gases to issue
through an orifice in the side of the furnace near the top, whenco
they are lod away through pipes to the heating stoves, furnaces of
boilers, &c.
    The nature of the ore used necessarily exerts a great influence on

 1874.]                 accompanying the Smelting of Iron.                            249
tho chemical changes that take placo ; the following Table indicates
the general composition of several of the chief descriptions of ore used.
In some instances the iron exists naturally as ferric oxide ; in other
cases chiefly as ferrous carbonate.
                     Hsematfte. Magnetic Ore.  Spathic Ore. Clay Ironstone.  Brown Ore.
  Fe.0                90-100       30-70           0-3            0-3          40-70
  FeO     ..   ..                  13-33         30-50          35-55            0-5
  A1,0,   ..   ..       fr-2         0-5           0-2            1-7            1-7
  CaO     ..   ..       0-3          0-5           0-4           1-14            1-7
  MgO     ..   ..       0-1          0-2           0-4            1-9            0-2
  MnO     ..   ..       0-1          0-1          1-25           0-2             0-3
  SiO,    ..   ..      0-10         0-10           0-5           2-17           1-35
  co, .. ..             0-1         0-10         37-42          22-37            0-5
  PA .. ..              0-1          0-2          traco          0-2             0-2
  so, .. ..             0-1         trace           H            0-3            trace
  H,0     .. ..         0-1          0-4                         0-1            6-18
                   Fe,0, with   Fe,0 and FeCO, and FeCO, and Hydrated
  Essential Com- 1 little or no FeO with         MnCO, ruuch earthy            Fe,0,
    position . . j    earthy       earthy     crystalline.                  and earthy
                      matter.     matters.                     matter.       matters.
     When ferrous carbonate constitutes tho ore used, the smelting pro
cess is usually facilitated by submitting it to a previous calcination in
a kiln like a lime-kiln, whereby the ferrous carbonate becomes trans
formed into ferric oxide ; when, however, the carbonate is not calcined
before use, it speedily loses the carbon dioxide present therein, leaving
behind an oxide of iron ; this occurs in the top portion of the furnace,
so that virtually the ores used may be regarded as consisting essentially
of some form of iron oxide, with a varying amount of earthy matter
of variable kind intermixed therewith.
     The fuel used is ordinarily coke or charcoal ; when, however,
raw coal is employed, it is. completely coked in the top portion
of the furnace, so that the fuel burnt at the tuyeres is invariably
carbon.
     As the blast enters the furnace it comes in contact with a mass
of incandescent carbon, whereby its oxygen is firstly converted into
carbon dioxide, and nextly into carbon oxide, the nitrogen for the
most part remaining unchanged ; not impossibly, a good deal of the
carbon is burnt directly to carbon oxide, without passing through
the intermediate stage of carbon dioxide ; any moisture present in
the blast is similarly converted into a mixture of carbon oxide and
hydrogen ; the amount of tho latter necessarily varies with the hy-
grometric state of the atmosphere. Although hydrogen is a powerful
reducing agent, the influence of the small quantity present in tho
blast-furnace gases appears to be practically nil : the gases issuing at
the top of the furnace contain on an average about as much frco
hydrogen as is brought in by the blast, whence it is evident that tho
   Vol. VII. (No. 60.)                                                        s

250            Dr. Alder- Wright on the Chemical Changes           [March 13,
hydrogen has contributed little or nothing to the redaction of tho
ferric oxide ; and again, practical experience shows that the more
moisture enters the furnace at the base, the more fuel is requisite to
do the work, i.e. the development of hydrogen is injurious to the
action rather than auxiliary.
     "What I shall have the honour of bringing before you to-night is
the history of the changes that occur as. the mixture of carbon oxido
and nitrogen formed in the vicinity of the tuyeres rises through the
furnace. This action has usually been described hitherto as a very
simple one ; the carbon oxide being viewed as simply removing the
oxygen from the higher oxide of iron, forming successively a lower
oxide and metal, carbon dioxide being evolved in accordance with
equations (1) and (2), infra.
   Tarle of Chemical Changes taking place in different parts of the Blast
                                   Furhace.
        Reduction of higher oxide to lower oxide and metal by gaseous carbon
oxide.
              (1)     Fe,0y + CO = Fe,Oy_i + CO,
              (2)     Fe,0y + yCO = xFe                  + yCO,
    [B] Oxidation of metal to lower oxide and higher oxide by carbon dioxide.
              (3)     xFe        + yCO, = Fe,Os + yCO
              (4)     Fe.Oy-i + CO, = Fe,Oy + CO
    [C] Reduction of carbon oxide to carbon.
              (5)     a:Fo       + j/CO = Fe,0y + yC
              (6)     FexOy_i + CO = Fe,0y + C
    [D] Reaction of reduced carbon on iron oxide forming carbon dioxide.
              (7)     2Fe,Oy +        C = CO,         + 2Fe,0y-
              (8)     2Fe,Oy + yC = yCO,              + 2*Fe
    [E] Reaction of carbon dioxide on reduced carbon.
              (9)     CO, + C = 2 CO
     The changes that really take place are, however, much more com
plicated; it is true that these reactions do take place, but firstly
carbon dioxide has a tendency to act on metallic iron, re-forming an
 oxide, and re-producing carbon oxide by reactions that are just the
converse of (1) and (2), viz. in virtue of equations (3) and (4).
     Nextly, metallic iron acts on carbon oxide, setting free carbon
and forming successively a lower and a higher oxide in virtue of
equations (5) and (6).
     Again, the carbon deposited in virtue of reactions [C] reacts on
the higher oxides of iron, producing lower oxides and metal, with
 evolution of carbon dioxide, in accordance with equations (7) and (8).
And finally, carbon dioxide reacts on the deposited carbon, giving

 1874.]                 accompanying the Smelting of Iron.                          251
 rise to the formation of two proportions of carbon oxide in virtue of
 equation (9).
      Changes [A] and [D] may be referred to as iron-reducing, [B] and
 [CI as iron-oxidizing: changes [CJ may be termed carbon-reducing,
 [D] and [E] carbon-oxidizing.
     At any given point in the blast furnace all these chemical ten
 dencies are at work simultaneously with more or less vigour accord
 ing to circumstances ; the action actually taking place at this point
is, therefore, that due to the single resultant of all the multifarious
forces at work; before, therefore, it is possible to enter into any
explanation of the chemical changes occurring in the furnace itself,
 some knowledge must be gained of the relative magnitudes of these
 several forces. Considerable additions to our knowledge on these points
 have recently accrued, chiefly through the labours of I. Lowthian
 Bell, Esq. M.P. with whom I had the pleasure of co-operating in
his researches.
     As regards tendencies [A]. Although carbon oxide exerts no
action on ferric oxide at ordinary temperatures, yet its influence is
appreciable at temperatures far below the limit of the mercurial
thermometer ; the precise point at which the action commences varies
with the physical condition of the ferric oxide : thus the following
Table illustrates this point :—
    Temperature at which Carron Oxide begins to reduce Ferric Oxide.
                                            Minimum
                                           ture        Tempera-
                                                at which           rr„„M„t„„ at
                                                          Carbon ! Temperature     .. .
                                                                               ., which
                   Substance.                Dioxide is formed. ftctlon l8 we" markcd-
                                                     o                      o
                                                    141                    149
                                                    145                    154
 Average calcined Cleveland ironstone               199                   210
                                                    200                   206
 Calcination of ferrous sulphate                    208                   216
 Pumice-stone soaked in ferrous sulphate!           211                   227
     The fact that the action is perceptible at so low a temperature may
be conveniently illustrated by passing a current of pure carbon oxide
over precipitated ferric oxide in a flask heated to 150° in a paraffin
bath, and passing the gases subsequently through baryta water, when
the formation of a turbidity denotes the production of carbon dioxide.
(Experiment performed.)
     It is noticeable that a specimen of ferric oxide that has been
already slightly reduced in this way is first acted upon only at a higher
temperature than that required in the first instance.
    As regards equation (2) it may be remarked that it is impracti
cable to reduce the whole of any sample of iron oxide by means of
gaseous carbon oxide at any temperature short of a white heat ; in
                                                                         s 2

252            Dr. Alder^Wright on the Chemical Changes              [March 13,
fact, metallic iron decomposes' carbon oxido, becoming itself moro or
less oxidized at all temperatures below this in virtue of equation (5).
    In reference to the converse changes [B], the oxidizing effect of
carbon dioxide on iron is scarcely appreciable at a temperature of
300°, but is noticeable at 400° and upwards, being very considerable
at about 600°: this may be illustrated by passing a current of carbon
dioxide over fragments of metallic iron in a tube heated to a bright
red heat, when much carbon oxide is evolved, so that the issuing gases
may be inflamed. (Experiment performed.)
    The physical condition of the iron employed necessarily exerts a
considerable influence on the rapidity of the reaction, the more finely
divided the metal, the more energetic being the action ; thus pyro-
phoric iron is readily acted on by the air at the ordinary temperature,
whilst more massive fragments of metal are unaffected under tho saino
circumstances.
    It is noteworthy that carbon dioxide is not capable of acting on all
metals alike in this way. Copper, for instance, is unaffected at a red
heat or upwards by carbon dioxide, whilst nickel and cobalt are
oxidized with the production of carbon oxido, tho change, however,
taking place with less ease than with pure iron. The following Table
illustrates this point.
   Comparative Action of Carron Dioxide on Iron, Nickel, and Coralt,
                                  at about 600°.
                        Iron                         100
                        Cobalt                        44
                        Nickel                        11
                 Iron first begins to act . . . . below 420°
                 Cobalt „           „         .... about 550°
                 Nickel „           „         .... above 550°
    The consideration of the causes that lead to the possibility of the
occurrence of the inverse reactions [A] and [Bl, and tho different
behaviour of iron and copper towards carbon dioxide, introduce us to
some general principles in chemical dynamics. Whenever a body
unites with oxygen, heat is evolved ; thus the following Table illus
trates the quantity of heat produced by the union of 16 parts by
weight of oxygen with various substances, the materials and products
being all viewed as being examined at the constant temperature 500° C.
    The numbers are calculated from tho so-called " heats of com
bustion " of the bodies (at 15°) by means of the formula
                           hmo = H„ + *,+ *, — A„
where H,00 = the heat of combustion at 500°.
       H„=         „          „       at 15°.
        A, = the heat required to raise the combustible from 15° to 500°.
        A, =        „          „         the oxygen through the same range.
        A, =        „          „        the product of combustion through tho
                                            same range.

1874.]                accompanying the Smelting of Iron.                           253
                                                                       Kilogramme heat
     Combustible.                   Product of Combustion.               units evolved
                                                                            at 500°.
                     Magnetic (and probably any other) oxide * . .           66-7
  Carbon oxide                                                               68-8
  Carbon . .                                                                 27-4
  Carbon . .                                                                 48- 1
  Hydrogen                                                                   589
  Copper . .                                                                 376
                  -{joBrH*
The evolution of heat during these actions may be exemplified by
sprinkling iron filings into a large gas-blowpipe flame, when a
brilliant shower of sparks is produced, heat and consequently light
being developed by the oxidation of the iron. (Experiment performed.)
Similarly by burning carbon oxide at a jet through which a stream of
oxygen can be forced, a blowpipe flame is produced equal in heating
power to the oxyhydrogen flame, and like it capable of igniting lime,
and thereby giving off a bright light, melting platinum, steel, &c., &c.
(Experiment performed.') Although carbon oxide actually gives out
more heat than hydrogen in uniting with a given weight of oxygen
(68-8 kilogramme units as against 58 - 9 when the action takes place at
500°), it is nevertheless much moro difficult to obtain the same
calorific effects from a carbon oxide-oxygen flame than from an oxy
hydrogen flame. With a 8mall flame, platinum may bo readily fused
and lime heated to intense brilliancy with either ; but the latter
gives a much more compact, and therefore hotter, flame when larger
amounts of gas are used : the comparative slowness with which the
carbon oxide oxidizes is illustrated by the circumstances that a jet of
this gas issuing under some slight pressure from a narrow orifice will
not continue to burn in the air, the flame as it were blowing itself out ;
whilst a jet of hydrogen or of coal-gas burns readily under the same
circumstances.
     It seems to be a general rule that no reaction of replacement
coming under the general form
                                 x + yz = y + xx
can take place if the reaction is attended with any considerable
absorption of heat ; i. e. the heat given out by the substances x and y,
in uniting with the same weight of z, must either be approximately
equal, or else that given out by x in uniting with z must be greater
than that evolved by y in combining with z. Some few exceptions to
    * When a body forms more than one solid oxide corresponding to a class of
stable well-defined salts, the heat produced for a given weight of oxygen consumed
is identical with each oxide ; this is not the caso when i/aseous oxides are formed
as with carbon ; nor even when solid oxides are formed when they do not corre
spond to classes of stable well-defined salts, e.g. some of the oxides of mangantso.

 254             Dr. Alder-Wright on the Chemical Changes         [March 13,
         *
 this rule are known, notably reactions [D] and [E] : generally, how
 ever, the converse is the case, i. e. in reactions of this class there is
 usually an evolution of heat.
      Now copper and carbon oxide are not thermally equal as regards
 combination with oxygen ; the latter evolves nearly double the heat
 given out by the former in uniting with a given weight of oxygen :
 hence the action of carbon oxide on copper oxide, producing metallic
 copper and carbon dioxide, must be attended with a large evolution of
 heat ; thus at 500° :—
         Heat produoed by oxidation of carbon oxide to dioxide + 68' 8
         Heat absorbed during the reduction of copper oxide .. — 37 • 6
                               Heat evolved                    +31-2
 Carbon oxide, therefore, reduces copper oxide to metal, forming carbon
 dioxide in accordance with the above rule ; whilst the converse
 reaction, viz. oxidation of metallic copper by carbon dioxide and con
 version of the latter into carbon oxide, does not take place, as it would
 be attended with a large absorption of heat, viz. 31 - 2 kilogramme units.
     The evolution of heat during the reaction of carbon oxide on
 copper oxide, may be readily illustrated thus :—A tube filled with
 lumps of copper oxide is heated to a temperature short of visible red
 ness, and a stream of carbon oxide is passed through it ; the copper
 oxide immediately begins to glow brightly from the heat evolution
 that ensues during tho reduction of the metallic oxide : on leading
 oxygen through the tube, when the reduction is over, and the mass
 has cooled down so as to be no longer visibly red hot, a still brighter
glow is produced from the heat evolution during the reoxidation of the
metal : the glowing is less bright in tho first instance for the three
fold reason that there is somewhat less heat evolved (31 • 2 units as
against 37 - 6), whilst the resulting carbon dioxide escapes while very
hot, and consequently removes heat ; again, it dilutes tho carbon oxide
and makes its action less energetic. (Experiments performed.)
     In reference to the general rule just referred to relating to the
connection between the heat evolution on combination and the relative
actions of bodies on one another, one particular case is noteworthy,
of which reactions [A] and [B] afford a good example : if in a reaction
of the form
                              x + yz = y + xz
there is little or no evolution of heat (*'. e. if x and y both evolve
approximately the same amount of heat in uniting with the same
weight of z), it often happens that the converse reaction
                             y + xz = x + yz
may be brought about by modifying the circumstances, so that the
following is the general rule for all cases as regards the equation
                             x+ <j z = y + xz.

 1874.]              accompanying the Smelting of Iron.                  255
     Case (1).—a: evolves more heat in uniting with z than y does.
     The reaction takes place under suitable conditions.
     Case (2).—x and y evolve approximately the same amounts of heat
 in uniting with z.
     The reaction may take place or its converse, according to circum
stances.
     Case (3). —* evolves considerably less heat than y in uniting
with z.
     The reaction (usually) does not take place, but the converse
 reaction frequently can occur under suitable conditions.
     Thus in the case of reactions [A] and [£], there is but little heat
evolution or absorption in either case.
      [A] Heat evolved by oxidation of carbon oxide to dioxide +68*8
          Heat absorbed by reduction of iron oxide              —66-7
                                Heat evolved                     + 2*1
      [B] Heat evolved by oxidation of iron                      +66-7
          Heat absorbed by reduction of carbon dioxide to oxide —68-8
                               Heat absorbed                     — 2-1
     In this respect reactions [A] and [Bl may be compared with
another well-known pair of inverse reactions, viz, the oxidation of
iron by passing steam over it, hydrogen being evolved ; and the reduc
tion of iron oxide by passing hydrogen over it, steam being produced.
In each of these cases, also, the thermal disturbance is not great, i. e.
hydrogen and iron are thermally approximately equal in reference
to their combination with oxygen at 500°.
                               Steam and Iron.
         Heat evolved by oxidation of iron                      + 66 • 7
         Heat absorbed by reduction of steam                    —58-9
                               Heat evolved                     -I- 7'8
                         Hydrogen and Ikon Oxide.
         Heat evolved by oxidation of hydrogen                  + 58 • 9
         Heat absorbed by reduction of iron oxido               — 66 • 7
                               Heat absorbed                    — 7'8
    From the existence of the inverse reactions [A] and [B] it results
that when a mixture of the two oxides of carbon acts either on metallic
iron or on iron oxide, oxidation of the one or reduction of the other
takes place until a definite relation exists between the iron and oxygen
present in the resulting substance and the two oxides of carbon in the
gaseous mixture ; the composition of the inert substance necessarily
varies with the temperature and the nature of the mixture of carbon

256                Dr. Alder-Wright on the Chemical OJianges             [March 13,
oxides used ; the higher the temperature and the more carhon dioxide
is present, the larger is the amount of oxygen present in the inert
substance. Thus Bell obtained the following numbers :—
  CO« per 100 volumes                           Oxygen in inert Oxide, Carbon deposited
         of CO.               Temperature.         Fe,0, = 100.         per 100 of Fe.
          600                                          90-0                  nil
          100          Bright red heat                 67-5                   11
           47                                           8-2
           11          Approaching whiteness           11-9
    Nil (pure CO)      Bright red heat                   10                 0-3
     Reactions [C]. The oxidation of carbon to carbon oxide evolves less
heat than the conversion of iron into iron oxide ; hence it might he
inferred that iron will probably decompose carbon oxide with the
evolution of heat, carhon being set free and an oxide of iron formed ;
thus thermally
        Heat evolved by oxidation of iron                              + 66 • 7
        Heat absorbed by reduction of carbon oxide to carbon .. — 27 "4
                                           Heat evolved                + 39-3
     The circumstances attending this change have been studied at
great length by Bell ; at temperatures not higher than 200° it is
possible to obtain small quantities of deposited carbon in virtue of
these reactions; but the action is at a maximum at about 420°- 450°;
at higher temperatures but little carbon can be obtained in this way,
owing to the carbon-removing influences [D] and [E] ; a few tenths
per cent, of carbon, however, are always deposited, the same result
being arrived at whether metallic iron or ferric oxide be employed in
the first instance. The oxygen communicated to the iron is for the
most part removed again in virtue of reactions [A] and [DJ ; a
minute quantity, however, is retained at all temperatures up to about
1000°. Since carbon is also present in the product, it might bc sup
posed that the oxygen is present as occluded carbon oxide ; that this
is not the case, however, is shown by the circumstance that the whole
of the carbon present is left behind in the free state on dissolving the
impregnated iron in iodine water, or copper sulphate solution. More
over, the oxygen present is, under these circumstances, left behind in
the form of an oxide of iron.
     The process of acioration dopends in the first instance on the occur
rence of reactions [CJ ; carbon oxide is absorbed by the bars of iron,
and is decomposed, particles of carbon being deposited and iron oxide
formed, this latter being immediately reduced again, either by carbon
oxide (reactions [A]), or by acting on a part of tho deposited carbon
(reactions f D]) ; the blisters on blister steel are probably produced by
tho attempts at egress of the carbon dioxide thus produced.

1874.]                accompanying the Smelting of Iron.                            257
     When ferric oxide is exposed to tho action of carbon oxide at about
 420°, the time required to produce a given amount of carbon deposi
tion varies greatly with the physical structure of the iron oxide,
probably because this physical structuro influences, as above described,
the rate at which iron and lower oxides are formed in virtue of re
actions [A] : thus tho following Table indicates the relative amounts
of carbon deposited from various kinds of ferric oxide, by simultaneous
oxposure to the action of carbon oxido at 420°, for seven hours :—
                                                                  Carbon deposited
                                                                    per 100 of Iron.
       Calcined ferric nitrate                                          144-0
       Precipitated by ammonia                                           95-4
       Calcined ferrous sulphate                                         54 "5
       Pumice-stone soaked in ferrous sulphate and calcined       ..     14 - 9
       Calcined Cleveland ironstone                                       0-3
     After ten or twelve hours, however, the discrepancy is not so
marked, as much carbon being then deposited with the Cleveland ore
as is with the precipitated oxide in seven hours.
     The action of carbon oxide on certain other metals and their oxides
has also been examined by Boll ; tho chief results arrived at are in
cluded in the following Table :—
Comparative Action at 400^-500° of Carron Oxides on various Metals and
                                      Oxides.
Higher oxides of iron, nickel, and cobalt ;
     Reduced to lower oxides, and partially to metal ; suboxides (Fe,0, Ni,0, and
       Co,O) bi ing furmed, ami much carbon deposited.
Spongy metallic iron, nickel, and cobalt;
     Partially oxidized, much free carbon being formed; iron most active, nickel
       least.
Higher oxides of manganese ;
     Reduced only to monoxide (MnO) ; no free carbon being deposited.
Oxides of copper and lead ;
     Beduced to metals ; no free onrbon deposited.
Oxides of zinc, chromium, and tin ; metallic copper, lead zinc, and tin ;
     No effect.
     In each ono of these cases, where any action at all ensues, it is
uniformly of such a nature as to be included in the goneral rule above
laid down ; thus nickel and cobalt give out approximately as much
heat in uniting with 16 grammes of oxygen as does iron, and therefore
behave in an analogous fashion, giving rise to converse reactions
analogous to [A] and [B|.
     Reactions | D 1. The occurrence of these reactions may bo readily
demonstrated by beating to redness an iron tubo containing a mixture
of carbon (as free as possible from hydrogen) and ferric oxide. As
soon as the temperature rises to about 400°, carbon dioxide is evolved.
The reaction, however, is complicated by the circumstance, that the
evolved carbon dioxide reacts on both tho carbon present and tho iron
or lower oxides of iron formed by reactions [D], so as to give rise to

  258            Br. Alder-Wright on the Chemical Change*            [March 13,
 the production of carbon oxide by reactions [E] and [A] respectively ;
 hence, as the action goes on, the amount of carbon dioxide in the
 mixture gradually lessens, and finally little but carbon oxide is
 evolved. {Experiment performed.)
     It appears exceedingly probable that the so-called " occluded
 carbon oxide " contained in malleable iron is really not occluded at all,
 but is produced in virtue of these reactions from a mixture of carbide
 and oxide of iron ; as already stated, on exposing pure metallic iron to
 the action of pure carbon oxide at a bright red heat, a substance is
 obtained containing both carbon and oxygen, not in the form of oc
 cluded carbon oxide. On heating this product, in a Sprengel vacuum,
 a mixture of carbon dioxide and carbon oxide is evolved (the latter
 predominating greatly).
     The whole process of "puddling" depends on the occurrence of
 reactions | Dl ; the carbon present in the iron (together with other im
 purities) is thus eliminated by the reaction on it of iron oxides formed
 in the puddling furnace by the action of the heated air.
     Reactions [DJ are thermally abnormal ; although carbon displaces
 iron from its oxide, the reaction is attended, not, as might be supposed,
 with an evolution of heat, but with a considerable absorption ; thus at
 500°,
       Heat evolved by oxidation of carbon to carbon dioxide ..    + 48 -1
       Heat absorbed by reduction of iron oxide                    — 66 -7
                                         Heat absorbed    ..  ..   - 186
     Reaction [E] is also abnormal, boing attended with a still greater
 absorption of heat : thus at 500°,
       Heat evolved by oxidation of carbon to carbon oxide         + 27 • 4
       Heat absorbed by reduction of carbon dioxido to carbonl       ..„ ~
         oxide .. ..                                             / " &'*
                                        Heat absorbed        . . — 41 • 4
    The physical structure of the carbon used has a considerable in
fluence on the temperature at which both reactions [D] and [E] first
take place ; the lighter and more porous, the more readily is the carbon
acted on ; that deposited by reaction FC] is especially easily acted on ;
with ordinary charcoal or coke, reaction [E] docs not appear to take
place to finy appreciable extent below 400°.
    It is noteworthy that in some other cases besides reactions [D] and
[E], where solid carbon is concerned, abnormal results aro found to be
produced ; thus, by the action of carbon oxide on metallic zinc or tin,
carbon should be set free even more readily than by iron, nickel, or
cobalt, the oxidation-heat of each of the first two metals (per 16 grammes '
of oxygen) being greater than that of either of the latter three : in
point of fact, however, no change at all ensues.
    The gases of the blast furnace contain not merely carbon oxide

 1874.]                accompanying the Smelting of Iron.                        259
and carbon dioxide, but also a large bulk of nitrogen ; all experience,
however, goes to prove that this acts solely as a diluent, and in no way
interferes with the above-described reactions, saving in delaying them,
*'. e. causing more time to be required for their performance ; the
presence of nitrogen is, however, of great importance as regards
another set of chemical reactions taking place in the lower portions of
the furnace.
      It has long been known that when nascent potassium or sodium
vapour finds itself simultaneously in contact with carbon and nitrogen,
the three elements combine, forming a metallic cyanide ; the following
experiment illustrates this fact : a small charcoal furnace is fed with
charcoal previously soaked in potassium carbonate solution and dried ;
 a strong blast of air is then injected into the lower part of the furnace,
all apertures being well closed up with clay : when the temperature
attains a high enough degree cyanide of potassium is formed,* and
 escapes to some extent along with other potassium compounds in the
form of white fumes carried up by the escaping gases : by diverting
 these gases through a lateral tube into a vertical tower filled with
flints, the solid fume is to a great extent deposited on the surface of
 the flints ; by pouring water down the tower, the fume is dissolved
and a solution of potassium cyanide (inter alia) trickles out at the
 base of the tower : on filtration and testing with ferrous and ferric
 salts and hydrochloric acid, this liquor gives an abundant prussian-
 blue reaction, showing the presence of much potassium cyanide.
 (Experiment performed.)
      The cyanide thus formed acts on the last portions of unreduced
oxide of iron, converting it into metal and becoming itself changed
to cyanate ; at the high temperature of the furnace near the tuyeres
this cyanate is probably decomposed with the formation of an alkaline
carbonate, and the elimination of nitrogen : a portion of the alkaline
carbonate is again converted into cyanide ; the majority, however,
escapes, and is carried upwards by the stream of gases, and condenses
as a kind of sublimate on the surface of the materials in the upper
part of the furnace : considerable quantities of cyanides are also carried
up in this way. The alkaline salts thus condensed in the upper por
tions of the furnace are again brought down to the level of the tuyeres
as the materials sink ; hence each particle of alkali metal does duty
over and over again, the alkalies introduced in small quantities in the
fuel, &c., thus accumulating in the furnace to a very large extent.
The enormous amounts of upwards of 4 cwt. of alkali metals and
2 cwt. of cyanogen per ton of iron made, have been repeatedly found
in the gases near the level of the tuyeres. It appears very probable
that the large excess of fuel required during the first few days of
starting a new blast furnace is mainly due to the circumstance that
     * The production of cyanide on the smail scale in this way as a lecture illus
tration appears to be facilitated by the admixture of oxide of iron with the prepared
charcoal, but is not always successful, the cause of failure being unknown.
                                                                      <

260               Dr. Aider-Wright on the Chemical Changes          [March 13,
cyanides have not formed to any great extent from the necessary
want of this Accumulation ; after a very short time, however, consi
derable amounts of cyanides are found to be present in the gases.
     These reactions afford an explanation of a circumstance which
has for a long time been a difficulty in the minds of chemists who
have studied the blast furnace. All observers agree that when the
oxygen and carbon contained in the gases at various levels of the
furnace are compared with the nitrogen, there is always moro oxygen
present than in ordinary air, and always more carbon than could bo
there were ordinary air burnt wholly to carbon oxide : thus the fol
lowing Table illustrates the average composition by weight found by
Bell in the case of an 80-foot furnace using calcined limestone :—
                                                                   Blast if wholly
Distance above Tuyere                                                  burnt.
        in feet.          0    c    12    25    31   60 60  76-6
                                                                   To CO. To CO,.
Cnrbon dioxide .. 1-2 trace 0-8 1-2 1-6 1-2 3-5 7-9                          29-2
Cnrbon oxide            37-6 37-1 35 9 34-9 34-8 34-8 33-2 330      344
Nitrogen                61-2 62-9 63-3 63-9 636 040 633 59-1       65-6      70-8
                                                                 1
     Carron and Oxygen in the Gases at Different Levels, calculated per
                                    100 of Nitrogen.
Carbon             .. 26-8 25-2 24-6 23-9 24-1 23-8 24-0 27-5 22-5           11-3
Oxygen             .. 36-5; 33'7 ,33-3 32-6 331 32-4 339 i 41-6 1 30-0       30-0
                      1     1     1    1
     The presence of this excess of oxygen is readily accounted for
when it is remembered that even at the lowest portions of the furnace
some oxygen is still left in tho ore, which is eliminated only at that
point, necessarily in association with carbon, and that at this level
the nitrogen of the blast is partially removed in the formation of
cyanides. Tho anomaly, however, presents itself that the amount of
 oxygen appears to diminish from the tuyeres to a point some 10-12
feet above them, whereas it might be expected to increase, since the
reduction of iron oxide is going on in the interval between the tuyeres
and this point ; inasmuch, however, as nitrogen is probably eliminated
 from the cyanide by its reaction on the residual oxide of iron throughout
the whole of this interval, it results that the nitrogen increases relatively
 to the carbon and oxygen in the gases ; or, what is the same thing, these
 diminish in roference to tho nitrogen.
     We are now in a position to trace out the general chemical
changes undergone by tho oxide of iron in passing through the fur
nace ; for this purpose we may divido the furnace into three regions ;
in the uppermost tendencies [A] and [D] jointly are stronger than
 [BJ and [CJ jointly, and hence rapid reduction of ferric oxide takes
place: in this region, too, tendency [C] is more powerful than [D]

1874.]              accompanying the Smelting of Iron.                261
and [EJ jointly, and hence carbon deposition takes place to a largo
extent. In this region, too, the limestono is for the most part calcined
into quicklime, whilst if raw coal is the fuel employed, it is hero
coked : if carbonate of iron bo used instead of oxide, it becomes con
verted into oxide in this region, the reducing and carbon-depositing
reactions going on simultaneously with the formation of oxide.
    In the middle region the iron-reducing tendencies are almost
balanced by the iron-oxidizing ones, whilst the carbon-depositing
tendencies are equalled and perhaps slightly excelled by the carbon-
oxidizing tendencies ; here reduction takes place, but only languidly,
the chief effect produced in passing through this region being an
increase of temperature.
    In the lowest region, the reduction of the rosidual iron oxido is
completed chiefly through the agency of the cyanides formed in the
vicinity of the tuyere ; the reduced iron melts, dissolving a certain
amount of the finely-divided carbon in contact with it, together with
small quantities of sulphur, silicon, and phosphorus reduced by sub
sidiary reactions. The earthy constituents of the ore and the lime of
the limestone also fuse, forming " slag " as above described. In the
act of cooling, this solution of amorphous carbon in molten pig iron
undergoes a remarkable change, whereby the carbon is converted to a
greater or less extent into the allotropic modification graphite, which
is insoluble in molten iron, and so separates in crystals, thereby giving
a crystalline structure to the pig, and forming " grey " iron of a quality
varying with the nature of the foreign ingredients which retard the
allotropic transformation (specimens exhibited): thus in white iron
and in spiegel-eisen the transformation does not take place to any
appreciable extent before solidification. This allotropic change is
precisely similar to that undergone by a solution of yellow phosphorus
in carbon disulphide by exposure to light ; in each case the moro
stable allotrope formed (graphite and red phosphorus) possesses less
" intrinsic chemical energy," i.e. gives out less heat on combustion, so
that the allotropic change is attended with an evolution of heat. The
accompanying specimens of recently-prepared phosphorus solution
(perfectly clear), and a portion of the same solution exposed to sun
light for some days (full of flakes of red phosphorus), illustrate this
change. (Specimens exhibited.)
    This action of light on phosphorus is in several respects analogous
to the changes produced in various attenuated vapours by passing a
powerful beam of light through them, as ably described and illustrated
in this room by your Professor of Physics on a former occasion.
    Had time permitted, I should have wished to refer to the practical
consequences of these researches of Mr. Bell. In order to effect the
smelting of iron a certain definite amount of heat is required to
perform the general work of the furnace ; the various items in this
amount are indicated by the following Table :—
                                                                   '

 262              Dr. Alder-Wright on the Smelting of Iron.         [March 13,
  Appropriation of Heat in an 80-foot Furnace, daring the Production of
                    20 cwt. of Pig Iron from Cleveland Ore.
   Constant requirements of fumaco—                    Cwt. Heat-units.
     Reduction of Fc from Fe30,                            33,108
     Impregnation with carbon                               1 , 440
     Seduction of P, S, and Si                              4,174
     Fusion of pig iron                                     6,600
     Radiation from walls of furnace                        3 , 658
     Cooling tuyeres by water                               1,818
     Conduction to earth, and other sources of loss not
       determined                                           3,202
                                                                     54,000
   Variable sources of loss of heat—
     Fusion of slag                                        16,720
     Expulsion of CO, from limestone                        5,054
     Decomposition of ditto                                 5,248
     Decomposition of H,O in blast                          2 , 720
     Evaporation of H,0 in coke                                 313
                                                                     30,055
     Carried out by escaping gases                                    8,860
                                     Total                          92,915
     Brought in by hot blast                                         11,919
     Heat produced by combustion of coke                             80,996
     To produce this heat with a minimum expenditure of fuel, it is
necessary that the whole of the carbon used as fuel should be oxidized
in the ; furnace to carbon dioxide ; the relative strengths of the forces
involved in the 9 reactions above described are, however, such that it
is not possible to convert more than about 35 or 40 per cent, of the
carbon burnt into carbon dioxide, the rest necessarily escaping as
carbon oxide. Hence much less heat is generated in the furnace than
would be if the fuel could be wholly burnt to carbon dioxide ; that is,
more fuel must be used to do the work of the furnace. It hence
results that if the exigencies of commerce or of nature should require
that metallic iron should be obtained from its ores with the consump
tion of a materially less amount of fuel than is now necessary for the
working of a blast furnace of the best description, some wholly dis
similar form of apparatus will be requisite for the purpose.
                                                         [O. R. A. W.]
                          \
                           \
                             \

1874.]      Dr. Carpenter on the Temperature of the Atlantic.        263
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 20, 1874.
     George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
             William B. Carpknter, M.D. LL.D. F.R.S.
                    On the Temperature of the Atlantic.
Among the objects of the ' Challenger' Expedition, a careful and de
tailed examination of the Temperature of the great Ocean-basins was
one of the most important, in its bearing alike on the Physical Geo
graphy of the Deep Sea, and on that hypothesis of a General Oceanic
Circulation sustained by difference of Temperature alone, which had
been advocated by Dr. Carpenter on the basis of the previous inquiries
in which he had taken part. And having, by the kindness of Admiral
 Richards, late Hydrographer to the Admiralty, been furnished with
 the full results of the ' Challenger ' Temperature-survey of the North
 and South Atlantic, now completed, he proposes to compare these
 results with the predictions he had ventured to put forth on theo
 retical grounds, and to inquire what modifications may now be called
 for in the received doctrine of the Gulf Stream.
     In his discourse on the results of the ' Lightning ' Expedition of
 1868, delivered to the members of the Royal Institution on the 9th of
 April, 1869, Dr. Carpenter referred to the doctrine at that time current
 among Physical Geographers, of a uniform Deep-Sea temperature of
 39° Fahr. ; the thermometer being supposed to rise to this point with
 increase of depth in Polar seas, and to sink to this point with increase
 of depth in Equatorial seas. And he showed that this doctrine was
 inconsistent (1) with the observations recently taken under his own
 direction in the deep channel between the North of Scotland and the
 Faroe Islands, (2) with the observations taken not long previously by
 Captain Shortland, of H.M.S. ' Hydra,' in the Arabian Gulf, and (3) with
 various observations taken in other localities, in which temperatures
 below 39° had been met with at great depths. He might have added
 (but was not then aware of the fact) that Captain Spratt had ascertained
 the temperature of the Mediterranean, at depths corresponding to
 those of the great Ocean-basins, to be much above 39°, ranging as high
 as 56°. Further, a difference of 14° having shown itself between the
 bottom-temperatures of adjacent areas at corresponding depths in the
 ' Lightning ' Channel,—the temperature in the " warm area " being as
 much above 39° as that of the "cold area" is below it,—Dr. C. had

264 -                         Dr. Carpenter                  [March 20,
ventured to affirm that these facts " may with confidence bo taken as
an example of that continual interchange between the Oceanic waters
of Equatorial and Polar Regions, which is as much a physical neces
sity as that interchange of air which has so largo a share in the
production of winds."
    The Temperature-investigations carried on in the ' Porcupine '
Expedition of 1869, of which a summary was given by Dr. Carpenter
in his discourse of February 11, 1870, furnished a large body of
additional facts in support of this view ; whilst they also afforded the
explanation of the previous misapprehension, this being due to the
enormous pressure to which Deep-Sea thermometers are subjected (one
ton per square inch for every 800 fathoms of depth), whereby the
indications of all such as aro unprovided with " protection " against it
are vitiated. In tho observations of 1869, as in all subsequently
taken, only " protected " thermometers have been used ; and their
indications may be relied on as very close approximations to tho
truth. The bottom-temperature of the " cold area " between the north
of Scotland and the Faroe Islands, which, at from 500 to 600 fathoms,
is overflowed by a glacial stream more than 300 fathoms deep,
is 29^° Fahr. ; whilo by Temperature-soundings taken near the
margin of the great Atlantic basin, which rapidly deepens to tho west
of Ireland, it was found that tho stratum of 39 J was entered at
abont 1000 fathoms, and that from this depth downwards the ther
mometer sank slowly but progressively to about 36£° at 2435
fathoms. The results of tho Temperature-soundings previously taken
by Commander Chimmo, R.N., and Lieutenant Johnson, E.N.. with
unprotected thermometers at various points in the North Atlantic
basin, when corrected for pressure according to a scale experimentally
determined, were found to correspond very closely with these ; and
Dr. Carpenter had thus felt himself entitled to state with confidence,
that the low Deep-Sea temperatures which had been occasionally met
with by previous observers, depended, not (as had been supposed) on
local currents, —but on the general prevalence over tho whole North
Atlantic sea-bed, of a temperature but a very few degrees above tho
freezing-point of fresh water. And he further considered it obvious
" either that tho vast body of water occupying the deeper half of the
Atlantic basin has been itself derived from a colder region, or that its
temperature has been reduced by tho diffusion through it of frigid
water from a Polar source,"—the latter supposition being in tho
speaker's opinion the more probable, on account of the narrowness
of the communications between the Arctic and tho North Atlantic
basins, which must greatly limit the flow of glacial water from the
former into the latter. And he further expressed the belief that a
much more free interchange of water takes place between tho
Antarctic and Equatorial areas, than is possible in the Northern
hemisphere ; so that the temperature of the South Atlantic sea-bed
will be lower than that of the North Atlantic ; whilst, further, the
cooling effect of the Antarctic under-flow may very probably extend

1874.]              on the Temperature of the Atlantic.             265
itself to the north of the Equator (as it docs in the Arabian Gulf), so
as to reduce the bottom-temperature even of intertropical seas, below
that of the North Atlantic. This prediction was signally verified soon
afterwards ; for the Temperature-soundings taken in the Indian Ocean
by Commander Chimmo, with " protected " thermometers, nearly
under the Equator, gave 33° ' 6 at a depth of 2300 fathoms, and 32° at
2656 fathoms.
    In the discourse which Dr. Carpenter delivered in the following
year (March 10, 1871) on the Scientific Researches he had prosecuted
during the preceding summer in the Mediterranean, he was able to
adduce, in support of the doctrine he had advocated, another eviden
tiary fact of no small weight ; namely, the remarkable contrast of
temperature between the deep waters of the Atlantic and Mediterra
nean basins, which are separated by the " marine watershed " formed
by the Strait of Gibraltar ; the temperature of their 8Hj/ace-wators
being nearly the same. For during the winter months, the tempera
ture of the western basin of the Mediterranean averages about 54° at
the surface, and this temperature is maintained with extraordinary
uniformity to the bottom at 1500 or 1000 fathoms ; while in the
summer months it is only the surface-layer that is affected by solar
radiation, the temperature from 50 fathoms downwards remaining
constant at 54° throughout the year. On tho other hand, in the
Atlantic basin under the same parallels, the temperature was found
to fall gradually from about 54° at 50 fathoms to 50° -5 at 700
fathoms ; then rapidly to 46° at 800 fathoms, 42° at 900 fathoms, and
38° at 1000 fathoms; and then again slowly to 36° • 5 at depths exceed
ing 2000 fathoms.
    Since, then, it was argued, the uniformity of the Mediterranean
temperature from above downwards clearly proves that Depth per ee
has no influence in reducing it, no other cause can bo assigned for
the progressive reduction of eighteen degrees in the temperature of the
Atlantic between the same parallels of latitude and at corresponding
depths, than an under-flow of Polar water. For this movement a
sustaining power was found in the constant disturbance of equilibrium
maintained by the action of Polar cold ; the application of which to
the surface must produce a continual downward movement, just as
the application of heat at tho bottom in the hot-water apparatus by
which large buildings are warmed produces an upward movement;
and as the weight (or downward pressure) of the Polar column must
exceed that of the Equatorial column,—these lovols being assumed as
equal,—in proportion to the increaso of density occasioned by reduc
tion of temperature, the excess of lateral pressure will occasion an
outflow of bottom-water from tho Polar area towards the Equatorial ;
and this, by reducing the level, will occasion an indraught of surface-
water from the Circum-polar area, which must in its turn draw upon
the Temperate, and the latter upon the Intertropical.
    No Physicist can doubt the theoretical truth of this position,
which was experimentally illustrated on two former occasions ; the
  Vol. VII. (No. 60.)                                          t

2,66                          Dr. Carpenter                  [March 20,
only question is, whether there is adequate evidence that such a
double movement really exists.
     Previously to the departure of the ' Challenger ' Expedition, Dr.
Carpenter had obtained the following additional evidentiary facts,
 which afforded a strong confirmation of his views :—
     1. The Sulu Sea, which lies between the N.E. of Borneo, and
Mindinao (the southernmost of the Philippine group), bears some
what the same relation to the China Sea that the Mediterranean does
to the Atlantic. For, although not enclosed by continuous land, it is
shut in at no great depth by submarine reefs, within which there is
depth of no less than 1800 fathoms. Now Commander Chimmo, who has
lately surveyed this area, found that while the surface-temperatures
 of the Sulu and the China Seas were similar, and the rate of descent
 of the thermometer through the superheated stratum was nearly the
 same in both, the temperature of the China Sea falls to 51° at 200
 fathoms, and to 37c from 550 to 900 fathoms ; but that the tempera
 ture of the Sulu Sea falls so much more slowly that it does not reach
 50° until 1100 fathoms, and then remains constant to the bottom at
 1778 fathoms. It does not seem possible to account for this fact on
 any other hypothesis, than that the temperature of the deeper stratum
 of the China Sea is lowerod by a flow of cold water from the Antarctic
area (the narrowness and shallowness of Behring's Strait entirely
 excluding Arctic water) ; whilst the temperature of the deeper portion
 of the Sulu Sea, which is shut in by a wall that may be likened to an
 enormous crater, is that of tho coldest stratum that can find admission
 into it.
     2. The investigations recently made by Captain Wharton into tho
 currents of tho Black Sea straits, have shown that a very powerful
under-current may bo produced by a slight difference of downward
pressure. Owing to the excess of its rain and river supply above the
amount dissipated by evaporation, there is at most periods of the year
a surface-outflow from the Black Sea, through the Bosphorus and tho
Dardanelles, into tho iEgean. The water of the Black Sea has some
thing less than half the salinity of that of the iEgean ; so that sup
posing the heights of tho two columns to be equal, there would be an
excess of lateral pressure in the bottom-water of the JEgcan, tending
 to produco an under-flow backwards into the Black Sea. But a
 very slight excess of level in the Black Sea column, maintained by
 the excess of fresh water poured into it, would suffice to equalize tho
 bottom and therefore the lateral pressures of the two columns ; and
 thus it happens that there is no inward under-current, except when the
 outflow is aided by a wind which sets down tho Straits during a large
 proportion of the year. When this wind blows strongly, so as to
 keep down the excess of water in the Black Sea, and raiso the level of
 the .3Sgean (however slightly), the excess of density in tho iEgean
 column exerts its effect ; producing an inward under-current of such
 strength, that the current-drag suspended in it dragged tho snspend-
 ing-buoy in opposition to tho surface-current, at such a rate that only
 the steam-launch of the ' Shoarwator ' could keep up with it.

1874.]               on the Temperature of lite Atlantic.              267
    3. A similar undcr-flow produced by difference of density has been
noticed at the mouth of the Hudson river, which discharges itself
through the " Narrows " into New York harbour. During a large
part of the year, the excess of fresh water brought down by the river
keeps up its lcvol to a degree sufficient to neutralize the excess of
density of the water outside the Narrows, and there is no influx of salt
water. But in the summer, when the river is at its lowest, an inward
under-flow of sea-water is traceable for a considerable distance up its
channel ; this being produced sololy by the excess of lateral pressure.
    4. The Temperature-observations taken in the New York School-
ship 'Mercury' on her voyage from Sierra Leone toBarbadoes (^ kindly
communicated to the speaker by Professor Draper), brought to light
this remarkable fact in regard to tho temperature of the Intertropical
portion of the Atlantic, — that cold water lies nearer to the surface in
this area, than it does in any part of the temperate North Atlantic.
And, as the speaker had pointed out (' Proceedings of the Royal Society,'
No. 138, p. 541), " this fact, if confirmed by further inquirios, will
furnish a powerful argument in support of the doctrine of a vertical
Oceanic Circulation ; since it is obvious that as it will be in the Inter
tropical area that the cold bottom-water will be most rapidly brought
to the surface, the temperature of the stratum not yet within reach of
direct insolation may be expected to be lower than it is in tho Tem
perate area."
    Such having been Dr. Carpenter's anticipations, tho correctness of
the theory on which they were based may now bo tested by their
conformity to the large mass of Temperature-observations taken in
the exploratory Voyage of the ' Challenger ' in the North and South
Atlantic, during the year 1873.
    The first Section was taken obliquely across the North Atlantic,
from Teneriffe (lat. 28° N.) to St. Thomas's (lat. 18° N.) between tho
11th February and the 16th March. The depth progressively in
creased, with one remarkable exception, from 1890 fathoms at a short
distance from Teneriffe, to 3150 fathoms at long. 35° W., which
was the greatest depth encountered in the Eastern basin. That
exception was a rather sudden rise from 2000 to 1525 fathoms, at a
distance of 160 miles S.W. of Ferro ; and Captain Nares romarks,—
" The rocky nature of the bottom, and the lowering of the temperature
usual at that depth, would indicate a considerable movement of the lower
stratum of water. " From long. 35° W. to long. 44£° W., tho depth
gradually diminished to 1900 fathoms; this submarine elevation,
called tho " Dolphin Rise," divides the Mid-Atlantic into an Eastern
and a Western basin. Tho depth then gradually increased to 3025
fathoms, in long. 61£c W., very near tho northern extremity of tho
chain of the Lesser Antilles or Windward Islands ; and tho water
then rapidly shallowed as Sombrero Island was approached.
    The Temperature-section, constructed from serial soundings usually
taken at intervals of 100 fathoms down to 1500, and then at longer
intervals to tho bottom, shows an exact conformity at its western end
                                                               t 2

268                            Dr. Carpenter                  [March 20,
to the observations previously taken by Dr. Carpenter off the coast of
Portugal, in regard to the position of the line of 39°, which was
reached at 1000 fathoms ; and in regard also to the progressive
reduction below this to a bottom-temperature of 35£°. But the
temperature of 50° was encountered at a much smaller depth,—about
350 fathoms, instead of 700; so that the transition from 50° to 40°
was much less abrupt than it was farther north. The uniformity of
the depth, 380 fathoms, at which the temperature of 49° was reached,
is a very remarkable feature in this section ; especially when we bear
in mind that its western extremity is ten degrees farther south than
its eastern, and also that the spring was advancing. Thus, although
the 8«r/ace-teinperaturo rose from 65° to 76°, the effect of this
elevation was quite lost at a depth of 400 fathoms. Below this
depth, a remarkable change shows itself, in the gradual upward slope
of the isotherms of 45°, 40°, and 39° ; so that the latter temperature,
which was entered at the eastern end at 1000 fathoms, is encountered
over the deepest part of the western basin at 850 fathoms, and the
strata of 50°-45° and 45°-40° are by so much thinner. But the
most significant phenomenon is the depression of the 6oWom-tempera-
ture from its remarkably uniform level of 35° • 5 in the deepest portion
of tho eastern basin, to 34° "4 in the deepest portion of the western.
This depression, taken in connection with other facts to be presently-
adduced, clearly indicates that an under-flow of Antarctic water ex
tends as far north as St. Thomas's.
    The ' Challenger ' left St. Thomas's on the 24th March, and pro
ceeded due north to Bermuda (lat. 32° N.). At a short distance to
the north of St. Thomas's, an extraordinary depression of the bottom,
to the depth of 3875 fathoms, was encountered. The details given
by Captain Nares of this remarkablo sounding—tho deepest yet ob
tained on which reliance can be placed—leave no reasonable doubt
of its trustworthiness ; more especially when token in connection with
this significant fact, that the two " protected " Thermometers which
had previously stood the pressure of nearly four tons on the square
inch, were both crushed by the pressure of 4f tons which they here
encountered, thus preventing the determination of the bottom-tem
perature. Past this depression, tho bottom rose again to between
2800 and 2900 fathoms ; and thence gradually to 2475 fathoms in the
immediate neighbourhood of the Bermuda group, which seem to rest on
a column nearly three miles high, that rises from a very small base.
There is strong reason to regard this column as a Coral-formation,
commenced when the present deep bottom was near the surface, and
kept up to it by progressive growth as the bottom gradually subsided.
    The most noticeable feature in the Temperature-section between
St. Thomas's and Bermuda, is the great increase in the thickness
of the stratum between 60° and 65° ; this increase being produced,
not only by the reduction of the surface-temperature, and the thin
ning-out of the superheated stratum, consequent upon the northward
direction of the section, but by the lowering of the isotherm of 60° from
200 to 300 fathoms, though the isotherm of 40° rather rises than falls.

1874.]              on the Temperature of the Atlantic.           269
The meaning of this peculiarity, which was again encountered on the
voyage from Bermuda to the Azores, will be presently inquired into.
    Leaving Bermuda on the 21st April, the ' Challenger ' proceeded
towards New York, crossing the Gulf Stream, and carrying a line of
Temperature-soundings to the edge of the shallow water off Sandy
Hook. Immediately to the North of Bermuda, a depth of 2650
fathoms was met with ; and this increased to 2850, still exceeding
2600 beneath the Gulf Stream, and then rapidly diminishing towards
the coast of the United States. Passing on thence to Halifax (Nova
Scotia), the ' Challenger ' arrived there on the 8th May ; leaving it
again on the 19th for Bermuda, whero she arrived on the 31st, after
again crossing the Gulf Stream, and examining the singular tompera-
ture-phenomena of the cold band which separates it from the coast of
America.
    In both these Sections, the condition of the deeper stratum cor
responds closely with that previously described. From Bermuda
northwards to the Gulf Stream, the isotherm of 40° lies at a depth of
about 650 fathoms ; and below this to the bottom at from 2500 to
2800 fathoms, there is a progressive descent of the thermometer to a
little below 35°, so that the thickness of the deep stratum having
a temperature of from 35° to 40° averages above 2000 fathoms,
or 12,000 feet. The upper strata here present some very singular
features. The four successive layers, 40°-45°, 45°-50°, 50°-55°, and
55°-60°, are here comparatively thin ; so that a fall of no less than
twenty degrees shows itself between about 330 and 620 fathoms. On
the other hand, the layer whose temperature exceeds 60° has a greatly
augmented thickness ; the isotherm of 60°, which lay at 200 fathoms
at St. Thomas's, here lying at about 330 ; notwithstanding a consider
able reduction in tho temperature of the superficial stratum, which
makes the passage across the warm current of tho Gulf Stream tho
more obvious. It is perfectly clear from both the New York and tho
Halifax sections, that the true Gulf Stream or Florida Current is a
limited river of superheated water; of which the breadth is about
 60 miles near Sandy Hook, whilst near Halifax it has separated into
divergent streams forming a sort of delta ; its depth (as determined
 by the use of the current-drag) being nowhere more than 100 fathoms.
This river rests upon the remarkable stratum of 60°-65D ; the thick
ness of which, as we shall presently sec, distinguishes the Western
from the Eastern Atlantic between Bermuda and the Azores ; while
at less than double the depth of that layer, we come into what is
 clearly Polar water.
     Now it has been long known that tho Gulf Stream is separated
 from the United States coast by a band of water, of which the tem
 perature is as much below the normal of tho latitude, as that of tho
 Gulf Stream is above it ; the passage from one to the other being so
 abrupt, as to have been termed the " cold wall." And this band has
 been regarded as the continuation of the " Greenland and Labrador
 Current" ; which, propelled by northerly winds, runs past Newfound
 land, and then, turning the corner of Nova Scotia, passes across to

270                            Dr. Carpenter                   [March 20,
Cape Cod, " hngs tho shore " along the whole U.S. Atlantic seaboard,
and extends even as far south as the Florida Channel itself. But of
this southward extension of the Labrador Current there is no evidence
whatever beyond that of temperature; no surface-movement being trace
able in this cold band to the south of New York ; and its existence
has obviously been a perplexity to the U.S. Coast Surveyors, who
traced its continuity with the cold stratum lying beneath the Gulf
Stream. This continuity comes out most remarkably in the ' Chal
lenger ' Temperature-section between the Gulf Stream and Halifax ;
for we there see, not only (as in the New York section) the bathy-
metrical isotherms of 60°, 55°, and 50°, but the yet deeper isotherms
of 45° and 40°, successively rising to the surface as we approach the
land ; while at a depth of only 83 fathoms, a temperature of 35° is
encountered, which, at no great distance to the south, would only be
found at a depth of 2000 fathoms.—The rationale of this remarkable
surging-upwards of the cold deep strata along the coast-line will be
considered hereafter.
     Leaving Bermuda Juno 12th, the ' Challenger ' again crossed the
Atlantic in an easterly direction, first passing slightly northwards
(from lat. 32° N. to 37£° N.) to the Azores, and then slightly south
wards (from 37J° N. to 33° N.) to Madeira, where she arrived July 16th.
The greatest depth met with between Bermuda and the baso of the
gradual slope which culminates in the Azores, is 2875 fathoms ; and
the lowest bottom-temperature is 35°. The most noticeable feature in
this Section is the extension of the thick layer of 60°-65° as far east
wards as long. 41° W. ; and then its rapid thinning, by the approxi
mation of the isotherm of 60° to the surface. At the same time the
isotherm of 40° gradually deepens ; and the four intermediate bands re
sume nearly the same proportions that they present in the eastern part
of the section from Teneriffe to St. Thomas's. Thus it is obvious that
there is a much larger quantity of heat in the upper 300 fathoms of
the western half of the Atlantic, between about lat. 25° N. and lat. 40° N.
than there is in the eastern; and this is attributable to tho reflux of
that portion of the great Equatorial Current which never enters the
Caribbean Sea or the Gulf of Mexico, but which, striking against the
line of the West India Islands, the peninsula of Florida, and the coast
of Georgia, is first deflected northwards, and then turns eastwards
towards the Azores and the coast of Africa,—thus completing that
horizontal circulation in the North Atlantic which is initiated by the
Trade Winds. It is quite a misnomer to speak of this as " a branch
of the Gulf Stream," since there is no evidenco that it either enters or
comes out from the Gulf of Mexico.
     The next series of Temperature-observations was taken in nearly a
north and south direction along tho eastern border of the Atlantic,
from Madeira to the Cape do Verde Islands, and thence to a position in
lat. 3° N. and 15° W. The most noticeable feature in this Section
was the progressive diminution in the thickness of the stratum above
40°, notwithstanding a progressive increase in the surface-temperature
from 71° to 79°, consequent upon the approach to the Equator. Thus

1874.]               cm the Temperature of the Atlantic.               271
the isotherm of 40°, which at Madeira lies at about 900 fathoms
depth, and which half-way towards St. Vincent is about 950 fathoms,
rises to 650 fathoms at St. Vincent, and at the Equatorial position
actually lies at a depth of no more than 300 fathoms, below which,
down to 2500 fathoms, the whole under-stratum has a temperature
that falls very gradually from 40° to 35°.
    This thinning-out of the upper and warmer stratum in the Equa
torial zone is still more marked in the next Section ; which was carried
obliquely across the Equator from the last-named position to St. Paul's
Bocks, which lio almost on the Equator in long. 30° W., thence to the
island of Fernando Noronha, about 4° south of the Line, and in long.
32£° W., and thence to Pernambuco in lat. 7£° S. Throughout this
Section, the thinness of the stratum above the isotherm of 40° is in most
striking contrast with its thickness in the section from Teneriffe to
St. Thomas's ; for this isotherm, between Fernando Noronha and Per
nambuco, actually rises to within 300 fathoms of the surface. There
is here a division between the Eastern and Western basins, formed by
a ridge that seems continuous with the " Dolphin Rise " ; the bottom-
temperature of the eastern basin, which has an average depth of 2500
fathoms, very closely approximates to 35° ; but in the western basin a
temperature of 35° is encountered at about 1800 fathoms, and there is a
further progressive reduction to 33° -2 at 2275 fathoms, and 32° • 4 at
 2475 fathoms. Thus the bottom is here overlaid by a stratum of 6OO
fathoms' thickness, which is so much colder than the bottom-stratum
of any but the Intertropical portion of the North Atlantic, as to be
clearly derived from an Antarctic source ; and there is nowhere a greater
contrast, not only between the heat of the surface and the cold of tho
bottom, but between the thinness of tho warm surface-film and the
enormous thickness of the almost ice-cold body of water it covers, than
in this Equatorial section. For from 78° at tho surface, the thermo
meter falls to 55° within 100 fathoms, just as it does in the Mediter
ranean; but whilst in that Inland Sea the temperature remains
 constant from that point to the bottom, it goes on falling under tho
 Equatorial sun to 45° at about 220 fathoms, to 40° at 300, and thenco
 progressively to 32° '4 through a stratum of more than 2000 fathoms
 thickness.
     Another very important feature in the Physical condition of this
Equatorial water, on which Dr. Carpenter had laid stress in a former
discourse (March 10, 1871, p. 21), was brought out very distinctly by
tho ' Challenger ' observations ; viz. the reduction in the Salinity of the
surface-water, as indicated by its Specific Gravity, so that it came to
correspond more closely with that of the bottom-water, which, in the
tropical and extra-tropical portion of the North Atlantic it consider
 ably exceeds. .Thus tho mean of eight observations between St.
 Thomas's and Bermuda gave 1-0272 as the Specific Gravity of sur
face-water, and 1 • 0263 as that of bottom-water ; whilst the mean of
 seventeen observations on surface-water between the Cape do Verdo
Islands and Bahia gave a Specific Gravity of 1 - 0263, and a mean of
 eight observations of bottom-water a Specific Gravity of 1*0261.

272                            Dr. Carpenter                   [March 20,
    This, like the diminished thickness of the warm upper stratum,
affords a very striking indication of the ascent of bottom-water towards
the surface, which, on the theory of the Vertical Circulation, will take
place in the Equatorial region, where the two Polar under-flows meet,
while the warm upper layer is being constantly draughted off in both
directions.
     Quitting Bahia September 25th, the ' Challenger' proceeded along
the coast of South America to Abrolhos Island, in lat. 20° S. ; thence
obliquely across the South Atlantic, to Tristan d'Acunha in lat. 36° S. ;
and thence nearly in the same parallel to the Cape of Good Hope, which
was reached at the end of October. This section shows a well-marked
division of the South Atlantic also into two basins ; the island of
Tristan d'Acunha being the culmination of a ridge which very pro
bably extends northwards to the Dolphin Rise. The greatest depth
met with in the western basin was 2350 fathoms, and the lowest
bottom-temperature 33° • 1 ; the greatest depth met with in the western
basin was 2650 fathoms, and the lowest temperature 32° • 9. It might
have been expected that the bottom-temperatures in the western basin
would have been lower instead of higher than those taken in the Equa
torial section ; since the glacial water of the latter must have reached
it through some deep channel, probably not far from the coast of
South America. The absence of any such indication, however, is
readily accounted for by the fact, that circumstances prevented the
Temperature-soundings in this basin from being taken at near inter
vals, some of them being as much as 600 miles apart ; so that the
required channel may well have lain between them. The existence
 of a colder under-flow than that which reduces the temperature of the
 deepest parts of the North Atlantic basin, is evidenced by the fact
 that the isotherm of 35° sometimes rises to 1500 fathoms ; so that a
 stratum of water between 35° and 33° covers the sea-bed of the South
 Atlantic to the depth of 1000 fathoms or more.
     The upper portion of this Section is of much interest, as compared
 with that of the Equatorial section on the one hand, and with that
 of the North Atlantic sections on the other. As the distance from
 the Equator increased, the surface-temperature rapidly diminished,
 although the summer of the southern hemisphere was approaching ;
 so that at Tristan d'Acunha the surface-temperature was only 52°. Its
 descent from this point to 40° was not rapid and was nearly uniform ;
 the isotherm of 40° now again receding from the surface, and lying at
 a depth of from 400 to 500 fathoms. The excess of thickness of this
 upper warm stratum over that of the Equatorial zone, whilst the
 quantity of heat it contains is so much less, is a noteworthy fact ; on
 the other hand, the inferiority of this stratum, alike in thickness and
 in the quantity of heat it contains, to that of the North Atlantic section
 at about tho same distance from the Equator, is still more remarkable.
      All these points are strikingly brought out in the accompanying
 Section, constructed by Dr. Carpenter from soundings selected in such
 a manner as to combine in a nearly North and South direction.

1874.] on the Temperature of the Atlantic. 273
274                           Dr. Carpenter                  [March 20,
    Passing on now to inquire into the rationale of these phenomena,
we seem justified in assuming it as a principle based alike on theory
and on observation,—that any water which is colder than the
Isocheimal (or lowest mean winter temperature) of the Latitude, must
have come from a source more distant from the Equator ; and that if
such water has a glacial temperature, it must have come all the way
from one of the Polar areas. For suppose an area of (say) 100 miles
in diameter to be enclosed in any part of the Atlantic by a circle of
reefs rising up from the bottom to within 50 fathoms of the surface,
we are fully justified by the thermal condition of the Mediterranean,
of the Sulu Sea, and of the Gulf of Suez (which was found by Captain
Nares to have the uniform temperature of 71° from its surface to its
bottom at 450 fathoms in the month of February), in affirming that the
temperature of this area would in winter bo uniform from the surface
to the bottom, and that in summer only the superficial stratum would
be superheated.
    Now if such an area were so enclosed between St. Paul's Rocks
and Fernando Noronha, its temperature would be certainly not less
than 70°, and probably as high as 75°, from the surface to the bottom ;
but as we find that even at 100 fathoms it is at least 15° lower, at 24.0
fathoms 25° lower, at 320 fathoms 35° lower, and from 320 fathoms to
the bottom at 2475 fathoms nearly 40° lower, we seem justified in
saying with certainty (1) that almost the entire mass of water from
300 fathoms downwards must have come thither from a Polar source,
and (2) that even the superficial stratum between 300 and 100 fathoms
has had its temperaturo greatly reduced by admixture with Polar
water.
    Supposing, again, such an area to be secluded from the South
Atlantic basin in the neighbourhood of Tristan d'Acunha, its uniform
temperature from a small depth below the surface would be about 50° ;
but since from 350 fathoms downwards the temperature is from 10° to
17° below this, we are fully justified in asserting that tho subjacent
stratum of more than 2000 fathoms thickness must have come from a
source much farther distant from the Equator.
    If, lastly, our secluded area were midway between Bermuda and
the Azores, we might expect to find its uniform temperature of about
60° ; but on looking at the actual temperature, we find that, after
passing through the superheated stratum, we first come into ouo
above C0°,'which extends downwards to more than 300 fathoms depth ;
and that the reduction to a temperature below the normal, which indi
cates an admixture of colder water, only shows itself below that depth.
Here we may infer that tho upper stratum has come thither from a
warmer locality, and that the temperature of the lower stratum has been
reduced by water coming from a colder.
    If, on the other hand, an area were similarly secluded in the neigh
bourhood of the Faroe Islands, its uniform temperature would bo
certainly below 40° ; but there we find, at the edge of tho Atlantic
basin, a stratum whoso temperature ranges from 48° to 40°, extending

 1874.]            on the Temperature of the Atlantic.               275
downwards to a depth of at least 700 fathoms ; whilst the lower half
of the channel which lies between the Faroe Banks and the Shetland
Islands, is occupied by a glacial stream whose temperature ranges from
32° downwards to 29° -5. Now it is here just as obvious that the
deep stratum which is tcarmer than the normal comes from a southern
source, as that tho deep stratum which is colder than the normal comes
from a northern source. And by combining into a Section the ' Porcu
pine ' Temperature-soundings taken between the Faroe Islands and the
 coast of Portugal, Dr. C. made it obvious that there is a continuity of
 the whole upper stratum between these two points, down to at least
 700 fathoms, with very little loss of heat except in the superficial
 layer. And this continuity, by which a body of water that is below
 the normal off the coast of Portugal, comes to be above the normal off
 the Faroo Islands, cannot be accounted for in any other way than by
 a slow northerly movement of that water extending down to at least
 700 fathoms.
     Now it seems obvious that since the true Gulf Stream or Florida
 Current has not, even when running strongly past Sandy Hook, a depth
exceeding 100 fathoms,—and since that depth gradually diminishes as it
spreads itself out like a fan after passing Halifax, so that it ceases to
be distinguishable in the Mid-Atlantic either by its motion or by its
temperature,—there is no valid ground for attributing to it that north
ward movement of the whole upper stratum of the Atlantic, which is
shown by the course of the isothermal lines to range from Newfound
land to the west coast of Ireland, and by the ' Porcupine ' Tempera
ture-soundings to extend to a depth of at least 700 fathoms. On tho
other hand, this northward movement is in exact accordance with the
doctrine of a General Oceanic Circulation sustained by Thermal oppo
sition ; the northward movement of the upper stratum being the neces
sary complement of that southward movement of the lower stratum, of
which the ' Challenger ' survey of the Atlantic affords such cogent
evidence. Now in so far as the temperature of the upper stratum is
elevated in the parallel between 30° and 40° N. lat., by that reflux of
the Equatorial current which seems there to produce the remarkablo
thickening of the stratum between 65° and 60° already referred to
(pp. 268-270), the heating power of that upper stratum, when it is drawn
into a higher latitude, is augmented ; and to that extent the ameliora
tion of the climate of the British Isles, the coast of Norway, &c.,
while directly depending on the vertical Oceanic Circulation, may bo
considered as the greater for this horizontal transport of Equatorial
water by the Trade-winds.
     That the deeper stratum of Atlantic water has a definite movement,
however slow, towards the Equator, is indicated by several facts.
Thus it is well known that icebergs occasionally cross the Gulf Stream
off the Banks of Newfoundland, and are carried to the south of it ; and
this can only be through the southerly movement of the deeper stratum
in which the lower part of the mass is immersed, which carries it along
against the counter-action of the upper current,—just as in the Black

276                                Dr. Carpenter                         [March 20,
Sea straits the action of the under-current upon the current-drag
suspended in it, drags inwards the suspending- buoy, in opposition to
the powerful outward surface-current in which it floats. And so the
buoy which was attached to the broken end of the Atlantic Cable of
1865, having got adrift, was found to have travelled nearly due south,
a distance of 600 nautical miles in seventy-six days, in opposition to
the Gulf Stream ; presumably by the action of the under-flow upon
the long buoy-ropo suspended in it.*
     But the ' Challenger ' Temperature-sections afford another body
of evidence to the same effect, which is not a little remarkable.
For, as already pointed out (p. 270), they prove that continuity of the
cold band which separates the Gulf Stream from the American
seaboard, with the deep cold strata underlying the Gulf Stream,
which had been previously indicated by the U.S. Coast Surveyors,
who had traced it out in the Florida Channel (where there is clear
evidence of an inward under-current of glacial water), and to a
certain depth also in other parts of its course. This cold band is
clearly produced, therefore, by the surging-upwards of the deeper
stratum of Atlantic water along the western slope of its basin. And
an adequate vera causa for this surging-upwards is found in the Earth's
rotation, if this stratum has a movement of its own from the Polo
towards the Equator. For just as the Gulf Stream, and the whole
nor<7t-moving warm upper-stratum, constantly tend towards the east, in
virtue of the excess of easterly momentum which they bring with them
from a portion of the globe whose rotatory movement is more rapid,
 so the cold urwJer-stratum, if moving southwards from a portion of the
 globe whose rotatory motion is less rapid, will bring with it a de
ficiency of easterly momentum, or, in other words, will tend towards
 the west.
      This is by no means a solitary case. Dr. Carpenter is informed
by Captain St. John, who has been engaged for some years in the
 survey of the Japan Sea, that a similar cold band separates the Kuro
Siwo (or warm Japan Current, sometimes called the Gulf Stream of
 the Pacific) from the eastern coast of Japan. And Dr. Meyer of Kiel,
 who has been for some time engaged in the examination of the phy
 sical condition of the Baltic, the North Sea, and their connecting
 channels, has communicated to him this remarkable fact :—While
 the greater part of the North Sea forms part of the platform of less
 fhan 100 fathoms depth, which surrounds the British Islands, and
 which serves (as formerly pointed out by Dr. C.) as a coast-line
     * In two Papers recently written by Mr. Croll on the Physical Cause of Ocean
 Currents (' Philosophical Magazine,' February and March), it is maintained not
 only that tho true Gulf Stream is propelled onwards by a vis a tergo into the Arctic
 area, but that, being there forced into a closed basin, it produces the under-flow of
 Polar water by forcing out an equivalent amount of the deeper stratum. Unfor
 tunately for this hypothesis, however, a very simple calculation shows that the
 sectional area of the Polar under-flow in the parallel of New York is at least nine
 hundred times that of the Gulf Stream off Sandy Hook.

1874.]              on the Temperature of the Atlantic.               277
to the glacial water lying at its northern edge at a depth of over
200 fathoms, there is a channel along the coast of Norway and
Sweden, which is deep enough to receive a cold stream from the
Polar Sea ; and this may be traced as far south as the Skager Rack.
Now this cold stream surges-up on the western bank of its channel,
and overflows the bed of the North Sea, as far as the Dogger Bank ;
the temperature of whose eastern slope is thus reduced by at least ten
degrees below that of the western, the difference being observable
within very short distances.
     Since, therefore, so many facts, otherwise quite anomalous, are
found to be in such exact accordance with the general Doctrine, as to
be predicable by an application of it to each particular case, and
since the Doctrine itself has been pronounced by the greatest masters
of Physical Theory to be in strict accordance with it,—Dr. Carpenter
 submitted that he has established a strong claim for its provisional
 acceptance. And he anticipated that this claim will be greatly
 strengthened by the ' Challenger ' Temperature-section now taken
 between the Cape of Good Hope and Melbourne, together with the
north and south section between Kcrguolen's Land and the Antarctic
 ice-barrier, which last had been included in her instructions at his
 special instance, as likely to afford the best test of its validity.
                                                              [W. B. C]


        i&oijal Jnstitution of (Great Britain.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 27, 1874.
        Warken De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                  Prof. A. C. Ramsay, LL.D. V.P.R.S.
       DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE GEOLOGICAL BURVEY OF THE UNITED KINGDOM, ETC.
                   On the Physical History of the Rhine.
The attempt to unravel geological history, as far as the stratified rocks
are concerned, and all the igneous rocks connected with them, simply
resolves itself into this :—an effort to realizo the physical geography
of different geological epochs, to make out the relations of the sea and
of the land, with all its plains and mountains during these periods, the
history of the rivers and lakes of the time, and to know as much as
may be known of all the creatures and of all the vegetation which
inhabited the water and the land.
    I am now going to attempt to explain a special history, that of
the Rhine. Every river has a definite history, if we could clearly
make it out. Every river has had a beginning, and it is quite possible
—if we have the skill —to find out when, by special changes in
physical geography, such and such a river began to flow, and why it
flows in such and such a direction.
    In various publications I have attempted to show what is the
history of some of the rivers of England ; as, for example, those of
the Severn and of the Thames, and I think I have been able to prove
that the Severn is a much older rivor than the Thames ; and, on
similar principles, I now propose to attempt to reveal to you the
history of tho Rhine and its valley from early times to the present
day. For many years I had an ambition to work out this problem.
I have known it for more than twenty years ; going often up and
down the river, and sometimes for weeks—once for months—living
on its banks. For the last thirteen years, unfortunately, I never was
able to return to it, but the question I had marked out for myself
remained in my mind, and last year I went, and worked it out, with
the result which is now to be explained.
    First, with regard to the great main features of the Rhine valley ;
it has its sources, as every one knows, in the mountain regions of
   Vol. VII. (No. 61.)                                                    u

 280                        Professor Ramsay                   [March 27,
 Switzerland, one of which is in the valley of the Vorder Rhine, and
 the other in that of the Hinter Rhine, both glacier regions. The
 ground where it rises is from 7000 to 8000 feet above the level of
 the sea. From thence it passes to the Lake of Constance, 1305 feet
above the sea ; and beyond, in a westerly direction, by Schaffhausen
 to Basel, where, at the bridge, the level of the water has an average
height of about 803 feet above the sea. Thence it flows down the
 great upper plain of the Rhine northerly between the Schwartzwald
and the Vosges to Mainz, where the height of the river is 531 feet
above the level of the sea, thus showing a fall between Basel and
Mainz of 272 feet, which gives an average slope for the fall of the
river of about 3 feet 1^ inch per mile. Beyond that, proceeding to
the north, we come to the deep gorge of the Rhine, passing between
high cliffy banks, which begin at Bingcn and continue down to
Rheineck in the neighbourhood of the Siebengebirge, for a distance
of from sixty to seventy miles, according as you take into account all
the windings, or omit them. Beyond the Siebengebirge there is a
plain, partly formed of the delta of the river, which gradually merges
into the great flats that extend all the way from Calais to the Elbe.
     Now the main question I have to bring before you is, first, what is
the origin of the great upper plain that lies between Basel and Mainz?
and, secondly, what is the origin of the gorge between Mainz and
Rheineck ? Why are they there, and by what means have this plain
and this gorge assumed their present forms?
     When you stand above Bingen, or, better still, if you ascend the
Taunus and look southerly, and consider the narrowness of the gorge
and the hilly barrier of rock that must once have continuously extended
at Bingen across the lower end of the plain, the impression is irresistibly
conveyed to the mind that before that gorge was opened a vast lake
must have reached all the way from that barrier to where Basel now
stands, covering the great plain that lies between the mountains of
the Vosges and those of the Schwartzwald. And so thoroughly has
this idea taken possession of the popular mind, at least of those who
have at all considered the subject, that we find this statement made in
some of the Guide Books of the time, and notably by Baedeker, where
it is stated that a lake must have covered the whole of that vast plain,
170 miles in length, at a comparatively recent period. It is a very
obvious theory, and at first sight has much to recommend it ; for it
seems so clear that, before the gorge was opened, all that plain must
have been covered with a sheet of water, and it is hard to realize that
such has not been the fact. When I first entered on the subject I was
impressed with this idea, and I began to cast about and endeavour to
find a reason for the scooping out of the gorge, and for the consequent
drainage of the supposed lake.
    Having years before written a paper on the origin of the lake
basins of Switzerland, North America, and other parts of the world,
and having attributed the formation of many of these, but by no means

1874.]            on the Physical History of the Rhine.              281
all of them, to the action of glacier-ice during the glacial period, my
first impression was that ice might have had at least something to do
with the scooping out of the great valley that lies between the north
flanks of the Jura, the Schwartz wald, the Vosges, and the Taunus.
But while slowly passing up the river, and searching for proofs which
might either confirm or contradict this view, I was soon obliged to
give up the idea that glacier-ice had anything to do with scooping out
the great hollow. For on one side—that of the mountains of the
Schwartzwald—I found that none of the glaciers of that region (and
there are proofs that glaciers once existed there) even extended well
down into the valley of the Rhine. And on the opposite side of the
Rhine Valley, that of the old glacier region of the Vosges, I found
no proof that they ever extended into the plain. There is also no
proof that the glaciers of the great glacial epoch of Switzerland
ever spread as far north as Basel. Neither are there any signs of
erratic blocks or other kinds of moraine matter on the plains or hill-
slopes about Bingen, which we might expect to find there had the
whole of the great plain of the Upper Rhine been once filled with
glacier-ice. Therefore this theory, which I had not definitely formed,
but which I surmised might possibly have had something to do with
the subject, entirely melted away, and other hypothetical views along
with them, and I was obliged to begin anew.
    Accordingly I went to Switzerland, and with the help of friendly
Swiss geologists, examined part of the Miocene or Middle Tertiary
rocks between the Oberland and the Jura.
    To make the rest of the subject clear, I must now say a few words
about the origin of mountain chains. Most people are familiar with
the outlines of the nebular hypothesis. The whole solar system was
once in a nebulous state, and as this nebulous mass revolved in space,
portions of it were thrown off, and one of these consisted of the
matter which, by and by, resolved itself into the present earth. This
nebulous fluid, in virtue of gravity, by degrees condensed more and
more, and, passing through what we may call the molten state, in the
course of time began to assume a solid form, and a hard outer crust
was at length produced, which enclosed a highly-heated fluid mass
within. This crust, which continued to thicken in consequence of
radiation of heat, because of the law of gravitation was ever drawn
towards the centre of the earth. By this process the circumference of
the earth necessarily became less, and that consolidated rocky sphere
which formed the outer shell of the earth was forced to readjust itself
so as to occupy a diminishing area. Thus it happened that while
some parts sank, other parts of the crust were crumpled, and relatively
raised higher than other portions of the crust that still retained their
original curves as part of a sphere.
    This hypothesis, which, as far as I know, was first propounded by
Blie de Beaumont, may be looked upon as the origin of mountain
chains. What began in the earlier times of geological history, seems
                                                             u 2

282                        Professor Ramsay                   [March 27,
to have been going on steadily down to the present day, and thus it
happens, that geologists can prove mountain chains to be of very
different ages, and that, of whatever age they may chance to be, the
strata that compose them are found to be bent and contorted.
     In this way it happened that at a certain period of geological
history which preceded the formation of the Miocene rocks north and
south of the Alps, a disturbance of the earth's crust took place, due
to shrinkage of the general mass, of such a nature that the Alpine
strata were thrown into highly-contorted forms, and a great mountain
range of pro-Miocene ago was the result. On the north of these moun
tains the Miocene strata began to accumulate in great lakes. But
these lakes lay so near the level of the sea, that every now and then,
by depression of the land, they sometimes sank a little, and the sea
invaded the area formerly occupied by fresh water. The result was
that in Switzerland, between the Obcrland and the Jura, and much
farther north, the Miocene strata, which are hundreds and sometimes
thousands of feet thick, are now found to consist of intcrstratifications
of marine, brackish, and fresh-water beds. At that time the Jura had
no existence. It is the result of a later disturbance of the crust of
the earth ; and thus it happened that the Miocene waters in which
were deposited the strata that now lie between the Obcrland and the
Jura originally spread northwards far across the area now occupied
by that range, and into the district of the present plain of the Rhine
between Basel and Bingen.
     It is hard to realize the scenery of that time ; but partly by an
effort of imagination, and partly by special knowledge of the fossils
contained in the rocks, it is possible to form some conception of the
appearance of the country.
     On the east and west of the great valley were mountainous ranges
now called the Schwartzwald and the Vosges, while far to the south
rose the high mountains of the pre-Miocene Alps, more or less covered
with a forest vegetation. On the banks of the lakes there grew in an
early stage of the Miocene epoch vast numbers of forest-trees and ever
green shrubs, of genera such as are now partly characteristic of tropical
and sub-tropical countries ; figs and vines, many species of Protoacese
analogous to those that still grow in the Australian continent, together
with cypress, sequoia, cinnamon, fan palms, and palmettos, ferns,
hornbeams, and buckthorns, all of genera still familiar, but mostly if
not altogether of extinct species. At a later date this vegetation partly
died out, and was replaced by plane-trees, poplars, elms, willows, and
maples ; while cinnamons, figs, vines, laurels, and Protoaceae still con
tinued to flourish. In the woods, on the meadows, and in the waters
respectively, the Mastodon angwtidens, Rhinoceros, Chaeropotamus,
Dichobune, deer, Dinotherium, Hippopotamus, crocodiles, salamanders,
fish, and numerous other creatures roamed at pleasure, while the air
and the land were tenanted by dragon-flies, ants, beetles, and other
insects, of which more than 800 species have been distinguished.

 1874.]            on the Physical History of the Rhine..             283
     I now come to the chief part of this discourse, which is to account
 for the origin of the Rhine : for at that earlier time the Rhine had no
 existenco in this valley ; and indeed there is proof, that instead of the
 main drainage of the area flowing in a great river from south to north
 as it does now through this valley, the waters partly drained from north
 to south ; and the pebbles of the Schwartzwald, instead of being carried
 north by the Rhine as they are now, were carried southwards by minor
 rivers, and found their way into Switzerland, thus helping to form some
 of the conglomerate rocks of which the Miocene strata of Switzerland
 to a great extent consist.
     Not only had the Rhine no existence then, but the romantic gorge
 of the river, with which so many are familiar, had no existence either.
 It has been customary sometimes to attribute the formation of that
 gorge to violent disturbance and fracture of the strata, by which
 the waters wore allowed to escape from south to north. I have no
 belief in such violent disturbances having any place in the modern
 economy of the world, nor yet in such cataclysmal action having ever
 affected the ancient world, as far as it is in the power of geologists to
 trace back events from the present day to the oldest known geological
 periods.
     After the Miocene epoch had lasted for a long time, thore occurred
 another disturbance of the European region, and of much of the rest
 of the world besides, though it is only the Alpine district and the
countries north of the Alps that we have now to deal with. This
second disturbance of the Alps produced a great upheaval of the
Miocene strata. All the Miocene lakes that occupied the old low
lands of Switzerland, and extended far east into what are now the
 Austrian dominions,—all that area, as far as the Alps are ooncerned,
was gradually heaved high above the level of the sea, and those beds
of conglomerates, sandstones, and marls that form the lowlands of
Switzerland, and all across what is now the Jura were disturbed to
such an extent that the strata now forming the Righi and Rosberg
and other sub-Alpine hills were partly raised to a height of at least
5800 feet above the level of the sea, and probably much more. The
lower parts of Central Switzerland, about the Lake of Geneva, the
Lake of Constance, and Neufcbatel, still stand at heights of from
1200 to 1300 feet above that level. Then the range of the Jura first
rose up to form a mountain-chain, and this is the proof of theso
disturbances. First we know that the Miocene rocks originally lay
all the way from the Alps to the Taunus in flat-lying strata. During
that period a vast quantity of Miocene pebbles were carried into the
lakes, which were by and by consolidated into an exceedingly coarse
conglomerate. Anyone who has ascended the Righi will remember
that nearly the whole of it is formed of this coarse conglomerate,
proving the prodigious amount of waste that the Alps underwent
during the Miocene period. When wo consider the amount of this
waste, even though the waters of the Miocene period lay but little

284                        Professor Ramsay                  [March 27,
above the level of the sea, still in my opinion it is probable that the
Alps themselves were then quite as high, if not higher, than they are
now. For the amount of degradation proved by the conglomerate
indicates the removal of an enormous amount of material from the
pre-Miocene Alps.
     After the disturbance which raised the Jura and the Miocene
strata of the lowlands of Switzerland, this is what took place. Along
with the contorted Secondary strata of the Jura, the Miocene beds that
previously covered them were thrown into a number of anticlinal and
synclinal curves, and the greater part of the Miocene material over
that area having since been removed by denudation, only a few out
lying fragments of these strata remain left in those wonderful upland
basin-shaped hollows of the Jura, which still attest the original con
tinuity of the Middle Tertiary deposits all the way from the base of
the pre-Miocene Alps to the southern base of the Taunus.
     When the post-Miocene disturbance of the whole of this area took
place the general effect was, that while much of the Swiss Miocene
area was contorted and raised high into the air, between the Jura and
the Taunus the equivalent strata were simply heaved up and tilted,
so as to form a long inclined plain sloping northerly between the
Vosges and the Schwartzwald, and the surface of which may have
been about 1200 or 1300 feet above the present level of the sea where
Basel now stands, and about 1000 to 1100 feet high whero the opening
of the gorge now begins at Bingen.
     Before this wide-spreading disturbance took place, the Bhine had
no existence, for up to that time such small rivers as occasionally ran
in the more ancient Miocene valley flowed partly south. But when
the inclined plain was fairly completed, the result in the long run was
that for the first time the great general drainage of the area began to
run from south to north, and the Rhine was established, flowing at a
height which we may roughly speak of as having been 500 feet higher
than now, because at that time all the great valley between Basel and
Bingen was filled to that height with Miocene strata. We know this
to bo a fact by an examination of the valley on the right hand and the
left, from Bingen towards Basel ; for every here and there we find
table-shaped hills formed of flat-lying Miocene strata, which border
the present alluvial plain of the Rhine, and abut upon the more ancient
mountains on either side. The history revealed by this fact is plain
to any one accustomed to reason on geological phenomena. The strata
forming scarped slopes on opposite sides of the valley were once united,
and their early continuity has been destroyed, simply by long-con
tinued watery waste and denudation. They are indeed only the relics
of an older phase of the physical geography of the district, when the
surface of the plain stood about 500 feet higher than it does at
present.
     Now when the Rhine first began to flow, the river passed through
a high upland valley with gently sloping sides that lay between

 1874.]               on the Physical History of the Rhine.           285
 the Taunus and the Hundsruck, and which in no manner resembled
 the precipitous cliffs that now bound the Rhine in the gorge below
 Bingen. The bottom of part of this old upland valley still forms a
 narrow terraced plain, immediately above and beyond the edge of
 the cliffy gorge of the Rhine. It is not always continuous on both
 sides of the gorge, but enough of it remains to attest its original
 continuity at heights of from 400 to 500 feet above the present level
 of the river. Now what I wish to persuade you of is this, that the
 Rhine flowing in this valley by degrees began to cut out its own
 gorge, and that it was not produced by fracture. Every running
 river is busy eroding its channel, especially where the ground is at all
 steep. That is one of the main functions of running waters. They
 are constantly deepening their channels, and carrying the sediments
 so formed from higher to lower levels, till in the course of time they
 find their way into lakes or the sea.
      When we first enter the gorge of the Rhine, going southward, one
 feature that strikes the geological observer is the constant recurrence
 of this old terrace backed by the hilly country beyond. On the left
 bank, overlooking Bingen, the flat-topped spur of the Rochus-berg,
 about the same height as the tops of the neighbouring Miocene tabular
 hills, first strikes the eye. When fairly within the gorge below Nie-
derheimbach, beyond its upper edge the old river-plain is seen gently
sloping to the north, while the sides of the gorge itself are seamed by
 numerous gullies worn by occasional torrents since the great ravine—
a kind of canon—has been cut down to its present level.
     At Welmich, below Niederheimbach, looking down the river, the
edge of the terraced plain is seen receding northward in long per
spective, and at Salzig, still further down, the features so well shown
near Niederheimbach are again reproduced. The same outline occurs
again and again all down the river between Bingen and Coblcnz, and
equally below Andernach, as for instance at Rheineck. Finally,
above the Siebengebirge, just about the mouth of the gorge, looking
up the river, the long eastern hills sloping to the river end in a
terrace corresponding in general height and outline to those already
mentioned. The general conclusion to be drawn from these obser
vations is that at heights of from 450 to 500 feet above the present
river this ancient river terrace has a persistent gentle slope from south
to north, which approximately corresponds to that of the existing
river.
     The inference is plain : that formerly throughout the length of
what is now the gorge the river flowed over that high-terraced level,
at a time when the plain above the gorge was so deeply filled with
Miocene strata that the level of the river, where Mainz and Bingen
now stand, was as high as the upland terrace that crowns the gorge
between Bingen and Rolandseck. By degrees the river began to
excavate the gorge, slowly cutting deeper and deeper, and at the
samo time winding and ever changing its channel through the great

286                        Professor Ramsay                   [March 27,
plain between the Jura and the Taunns, by slow gradation it wasted
away the surface of that plain more and more, and the matter won
from that surface was carried down through the gorge to be added to
the old delta of the river. At last the major part of the Miocene
rocks that partly occupied the plain were worn away, and the plain
has been thus reduced to its present temporary level ; while the terraced
hills on either bank still remain to attest the amount of watery degra
dation that the area has undergone.
     So much for the scooping out of the valley. But there is another
point which I would like to impress upon you. On each side of the
Rhine there are important tributary rivers. Thus, for example, above
the gorge we have the Maine, the Neckar, the Kinzig, the Elz, and
other streams, flowing through deep steep-sided valleys; and these
rivers have from a very early period been tributaries of the Rhine.
It follows, then, that when the level of the Rhine was 400 or 600 feet
higher than at present, the levels of the bottoms of these rivers must
also have been 400 or 500 feet higher than at present ; and therefore,
just in proportion as the great valley of the plain of the Rhine was
being cut down and lowered, so in proportion must the valleys in
which these rivers run have gradually been deepened. When we
come to the gorge, the same kind of argument applies to the Moselle
 and other tributaries of the Rhine.
     I have elsewhere attempted to show that at one time the Moselle
ran as high as the top of the table-land that now bounds it on each
side. Everyone who knows that river is aware that, though it looks
so hilly when we go up the stream in a steam-boat, as soon as we
reach the edges of the slopes on either side, we are on the top of a
great table-land intersected by numerous valleys, so that before the
gorge of the Rhine was formed the Moselle ran at as high a level as
 the ancient Rhine ; and just as the gorge of the Rhine was being
deepened, so the Moselle was by degrees also enabled to deepen its
 channel. The same was the case with other rivers, right and left of
 the Rhine ; and by applying this principle to the other great rivers of
 Europe we may hope in the long run to explain the physical history
 of the systems of drainage of all parts of the continent.
     One other point remains to be stated with regard to the physical
 history of the Rhine. Geologists well know that in older times the
 glaciers of Switzerland were on an immensely larger scale than at
 present. Large as they appear to us at the present day, they are of
 pigmy sizo when compared with their magnitude at a comparatively
 late period of the world's history. The Rhone glacier then spread
 across all the area now occupied by the Lake of Geneva, till it abutted
 on the Jura ; and the old Rhine glacier extended all over the Lake of
 Constance, and reached at least half-way from Schaffhaussen to Basel.
 The body of water which flowed directly from such glaciors must have
 been very great, and enormous must the moraines have bcon that were
 shed from tho ice-sheets. From an examination of tho pebbles that

1874.]              on the Physical History of the Bhine.               287
form the superficial gravel on the present plain of the Rhine below
Basel, it is certain that a large portion of them have come from the
Alpine regions. Such a great moraine as was shed from the western
edge of the old glacier of the Rhirie was constantly being attacked by
the waters that flowed from its end, and thus by degrees pebbles were
cfjried onward into the plain. The result is that a large part of the
gravel of the Rhino is simply the waste of old moraines shed from
the glaciers of Switzerland, added to by material carried down by the
Streams of the Vosges and the Schwartzwald, also partly derived from
the moraines of ancient glaciers on a smaller scale.
     Last year it was my lot to deliver here a discourse on the history of
old continents, and I attempted to show that one old continent in par
ticular retained its identity through a very long period of geological
time ; that from the close of the Upper Silurian period, all through
the Old Red Sandstone and Carboniferous periods, through the Per
mian and New Red Sandstone epochs, over great part of what is now
Europe, that continent, with many physical changes, still retained its
identity. Such a vast continent remaining through all those geologi
cal periods implies a succession of epochs of time, which, as far as
years and cycles of years are concerned, the mind has as yet only
hints of data which some day may help us to grapple with such a
problem, and not till astronomy comes more boldly to the help of
geology may we begin to hope for the solving of the problem of the
actual value of geological time. However that may turn out, it is
certain that during the long continental epoch alluded to there were,
over and over again, several changes in physical geography far greater
than that petty change which I have been endeavouring to sketch out
to-night. The floras and faunas of the world in that old time changed,
not in the minor degree I have been speaking of to-night, but were
more completely remodelled again and again in great part, even gone-
rically. Mountain ranges rose, glacial periods intervened and passed
away. Great lakes, sometimes fresh, sometimes salt, appeared and wero
obliterated by successive terrestrial changes. At one time vast lakes,
 like those of the heart of Africa and North America, covered prodigious
areas of land ; at another, equal or larger areas were covered by salt
 lakes as large as the Caspian and the Sea of Aral. And when you
 think of the continental episode in the modern geological history of
 Europe to which I have drawn attention, you will see how small it
 really is, though it may look large to our minds, compared to the old
 continental epoch of which I spoke last year. This you may depend
 upon, that though to the superficial eye it may seem as if the world
had always been going on just as it is doing now, and that through all
 time to come it will go on just the same, with -its mountains, valleys,
 rivers, lakes, and seas, yet it is none the less certain that changes, such
 as I have described to-night, are but the forerunners of other muta
 tions as great, aye, and far greater, that will take place in the future.
 Just as there is as yet no certainly measured limit to the geological

288                  Professor Ramsay on the Rhine.              [March 27,
time of the past, so also we know of no measurable limit to geological
time to come. But why should I keep you with words such as these,
when I may convey a whole chapter in physical geology, condensed
into eight lines, by the greatest of our living poets :—
                 There rolls the deep where grew the tree :
                   O Earth, what changes hast thou seen !
                   There, where the long street roars, hath been
                 The stillness of the central sea.
                 The hills are shadows, and they flow
                   From form to form, and nothing stands :
                   They melt like mist, the solid lands.
                 Like clouds they shape themselves and go.
                                                                  [A. B.]

1874.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         289
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, April 6, 1874.
       Warrkn Dk la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Yice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                     Frederick Albert Bosanquet, Esq.
                      Miss Brandreth,
                     Edward Brandreth, Esq.
                     Robert Bartholomew Lawes, Esq.
                     Robert Nicol, Esq.
                      William Wyndham Portal, Esq.
                     Edward Lake Walker, Esq.
                     John Witts Allen Woodroffe, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     From
Antiquaries, Society of—Archaeologia, Vol. XLIII. Part 2; Vol. XLVI. Part 1.
     4to. 1873.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1873, Part 1, No. 3; Part 2, No. 3. 8vo.
  Proceedings, 1873, Nos. 9, 10. 8vo. .
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXrV. No. 4. 8vo. 1874.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal—Abhandlungen, Band XI. Abth. 2. 4to.
     1873.
  Annalen der Kon. Sternwarte bei Miinchen. Band XIX. 8vo. 1873.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1873-4, No. 7. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Hemiptera Heteroptera, Part 8. 8vo.
     1873.
Chambers. George F. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Record of Parliamentary Elections,
     1868-74. 8vo. 1874.
   Digest of the Law relating to Public Health and Local Government. Sixth
     Edition. 8vo. 1874.
Chishohn, H. W. Esq. Warden of the Standards—Reports of the Standard Commis
     sion, fol. 1868-73.
  Annual Reports of the Warden of the Standards, 1-7. 8vo. 1867-73.
  Report on the International Metric Commission at Paris. 1869-72. 8vo.
     1873.
Cox, E. W. Esq. Strjeant-at-Law, M.R.I, (the Author)—What am I? Vol. II.
     12mo. 1874.
Croll, James, Esq. (the Author)—On Ocean Currents, Part HI. (Phil. Mag. Feb.
     1873.)

  290                         General Monthly Meeting.                    [April 6,
  Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1874. 8vo.
     Astronomical Register for March, 1874. 8vo.
     Athenaeum for March, 1874. 4to.
     Chemical News for March, 1874. 4to.
     Engineer for March, 1874. fol.
     Food Journal for March, 1874. 4to.
     Journal of Applied Science for March, 1874. fol.
     Journal of Gas-Lighting for March, 1874. 4to.
     Nature for March, 1874. 4to.
     Nautical Magazine for March, 1874. 8vo.
     Once a Week for March, 1874. 8vo.
     Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1874. 8vo.
     Telegraph Journal for March, 1 874. 8vo.
  Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 577. 8vo. 1874.
  Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1873. No. 4. 8vo.
     Verhandlungen, 1873. No. 14.
     Abhandlungen, Band VI. Theil 6. fol 1873.
  Incorporated Law Society of the United Kingdom—Supplement to the Catalogue
       of the Mendhara Collection. 8vo. 1874.
  Linnean Society— Proceedings, Feb. 1874. 8vo.
  Manning, Frederick, Esq. M.H.I,—lloscobel ; or, the Royal Oak : a Tale of the year
       1651. By W. H. Ainsworth. New Edition. 8vo. 1874.
  Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, July, 1873. Part 2.
       8vo.
  Meteorological Office—Proceedings of the Meteorological Congress at Vienna. 8vo.
       1874.
  Photographic Society—Journal, No. 248. 8vo. 1874.
  Praia da Victoria, Comte da, Gouverneur Civil de Vonta Deloada, Acores—Les
       Eaux Thermales de 1'He do San Miguel Acores. (K 99) 8vo. LLsbonne,
        1873.
  Freussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Jan. 1874. 8vo.
  Rossetti, Professor F. Venice—Sul Potere Specifico Induttivo dei Coibenti : ed
       Uso dello Macchino di Holt/, in alcune Richerche Elettrometriche. (K 99)
        8vo. 1873.
     Discorso iu Morte del Car F. Zantedeschi. (K 92) 8vo. 1873.
1 Boyal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions for 1873, Part 2. 4to.
        1874.
     Proceedings, No. 150. 8vo. 1873.
  Tyndall, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.B.I, (the Author)—Lb. Chaleur, Mode de
       Mouvement ; traduite par M. TAbbe Moigno. l6to. Paris, 1874.
   Victoria Institute—Wm. Forsyth on the Rules of Evidence as applicable to the
       Credibility of History. 8vo. 1874.

1874.]        Mr. Spottistcoode on Combinations of Colour.           291
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, April 17, 1874.
   The Duke of Northumrerland, D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
       William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Treas.R.S. Sec.R.I.
         On Combinations of Colour by means of Polarized Light.
It is well known that if a beam of polarized light, which has passed
through a plate of crystal, be analyzed with a double-image prism,
two images will be seen tinted with complementary colours. The fact
that the colours are complementary may be established by causing
the images to overlap, when the part of the field of view common to
both will be found to be white. And further, if the plate be of quartz
cut perpendicularly to the axis, the images will change colour by a
continuous sequence of tints when either polarizer or analyzer is
turned continuously round. The colours so seen are, however, not
simple colours of the spectrum, but mixed or residual tints, viz. the
mixture of all those which remain when one or more have been extin
guished. This is a direct deduction from the principles of the wave
theory of light ; but it was also practically demonstrated in some
experiments which I had the honour of laying before the Institution
last year. And, in fact, if we use a quartz plate of suitable thickness,
and examine the spectrum of either of the images formed by the
analyzer, we shall find it crossed with a single dark band which moves
along the spectrum in one direction or the other, according to the
sense in which either polarizer or analyzer is turned.
    This principle enables us to make use of polarizod light for inves
tigating the subject of complementary colours. For if we form the
spectra of the two complementary images, we shall find in general that
the dark band occupies one position in the ordinary, and another in
the extraordinary image. But since the two images are complementary
to one another, and the part extinguished in each is complementary to
the part which remains, it follows that the part extinguished in one is
the complementary of the part extinguished in the other. That is to
say, the bands in the two spectra will always mark out two comple
mentary portions of the spectrum. It must, however, be borne in
mind that the bands are not sharply defined like the Fraunhofer lines
in the solar spectrum, but they are bands with a core of minimum or
zero illumination shading off gradually on either side; so rapidly,
however, that at a short distance from the core the adjoining colours

292                          Mr. Spottiswoode                  [April 17,
appear in their full natural intensity. This being so, the tint sup
pressed in any band will be a compound of portions of all the colours
comprised within the visible limits of the band. Of the colour cor
responding to the core the whole will be suppressed, but of those on
each side only portions, smaller and smaller as we recede from the
core. And if we use the term " colour suppressed " in this sense, the
pairs of colours determined by this method will be found to agree in
the main with those given by Helmholtz as the result of the super
position of two spectra at right angles to one another, viz. :—
                 Yellow-green,               Violet;
                 Yellow,                     Iudi go-blue;
                 Orange,                     Cyanic-blue ;
                 Bed,                        Green-blue.
    It will be noticed that, when one band arrives at the green moving
in the direction of the red, the other or complementary band is just
disappearing in the red ; but at the same time another band is begin
ning to appear in the violet. We cannot therefore say that the green
has for its complementary the red rather than the violet ; the comple
mentary in question is in fact a mixture of the two, a mixture which,
when taken alone, is a reddish purple. This result agrees with the
conclusion derived by Helmholtz from his own experiments.
    Starting from the principle of these interference bands of polarized
light, it occurred to me that if two or more such bands could be formed,
and could be made to move independently and at pleasure in either direc
tion along the spectrum, we should have the means of at once deter
mining, and exhibiting, at all events the tints complementary to a
combination of two or more bands chosen at will from the spectrum.
And pursuing this subject farther, I found not only that this is possible,
but succeeded, by a combination of double-image prisms, actually
to form in the field of view the tints complementary to the above-
mentioned complementarics ; in other words, tints which represent the
mixture of the two portions of the spectrum suppressed in the bands.
For this purpose I have used, instead of the ordinary polarizing appa
ratus, the following arrangement, reckened from the source of light
towards the eye or screen. First, a Nicol's prism N as polarizer, then
a quartz plate Q, next a double-imago prism P ; after that a second
quartz plate Q„ and finally a second double-image prism P,. By
this means four images are formed in the field of view—say, OO, OE,
E O, E E, whereof O O, O E, occupy the positions of the two images
formed by P alone ; and O O, E O, the positions of those formed by
P, alone. If for a moment we remove the second quartz plate, the
arrangement above described will furnish some interesting experi
mental illustrations of the conclusions stated by Helmholtz— viz. that
the low tint colours (couleurs degrades) such as russet, brown, olive-
green, peacock-blue, are the result of low illumination. He mentions
that he obtained these effects by diminishing the intensity of the light
in the colours to be examined, and by, at the same time, maintaining

1874.]                  on Combinations of Colour.                   293
a brilliantly illuminated patch in an adjoining part of the field of
view. In accordance with what was said before, in the case where no
quartz plate was used, it appears that by turning the prism P! round, we
have the power of diminishing to any extent we please the intensity
of the light in one pair of the complementary images, and at the same
time increasing that in the other pair. We therefore have an equiva
lent of the conditions of Helmholtz's experiments. The conclusions
were verified by throwing on the screen the spectra of two similarly
tinted images, one highly, the other feebly illuminated, when it was
found that the band occupied the same position in both spectra.
    If a second quartz plate Q, be re-inserted between the prisms P, Pu
there will be 15 combinations of colour to consider, viz. 4 single
images, 6 overlaps of two, 4 overlaps of three, and 1 overlap of all
four images.
    The tints of the four single images will now be those due to the
formation of two bands in spectrum of each, viz. one due to the com
bination Q P, the other to the combination Qt Pt. It will therefore be
convenient in this case to designate their tints by the lines of letters
representing the bands ; thus, B + A, B + A', B' + A, B' + A' ; in
which it is to be understood that A, A' represent the pair of comple
mentary bands formed by Q P, and B, B' the pair extinguished by
    The following is an arrangement of the images formed by #P and
T,, together with the tints corresponding to the bands in each : —
                                    00
                                  B+A
                            EO             OE
                          B' + A         B' + A'
                                   EE
                                  B + A'
O O represents the ordinary image of P and P1\ O E the ordi
nary image of Px and the extraordinary of P ; &c. It is to be
observed that B + A, B' + A', occupy the positions of the two
images formed by P alone ; and B + A, B' + A, those of the images
formed by Px alone. And it would at first sight appear that the
colours suppressed in the first-mentioned images would be B + A,
B + A' ; but it must be remembered that the vibrations in the two
images O, E, formed by P are at right angles to one another, and
consequently the instrumental combination Q, T1 will in forming its
ordinary image of A suppress the colour B, but in the ordinary image
of A' it will suppress its complementary B'. A similar remark applies
to the other pair of images.
    The effect of the combinations C^ P, is to divide the images O O,
O E, respectively into two parts, in one of which the colour B, in the
other B', is suppressed. Hence the overlap of B + A and B' + A,
will reproduce the original colour minus only the complementaries
B, B'. This overlap may consequently be formularized thus,
                    B + A + B' + A = B + B' + 2A.

294                          Mr. Spottiswoode .                [April 17,
Similarly wo may write
                     B + A' + B' + A' = B + B' + 2 A'.
In other words, these two overlaps will be tinted with the colours
A, A'. This may bo verified by taking away the combination Q., P,.
And further, since the vibrations in the images B + A, B' -f A, are
at right angles to one another (as likewise are those in B + A',
B'+ A'), it follows that when the polarizer N is turned round and the
images change colour, the complementary character of the overlaps in
question will always be maintained.
    The same will be the case with the overlaps B + A, B + A' ; and
B' + A, B' + A'. But in order to verify this in the same way as in
the former case, viz. by taking away the combination Q P, it must be
borne in mind that the original plane of polarization must coincide
with that of one of the images produced by Q, Pr And it may be
further noticed that if the original plane of polarization be altered by
turning the Nicol N alone, the angle between the principal planes of
P and P, will remain the same ; and consequently the overlap in
question will continue of the same colour whatever be the position
ofN.
    Lastly, as regards the overlaps of B + A and B ' + A', and of
B' + A and B + A'. It is clear that in both cases the images will
have been deprived of the two pairs of complementary colours A, A',
B, B ' ; and therefore if the suppressed colours were all of the same
intensity the overlaps would be uniformly white or grey. But as this
is not the case, the parts in question will in general be tinted with the
colours complementary to the feeblest of those suppressed. In fact,
in the images
                            B + A and B' + A',
if A be a feeble colour, A' will in general be strong, and excepting
when the reverse is the case with B and B ', the tint of B + A will
depend mainly on that produced by Q P, while that of B' + A' will
depend mainly on that produced by Q, P! . Again, if in the same
images, B approaches to A', then will B' approach A, and tho two
images will approach the same tint ; whilo on the other hand, under
the same circumstances the images
                            B + A' and B' + A
will approach to complementary tints. In proportion as the common
colour of the two first-mentioned images approaches to a grey, so will
the overlap of the two last mentioned approach to white. In other
cases the two overlaps in question will be of complementary tints.
    We might apply the same train of reasoning to the triple overlaps,
 but the main interest of these parts of tho figure consists in this, that
 each of the triple overlaps is complementary to the fourth single
 image not comprised in it ; e.g. B + A is complementary to
 B' + A + B + A' + B' + A'; and similarly for the others. Tbis
 follows from tho obvious fact that the quadruple overlap of all four

 1874.]                   on Combinations of Colour.                   295
 single images is necessarily white. But the colours suppressed in
 each single image are together complementary to the colour of the
 image. Hence the colour of any triple overlap is the same to the eyo
 as the mixture of the two colours suppressed in the outstanding single
 image. But since by turning the Nicol N we can displace the two
 bands in any way we please, and also by turning P, we can displaco
 one of them in any way, we have the power of suppressing any two
 portions of the spectrum at will, and consequently of exhibiting to
 the eye the result of the combination of any two such portions.
     A further step in the combination of colour may be mado by
 using a third quartz Q2 , and a third double-image prism P2 , which
 will give rise to eight images ; and using symbols similar to those
 used before, wo may represent the tints suppressed by Q2 P2 by tho
 letters C C. The number of tints suppressed in each image is conse
 quently three ; and by seeking out the compartments which give the
 complementaries of each of the eight images, wo shall have the repre
 sentations of tho threo tints suppressed. It is hardly necessary to point
 out that by causing different parts Q P, Ql P,, Q2 P2, of the instrument
 to rotate, wo can suppress any three tints at will. The formulae for
 the eight images will be
                            C  + B   + A or      OOO
                            C  + B'  + A' „      OOE
                            C' + B'  +A „         OEO
                            C  + B   + A' „       OEE
                            C  + B   +A „         EOO
                            C' + B'  + A' „       EOE
                            C  + B'  +A „        EE0
                           C   + B   + A' „      EEE
     The number of combinations of tint as given by tho compartments
of the complete figure is as follows : —
                            g
                                            sinjrle
                                         8 oiuglO
                                         o
                             1
                           S.7
                                    =   28 double
                           1.2
                         8.7. 6
                                    =   56 triple
                         1.2.3
                        8.7.6.5
                                    =   70 quadruple
                        1.2.3.4
                         8.7.6
                                    =   50 quintuple
                         1.2.3
                          8.7
                                   =    28 sextuple
                          1.2
                            8
                                   =     8 septuple
                             1
                             1      =     1 octuple
or 255 in all. It is perhaps unnecessary to follow these com
binations out in detail, especially as the most interesting feature
   Vol. VII. (No. 61.)                                          x

296          Mr. Spottiswoode on Combinations of Colour.       [April 17,
consists in the fact that the subjoined pairs are complementary to
one another, viz. :—
                        OOO                EOE
                     C+B+A              C + B' + A'
                        EOO                OOE
                     C+ B+A             C + B' + A'
                        EEO                 OEE
                     C + B' + A         0' + B + A'
                        EEE                 OEO
                     C + B + A'         C' + B' + A
Having this table in view, the application of the figure to the visible
representation of the mixture of colours is simpler in this case than in
that of four images ; for to each single image corresponds as comple
mentary another single image, and we can at once read off the results
required without seeking any overlaps.
    When the double-image prisms are so arranged that the separa
tions due to P, P,, P™, are directed parallel to the sides of an equi
lateral triangle respectively, it is not difficult to read off the images
in pairs. The scheme of images may then be disposed as follows, viz. :
                            OEO         000
                EEO         EOO         OEE          OOE
                            EEE         EOE
 And the pairs will be read off two horizontally and two vertically, by
 taking alternate images in each horizontal and in each vertical row,
 thus:—
                           OOO,         EOE;
                           EOO,         OOE;
                           EEO,         OEE;
                           EEE,         OEO.
                                                               [W. EL]

1874.]              Mr. C. W. Merrifield on Sea Wave*.                297
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 24, 1874.
       George Busk, Esq. F.E.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
              Charles Watkinb Merrifield, Esq. F.E.S.
                               On Sea Waves.
 The speaker, in beginning his discourse, pointed out the special
importance, in understanding the subject, of knowing that the advance
 of a wave is neither .necessarily nor generally accompanied by any
 corresponding advance of the water itself. There are many other forms
 of motion in which this advance of form only occurs ; and he exhibited
 large models of screws, pointing out that when the barrel on which
 the screw is cut is simply turned round without advancing, the
 screw-thread appears to advance like a series of waves ; but that when
 the screw works in a nut, so that the screw advances, then the screw-
 thread remains apparently at rest. In the same way, in sea waves
 which appear to advance rapidly the water has no sensible motion of
 advance, while in the series of waves often seen below a bridge or
 shoal in a rapid river the water does advance, and the waves stand
 still.
      What really constitutes a wave is that each particle of water shall
 go through the same little dance of its own, while the successive
 particles " take up the dance " in regular order. There will then be
 a wave or series' of waves, whether there bo any general movement or
 current in the water or not.
      As the motion of a troubled sea is too complex to be understood
 without first considering the simpler forms of wave-motion, the
 speaker selected for illustration the simple succession of waves called
 " swell," or smooth ground-sea of deep water. This, as is well known,
 consists of a series of long unbroken ridges of water, apparently moving
 with considerable speed and force ; yet, what the particles of water
 are actually doing is simply going round and round in circles in
 vertical planes ; these planes being at right angles to the lines of the
 ridges, and the diameters of the circles being tho height of the wave
 from valley to crest. There is no appreciable advance of the water ;
 the advance of the wave being due to the particles taking up the dance
  in regular succession. If a disk or circle be rolled along the foot of
 a wall, a nail sticking out from it anywhere between its centre and its
 edge would trace on the wall the same curves (only upside down) as
                                                               x 2

298                Mr. C. W. Merrifield on Sea Waves.          [April 24,
the profiles of the wave. A screw-thread drawn, in suitable perspective
also gives the same curves.
    After giving this general notion of tho sea wave, Mr. Merrifield
pointed out its internal mechanical structure, showing that it consists of
a series of undulating stratified layers (forming horizontal planes when
the water is still), which undergo no mixing with one another. In the
same way the water may be also ideally separated into vertical columns,
which again do not mix, but only sway to and fro like stalks of barley
when the wind sweeps over the field of corn. Only in the sea waves
tho columns lengthen as the wave crest approaches and shorten after
it has passed away, always leaning towards the crest of the wave.
The swell or ground-sea of deep water thus simply heaves the mass of
water without stirring or mixing it, and without any goneral motion
of advanco, notwithstanding tho apparent rapid motion of the waves.
    In this absolute form the kind of wave described is perhaps rather
the limiting condition which the waves tend to assume when left to
the action of gravity alone than a state of things absolutely realized.
Still, the departuro from it is much smaller than might be supposed ;
and the apparent confusion of motion, when once the wind ceases, is
rather due to several systems of swell, of different dimensions, existing
at the same time and place, than to any essential difference in tho
character of tho motion. After some details respecting the combination
of waves and their height and length, the discourse was concluded
with some remarks^ on waves of shallow water, and on the formation
of waves in a rising storm. The illustrations consisted of diagrams
and models.

 1874.]                           Annual Meeting.                                299
                          ANNUAL MEETING,
                               Friday, May 1, 1874.
        Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
      The Annual Beport of the Committee of Visitors for the year 1873
 was read and adopted. This Eoport testifies to the increasing pros
 perity and efliciency of the Institution, and congratulates the Members
 on the fact that the New Laboratories have been constructed and
 fitted up by means of funds contributed by themselves ; and that this
 heavy charge is not larger than the surplus income of a few years will
 probably be able to reimburse.
      Fifty new Members were elected in 1873.
      Sixty-two Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses wore de
 livered in 1873.
      Tho Books and Pamphlets presented in 1873 amounted to about
 120 volumes, making, with those purchased by the Managers, a total
 of 259 volumes added to the Library in the year, exclusive of
 periodicals.
     Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the Professors, for
their services to the Institution during the past year.
     The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers for
the ensuing year :-
       President—The Duke of Northumberland, D.C.L.
       Treasurer— George Busk, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.
       Secretary—William Spottiswoodo, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Treas.R.S.
               Managers.                                    Visitors.
George Berkley, Esq. C.E.                   Joseph Brown, Esq. Q.C.
Aim. Sir Henry John Codrington, K.C.B.      John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.        Alexander John Ellis, Esq. F.R.S.
Sir T. Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G.           Col. James Augustus Grant, C.B. F.R.S.
Edward Frankland, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.        Lieut. -Gen Sir Frederick William Hamil
   Cor. M. Acad. Sc. Paris.                    ton, K.C.B.
Francis Galton, Esq. F.R.S.                Thomas Hyde Hills, Esq.
John Peter Gassiot, Esq. D.C.L. F R.S.     Robert Pilkington Linton, Esq. F.R.C.S.
Cxsar H. Hawkins, Esq. F.R.S.              William Millar, Esq.
Alfred Latham, Esq.                        A. C. Brisbane Neill, M.D.
John Carrick Moore, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.       Wyndham Spencer Portal, Esq.
   F.G.S.                                  William Salmon, Esq.
Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.       John Bell Sedgwick, Esq.
The Earl of Rosse, D.C.L. F.R.S.           James Spedding, Esq.
Robert P. Roupell, Esq. M.A. Q.C.          The Hon. John Gage Prendergast Vereker.
C. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.     Hensleigh Wedgwood, Esq.
Colonel Philip James Yurke, F.R.S.

300                         Professor RollesUm                       [May 1,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 1, 1874.
     George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                  Professor Eollkston, M.D. F.R.S.
             The Early Inhabitants of the North of England.
Professor Rolleston began his discourse by referring to various
objects before him, such as urns and their contents, ornaments, and
other relics, procured from the graves of the various races who suc
cessively inhabited the North of England. He then described tho
discovery of a very large number of Anglo-Saxon cremation urns in a
part of the East Riding of Yorkshire which is connected with the
names of Edwin, Paullinus, and Coifi ; a fact affording strong confir
mation of his opinion, propounded to the members March 25, 1870,
that the Anglo-Saxons were exceedingly numerous in Britain. He
also exhibited and described some sets of ornaments obtained by him
in the same district from Anglo-Saxon burials, which afford evidence of
a stage between Heathen cremation and Christian burial, as described
by him in the ' Archaeologia,' vol. xlii. 1870. With these relics
 some much older implements as well as others quite modern have been
accidentally or purposely mixed up in the graves themselves, and
 have thus led, or may lead, to various fallacies.
     A brief summary was then given of the way in which cremation
 sculpture in England during the period of Saxon heathendom, from
 a.d. 450 to 630, gave nay in Roman Britain to inhumation, from the
 date of the generation subsequent to Septimus Soverus down to a.d.
 450.
     Before passing to the description of the pre-Roman and pre
 historic modes of interment practised in the North of England, the
 Professor made some remark on the rationale, or, as it may be termed,
 the genesis of cremation, and expressed his mingled assent and dissent
 to the recently published views of Professor Unger ; and the account
 of the "Funeral Ceremonies of the Ancient Hindus," given by
 Babu Rajendralala Mitra in the 'Journal of the Asiatic Society,'
 No. 4, 1870.
     Affection for a deceased relative may have suggested two objects
 to the survivors of all ages ; firstly, the preservation of the surroundings
 of the deceased in the very condition in which they were at the time

1874.]      on the Early Inhabitants of the North of England.        301
of death ; this object being felt to be a right one, as the mourner did
not realize the fact of death in all its bearings at once. Secondly, it
was felt to be right to have the remains of the departed preserved
under the protection and in the proximity of kinsfolk. The chambered
long barrow, with its inmates ranged in a crouching position along its
wall, having food and other things placed side by side with them,
in imitation of the home tenanted by them in life, answered both
purposes.
    Difficulties of transport, death in war, or by plague, or the natural
consequences of a hot climate, as described by Tiresias in the ' Anti
gone ' of Sophocles, often made cremation the only possible mode of
securing at least the second of these objects.
    The Professor concluded with a description, illustrated by dia
grams, of the round and long barrows of the North of England, at the
examination of which by the Rev. Canon Wm. Greenwell he had
many times assisted.
    The following passage from Wordsworth's ' Preludo ' (Book xiii.)
is beautifully illustrative of the subject of the discourse :—
              " Time with his retinue of ages fled
                Backwards, nor checked his flight until I saw
                Our dim ancestral Past in vision clear ;
                Saw multitudes of men, and, here and there,
                A single Briton clothed in wolfskin vest,
                With shield and stone-axe stride across the wold ;
                The voice of spears was heard, the rattling spear,
                Shaken by arms of mighty bone, in strength,
                Long mouldered, of barbaric majesty."

 302                        General Monthly Meeting.                   [May 4,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, May 4, 1874.
  The Duke of Northumrerland, D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
     The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year were
 nominated—
            Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.
            Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.
            The Earl of Rosse, D.C.L. F.R.S.
            George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. the Treasurer.
            William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. the Secretary.
                     Miss Constance Charlotte Astley,
                     G. L. Basset, Esq.
                     William Morgan Brown, Esq.
                     Josiah Owen Corrie, Esq.
                     Henry Deacon, Esq. J.P. F.C.S.
                     Gordon Kenmure Hardie, M.D.
                     George James Sheridan Lock, Esq.
                     Thomas Frederick Miller, Esq.
                     Samuel Sampson, Esq.
                     Thomas Taylor, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     John Tyndall, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. was re-elected Professor of
Natural Philosophy.
     The Managers announced that they had appointed John Hall
Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. Fullerian Professor of Chemistry in
the room of Dr. Odling, resigned.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
    From
The Lards of the Admiralty—Capt. G. S. Nares : Reports of H.M.S. ' Challenger.*
     fol. 1873.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Second Series, Vol. X. Part 1.
     8vo. 1874.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIV. No. 5. 8vo. 1874.

  1874.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                           303
  Basel Naturforschende QeseUschaft—Verhandluugen, Vlter Theil, Istes Hoft. 8vo.
        1874.
  Bentleii, Professor, F.L.S.—Lecture on Eucalyptus Globulus.         (K 99) 8vo.
        1874.
  Bombay Branch of Royal Asiatic Society—Journal, Vol. X. No. 28. 8vo. 1873.
  British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1873-4, Nos. 8, 9. 4to.
  British Museum Trustees—Guide to Grafco-Roman Sculptures. l6to. 1874.
  Chemical Society—Journal for March, April, 1874. 8vo.
  Comitate Geologico d'ltalia, R.—Bolletini, Vol. IV. 8vo. Firenze, 1873.
  Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1874. 8vo.
     Astronomical Register for April, 1874. 8vo.
    AthenoBum for April, 1874. 4to.
     Chemical News for April, 1874. 4to.
     Engineer for April, 1874. fol.
     Food Journal for April, 1874. 4to.
    Journal for Applied Science for April, 1874. fol.
     Journal of.Gas-Lighting for April, 1874. 4to.
     Nature for April, 1874. 4to.
     Nautical Magazine for April, 1874. 8vo.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for April, 1874. 8vo.
     Quarterly Journal of Science for April, 1874. 8vo.
     Telegraph Journal for April, 1874. 8vo.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 578, 579. 8vo. 1874.
  Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XVI [I. No. 2. 8vo. 1874.
 llarlem, SociCtC des Sciences—Archives Ncerlanduises, Tome VIII. Liv. 3, 4. 8vo.
        1873.
    D. Mulder Bosgoed, Bibliotheca Ichthyologies, et Piscatoria. 8vo. Harlem,
       1873.
 Liverpool Polytechnic Society—Transactions, 1853-6. 8vo.
    Journal, 1865-70. 3 vols. 8vo.
 Manchester Philosophical Society—Memoirs, Third Series, Vol. IV. 8vo. 1871.
    Proceedings, Vols. VIII. IX. X. XIII. Nos. 7-11. 8vo. 1869-73.
 Martin, James, Esq. F.M.S. (the Author)—The Magic Lantern. 16to. 1870.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, Oct. 1873. 8vo.
 Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal — Proceedings, Vol. VII. No. 5. 8vo.
       1874.
 Mustfe Teyler—Archives, Vol. III. Fasc. 3. 8vo. Harlem, 1873.
 Photographic Society —Journal, No. 249. 8vo. 1873.
Preussische Akademie der Wiesenschaften—Monatsberichte, Feb. 1874. 8vo.
Rolleston, Professor, M.D. F.fl.S.—Photograph of Urns from Barrows in Yorkshire.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXVII. Part 1. 4to. 1873.
    Proceedings, No. 85. 8vo. 1873.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 151. 8vo. 1874.
Royal Society of Tasmania—Monthly Notices, 1872. 8vo. 1873.
Schicarz, F. M. Esq.—A. Kaimondi : El Departmento de Ancachs y sus Iliquesas
       Minerales. 4to. Lima. 1873.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXVII. Part 1. 8vo. 1874.
Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 28. 8vo. 1873.

304                         Mr. Sedley Taylor                    [May 8,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 8, 1874.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                      Sedley Taylor, Esq. M.A.
   An Historical Enigma in the Trial of Galileo before the Inquisition.
                                [Abstract.]
The best informed historians who have hitherto treated of tho con
demnation of Galileo by the Inquisition are unanimously of opinion
that the Tribunal, whatever may bo thought of the wisdom of its pro
ceedings, had a clear legal right to punish the Italian philosopher for
tho course he pursued.
    The object of the present Discourse is to show that fresh evidence,
brought to light within the last eight years, renders it all but certain
that the Court was technically in the wrong, and the accused entitled
to an unconditional acquittal. A rapid survey of the evidence at the
disposal of historians up to the year 1850 will serve as a convenient
introduction to a description of the sources of information opened
since that time. Galileo was born in 1564. In 1589 he was ap
pointed to a Professorship at Pisa, which in 1592 he exchanged for a
similar post at the University of Padua. It was probably about this
time that he became a convert to the heliocentric system of astronomy,
which had been published to the world by Copernicus in his great
work, De Revolutionibus Orbum Coslestium, in 1543. For some years
Galileo seems to have observed a policy of reticence on the subject,
and in his public lectures to have gone on teaching the old Ptolemaic
system. By 1615, however, he must have allowed his genuine con
victions to appear, for in that year the monks of the Monastery of
St. Mark at Florence proceeded to the extreme measure of denouncing
him to the Inquisition. The result of the step was that on March 5,
1616, the Congregation of the Index issued a decree pronouncing the
heliocentric theory to be false and contrary to Holy Scripture, and
ordering the withdrawal from circulation of the work of Copernicus,
until such time as certain alterations in its text should have been
decided upon by the Congregation, and effected under their orders.
This Index decree, and the list of corrections which appeared four
years after it, are of great historical importance as determining the
attitude which astronomers who were members of the Roman Church
were required henceforth to assume towards the new theory. A
careful examination and comparison of these two documents leaves
no manner of doubt as to the extent of the restrictions which tho
ecclesiastical authorities were resolved to impose. All theological
argumentation on the side of the new theory was to be peremptorily

1874.]                    on the Tried of Galileo.                     305
silenced. On the other hand, writers who adopted a purely scientific
mode of treatment were not debarred from producing philosophical
arguments which made in favour of the revolutionary astronomical
doctrine, but they wore prohibited from expressing belief in its truth,
and required to couch all their conclusions in hypothetical language.
    In 1632 Galileo published his famous 'Dialogue on the Ptolemaic
and Copernican Systems.' This work presented, in a popular and
singularly attractive dress, the case of the new against the old
astronomy. It caused a prodigious excitement among all classes of
cultivated men, gave the most mortal offence to the school of Aris
totle, and notably to Galileo's declared enemies, the Jesuits, and led
directly to all the misfortunes and suffering which were destined to
embitter the remainder of his life. The Dialogue was suddenly sus
pended by a peremptory order from Rome, and, two months later,
Galileo was cited to appear personally before the Inquisition on a
charge of heresy. Ill-health prevented his reaching the capital until
the middle of February, 1633, and the Court did not pronounce sen
tence until the latter part of June in the same year. The prisoner
was convicted on two main issues—
     (1.) That the Dialogue transgressed the limits laid down by the
decree of the Index.
     (2.) That it was a violation of a special personal injunction, con
taining far more stringent restrictions than those of the public decree,
which, as the Tribunal asserted, had been formally served on Galileo
on the 26th of February, 1616, by the Commissary-General of the
Holy Office.
     The first allegation was so inherently feeble, that it could not even
sustain a straightforward referenco to the actual text of the Index
decree ; and the Court, in order to give it some apparent colour, were
 obliged to resort to the humiliating expedient of garbling the statute
 which they pretended to be enforcing. The answer to be made on
 behalf of the accused is complete and decisive. In the first place,
 Galileo, in writing his Dialogue, had most carefully adopted the attitudo
 prescribed by the Index Congregation ; and, secondly, even had he
 not done so, was completely shielded by the fact that he had sub
 mitted the work in manuscript to the Papal licensing authority, and
 obtained the regular Imprimatur before proceeding to publication.
     The second allegation was a far more serious matter. The
 injunction (or precept, as it was technically described) which Galileo
 was asserted to have received from the Inquisition, contained a clause
 forbidding him to defend or teach the Copernican doctrine in any
 manner whatever, either by word of mouth or in writing. No one who is
 acquainted with the contents of tho Dialogue can have any doubt
 that, though compatible with the terms of the Index decreo, they are
 utterly inconsistent with the far stricter enactments of tho private
 inhibition. Everything therefore turns on this question : Was the
 precept actually delivered to the accused as stated by thc Tribunal f
     It is a remarkable circumstance that subsequent historians have,

 306                         Mr. Sedley Taylor                    [May 8,
 one and all, accepted this unsupported assertion of the Court, although
 there lay on the surface of the final Sentence a glaring contradiction
 with respect to this crucial point of the whole trial. This contradic
 tion is as follows. In the course of a summary of the events of the
 case with which the Sentence opens, it is stated that on February 25,
  1616, Cardinal Bellarmine was commissioned by the Holy Office to
 send for Galileo and give him a private admonition to relinquish tho
 Copernican tenet. In the event of his non-acquiescence, the Com
 missary of the Holy Office was to intervene with the formal precept
 already referred to. On the following day the precept was actually
 delivered by the Commissary, Cardinal Bellarmine being, it is explicitly
 stated, present throughout the proceeding. Later in the Sentence, when
 the defence set up by the accused has to be examined, an autograph
 certificate given to Galileo by Bellarmine is cited. The Cardinal
 certifies that no injunction exceeding in stringency the decree of tJie
 Index had, as far as ho was awaro, been laid on the accused. Theso
 statements are clearly inconsistent with each other, and we here,
 therefore, have the Inquisition in 1633 contradicting a former leading
member of their own body on a matter of fact which they themselves
 assert to have occurred in his immediate presence. This conflict of
evidence is the " Enigma " in Galileo's trial referred to in tho title of
 this Discourse.
     No fresh light was thrown on this subject till 1850, when Marino
Marini, Prefect of Papal Archives, published a certain number of
extracts from the official minutes of the trial preserved in the Records
of the Inquisition. His work has since been superseded, and is now
only interesting as showing that its author had recognized the Enigma
and thought it desirable to submit tho documents which revealed it to
a series of manipulations designed to efface all traces of the unwelcome
indications which, in their original form, thoy contained.
     In 1867 M. Henri de VEpinois was allowed by the Roman authorities
to publish in extenso the greater part of the documents from which
Marini had given only meagre, disjointed, and untrustworthy extracts.
These embrace the text of the minute on tho strength of which
the Inquisition asserted the delivery of the Commissary's precept,
a verbatim report of Galileo's examinations during the trial, and a
copy of his defence handed in in writing to the Tribunal.
     In 1870 Professor Silvio Gherardi published a number of fresh
documents, of the existence of which nothing was previously known,
and which he discovered during a search in the Archives of the
Inquisition, instituted during the short suspension of the temporal
power in 1848 and 1849. One of these, copied by Signor Gherardi
with his own hands from the original, has a singularly cogent bearing
on tho special point under consideration, as will presently be seen.
     Herr Emil Wohlwill, of Hamburg, in a pamphlet published in
1870, had the distinguished merit of for the first time clearly stating
tho nature of the Enigma of the trial, examining the inferences to be
drawn from De l'Epinois' new documents with respect to it, and

1874.]                     on the Trial of Galileo.                    307
advancing a theory of his own for its solution. The conclusion he has
arrived at is, that the precept of 1616 was not delivered to Galileo at all,
and that the minute asserting its delivery is a fraudulent fabrication,
perpetrated in order to secure a condemnation which could not be ob
tained by fair means. It is a satisfactory circumstance that tho
principal document unearthed by Gherardi, and published after the
appearance of Wohlwill's pamphlet, confirms the above conclusion in
the most striking manner, and indeed led Gherardi, in ignorance of
Wohlwill's very existence, to a view substantially identical with his.
     The trial minute, whose genuineness Wohlwill attacks, sets out
the Commissary's professed execution of the instructions issued to
him by his superiors, which arc detailed in the preceding minute.
The instructions provided that the Commissary was only to intervene
 in the case on the occurrence of a particular contingency, viz.
 Galileo's refusal to obey the Cardinal's admonition ; whereas, accord
ing to tho disputed minute, he seems to have delivered his messago
the moment Bellarmine had ceased speaking, and, as the languago
used seems to imply, without even pausing to ascertain whether
Galileo intended to submit or not. This discrepancy can only be
removed by assuming, without a tittle of direct evidence, that Galileo
refused to acquiesce when admonished by the Cardinal, and so brought
down upon himself the precept of the Commissary, an assumption of
course quite inadmissible, especially on so vital an issue. On tho
other hand, if it can be shown eithor that Galileo submitted to the
private admonition, or that the precept was not really delivered to
him, the sole ground which could justify a conviction is destroyed,
and the reasoning of the sentence falls hopelessly to pieces. Hence
evidence in support of Wohlwill's theory will be equally to the point
whother it goes to prove the first or the second of these propositions.
The argumonts now to be produced (which are nearly all due to tho
sagacity and research of Wohlwill) will bo conveniently grouped
under a corresponding arrangement, as showing
     (1.) That Galileo acquiesced when admonished by Bellarmine.
     (2.) That he did not receive the Commissary's precept.
     Under the first head a certain weight is duo to the fact that
Galileo was a devout and warmly attached member of the Roman
Church, and therefore very unlikely to have resisted an appeal from
the most eminent Cardinal in Romo, who, besides being tho leading
member of tho Holy Office at the time, had previously evinced a per
sonally friendly interest in tho philosopher. This presumption is
strengthened by the fact that, in contemporary letters of Galileo, wo
find him congratulating himself on the docile and filial attitude
towards tho Church authorities which he had maintained throughout
this whole affair. He repeats tho same asseverations, almost in tho
same words, in a letter written two years after his condemnation, and
dwells on them as constituting one of his main consolations under
punishment which he was conscious of having done nothing to deserve.
There was at this time no hope of obtaining any further mitigation of

308                        Mr. Sedley Taylor                      [May 8,
his sentence by professions of zeal for the Church, and no use in
making them had they not been true and genuine.
     Passing from merely presumptive arguments, we come to the docu
ment published by Gherardi to which reference has already been
made. It relates how, on the 3rd of March, 1616, Cardinal Bellar-
mine reported in person that Galileo, being admonished to abandon
the heliocentric position, had acquiesced. Unless this document can
be shown to bo spurious, its testimony in support of proposition (1) is
conclusive.
     In the second group of evidence a leading position is due to Bel-
larmine's certificate, written with his own hand and given to Galileo
within threo months of tho interview. Its gist is that nothing more
than the substanco of the Index decree was communicated to Galileo
on the occasion. The interview took place after the contents of the
decree had been decided upon by the Congregation, but before its
actual publication, so that the role of the Cardinal clearly was to give
Galileo an early intimation of what was coming, and secure his pro
mise of adhesion. The Court was evidently satisfied as to the genuine
ness of the certificate, and, this being so, there appears to be no way
of avoiding the inference which follows from it negativing the delivery
 of the Commissary's precept.
     A series of facts, derived principally from Galileo's correspond
ence, point in the same direction.
     Within a fortnight of the interview with Bcllarmine, Galileo had
 an audience of the Pope, who assured him how well he stood with
 himself and tho whole Congregation of the Holy Office—an incident
 which could scarcely have occurred had he so recently resisted the
 leading Cardinal of their body, and, in consequence, been visited with
 a peremptory and threatening inhibition at the hands of their Com
missary-General.
      In all his writings on the Copornican doctrine subsequent to tho
 decree of the Index, Galileo took especial care to conform to its
 requirements, and generally inserted an explicit statement of his
 adhesion. He must have been aware that this was a perfectly futile
 precaution if ho was all the time violating moro severe restrictions
 personally laid upon himself.
      An extremely cogent argument against the reality of the Commis
 sary's message is supplied by tho history of the negotiations which
 preceded the publication of tho great Dialogue. Galileo placed in tho
 hands of the licensing authority at Home a work tho very title of
 which constituted a violation of the Commissary's precept. Tho
 manuscript, after being subjected to minute inspection, recoived the
 final approval of the licensers, whose Imprimaturs adorn the first page
 of the volume. Their conduct is perfectly intelligible on the assump
 tion that the Index decree alone guided their scrutiny. On the opposite
 theory wo can only account for it by tho extremely improbable hypo
  thesis that the Inquisition, after taking especial pains to bind Galileo
 over to absolute silence about the Copernican system, neglected to

1874.]                     on the Trial of Galileo.                  309
inform the licensers of the fact, and thus rendered futile the pre
cautionary measures which they had themselves deemed it necessary
to adopt.
     The statements of Galileo during his trial are irreconcilable with
the delivery of the Commissary's precept. In the interrogatory which
took place on April 12, the examining official, who manifestly held in
his hand the disputed minute, endeavoured, by reading aloud isolated
portions of its text, to recall the incident it described to the memory
of the accused, and elicit from him an admission of its truth. These
efforts were fruitless. Galileo deposed that he had no recollection of
a formal communication having been made to him on the subject by
any other person than Cardinal Bellarmine. Further, in his written
defence handed in to the Tribunal, he urged that the authentic
attestation which he possessed in the Cardinal's certificate contained
no vestige of an indication that any injunction had been laid upon him
additional to the general decree of the Index, which concerned every
one alike.
     These statements can only be set aside by hypotheses of defective
memory, or of deliberate perjury. The former is out of the question,
the cross-examination of the accused alone sufficing, had we no other
evidence, to show that Galileo's memory at this period was singularly
keen and retentive. To deny on oath facts as to which he knew from
 the lips of the presiding judge that the Court was in possession of a
 formally attested record, was a course so hopeless in itself, and so
 likely to lead to the immediate application of the torture, that it is
 impossible to attribute it to a man of ordinary circumspection, to say
 nothing of one possessing preeminent tact and sagacity.
      This concludes the evidence to be now alleged in support of pro
 position (2).
      The chain of facts and arguments above briefly set out constitutes
 the case by which Wohlwill claims to havo proved that a supposititious
 document, fabricated for that very purpose, was the instrument which
 alone rendered possible the condemnation of Galileo. It will hardly
 be denied that the evidence he has collected renders it far more
 probable that the story of the Commissary and the precept of 1616 is
 a fiction than that it is a fact. The only chance of modifying this
 conclusion lies in the production of additional evidence, and it is the
 main object of this Discourse to appeal to those in whose custody such
 evidence unquestionably exists no longer to withhold it. In conse
 quence of the disclosures spontaneously made by the Roman authorities
  through M. de 1'EpiDois, the Inquisition is brought under the gravest
 suspicion of having, in perhaps the most celebrated and momentous
  case ever brought before it, inflicted a cruel wrong on the ground of a
  gross fraud. Unless, therefore, they prefer the judgment of history
  to go by default, the custodians of the Vatican Library will do well to
  publish in facsimile all the Galileo documents in their possession, so
  as, if possible, to bring this question to a decisive issue.
                                                                [8. T.]

 310                     Dr. C. William Siemens                 [Maj 15,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 15, 1874.
    The Eakl of Rosse, D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
               C. William Siemens, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I.
      The Steamship ' Faraday ' and her Appliances for Cable-laying.
 The speaker in his introductory remarks observed that an electric
telegraph consisted essentially of three parts, viz. the electro-motor
or battery, the conductor, and the receiving instrument. He demon
 strated experimentally that the conductor need not necessarily be
metallic, but that water or rarefied air might be used as such within
moderate limits; at the same time, for long submarino lines, insulated
conductors strengthened by an outer sheathing were necessary to
ensure perfect transmission and immunity from accident. The first
attempts at insulation, which consisted in the use of pitch and
resinous matters, failed completely, and in the years 1846 and 1847
the two gums india-rubber and gutta-percha wero introduced, the
former by Prof. Jacobi of St. Petersburg, and the latter by Dr.
Werner Siemens of Berlin. This last gum soon became almost indis
pensable to the cable manufacturer on account of its remarkable plas
ticity at low temperatures and its insulating property.
     The first outer sheathing used was a tube of lead drawn tightly
over tho insulated wire, and this again was covered with pieces of
wrought-iron tubing connected by ball and socket joints ; in this way
the Elbe and other rivers were crossed successfully in 1848-50. This
method was superseded later on by tho spiral-wire sheathing, first
proposed by Mr. Brett in 1851 for the Dover and Calais cable ; sinco
then, with few modifications and exceptions, this form has been
universally adopted.
     Tho speaker next enumerated the casualties to which submarine
cables are liable, and the precautions employed to obviate them. He
showed specimens destroyed by rust and the ravages of a species of
teredo. On the Indo-European Cable line a curious case of fracture
occurred ; a whale, becoming entangled in a portion of cable over
hanging a ledge of rock, broke it, and in striving to get free had so
wound one end round its flukes that escape became hopeless, and so
had fallen an easy prey to sharks, which had half devoured it when
the grappling iron brought his remains to the surface. Other enemies
to be dreaded are landslips, ships' anchors, and abrading currents.
    The new Atlantic cable consists, for tho deep-sea portion, of
copper conductors, gutta-percha insulators, and a sheathing of steel

1874.]                 on the Steamship ' Faraday.'                   311
wires covered with hemp ; the shallow-water part consists of similar
conductors and insulators sheathed with hemp, which in turn is
covered with iron wire.
    In paying out, no catenary is formed, as might be supposed, but
the cable passes in a straight lino from the ship to the sea-bottom—
a proposition which the speaker demonstrated experimentally by
means of a long trough with glass sides filled with water. The
retaining force applied by the brake wheel should be equal to the
weight of a piece of cable hanging vertically downwards to the bottom
of the sea. In picking up, a catenary is formed, but a vertical
position is the best, because it produces the least resistance.
     From the peculiar nature of the service for which a telegraph-
ship is required, it is evident that she must possess properties some
what different from those of ordinary ocean-going steamers ; thus
 speed is not so important as great manoeuvring powers, which will
enable her to turn easily in a small space, or by which she may be
maintained in a given position for a considerable time. In the ship
 about to be described an attempt had been made to meet these
requirements.
     The ' Faraday,' of 5000 tons register, was built at Neweastle by
 the eminent firm of Messrs. Mitchell and Go. She is 360 feet long,
 62 feet beam, and 36 feet depth of hold ; there are three large water
 tight cable tanks having a capacity of 110,000 cubic feet; these are
 each 27 feet deep ; two are 45 feet in diameter, and one is 37 feet ;
 they can take in 1700 miles of cable 1^ inch in diameter. After the
 cable is coiled in, the tanks are filled up with water to keep it cool ;
 for the speaker had found, when conducting experiments on the Malta
 and Alexandria cable with his electrical resistance thermometer, that
 heat was spontaneously generated in the cable itself, whereby its
 insulation was seriously endangered.
     The ' Faraday ' has stem and stern alike, and is fitted with a rudder
 at each end ; both are worked by steam-steering apparatus placed amid
 ships, and are capable of being rigidly fixed when required. She is
 propelled by a pair of cast-steel screw propellers 12 feet in diameter,
 driven by a pair of compound engines constructed with a view to
 great economy of fuel. The two screws converge somewhat, and the
 effect of this arrangement is to enable the vessel to turn in her own
 length when the engines are worked in opposite directions. On the
 voyage from Neweastle to London a cask was thrown overboard, and
 from this as a centre the ship turned in her own length in 8 minutes
 20 seconds, touching the cask three times during the operation. This
 manoeuvring power is of great importance in such a case as repairing
 a fault in the cable, as it enables the engineer to keep her head in
 position, and, in short, to place her just where necessary, in defiance
 of side winds or currents.
      The testing-room of the electrician in charge is amidships, and so
 placed as to command the two larger tanks, while the ship's speed can
 be at all times noted on the index of a Berthon hydrostatic log.
    Vol. VII. (No. 61.)                              *            t

 312                       Dr. G. William Siemens                   [May 15,
      The deck is fitted with machinery to be used in laying operations,
 which will be best described by tracing the path of the cable from the
  tanks to the sea. Let ns begin with the bow compartment : the cable,
  which lies coiled round one of Newall's cones, begins to be unwound,
  passes up through an eye carried on a beam placed across the hatch,
  next over a large pulley fitted with guides, and by a second pulley is
  gently made to follow a straight wooden trough fitted with friction
  rollers, which carries it aft to near the funnels ; here it passes through
  the "jockey," which is a device for regulating the strain, consisting of
  a wheel riding on the cable, which can be adjusted by a lever, and a
  drum fitted with a brake. Thence it passes on to a " compound paying-
  out and picking-up machine," which consists of a large drum provided
  with a friction brake, and round it the cable passes three times ; it is
  also furnished with a steam-engine, which by means of a clutch can
  be geared on £o the drum when required. Now, in paying out, the
  cable causes the drum to revolve as it runs over it, and the brakes
  regulate the speed as the vessel moves onward ; but should a fault or
  other accident render it necessary to recover a portion, the drum is
  stopped and geared on to the engine, the ship's engines are reversed,
  the stern rudder fixed ; and so what was formerly the bow is now the
  stern, while the little engine hauls in the cable over tho same drum
 which before was used to pay it out ; thus it is coiled back into the
 same tank whence it started. By this means the necessity of passing
 the cable astern before proceeding to haul it in is avoided. It was
 during this operation that an accident befell the Atlantic cable in 1865,
 causing its loss for the time.
     The next apparatus is a dynamometer, consisting of three pulleys,
 one fixed, and the centre one, which rests on tho cable, movable in a
 vertical plane ; by this the strain is registered and adjusted. After
 passing this the cable runs into the sea over a pulley carried on
 girders and constructed so as to swing freely on an axis parallel to
 the length of the ship, so that, should the vessel make lee-way, the
 pulley will follow the direction of the cable, and thus friction and
sharp bends are avoided. The bows are also fitted with a similar
pulley, compound machine, and dynamometer. We see that by these
devices the cable is kept perfectly under control, and should a fault
bo discovered a simple process of reversal of ship and machinery
brings home the faulty portion.
     Another great point is to keep the vessel trimmed and steady.
For the former requirement nine separate water-tight compartments,
including the cone in each tank, which also is hollow, are provided,
so that water may be admitted as the tanks are emptied of cable, and
thus tho ship is kept trimmed. To ensure steadiness and avoid
the rolling to which telegraph ships are subject, two bilge keels
are set on at an angle of 45" ; this was done at the suggestion of
Mr. Wm. Froudo, whom, said the speaker, " I havo to thank for
valuablo advice and assistance on several new points connected with
the ' Faraday.' "

1874.]                  on the Steamship 'Faraday.'                 313
    A steam-launch is carried on deck, whence she can be lowered
into the water with steam up, ready to land shore ends and perform
other useful operations.
    Another class of work for which the vessel is fitted is " grap
pling " for lost or faulty cable. In shallow seas this is a very simple
operation, but in deep water it is rather a delicate matter, and re
quires the co-operation of two or even three vessels, so as to lift the
cable without forming an acute angle, and thus to lessen the chance
of fracture. A special rope, made of steel wire and hemp and of
great strength, is provided for this work. Some specimens shown
could bear strains up to 16 tons.
    In conclusion, the speaker adverted to the late Professor Faraday,
noticing the great services he had rendered to eloctrical science, his
singleness of purpose, and the invariable kindness with which he had
encouraged younger labourers in the same field. The friendly encou
ragement which he himself had experienced from him would ever
remain a most pleasing remembrance. He had seized with delight on
the present opportunity to pay a tribute to the honoured name of
Faraday, and was happy to be able to do this with the full consent of
the revered lady who had stood by the philosopher's side for forty
years, while labouring under this very roof for the advancement of
knowledge. The name of the vessel and her mission in the service
of Science would combine, he thought, to create an interest in her
favour in the minds of the members of the Royal Institution, and
he hoped that on the morrow she would put to sea accompanied by
the earnest wish. " God speed the ' Faraday.' "
                                                           [C. W. S.]

 311                   Profegsm- W. Kingdon Clifford             [May 22,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 22, 1874.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
             Professor W. Kihgdon Clifford, M.A. F.R.S.
                      On the Education of the People.
 The speaker quoted Mr. Herbert Spencer's classification of knowledge
 in the order of its worth, remarking that he was about to regard
 education not so much in the light of acquirement of knowledge as in
 that of learning to do something, and mainly of learning to use tools.
 Thus, language is the tool of thought whose use is taught in primary
 education ; and the higher education is training in the uso of those
 more difficult conceptions, familiarity with which as tools constitutes
 the culture of the highest minds. The question " What is the educa
 tion of the people ? " may thus be translated into " What are the people
 taught to do ? "
      In regard to the question, Who are the people ? he adverted to
 the abstracts of the last Census of the population of England and
 Wales ; and, taking 142 adult men, classified them into various' kinds
 of workers :—On land, 27 ; on minerals, 22 ; in construction, 21 ; on
 materials and dress, 17 ; general labourers, 10 ; carriers, 10 ; inde
 finite, 5 ; mercantile, 4 ; servants, 3 ; grooms, 2 ; workers and dealers
 in food and drinks, 8 ; general dealer, 1 ; soldiers, 2 ; keepers of
 lodgings, 2 ; to which he added one magistrate, clergyman, doctor,
 lawyer, policeman, teacher, student, and sailor.
     The class engaged in construction being the one most largely
represented in London, the speaker proceeded to select as a typical
example the makers of hand-rails to staircases, in order to show what
is at present the education of the workshop. By means of models
and diagrams, he showed that the construction of a hand-rail involves
the solution of a difficult geometrical problem, which would puzzle
the lower half of the Wranglers, besides considerable manual skill and
artistic taste. Tho problem is to construct a curve of double curva
ture approximately by means of plane pieces. The problem was
solved by Peter Nicholson, a workman, but a far simpler method has
been introduced by another workman, John Weston. This trade is only
exceptional, in the fact that its power of education has not been spoilt
by division of labour, which in other trades has been carried to a very

1874.]                on the Education of the People.              315
great extent by the introduction of machinery. It is of course impos
sible to resist this tendency ; but its consequences may be avoided, if
the unions will insist on the men being drafted at reasonable intervals
from one part of the shop to another, so that they may become handy
and manysided, instead of being fit only to mind a particular corner
of a particular machine, as is too often the case now. Besides this,
it is necessary that an organized training in the most important tools
should be given to children. By this means they will be able on
leaving school to get higher wages and more leisure to improve them
selves. But the most important thing is, that our workmen should
acquire the machinery of accurate thought, which is only to be got by
training in geometrical and mechanical drawing. This ought to be
regarded as one of tho " R's," and should be taught to all children in
all primary schools ; being more important to workmen than learning
to read and write.

316                             Dean Stanley                       [May 29,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 29, 1874.
  Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President, in the Chair.
        Arthur Penrhtn Stanley, D.D. Dean of Westminster,
                 CORRESPONDING MEMBER OF THE INSTITUTE OF FRANCE.
 The Human Catacombs as illustrating the Belief of the Early Christians.
 I propose this evening to ask what was the belief of the early
 Christians, that is, of the Christians from the close of the first century
to the conversion of the Empire at the beginning of the fourth. This
is a question which is at once more difficult and more easy to answer
than we might have thought beforehand.
     It is in one sense extremely difficult.
     The popular, the actual belief of a generation or society of men
cannot always be ascertained from the contemporary writers, who
belong for the most part to another stratum. Tho belief of tho people
of England at this moment is something separate from the books, •
the newspapers, the watchwords of parties. It is in the air. It is in
their intimate conversation ; we must hear, especially in the case of
the simple and unlearned, what they talk of to each other ; we must
sit by their bedsides ; get at what gives them most consolation, what
most occupies their last moments. This, whatever it be, is the belief
of the people, right or wrong— this, and this only is their real religion.
A celebrated .Roman Catholic divine* of the present day has described,
in a few short sentences, what he conceives to bo the real belief of
the people of England. He is probably right; but it is something
quite apart from any formal creeds or confessions or watchwords which
exist. Is it possible to ascertain this concerning the early Christians?
Their books of that period are few and far between, and these books
are, for the most part, tho works of learned scholars rather than of
popular writers. Can we apart from such books discover what was
their most ready and constant representation of their dearest hopes
here and hereafter ? Strange to say, after all this lapse of time it is
possible. The answer, at any rate for that large mass of Christians
from all parts of the empire that was collected in the capital, is to
be found in the Roman Catacombs.
   It is not my intention to describe those well-known structures. To
                    * Dr. Newman's ' Grammar of Assent.'

1874.]     on the Roman Catacombs and Early Christian Belief.        317
anyone who wishes to find a clear, brief, and impartial account, I
recommend the essay "On Pagan and Christian Sepulture," in the
' Essays ' of Dean Milman. For anyono who wishes to go at length
into the details of the question, I refer to the great work of Commen-
datore De Rossi, or to his own personal exposition of the Catacombs,
which (in my own case) has furnished the chief basis of these remarks.
I take for granted that all here present know sufficiently what has
been amply proved by the investigations of the last two hundred,
and especially of the last thirty years, that there were in the
neighbourhood of Rome from the first beginning of the settlement
of the Christians in the city, large galleries dug in the rock, which
they used for their places of burial. In these galleries they wrote
on the graves of their friends the thoughts that were most consoling
to themselves, or painted on the walls the figures which gave them
most pleasure. By a singular chance these memorials have boen
preserved to us by the very causes which have destroyed so much
beside. The Catacombs were deserted at the time of the invasion of
the barbarians, and filled up with ruins and rubbish ; and from the
sixth to tho seventeenth century no one thought it worth while to
explore them. Tho burial of Christian antiquity was as complete as
that of Pagan antiquity, and the resurrection of both took place nearly
at the same time. The desertion, the overthrow of these ancient
galleries has been to tho Christian life of that time what the overthrow
of Pompeii by the ashes of Vesuvius was to the Pagan lifo of the
period immediately antecedent. The Catacombs are tho Pompeii of
early Christianity. It is much to the credit of the authorities of the
Roman States that at the time when the excavations began they allowed
these monuments to speak for themselves. Many questionable in
terpretations have been put upon them, but I am not aware that in any
respect there has been substantiated any charge of wilful falsification.
     In what I am about to say, I confine myself to the simple statement
of tho testimony which they render to the belief of the second and
third centuries. For this reason, I exclude from consideration almost,
if not altogether, those subsequent to tho age of Constantine; and
I abstain as far as possible from special details which would lead
us astray from tho general survey which alone can be given in an
address of this kind. I shall thus, I trust, avoid the difficulty,
especially to be avoided in this place, of entrenching on theological
controversy. I merely state the facts as they occur ; and if the results
be pleasing or displeasing to the members of this or that school of
modern religious opinion, perhaps it will be a sufficient safeguard
that they will be almost equally pleasing or displeasing to the members
of all such schools equally.
    I. I will first ask what, beyond what any books could teach us,
we learn of the state of feeling indicated in the very structure of
the Catacombs.
    The Catacombs are the standing monuments of the Oriental
Jewish character even of Western Christianity. The fact that they

 318                           Dean Stanley                     [May 29,
 are the counterparts of the rock-hewn tombs of Palestine,.and yet
 more closely of the Jewish cemeteries in the neighbourhood of Rome,
 corresponds to the fact that the early Roman Church was not a Latin
 but an Eastern community, speaking Greek, and following the usages
 of Syria. And again, the ease with which the Roman Christians
 had recourse to these cemeteries is an indication of the impartiality
 of the Roman law, which extended (as Rossi has well pointed out)
 to this despised sect the same protection in respect to burial, even
 during the times of persecution, that was accorded to the highest in
 the land. They thus bear witness to the unconscious fostering care of
 the Imperial Government over the infant Church. They are thus
 monuments, not so much of the persecution as of the toleration, which
 the Christians received at the hands of the Roman Empire.
     These two circumstances, confirmed as they are from various
 quarters, are, as it were, the framework in which the ideas of the
 Church of the Catacombs are enshrined. They are also circumstances
 which in the common ecclesiastical histories were as unknown and as
much ignored as the existence of the Catacombs themselves.
     II. I now proceod to the beliefs themselves, as presented in the
pictures or inscriptions, confining myself, as I have said, as much as
possible to those which are earliest and most universal. But I will,
before entering on these, glance for a moment at those which, though
belonging to the latest years of this period—the close of the third
century—yet still illustrate the general character even of the earlier.
The subjects of these paintings are for the most part taken from the
Bible, and are as follows : In the New Testament they are the
Adoration of the Magi, the Feeding of the Disciples, Zacchaeus in
the Sycomore, the Healing of the Paralytic, the Raising of Lazarus,
the Washing of Pilate's Hands, Peter's Denial, the Seizure of Peter
by the Jews. In the Old Testament they are the Creation, the Sacrifice
of Isaac, the Striking of the Rock, Jonah and the Whale, Jonah under
the Gourd, Daniel in the Lions' Den, the Three Children in the
Fire, Susanna and the Elders.
    On this selection I will only make two general remarks. 1. Whilst
it does not coincide with the theology and art of the modern Western
Church, it coincides to a certain degree with the selection that we
find in tho Eastern Church. The Raising of Lazarus, for example,
fell completely out of the range of the Italian painters and out of
the scholastic theology of the Middle Ages ; but it may still be traced
in the Byzantine traditions as preserved in Russia. In one of the
most ancient chapels of the Kremlin there is a representation of
the mummy-like form of Lazarus issuing from his tomb, exactly
similar to that which appears in the Roman Catacombs. And again :
The Three Children, who cease to occupy any important place in the
Latin Church, are repeatedly brought forward in tho Eastern Church.
Three choristers stand in front of the altar at a particular part of the
service to represent them, and the only attempt at a mystery or miracle
play in the Middle Ages of Russia was tho erection of a large wooden

1874.]     on the Roman Catacombs and Early Ghristian Belief.          319
platform with the painted appearance of fire under them, on which
three actors stood forth and played hy gesture and song the part of
the Three Children.
    2. Secondly, I will observe that the selection of these subjects,
whether in the Eastern or in the Western Church, is quite out of
proportion to the choice of these same subjects in the books of the
time that have come down to us. None of them aro conspicuously
present in the writers of the three first, or indeed of the sixteen first
centuries ; and of one of them at least, the arrest of Peter by the
Jewish soldiers, it is not too much to say that there is no incident
recorded in any extant books to which it can with certainty be applied
at all.
     I do not dwell on these points to illustrate any contradiction to the
existing opinions either of Protestant or Catholic Churches in modern
times. The subjects to which these paintings relate for the most part
do not involve, even by remote implication, any of these disputed
opinions. But they indicate a difference deeper than any mere ex
pression of particular doctrines. They show that the current of early
Christian thought ran in an altogether different channel, both from
the contemporary writers of the early period, and also both from the
paintings and the writings of the later period. In the collection of
the works of the Fathers of the second century, there is hardly a
single allusion to any one of these topics. Of the paintings of the
tenth and eleventh centuries recently discovered in the subterranean
church of St. Clement at Rome, not one of all the numerous series is
identical with those in the Catacombs. It is a change little noticed
in ecclesiastical history, but it was one of momentous consequence to
the inner life of the Church.
     III. But this peculiarity of the Catacombs thus visible to a certain
extent even in the third century, appears still more forcibly when we
confine ourselves, according to the plan which I propose in this lecture,
to the earliest chambers, and to the most important figures which thoy
 contain.
     There is one such chamber especially, which, according to the
 Commendatore De Rossi, is the very earliest that can be found, reach
ing back to the very beginning of the second century. It is that
commonly known as the Catacomb of S. Nercus and Achilleus, other
 wise of S. Domitilla.
     In this chamber there are three general characteristics :—
     1. Everything is cheerful and joyous. This, to a certain degree,
 pervades all the Catacombs. Although some of them must have been
 made in times of persecution, yet even in these the nearest approach
 to such images of distress and suffering is in the figures I have before
 noticed—(and these are not found in the earliest stage)—the Three
 Children in the Fire, Daniel in the Lions' Den, and Jonah naked under
the Gourd.
     But of the mournful emblems which belong to nearly all the later
 ages of Christianity, almost all are wanting in almost all the Catacombs :

 320                            Dean Stanley                     [May 29,
 there is neither the cross of the fifth or sixth century, nor the crucifix
 or the crucifixion of the twelfth or thirteenth, nor the tortures and
 martyrdoms of the seventeenth, nor the skeletons of the fifteenth, nor
 the cypresses and death's heads of the eighteenth. There are, instead,
 wreaths of roses, winged genii, children playing. This is the general
 ornamentation. I notice the difference—neither to condemn the later,
 nor to applaud the earlier—but merely to call attention to the fact.
 It is a variation not noticed in ordinary ecclesiastical history. It is a
 plainness not visible in the writers of the second and third centuries.
 But it is thero. There are two words used in the very earliest account
 of the very earliest Christian community to which the English language
 furnishes no exact equivalent ; one is their exulting, bounding gladness
 (dyaMuwris) ; the other, their simplicity and smoothness of feeling, as
of a plain without stones, of a field without furrows (d^cXon/?). Theso
two words from the records of the first century (Acts ii. 46) represent
to us what appears in the second century in the Roman Catacombs.
It may be doubted whether thoy have ever been equally represented
at any subsequent ago.
     2. Connected with this fact is another. It is the fact that so many
of these decorations are taken from heathen sources and copied from
heathen paintings. There is Orpheus playing on his harp to the beasts ;
there is Bacchus as the God of the vintage ; there is Psyche, the
butterfly of the soul ; there is the Jordan as the God of the river. The
Classical and the Christian, the Hebrew and the Hellenic, elements
had not yet parted. Tho strict demarcation which the books of the
period would imply between tho Christian Church and the heathen
world had not yet been formed, or was constantly effaced. The Cata
combs have more affinity with the chapel of Alexander Severus, which
contained Orpheus side by side with Abraham and Christ, than they
have with tho writings of Tertullian, who spoke of heathen poets only
to exult in their future torments, or of Augustine, who regarded this
very figure of Orpheus only as a mischievous teacher to be disparaged,
not as a type of the union of the two forms of heathen and Christian
civilization.
     3. We see in tho earliest chambers not only the beginning, but in
a certain sense tho end of early Christian art. By the time we reach
the fourth century the figures are misshapen, rude, and stiff, partaking
of that decadence which marks the Arch of Constantine, and which is
developed into the forms afterwards called Byzantine. But in the
second and third centuries, in the Catacombs of S. Domitilla, of
S. Praetextatus, and S. Priscilla, there is in the sweetness of tho
countenance, the depth of tho eyes, the grace and majesty of the forms,
an inspiration of a higher source, it may be partly from the contact
with the still living art of Greece, it may be from the contact with
a purer and higher flame of devotion not yet burnt out in fierce con
troversy.
     There is a figure which occurs constantly in the Catacombs, and
which in those earliest of all has a peculiar grace of its own — that

1874.]     on the Roman Catacombs and Early Christian Belief.          321
of the dead person represented in the peculiar position of prayer,
which has now entirely ceased in all Christian Churches, but as it may
still now and then be seen in Mahometan countries, as it existed
universally both in Pagan and perhaps also in Jewish worship in the
second century,—the attitude of standing with tho hands stretched
out to receive the gifts which Heaven would pour into them. Such
are the figures of the " Oranti," as they are technically called, in the
Catacombs, men or women, according to the sex of the departed. Such
also were the holy hands and upturned eyes of the worshippers in
the heathen temples of Greece or Rome. The most perfect repre
sentation of this in Christian art is, perhaps, that of the departed
Christian in the Catacomb of S. Priscilla. The most perfect repre
sentation of this in heathen art is, perhaps, that of the bronzo figure
of an adoring youth, found in the Rhine, of this same period of the
Koman Empire, and now in the Museum at Berlin. An animated
description which has been given of this in a recent work devoted
to Greek art, might, with a fow changes of expression, be applied to
the painting of the departed Christian in the Catacomb of S. Priscilla.
" His eyes and arms are raised to heaven ; perfect in humanity beneath
the lightsome vault of heaven, he stands and prays,—no adoration
with veiled eyes and muttering lips—no prostration, with the putting
off of sandals on holy ground —no genuflexion, like the bending of a
reed waving with the wind,—but such as Iamus in the mid waves of
Alpheius might have prayed when he heard the voice of Phoebus
calling to him, and promising to him the twofold gift of prophecy." *
     Such is the ideal of the worshipping youth of a Pagan temple of
that period—such is the transfigured ideal of the worshipping maiden
or matron in the Christian Catacomb. Such has not been the ideal
of worship in any later age of the Church.
     IV. But the question might here be asked, if these sacred decora
tions are so like what we find in heathen tombs or houses, how do we
know that we are in a Christian burial-place at all ? What is the
sign that we are here in the chamber of a Christian family ? What
is the test, what is the watchword, by which these early Christians
were known from those who were not Christians?
     I have already indicated some of the Biblical subjects which in the
third century we should discover ; we also know well what we should
find in tho various later Churches, whether Greek, Latin, Anglican,
Lutheran, or Nonconformist. Some distinctive emblems we should
find everywhere, either in books, pictures, or statues. But none of
these wore in the Catacombs even of the third century ; and in the
Catacombs of the second century, not even those which are found in
the third and fourth centuries.
     1. What, then, is the test or sign of Christian popular belief that in
these earliest representations of Christianity is handed down to us as
the most cherished, the all-sufiScing token of their creed ? It is very
                            Symonds' Greek Poetry.

322                                   Dean Stanley                          [May 29,
simple, but it contains a great deal. It is a shepherd in the bloom of
youth, with a crook or a shepherd's pipe in one hand, and on his
shoulder a lamb, which he carefully carries and holds with the other
hand. We see at once who it is ; we all know without being told.
There are two passages in two of the sacred books, which, whatever
may be the critical discussion about their dates, must be inferred from
these paintings to have been by that time firmly rooted in the popular
belief of the community. One is that from the Third Gospel, which
speaks of the shepherd going over the hills of Palestine to seek the
sheep that was lost ; the other, that from the Fourth Gospel, which
says, " I am the Good Shepherd," or, as perhaps we might venture to
translate it, " I am the Beautiful Shepherd." This, in that earliest
chamber or church of a Christian family of which I am chiefly speak
ing, is the one sign of Christian life and of Christian belief. But as it
is the only, or almost the only sign of Christian belief in this earliest
Catacomb, so it continues (with those other pictures of which I have
spoken) always the chief, always the prevailing sign, as long as those
burial-places were used. Sometimes with one sheep, sometimes with
several sheep in various attitudes ; some listening to his voice, sonie
turning away. Sometimes in chapels, sometimes on the tombs them
selves ; sometimes on the tombs of the humblest and poorest ; some
times in the sepulchres of Emperors and Empresses—Galla Placidia
and Honorius— but always the chief mark of the Christian life and
faith.
      There is no allusion to the Good Shepherd (with one exception)
in the writers of the second contury, and very few in the third ; hardly
any in Athanasius* or in Jerome. If we come down much later, hardly
any in the ' Summa Theologian' of Thomas Aquinas, none in the West
minster Confession, none in the Tridentine Catechism, none in the
Thirty-nine Articles. The only prominent allusions we find to this
figure in the writers of early times are drawn from that same under
current of Christian society to which the Catacombs themselves belong.
One is the allusion, in an angry complaint of Tertullian, to the chalices
used in the Communion, on which the Good Shepherd was a frequent
 subject ; the other is in the one popular book of devotion, the ' Pilgrim's
 Progress' of the Church of the second century, which was spread
 far and wide from Italy even to Greece, Egypt and Abyssinia, namely,
 the once universal, once canonical, once inspired, now forgotten and dis
 paraged, but always curious book, called the " Shepherd of Hennas."
      This disproportion between the almost total absence of this figure
in the works of the learned, and its predominant prevalence in the
thoughts of the people at large in the places where wo most surely touch
     * Origen (Hom. v. on Jeremiah iii. 152) has a somewhat detailed reference.
His other allusions are of the most perfunctory kind. So also Cyprian (Clem.
 Alex. Psed. i. 7, fl ; Strom, i. 26), has similar slight references. There is nothing
 in Irenscus or Justin, and only two passing notices in Tertullian (De Patientia,
 c. 12 ; De Pudicitia, c. 9), besides the condemnatory passage (De Pudicitia, c. 13)
 referred to above.

1874.]     on the Roman Catacombs and Early Christian Belief.         323
the hearts and thoughts of the first Christians—this gives the answer
to the question with which I began this address, —What was the
Eeligion of the first Christians ? It was, in one word, the Religion of
the Good Shepherd. The kindness, the courage, the grace, the love,
the beauty, of the Good Shopherd was to them, if we may so say,
Prayer Book and Articles, Creed and Canons, all in one. They looked
on that figure, and it conveyed to them all that they wanted. As ages
passed on, the Good Shepherd faded away from the mind of the Chris
tian world, and other emblems of the Christian faith have taken his
place. Instead of the gracious and gentle Shepherd, there came the
 Omnipotent Judge, or the Crucified Sufferer, or the Infant in His
Mother's arms, or the Master in His Parting Supper, or the figures of
 innumerable saints and angels, or the elaborate expositions of the
 various forms of theological controversy.
     These changes may have been inevitable. Christianity is too vast
and complex to be confined to the expressions of any single age, or of
any single nation, and what was suitable for one age may become
unsuited for another.     Still, it is useful for us to go back to this its
earliest form, and ask what most have been the ideas suggested by it.
     (a) It was an instance of that general connection which I just now
noticed between the new Christian belief and the old Pagan world.
A figure not unlike the Good Shephord has from time to time
appeared in the Grecian worship. There was the Hermes Kriophorus
—Mercury with the ram—as described by Fausanias. There were also
the figures of dancing shepherds in the tombs of the Nasones near
 Bome. In one instance in tho Christian Catacombs, the Good Shep
herd appears surrounded by the Three Graces.* In the tomb of Galla
 Placidia, He might well be the youthful Apollo playing with his
pipes to the flocks of Admetus. There had not yet sprung up the
fear of taking as tho chief symbol of Christianity an idea or a figure
which would be equally acknowledged by Pagans.
     (6) It represents to us the joyful, cheerful side of Christianity, of
which we spoke before. Look at that beautiful, graceful figure,
bounding down as if from his native hills, with the happy sheep
nestling on his shoulder, with the pastoral pipes in his hand, bloom
ing in immortal youth. It is the exact representation of the Italian
shepherd as we constantly encounter him on the Sabine hills at this
day, holding the stray lamb on his shoulders, with a strong hand
grasping the twisted legs as they hang on his breast. Just such a
one appears on a fresco in the so-called house of Livia, on the
Palatine. That is the primitive conception of the Founder of Chris
tianity. It is the very reverse of that desponding, foreboding,
wailing cry that we have often heard in later days, as if His religion
were going to die out of the world ; as if He were some dethroned
prince, whose cause was to be cherished only by the reactionary, losing,
vanquished parties of the world or Church. The popular conception
                             * De Rossi, ii. 358.

 324                                 Dean Slanky                        [May 29,
 of Him in the early Church was of the strong, the joyous youth, of
 eternal growth, of immortal grace.
      (c) It represents to us an aspect of the only Christian belief that
 has not been common in later times, but of which we find occasional
 traces even in the writings of these carlior centuries, namely, that the
 first object of the Christian community was not to repel, but to include
 —not to condemn, but to save. In some of the paintings of the Good
 Shepherd, this aspect of the subject is emphasized by representing the
 creature on his shoulder to be not a lamb, but a kid ; not a sheep, but
 a goat.
      It is this which provokes the indignant remonstrance of Tertullian
 in the only passage of the Fathers which contains a distinct reference
 to the popular representation of tho Good Shepherd ; and it is on this
 unchristian protest that the most classic poet and the keenest critic of
 our day—I need hardly name Matthew Arnold—founds one of his most
 touching poems.
             " ' He saves the sheep—the gnats ho doth not save ; '
                So spoke the fierce Tertullian.
                                               But she sigh'd—
                The infant Church ; of love she felt the tide
                Stream on tier from her Lord's yet recent grave.;
                And then she smil'd, and in the catacomb
                With eye suffused, but heart inspired true,
                She her Good Shepherd's hasty image drew,
                And ou his shoulder not a lamb, but kid."
     (d) It represents to us the extreme simplicity of this early belief.
It seems as if that key-note was then struck in the popular Chris
tianity of those first ages, which has in its best aspects made it the
religion of little children and guileless peasants, and also of child
like philosophers and patriarchal sages.
     Thero is hero nothing strange, difficult, mysterious. But there
was enough to satisfy the early Christian, to nervo the suffering
martyr, to console the mourner. When Bosio, the first explorer of the
Catacombs in the seventeenth century, opened the tomb of which I
have been speaking, he was disappointed when he found only the
Good Shepherd, and went on to other later chambers and chapels,
where there were other more varied pictures, and other more com
plicated emblems. He did not know that this one, which he despised
for its simplicity, was the most interesting of all, because the earliest
of all.
     It is possible that others, like Bosio, havo gone farther and fared
worse in their dissatisfaction at so simple a representation. It is cer
tain, as I have said, that, till quite modern times,* the Good Shepherd,
and the ideas which the figure suggested, had become as strange and
rare as the doctrines of later times would have seemed strange to the
dwellers in the Catacombs.
    * It occurs in the pictures of the French Huguenots nf the 17th century, pre
served in the Protectant Library in the Place Vendume.
                 1
                   -

1874.]     on the Roman Catacombs and Early Christian Belief.        325
    2. The Good Shepherd, however, is not the only figure which per
vades the tomb of Domitilla. There is another which also, in like
manner, predominates elsewhere.
    It is a vine painted on the roof and on the walls, with its branches
 spreading and twisting themselves in every direction, loaded with
clusters of grapes, and seeming to reach over the whole chamber.
And sometimes this figure of the Vine is the only sign of Christian
belief. In the tomb of Constantia, the sister of the Emperor Constan
tino, even the Good Shepherd does not appear ; the only decorations
that are carved on her coffin and painted on the walls are children
gathering the vintage, plucking the grapes, carrying baskets of grapes
on their heads, dancing on the grapes to press out the wine. The
period in which the figure of tho Vine appears is more restricted than
that in which the figure of the Shepherd appears. But taking, again,
the tomb of Domitilla as our main example, it is undeniable that if
the chief thought of the early Christians was the Good Shepherd, the
second was the Vine and the Vintage.
    What is the meaning of this? There are three ideas which we
may suppose to have been represented.
    (a) The first is that which I have noticed before—the joyous and
festive character of the primitivo Christian faith. In Eastern coun
tries the vintage is the great holiday of the year. In the Jewish
Church there was no festival so gay and so free as the Feast of
Tabernacles, when they gathered the fruit of tho vineyard, and en
joyed themselves in their green bowers or tabernacles.
    I remember hearing Lord Macaulay describe, with all his force of
language and variety of illustration, how natural and beautiful was
tho origin of the heathen legend, which represented the victorious
march of Dionysus, the inventor of tho vine, and how everyone
must have been entranced at the coming in of their new guest—
the arrival of the life-giving grape—scattering joy and merriment
wherever he came. Something of this kind seems to have been the
sentiment of the early Christian community. No doubt the monastic
and the Puritan element existed amongst them in germ, and showed
itself in the writings even of the second and third centuries ; but it
is evident from these paintings that it occupied a very subordinate
place in tho popular mind of tho early Roman Christians.
    It may be that tho hideous associations which northern drunken
ness has imported into these festive emblems have rendered impossible
to modern times a symbol which in earlier days and in southern
countries was still permissible. It may bo that after the disappoint
ments, controversies, persecutions, mistakes, scandals, follies of
Christendom for the last seventeen centuries, it is impossiblo to
imagine that buoyant heart, that hopeful spirit, which then was easy
and natural. Not the less, however, is it instructive for us to see the
joyous gaiety, the innocent Bacchanalia, iwith which our first fathers
started in the dawn of that journey which has since been so often
overcast.

326                           Dean Stanley                      [May 29,
    (6) There was, however, perhaps a deeper thought in this figure.
When wo see the vine, with its purple clusters spreading itself over
the roof of the chamber, it is difficult not to feel that the early
Christians had before their minds the recollection of tho Parable of
" The Vino and the Branches." When we see tho juice of the grapes
streaming from the feet of those who tread the winepress,—the figures,
frequent in the Jewish Scriptures, represented in colossal form over
the portal of the Jewish Temple, carved still on Jewish sepulchres—
culminating to the Christian mind in that sacred apologue. It was
the account which they gave to themselves and to others of the
benefits of their new religion. What they valued, what they felt, was
a new moral influence, a new life stealing through their veins, a new
health imparted to their frames, a new courage breathing in their faces,
like wine to a weary labourer, like sap in the hundred branches of a
spreading tree, like juice in the thousand clusters of a spreading vine.
    Where this life was, there was the sign of their religion. By
what special channel it came, whether through books or treatises,
whether through bishops or presbytors, whether through this doctrine
or that, this the paintings in the Catacombs—at least in the earliest
Catacombs—do not tell us. All that we see is the Good Shepherd on
one side, and the spreading Vine and joyous vintage on the other side.
It was an influence as subtle, as persuasive, as difficult to fix into one
uniform groove, as what we call the influence of love, or marriage, or
law, or civilization.
    (c) Tho figure of the Vine, as seen in the Catacombs, suggests
perhaps one other idea — the idea of what was then meant by
Christian unity. The branches of the Vine are infinite; no other
plant throws out so many ramifications, which twist and clasp and
turn and hang and creep and rise and fall in so many festoons and
roots and clusters and branches, over trees and houses ; sometimes
high, sometimes low, sometimes graceful, sometimes deformed, some
times straight, sometimes crooked. But in all there is the same
life-giving juice, the same delicious fragrance. That is the figure of
the Vine as we see it in the tomb of S. Domitilla. It is a likeness—
whether intended or not—of the variety and unity of Christian
goodness.
    V. There is one other subject on which we should naturally expect
in these Catacombs to learn some tidings of the belief of the early
Christians, and that is concerning the future life and the departed.
This we gather partly from their paintings, but chiefly from their
epitaphs.
    In these representations there are three such characteristics,
agreeing with what we have already noticed.
    1. First, there is the same simplicity. If for a moment we look at
the paintings on this subject, in what form are the souls of the dead
presented to us '? Almost always in the form of little birds; sometimes
with bright, gay plumage—peacocks, pheasants, and the like ; more
often as doves. There was here, no doubt, the child-like thought, that

1874.]     on the Roman Catacombs and Early Christian Belief.                327
the soul of man is like a bird of passage, which nestles here in the
outward frame of flesh for a time, and then flies away beyond the sea
to some brighter, warmer home. There was the thought that the
Christian soul ought to be like " the birds of the air," according to
the Gospel phrase, without anxiety or solicitude. There was the
thought also that each Christian soul is, like the dove, a messenger
of peace, is part of the heavenly brood which flies upwards towards
that Spirit of which it is the emanation and the likeness.
     And when we come to the epitaphs of the ancient dead, we find
still the same simple feeling. There is no long description ; till the
third century, not even the date ; no formal profession of belief ; no
catalogue either of merits or demerits ; but, generally speaking, one
short word to tell of the tender sentiment of natural affection : " My
most sweet child " ; " My most sweet wife " ; " My most dear husband " ;
"My innocent dove"; "My well-deserving father or mother";
"Such and such an one lived together, without any complaint or
quarrel, without taking or giving offence."
     Amongst all the epitaphs and monuments of Westminster Abbey,
there is one, and one only, which reminds us of the Catacombs. It is
that of a little Yorkshire girl, who lies in the cloisters, and who died
in the midst of the troubles which preceded the Revolution of 1688.
There are just the dates, and the name of her brother, whom the
parents had lost a short time before, and who is buried in St. Helen's
Church, in York ; and all that they say of her is, " Jane Lister,
dear child." That is exactly like the Catacombs ; that is the perpetual
sympathy of human nature. In these words the whole Christian
world, from the nineteenth century to the first, " is kin."
     And if, in the outpouring of this natural affection, the survivors
from time to time refuso to lose sight of the dead in the other world,
it is still to be remarked that the communion with them rests on this
family bond, and on none other. There is one touching devotional
poem of modern date, which seems to me more than any other to
recall the peculiar feeling of the early Catacombs in this respect. It
is that of the Russian poet Chamiakeff, on visiting the nursery of his
dead children : —
            " Time was when I loved at still midnight to come,
              My children, to see you asleep iu your room ;
              Dear children, at that same still midnight do ye.
              As I once prayed for you, now in turn pray for me." *
     2. But besides these expressions of natural affection, there are two
expressions of religious devotion which constantly occur. The first is
repeated almost in every epitaph—" In peace." It is the phrase
which the early Christians took from the Jews. In the Jewish Cata
combs it is found in the Hebrew word—" Shalom." As the expressions
which I have just quoted indicate the link between the belief of the
early Christians and the natural feelings of the human heart, so
     * I have ventured to borrow the translation of the Rev. William Palmer.
     Vol. VII. (No. 61.)                                               z

 328                           Dean Stanley                               [May 29,
does this indicate the link between their belief and that of ancient
Judaism. But its earnest reiteration gives a special force to it. It
conveys their assurance that whatever else was the other world, it
 was at least a world of rest. The wars, the jealousies, the jars, the
contentions, the misapprehensions, the disputes of the Roman Empire
and of the Christian Church, would there at last be finished. "Sleep"
—"repose"—is the word—vague, indefinite, but sufficient—for the
condition of their departed friends. The burial-places of tho world
henceforth became what they were first called in the Catacombs— or at
least first * called on an extensive scale—cemeteries—that is, " sleep
ing-places."
     3. There is one other word which occurs frequently after the
mention of " peace," and that is, "Live in God," or " thou shalt live in
God," or "mayest thou live in God," or " thou livest in God." This is
the yet farther step from simple innocence, from Oriental resignation.
That is tho early Christians' expression of the ground of their belief in
immortality. We might perhaps have expected some more precise
allusion to the sacred name by which they were especially called, or to
some of those Gospel stories of which we do, at least in the third
century, find representations in their pictures. But in these epitaphs
it is not so. They were content in the written expression of their belief
to repose their hopes in the highest name of all.
     Theso simple words—" Vive in Deo " and " Vivas in Deo "—describe
what to them was the object and the ground of their existence for the
first three centuries. They last appear in the year 330, and after that
appear no more again till quite modern times, in curious imitation of
them, as for example in the beautiful epitaph on tho late lamented
Duke John of Tortlonia, in the Church of S. John Lateran. As a
general rule, nowhere now, either in Boman Catholic or Protestant
churches, do wo ever see these once universal expressions of the
ancient hope. They have been superseded by more definite, more
detailed, more positive statements. Perhaps if they were now used
they would be thought Deistic, or Theistic, or Pantheistic, or Atheistic.
But when we reflect upon them, they run very deep down into the
heart both of philosophy and of Christianity. They express the hope
that because the Supreme Good lives for ever, all that is good and
true will live for ever also. They express tho hope that because the
Universal Father lives for ever, we can safely trust into His loving
hands the souls of those whom wo have loved, and whom He, we
cannot help believing, has loved also.
     Perhaps the more we think of this ancient style of epitaph, we
shall find that it is not the less true because now it is never written ;
not the less consoling because it is so ancient ; not the less compre
hensive because it is so simple, so short, and so childlike.
     VI. Let me briefly sum up what I have said on these representa
tions of the early Christian belief.
    * Mommsen bays that the words xoiiirrrripioy, accubitorium, are not exclusively
Christian.

1874.]     on the Roman Catacombs and Early Christian Belief.               329
     1. Tbey differ widely in proportion, in selection, and in character,
from the representations of belief which we find in the contempo
raneous Christian authors, and thus give us a striking example of the
divergence which often exists between the actual living, popular
belief, and that which we find in books. They differ also in the
same respects, though even more widely, from the forms adopted,
not only by' ourselves, but by the whole of Christendom, for nearly
fifteen hundred years : they show what it is never without interest
to observe, the immense divergence in outward expression of belief
between tbosc ages and our own. The forms which we use were
unused by them, and the forms which they used, for the most part are
unused by us.
      2. The substance of the faith which these forms expressed is
such as, when it is put before us, we at once recognize to be true.
      It might sometimes be worth while to ask whether what are called
attacks or defences of our religion are directed in the slightest degree
for or against the ideas which, as we have seen, constitute the chief
 materials of the faith and life of the early Christians. In a well-known
German book, entitled ' The Old and New Belief,' there is an elaborate
attack on what the writer calls "the Old Belief." Of the various
articles of that " old belief " which he enumerates, hardly one appears
conspicuously in the Catacombs. Of tho special forms of belief which
appear in the Catacombs, hardly one is mentioned in the catalogue of
doctrines so vehemently assailed in that work. The belief of the
 Catacombs, as a general rule, is not that which is either defended
by modern theologians * or attacked by modern sceptics.
      3. When wo reflect that these same ideas which form the all-sufficing
 creed of the early Church, are not openly disputed by any Church or
 sect in Christendom, it may be worth while to ask whether, after all,
 there is anything very absurd in supposing that all Christians have
 something in common with each other. The pictures of the Good
 Shepherd and of the Vine, the devotional language of the epitaphs—
 I know not whether they would be called sectarian or unsectarian,
 denominational or undenominational—but they have not been watch
 words of parties ; no public meetings have been held for defending or
 abolishing them, no persecutions or prosecutions have been set on foot
 to put them down or to set them up ; and yet it is certain that, by the
 early Christians, they were not thought vague, fleeting, unsubstantial,
 colourless, but were the food of their daily lives—their hope under the
 severest trials—the very dogma of dogmas, if we choose so to call
 them—the very life of their life.
                                                                   [A- P- S.]
     * In tho Lateran Museum are two or three compartments of epitaphs classed
 under the head of " illustrations of doymas." But the only instance that can be
 possibly construed as relating to a dogma controverted by any Christian Church
 is the doubtful abbreviation In D. Christo; which may be either Deo or Divo.
                                                                     z 2

 330                        General Monthly Meeting.                      [June 1 ,
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, June 1, 1874.
        George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                    iu the Chair.
                     The Rev. James Langton Clarke, M.A.
                     Jamieson Elles, Esq.
                     John C. Gostling, Esq.
                     Edward Langley, Esq.
                     The Rev. John Lane Oldham, M.A. F.G.S.
                     Edward Power, Esq. F.R.G.S.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The special thanks of the Members were given to the Lord
Clermont for his valuable present of ' The Life, Works, and Family
History of Sir John Fortescue, Knt. Chief Justice and Lord Chan
cellor to King Henry the Sixth.' (Edited by Lord Clermont, and
printed for private distribution.) 2 vols. 4to. 1869.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
Asiatic Society of Hentjal—Journal, 1873, Part 1, No. 4 ; Part 2, Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
   Proceedings, 1874, No. 1. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIV. No 6. 8vo. 1874.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1873-4, No. 10. 4to.
Chemical Society —Journal tor May, 1874. 8vo.
Clermont, The Lord {the Editor)—Sir John Fortescue : His Life, Works, and
     Family History. (Printed for private circulation.) 2 vols. 4to. 18b'9.
Duckworth, Dyce, M.D. M.R.I, (the Author)—Observations on Sleeplessness.
      (K 100) 8vo. 1874.
Editors—Astronomical Register for May, 1874. 8vo.
   Athenasum for May, 1874. 4to.
   Chemical News for May, 1874. 4to.
   Engineer for May, 1874. fol.
   Food Journal for May, 1874. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for May, 1874. fol.
   Journal of Gas-Lighting for May, 1874. 4to.
   Nature for May, 1874. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for May, 1874. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for May, 1874. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal for May, 1874. 8vo.
Ellis, A. J. Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Algebra identified with Geometrv.
     (K 100) 8vo. 1*74.

1874.J                      General Monthly Meeting.                      331
FraMin Institute— Journal, So. 580. 8vo. 1874.
Geographical Society, Royal—Journal for 1873. 8vo. 1874.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna —Jahrbuck, 1874. No. 1. 8vo.
   Verhandlungen, 1874, Nos. 1-6. 8vo.
Iron aud Steel Institute—Journal, 1873, Vol. I. No. 2. 8vo. 1874.
Liverpool Polytechnic Society —Journal, April, May, 1874. 8vo.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings. Jan. 1874 8vo.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenscliaften—Monatsberichte : Marz, 1874. 8vo.
Puyals de la Bastida, Don Vicente (the Author)—Teoria de los Numeros. (O 16)
     16to. 1874.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nn. 152. 8vo.- 1874.
Shiplry. Rev. Orbey, M.A. (the Editor)—The Church and the World. Essays on
     Questions of the Dav, in 1*66 and 18U7. By Various Writers. 2 vols.
     8vo. 1867-8.
Tyndall, Professor, D.C.L. LL D. F.R.S. <Co. (the Author)-The Forms of Water.
     4th Edition. 16mo. 1874.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal: Appendix to Vol. XVII. 8vo. 1874.
Wild, M. II, (the Director)—Annalen des Phvsikalischen Ucntrul-Observutoriums,
     Jahrgang, 1872. 4to. 1873.
Woodworth, J. M. M.D. (the Author)— Report on Marine Hospital Service, Uuited
     States. 8vo. 1873.

332                  Professor J. Burdon Sanderson                [June 5,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.
                          Friday, June 5, 1874.
       Georoe Bdsk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
            Professor J. Burdon Sanderson, M.D. F.R.S.
On the Mechanism of the Leaf of Dioncea Muscipula, and on the Electrical
               Phenomena which accompany its Contraction.
After introductory observations on the application of the experimental
method in the study of physiology, the speaker proceeded to divide his
subject into two parts. In the first he proposed to describe and illus
trate the general characters of the plant ; in the second, to discuss the
property of contractility possessed by the leaf, and to demonstrate
its complete similarity to that of the contractile tissues of animals, by
a series of experiments.
Part I.—Description of the leaf of Dionwa, and of the mode in which it
                        catches and digests insects.
     The general aspect of the plant was illustrated by a large drawing.
It belongs to the order Droseracero, a very small but very natural order,
i.e. one of which each species exhibits the signs of original relationship
very distinctly. It is one in respect of which it is also evident enough
that the relationship is rather one of descent than of community of
parentage, for the common peculiarities by which the plants which
form it are distinguished from other plants, are not possessed by all of
them in anything like equal degree ; so that here, as elsewhere among
plants and animals, we have indications that the more perfect forms
stand to the less perfect rather in the relation of descendants than in
that of cousins. The most striking of these peculiarities is one of
function, not of structure. It lies in this, that all the members of the
order exhibit in one form or other adaptedness to one end—the catch
ing and digesting of insects. These animal endowments, which have
for some years engaged the attention of our great naturalist, are pos
sessed by each species in a degree which in the main corresponds to
the completeness of the plant's development in regard of form and
structure ; so that each advance from a less to a greater perfection in
these respects, is accompanied by an improvement in the adaptedness
of the mechanism by which insects are caught and digested.
     Diontea stands alone at the head of its order ; for in all respects,
both as regards structure and as regards the perfection of its insect-
catching mechanism, it is superior to all the rest. Like the Droseras
of our English bogs, it requires only soft, damp moss to root in, and
its roots arc correspondingly simple. Its flowers possess little beauty,

1874.]     on the Mechanism of the Leaf of Dionma Muscipula.           333
and for us, very littles interest. It is on the leaves that our attention
must be fixed.
     The leaf is of a very peculiar form. Its blade consists of two
nearly semicircular lobes, joined together along their straight
borders by a strong midrib. On to this midrib the two lobes, when
the leaf is open, are set nearly at right angles to each other. Tho
curved outer edgo of each lobe is strengthened by a hem, from which
some twenty spikes spring on either side, which are directed towards
the concavity of the leaf. The under surface of the leaf is bright
green, smooth and glistening, and is marked with parallel streaks
which run outwards from tho midrib ; but the upper surface is pink,
owing this colour to its being beset with little red bosses, too small to
be seen by the naked eye, which aro called glands. In addition to
 these glands, thero are on each lobe three delicato hair-like spines
 or filaments, which are always arranged as if at the corners of a
triangular space, about the middle of the upper surface. The petiole,
or leaf-stalk, is of the shape of tho handle of a teaspoon, the only
difference being that its upper surface is channelled along the middle,
 instead of being flat. By its broad end it is united to the leaf by a
 narrow isthmus, of about half a line in breadth.
     Whenever an insect, or any other object, touches however lightly
any of the six filaments above mentioned, tho lobes close sharply upon
it, just as a rat-trap closes on the animal caught ; the closure is at
first, however, only partial. When the leaf is thus half closed, it is
easy to see what is the significance of tho two sets of prongs along its
 edges. They are observed to be set alternately along the borders of
 the two lobes, so as to fit into each other as tho teeth of a rat-trap do.
 Tho reason why tho leaf does not at onco close firmly on its prey—
at first sight not very apparent—Mr. Darwin has been able to explain
by observing what happens when an insect finds itself caught and
attempts to escape. If it is small, it easily makes its way through the
 grating formed by the crossing of the teeth, and in this case, the leaf
 expands again very gradually, and is then ready for another victim.
 If it is large, all its efforts to regain its liberty are futile. Repelled
by its prison bars, it is driven back upon tho sensitive filaments, which
 project into the interior of its cell, and again irritates them. By doing
 so it occasions a second and more vigorous contraction of the lobes.
 The result is that the creature is this time not only captured, but
 crushed, to be eventually digested.
     The leaf having thus closed, remains for a week or more in the
 same state. At first the two lobes are so flatly pressed against each
 other that the insect between them forms a bulging projection on
 either side. But soon a quantity of juice is secreted by tho internal
 surface of the leaf, which as it collects distends tho space occupied by
 the insect, which after a time becomes diffluent, and is eventually
 absorbed. This process of gradual liquefaction and absorption Mr.
 Darwin has shown by numerous experiments to be of tho same nature
 as that by which food is digested in the stomach of tho higher animals.
 (This was illustrated by experiments.)

334                   Professor J. Burdon Sanderson                  [June 5,
Part II.—Experimental demonstration that the contractility of Dionaa
     corresponds in all important respects with that of the contractile tissuet
     of animals.
     The speaker began by pointing out that in all the sciences of
observation the process by which we learn to understand new facts is
that of comparing them with those previously known, and that accord
ingly he would make all his experiments comparative. He would
first make experiments to illustrato some of the leading properties of
contractile tissues, particularly the very remarkable relation between
contraction and the electrical changes which accompany it, and then
repeat the same experiments with the Dionwa leaf; whence it would
be seen that the correspondence between the two series of phenomena
is so complete that it is impossible to doubt of their essential identity.
But before proceeding, it would be advisable to state the grounds of
comparison generally, including some particulars, which, although
there was not time to illustrate them experimentally, were of no less
importance than the others.
     The best example of contractility in the higher animals is that of
voluntary muscle— the best, not merely because it exhibits the pro
perty of contracting in answer to excitation in perfection, but because
it has been so perfectly investigated by physicists, that the conditions
under which the property manifests itself are very exactly known.
     The following are some of the most important facts as regards
muscle :—
    (1) In contracting it changes its shape, but not its bulk. Most
muscles are spindle-shaped. In contracting, a muscle becomes shorter,
but at the same time thicker in corresponding proportion, so that
although its ends are nearer to each other, its bulk remains unaltered.
     (2) This change of shape of the whole muscle depends on an
exactly similar change of shape of every particle of which it is com
posed. This might be inferred from the consideration that a muscle
is not an apparatus made up of parts differing from each other in struc
ture, but a mass of substance equally instinct with life in every part.
We know it to be the case by direct observation, for if we observe
living muscle in the act of contraction under the microscope (as can
easily be done in the muscles of insects), we see that each minutest
fibre participates in the change of form.
    The same holds good as regards the plant. The agent in the
contraction is the protoplasm, by which the cells forming the con
tractile organs arc lined. This, as Mr. Darwin has shown, exhibits
under the influence of irritation changes of form which, although they
do not resemble those which we see in contracting muscle, are no less
distinct and characteristic.
    (3) Muscle, like every other living tissue, is the seat, so long as
it lives, of chemical changes, which, if the tissue is mature, consist
entirely in the disintegration of chemical compounds and the dissipa
tion of the force stored up in these compounds, in the form of heat or

 1874.]    on the Mechanism of the Leaf of Dicmcea Muscipula.            335
some other kind of motion. This happens when the muscle is at rest,
but much more actively when it is contracting, in which condition it
not only produces more heat than it produces at other times, but also
may do,—and, under ordinary circumstances does —mechanical work;
these effects of contraction of muscle are, of course, dependent in quan
tity on the chemical disintegration which goes on in its interior.
     (4) Finally, muscle so long as it is in the living state is electro
motive. This property it probably possesses in common with other
living tissues, for it is very likely that every vital act is connected with
electrical change in the living part. But in muscle, as well as other
irritable and contractile tissues in animals, the manifestation of
electromotive force is inseparably connected with the special function
of the tissue, i. e. with contraction, the connection being of such a
nature that the electromotive force expresses, not the work actually
done at any given moment, but the capacity for work. Thus, so long
as the muscle lives, its electromotive force is found to be on the
whole proportional to its vigour. As it gradually loses its vitality,
its power of contracting and its electromotive force disappear pari
passu.    When it contracts, the manifestation of electromotive force
diminishes in proportion to the degree of contraction, and ceases when
the contraction is complete.
     These propositions were illustrated by experiments, showing :—
     1. That muscle when stimulated contracts, changing its form and
doing work.
     2. That the electromotive force of muscle, as shown galvanosco-
pically, declines when it contracts.
     3. That this happens also when muscle contracts automatically.
     4. That the same result is observed when the leaf of Dionaia is
excited either mechanically or electrically.
     5. That in Dionaea the period which elapses between the stimula
tion and its effect (period of latent stimulation) is much longer than
in muscle ; and that
     6. Each stimulation is succeeded by a period of exhaustion, during
which, although its electromotive force is restored, it is not excitable.
     In commenting on the last experiment the speaker cautioned the
physiological student against what he conceived to be a likely mis
apprehension of the facts. When muscle or Dionaea contracts, electro
motive forco disappears and work is done ; but there is no reason for
supposing that there is any conversion of the one effect into the other,
 or that the source of the force exercised by the muscle or the leaf
 in contracting is electrical.
     [The plants used in the experiments and exhibited at the lecture,
had been obtained through the kindness of the Director of the Royal
 Gardens, Kew. They had been cultivated expressly for the occasion,
and were in an unusually advanced growth for the season.]
     Vol. Vn.     (No. 61.)                                       2 a

 336                        General Monthly Meeting.                     [July 6,
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, July 6, 1874.
            The Earl of Rosse, D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                     in the Chair.
                      William Walter Brocklehurst, Esq.
                      Bernard Dietz, Esq.
                      William Thomas Hustwitt, Esq.
                      Frank Philip Leon, Esq.
                      Charles D. F. Phillips, M.D.
                      Winwood Reade, Esq.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Secretary reported that Lady Fellows, the widow of Sir
 Charles Fellows, who was long a Member and frequently a Manager
of the Royal Institution, had bequeathed to the Institution her
Drawings of Sir Charles's celebrated Collection of Watches, be
queathed by him to the British Museum.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
American Academy of Arts and Sciences— Proceedings, Vol. VIII. Nos. 64-84.
     8vo. 1873.
   Complete Works of Count Rumford. Vols. II. III. 8vo. 1873-4.
American Philosophical Society—Transactions, New Series, Vol. XV. Part 1. 4to.
     1873.
   Proceedings for 1873. 8vo.
Asiatic Society, Royal.—Journal, Vol. VII. Part 1. 8vo. 1874.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIV. No. 7. 8vo. 1874.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1873-4, No. 11. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for June, 1874. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1874. 8vo.
  Astronomical Register for June, 1874. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for June, 1874. 4to.
  Chemical News for June, 1874. 4to.
  Engineer for June, 1874. fol.
  Food Journal for June, 1874. 4to.
  Journal for Applied Science for June, 1874. fol.
  Journal of Gas-Lighting for June, 1874. 4to.
  Nature for June, 1874. 4to.
  Nautical Magazine for June, 1874. 8vo.
  Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1874. 8vo.
  Telegraph Journal for June, 1874. 8vo.

1874.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                          337
Edmonds, B. Esq. (the Author)—On the Name " Britain " and the Phoenicians.
     (Devon Assoc. Trans. 1871.) 8vo. 1871.
   Oscillations in Lake Ontario, &c. (' Quart. Journal of Science,' 1874.) 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 581. 8vo. 1874.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XVIII. No. 3. 8vo. 1874.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 118. 8vo. 1874.
Gladstone, Dr. J. H. F.R.8. M.R.I.—L'Ae'ronaute : Bulletin Mensuel International
     de la Navigation Ae'rienne : dirigc par Dr. A. H. de Villeneuve. 8vo. 1873-4.
Kershaw, S. W. M.A. (the Author)—Lambeth Palace Library and its Kentish
     Memoranda (with his " Art Treasures "). 8vo. 1874.
Leeds Philosophical Society.—Beport, 1872-73. 8vo. 1874.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. Xin. Part 4. 8vo. 1874.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal— Proceedings, Part 39. 8vo. 1874.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Beport, 1873. Part 2. 4to.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, New Series, Nos. 9, 10. 8vo. 1874.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 251. 8vo. 1874.
Smith, H. A. Esq. (the .iuttor)—Chemistry of the Sulphuric Acid Manufacture.
     ltito. 1873.
St. Petersburg Imperial Academy of Sciences—Memoires, VII" Se'rie, Tome XIX.
     Nos. 8-10. Tome XX. Tome XXI. Nos. 1-5. 4to. 1872-3.
   Bulletins, Tome XVIII. Nos. 3-5. Tome XIX. Nos. 1-3. 4to. 1872-3.
   Bepertorium fur Meteorologie, Band III. 4to. 1874.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)— Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     June, 1874. 8vo.
Tozer, Serjeant J. LL.D. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—On Identity of Method in
     the Search for Truth. Jurisprudence. (K 100) 8vo. 1874.
 United States Naval Observatory—Washington Astronomical and Meteorological
      Observations for 1871. 4to. 1873.
United Service Institution, Boyal—Journal, No. 76. 8vo. 1874.
Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 29. 8vo. 1874.
 Wisconsin State Agricultural Society—Transactions, Vols. X. XI. 8vo. 1872.
Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. VIII. Nos. 7, 8. 4to. 1874.
   Proceedings, 1873, No. 3. 1874, No. 1. 8vo.


           Hogal -Enstttutton of (ffireat Britain.
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                      Monday, November 2, 1874.
      Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.O.L. F.E.S. Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
                  Charles Frederick Moxon, Esq.
                  Sir David Lionel Salomons, Bart.
                  Henry Arthur Smith, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Managers reported the resignation of Dr. Wm. Rutherford,
Esq. F.R.SJ3. the Fullerian Professor of Physiology. A new Professor
will be appointed on April 5, 1875.
    The following letter from the Hon. Justice Grove to the Secretary
was read :—
                                  "Chettle House, Blandford,
                                                   "October 15, 1874.
"Dear Spottiswoode,
           "Some time ago I noticed, that among the busts in the
anteroom of the Royal Institution, there was not one of Barlow, who
in my judgment by his assiduity and disinterested* services gave a
great impetus to the Institution, and for the long time he was
Secretary was untiring in his zeal. I have had a marble bust
executed by Mr. Durham, A.R.A., which I am told is very good.
I saw the cast and thought it excellent, and for a posthumous work
done from photographs a fair likeness.
    " If the Managers will do me the honour to accept it for the Insti
tution it will give me much pleasure. It is now at Mr. Durham's,
21, Devonshire Street, and can be removed when desired.
                                          " Tours very truly,
                                                     " W. R. Grove."
    Resolved —That the best thanks of this Meeting be presented to
the Hon. Justice Grove for his munificent gift to the Royal Institu
tion of a marble bust of the late Rev. John Barlow, for so many
years its Honorary Secretary, which they receive with peculiar
gratification, as evincing the interest taken in the Institution by so
distinguished a worker in science as Sir William Rorert Grove,
and as a well-deserved memorial of Mr. Barlow's long and devoted
services to the Institution.
    Vol. VII. (No. 62.)                                      2 r

340                          General Monthly Meeting.                     [Nov. 2,
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
tabic, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same.
      FEOM
The French Government—Documents Inedite but 1'Histoire de France : Melanges
      Historiques : Nouvelle Bene, Tome I. 4to. 1873.
   Mandemcnts et Actes Divers de Charles V. 1364-80. 4to. 1874.
The India Office—Synopsis of the Great Trigonometrical Surrey of India, Vol. I.
      4to. 1874.
The British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Birds, Vol. I. Plates. 8vo. 1874.
   Guide to Exhibition Rooms. 8vo. 1874.
   Catalogue of Roman Medallions. By H. A. Griiber. 8vo. 1874.
   Guide to Egyptian Galleries. 12mo. 1874.
   Hand List of Seals, &c. 8vo. 1873.
Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia—Proceedings, 1873. 8vo.
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 95. 8vo. 1874.
Anlviuaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. VI. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1874.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1873, Part 2, No. 4 ; 1874, Part 1, Nos. 1, 2 ;
      Part 2, No. 1. 8vo.
    Proceedings, 1874, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXIV. No. 8. 8vo. 1874.
 Bavarian Academy of Science—Abhandlungen. Band XI. Abth. 3. 4to. 1874.
    Sitzungsberichte, 1873. Heft 3. 1874. Hefte 1-3. 8vo.
    Rede und Denkschriften iiber Liebig. 4to. 1874.
    Verzeichniss von 5563 Telescopischen Sternen. 8vo. 1874.
 Belgique, Academie Royale de—Bulletin, Tomes XXXV. XXXVI. 8vo. 1873.
    Almanach, 1874. 16to.
 Bertin, M. Emile (tlie Author)—Notes on Waves and Boiling. (' Naval Science,'
       July, 1874.) 8vo.
 Boston Society of Natural History—Memoirs, 4 Parts. 4to. 1873-4.
    Proceedings, 3 Parte. 8vo. 1873.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1873-4, Nos. 12, 13. 4to.
 British Association for the Advancement of Science—Report of the 42nd Meeting :
       at Bradford, 1873. 8vo. 1874.
 Brussels Royal Observatory—Annates Me'tebrologiques, 1872, 1873. 4to. 1874.
 Chemical Society—Journal for July-Oct. 1874. 8vo.
 Comitato Geologico a"Italia—Bollettini, 1874. Nos. 1-6. 8vo. 1874.
 Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Science—Report and Transactions
       for 1873. Vol. VI. Part 2. 8vo. 1874.
 Dulau, Messrs. (pie Publishers)—W. D. Cooley : Dr. Livingstone and the Royal
       Geographical Society. (K. 100) 8vo. 1874.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for July to Sept. 1874. 8vo.
    Astronomical Register for July to Oct. 1874. 8vo.
    Athenamm for July to Oct. 1874. 4to.
    Chemical News for July to Oct. 1874. 4to.
    Engineer for July to Oct. 1874. fol.
    Journal for Applied Science for July to Oct. 1874. fol.
     Nature for July to Oct. 1874. 4to.
     Nautical Magazine for July to Oct. 1874. 8vo.
     Pharmaceutical Journal for July to Oct. 1874. 8vo.
     Quarterly Journal of Science for July and Oct. 1874.
     Telegraph Journal for July to Oct. 1874. 8vo.
  Fellows, Lady {Widow of Sir Charles Fellows, M.R.I,)—Drawings by herself of
        Thirty-nine of the Watches collected by Sir Charles Fellows, now in the
        British Museum. (A legacy.)
  Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 582-585. 8vo. 1874.
  Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XVIII. No. 4. 8vo. 1874.

1874.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                      341
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1874. No. 2. 8vo.
   Verhandlungen, 1874, Nos. 7-11. 8vo.
    Abhandlungen, Vol. VII. Nos. 1, 2. fol. 1874.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 119. 8vo. 1874.
Harlem, SocUtd des Sciences —Verhandelingen. 3de Verz. Deel II. No. 1. 4to.
       1874.
    Archives Ne'erlandaises, Tome IX. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1872-4.
Iron and Steel Institute—journal, 1874. 8vo. 1874.
Kirkpatrick, H. C. Etq. (the Author)—Report of the Action for Libel brought by
      the Rev. R. O'Keeffe, P.P., against Cardinal Cullen. 8to. 1874.
Leeds Philosophical Society—Report, 1873. 8vo. 1874.
Levittoux, M. H. (the Author)—Philosophic de la Nature. 3" 6a. Paris, 1874. 8vo.
Linnean Society—Journal, Nos. 76, 77. 8vo. 1874.
    Proceedings, 1873-4. 8vo.
    Transactions, Vol. XXVIII. Part 4 ; Vol. XXIX. Part 2 ; Vol. XXX. Part 1.
      4to. 1874.
Lunacy Commissioners—Report for 1873. 8vo.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIII. Part 5. 8vo. 1874.
Manchester Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1874.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, April, 1874. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Transactions, Vol. LVII. 8vo. 1874.
Meteorological Office—Meteorological Committee of the Royal Society : Report for
       1873. 8vo. 1874.
    Report on Weather Telegraphy and Storm Signals. 8vo. 1874.
    Monthly Charts of Meteorological Data, with Remarks. 2 vol. fol. and 4to.
       1874.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, New Series, No. 11. 8vo. 1874.
Muste Teyler—Archives, Vol. III. Fasc. 4. 8vo. 1874.
Penzance Public Library—Catalogue. 8vo. 1874.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 252. 8vo. 1874.
Porter, T. C. Esq. and J. M. Coulter, Esq. (the Authors)—Synopsis of the Flora of
       Colorado. 8vo. 1874.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, April-Aug. 1874. 8vo.
Roberts, W. C—Fourth Annual Report of the Deputy-Master of the Mint, 1873.
       8vo. 1874.
Roma, Accademia dei Lincei—Atti, Anno XXVI. Sees. 2. 4to. 1874.
Royal College of Surgeons—Calendar. 8vo. 1874.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 153, 154, 155. 8vo. 1874.
    Philosophical Transactions for 1874, Part 1. 4to. 1874.
 St. Bartholomeufs Hospital—Statistical Tables. 1873. 8vo.
Smithsonian Institution— Smithsonian Report, 1872. 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXVII. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1874.
 Symons, Q. J. Esq. (the Author)— Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
       July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1874. 8vo.
 Tremaux, P. (the Author)—Principe Universel du Mouvemcnt. (016) 16to. 1874.
 Twining, Thomas, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Technical Training. 8vo. 1874.
 Tyndall, Professor, LL.D. D.C.L. F.R.S. (the Author)—On the Atmosphere as a
       Vehicle of Sound. (' Phil. Trans.' 1874.)
    Heat a Mode of Motion. (In Hungarian.) 8vo. Buda-Pesth. 1874.
    Fragmente aus den Naturwissenschaften : Uebersetzt von A. H. Mit Vorwort
       und Zusatzen von H. Helmholtz. 8vo. Braunschweig. 1874.
  United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 77. 8vo. 1874.
  Vereins zur Bef&rderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Mai-
       Juni. 1873. 4to.
  Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 30. 8vo. 1874.
  Walford, Weston S. Esq. F.8.A. M.R.I,—Papworth's Ordinary of British Armo
       rials. Parts 22, 23, &c. (Completion of the work.) 8vo. 1874.
 Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. VIII. No. 9. 4to. 1874.
    Proceedings, 1874, Nos. 2, 3. 8vo.
                                                                  2 r 2

342                         General Monthly Meeting.                      [Dec. 7,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, December 7, 1874.
           Admiral Sir IIbnry J. Codwngton, E.C.B. Manager,
                                   in the Chair.
                     The Hon. Mrs. Francis Wm. Buxton,
                     William Henry Domville, Esq.
                     George Sampson, Esq.
were elected Members of tbe Royal Institution.
     The following Lecture Arrangements were announced :
    John Hall Gladstone, Ekj. Ph.D. F.B.S. FuUorian Professor of Chemistry,
R.I.—Six Lectures on the Voltaic Battery ; on December 29/31, 1874 ; January 2,
5, 7, 9, 1875.
                             Before Easter, 1875.
    E. Bay Lanrestbr, Esq. M.A.—Six Lectures on the Pedigree of the Animal
Kingdom ; on Tuesdays, January 12 to February 16.
    Alfred H. Garrod, Esq.—Four Lectures on Animal Locomotion ; including
Itocomotion on Land, in the Air, and in Water; on Tuesdays,' February 23, March
2, 9, 16.
    Professor P. M. Duncan, F.R.8.—Three Lectures on the Grander Pheno
mena of Physical Geography ; on Thursdays, January 14 to 28.
    Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.B.S.—Seven Lectures on Electricity ; on
Thursdays, February 4 to March 18.
    Edward Dannrecther, Esq.—Two Lectures on Mozart and Beethoven (with
Pianoforte Dlustrations) ; on Saturdays, January 16 and 23.
    J. T. Wood, Esq.—Four Lectures on the Discovery of the Temple of Diana
and other Results of the Government Excavations at Ephesus ; on Saturdays,
January 30, February 6, 13, and 20.
    Professor W. K. Clifford, M.A. F.R.S.—Four Lectures on the General
Features of the History of Science ; on Saturdays, February 27 to March 20.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same.
     From
The Lord* of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac, 1878. 8vo, 1874.
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 96. 8vo. . 1874.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Second Series, Vol. X. Part 2.
     8vo. 1874.
Alcock, T. St, L. Col. M.R.I.—The Relative Power of Nations, Part II.
     (K 100) 8vo. 1874.
American Academy of Arte and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. IX. 8vo. 1874.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 92. 8vo. 1874.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1874-5, No. 1. 4to.
 Carpenter, W. B. M.I). F.R.S. dec.—Further Inquiries on Oceanic Circulation.
     (Bnyal Geograph. Soc. Proceedings, Vol. XVIII. 1874.)

1871.]                      General Monthly Meeting,                           843
 Cltemical Society—Journal for Nov. 1874. 8vo.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vols. XXXVII. XXXVUJ,
      8vo. 1874.
Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—Forty-first Annual Report, 1873. 8vo. 1874.
Editort—American Journal of Scienoe for Oct. 1874. 8vo.
   Astronomical Register for Nov. 1874. 8vo.
   Athemeum for Nov. 1874. 4 to.
   Chemical News for Nov. 1874. 4to.
   Engineer for Nov. 1874. fol.
   Journal for Applied Science for Nov. 1874. fol.
   Nature for Nov. 1874. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Nov. 1874. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Nov. 1874. 8vo.
   Quarterly Journal of Science for Nov. 1874.
   Telegraph Journal for Nov. 1874. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 584, 585. 8vo. 1874.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 120. 8vo. 1874.
Jervis, Wm. Esq. (the Author)—Cenni Geologici sulle Montague poste In
      Prossimita at Giacimento di Antracite di Demonte. (L 16) 8vo. 1873.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 58. 8vo. 1874.
Manchester Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. No. 3. 8vo. 1873.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Report, 1871, Part 4 ; 1873, Part 3.
     4ta
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, New Series, No. 12. 8vo. 1874.
Odlinq, Professor, M.A. F.R.S. M.B.I, (the Author) —Abstracts of Lectures delivered
      at the Royal Institution. 8vo. 1868-73.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 253. 8vo. 1874.
Roe, John, M.D. M.H.I, (the Author)—On some Physical Properties of Ice.
     ('Phil. Mag.' July, 1874.) 8vo.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Statistical Tables : 1874. 8vo.
Smithsonian Institution—Temperature Chart of the United States.
Spottiswoode, Wm. Esq. LL.D. F.B.S. See. B.I. &c. (the Author)—Polarization of
     Light. ('Nature 'Series.) 16to. 1874.
Statistical Society—Journal, Index to Vols. XXVI.-XXXV. 8vo. 1874.
Symons, O. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     Nov. 1874. 8vo.
Trafford, F. W. C. Esq. (the Author)—Amphiorama, ou la Vue des Montagues de
     la Spezia. (K 100) 8vo. 1874.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 78. 8vo. 1874.
 Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 31. 8vo. 1874.
Wilson, W. E. Esq. M.R.I,—Photograph of the Moon. Sept. 29, 1874.

344                           Professor Tyndall                   [Jan. 15,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, January 15, 1875.
     George Bosk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in
                                    the Chair.
            Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                           On Acoustic Reversibility.
On the 21st and 22nd of June, 1822, a Commission appointed by the
Bureau of Longitudes of France executed a celebrated series of experi
ments on the velocity of sound. Two stations had been chosen, the
 one at Villejuif, the other at Montlhery,' both lying south of Paris, and
 11*6 miles distant from each other. Prony, Mathiou, and Arago
 were the observers at Villejuif, while Humboldt, Bouvard, and Gay-
Lussac were at Montlhery. Guns, charged sometimes with 2 lb. and
sometimes with 3 lb. of powder, were fired at both stations, and the
velocity was deduced from the interval between the appearance of
the flash and the arrival of the sound.
    On this memorable occasion an observation was made which, as far
as I know, has remained a scientific enigma to the present hour. It
was noticed that while every report of the cannon fired at Montlhery
was heard with the greatest distinctness at Villejuif, by far tho greater
number of the reports from Villejuif failed to reach Montlhery. Had
wind existed, and had it blown from Montlhery to Villejuif, it would
have been recognized as the cause of the observed difference; bat the
air at the time was calm, the slight motion of translation actually
existing being from Villejuif towards Montlhery, or against the
direction in which the sound was best heard.
    So marked was tho difference in transmissive power between the
two directions, that on the 22nd of June, while every shot fired at
Montlhery was heard " a. merveille " at Villejuif, but one shot out of
twelve fired at Villejuif was heard, and that feebly, at the other
station.
    With the caution which characterized him on other occasions, and
which has been referred to admiringly by Faraday,* Arago made no
attempt to explain this anomaly. His words are : " Quant aux
differences si remarquables d'intensite que le bruit du canon a tonjours
presented suivant qu'il se propageaient du nord au sud entre Villejuif
et Montlhery, ou du sud au nord entre cette seconde station et la
premiere ; nous ne chercherons pas aujourd'hui a l'expliquer, parce-
                * ' Researches in Chemistry and Physics,' p. 484.
                  .^

1875.]                    on Acoustic Reversibility.                345
que nous ne pourrions offrir au lecteur que des conjectures denuees
de preuves."*
     I have tried, after much perplexity of thought, to bring this sub
ject within the range of experiment, and have now to submit a
possible solution of the enigma. The first step was to ascertain
whether the sensitive flame referred to in my recent paper in the
' Philosophical Transactions ' could be safely employed in experi
ments on the mutual reversibility of a source of sound and an object
on which the sound impinges. Now the sensitive flame usually
employed by me measures from 18 to 24 inches in height, while the
reed employed as a source of sound is less than a square quarter of an
inch in area. If, therefore, the whole flame, or the pipe which fed it,
were sensitive to sonorous vibrations, strict experiments on rever
sibility with the reed and flame might be difficult, if not impossible.
Hence my desire to learn whether the seat of sensitiveness was so
localized in the flame as to render the contemplated interchange of
flame and reed permissible.
     The flame being placed behind a cardboard screen, the shank of a
funnel passed through a hole in the cardboard was directed upon the
 middle of the flame. The sound-waves issuing from the vibrating reed
 placed within the funnel produced no sensible effect upon the flame.
 Shifting the funnel so as to direct its shank upon the root of the
 flame, the action was violent.
     To augment the precision of the experiment, the funnel was con
nected with a glass tube three feet long and half an inch in diameter,
the object being to weaken by distance the effect of the waves
 diffracted round the edge of the funnel, and to permit those only
 which passed through the glass tube to act upon the flame.
     Presenting the end of the tube to the orifice of the burner (6,
Fig. 1), or the orifice to the end of tho tube, the flame was violently
                                    Fio. l.
                                                 ®>
 agitated by the sounding-reed, E. On shifting the tube, or the burner,
 so as to concentrate the sound on a portion of the flame about half an
inch above the orifice, the action was nil. Concentrating the sound
                   * ' Counaissance des Temps,' 1825, p. 370.

346                          Professor TyndaU                    [Jan. 15,
upon the burner itself about half an inch below its orifice, there was
no action.
    These experiments demonstrate the localization of " the seat of
sensitiveness," and they prove the flame to be an appropriate instru
ment for the contemplated experiments on reversibility.
    The experiments proceeded thus : The sensitive flame being
placed close behind a screen of cardboard 18 inches high by 12 inches
wide, a vibrating reed, standing at the same height as the root of the
flame, was placed at a distance of six feet on the other side of the
screen. The sound of the reed, in this position, produced a strong
agitation of the flame.
    The whole upper half of the flame was here visible from the reed ;
hence the necessity of the foregoing experiments to prove the action
of the sound on the upper portion of the flame to be nil, and that the
waves had really to bend round the edge of the screen so as to reach the
seat of sensitiveness in the neighbourhood of the orifice of the burner.
    The positions of the flame and reed were reversed, the latter being
now close behind the screen, and the former at a distance of six feet
from it. The sonorous vibrations were without sensible action upon
the flame.
    The experiment was repeated and varied in many ways. Screens
of various sizes were employed ; and instead of reversing the positions
of the flame and reed, the screen was moved so as to bring, in some
experiments the flame, and in other experiments the reed, close behind
it. Care was also taken that no reflected sound from the walls or
ceiling of the laboratory, or from the body of the experimenter, should
have anything to do with the effect. In all cases it was shown that
the sound was effective when the reed was at a distance from the
screen and the flame close behind it ; while the action was insensible
when these positions were reversed.
    Thus, let 8 e, Fig. 2, be a vertical section of the screen. When the
roed was at A and the flame at B there was no action ; when the reed
                                   Fia. 2.
                                                      B
was at B and the flame at A the action was decided. It may be added
that the vibrations communicated to the screen itself, and from it to
the air beyond it, were without effect ; for when the reed, which at B
is effectual, was shifted to C, where its action on the screen was
greatly augmented, it ceased to have any action on the flame at A.
    Wo are now, I think, prepared to consider the failure of rever-

1875.]                   on Acoustic Reversibility.                    347
sibility in the larger experiments of 1822. Happily an incidental
observation of great significance comes here to our aid. It was
observed and recorded at the time, that while the reports of the guns
at Villejuif were without echoes, a roll of echoes, lasting from 20 to
25 seconds, accompanied every shot at Montlhery, being heard by the
observers there. Arago, the writer of the report, referred these echoes
to reflection from the clouds, an explanation which I think we are
entitled to regard as problematical. The report says that " tous les
coups tires a Montlhery y etaient accompagnes d'un roulement
semblable a celui du tonnerre." I have italicized a very significant
word—a word which fairly applies to our experiments on gun-sounds at
the South Foreland, where there was no sensible solution of continuity
between explosion and echo, but which could hardly apply to echoes
coming from the clouds. For supposing the cloud to have been only
a mile distant, the sound and its echo would have been separated by
an interval of nearly ten seconds. But there is no mention of any
interval ; and had such existed, surely the word " followed," instead
of " accompanied," would have been the one employed. The echoes,
moreover, appear to have been continuous, while the clouds observed
seem to have been separate. " Ces phenomenes," says Arago, " n'ont
jamais eu lieu qu'au moment de l'apparition de quelques nuages."
But from separate clouds a continuous roll of echoes could hardly
come. When to this is added the experimental fact that clouds far
denser than any ever formed in the atmosphere are demonstrably
incapable of sensibly reflecting sound, while cloudless air, which
Arago pronounced echoless, has been proved capable of powerfully
reflecting it, I think we have strong reason to question the hypothesis
of the French philosopher.
    And considering the hundreds of shots fired at the South Foreland,
with the attention specially directed to the aerial echoes, when no
single case occurred in which echoes of measurable duration did not
accompany tho report of the gun, I think Arago's statement that at
Villejuif no echoes were heard, when the sky was clear, must simply
mean that they vanished with great rapidity. Unless the attention
were specially directed to tho point, a slight prolongation of the
cannon-sound might well escape observation ; and it would be all the
more likely to do so if the echoes were so loud and prompt as to form
apparently part and parcel of the direct sound.
    I should be very loth to transgress here the limits of fair criticism,
or to throw doubt, without good reason, on the recorded observations
of illustrious men. Still, taking into account what has been just
stated, and remembering that the minds of Arago and his colleagues
were occupied by a totally different problem—that the echoes were an
incident rather than an object of observation—I think we may justly
consider the sound which he called " instantaneous " to have been
one whose aerial echoes did not differentiate themselves from the
direct sound by any noticeable fall of intensity, and which died
rapidly into silence.

348                          Professor Tyndall                 [Jan. 15,
    Turning now to the observations at Montlhery, we are struck by
the extraordinary duration of the echoes heard at that station. At the
South Foreland tho charge habitually fired was equal to the largest
of those employed by the French philosophers ; but on no occasion
did the gun-sounds produce echoes approaching to 20 or 25 seconds'
duration. The time rarely reached half this amount. Even the
syren-echoes, which were more remarkable and more long-continued
than those of the gun, never reached tho duration of the Montlhery
echoes. The nearest approach to it was on the 17th of October, 1873,
when the syren-echoes required 15 seconds to subside into silence.
    On this same day, moreover (and this is a point of marked signi
ficance), the transmitted sound reached its maximum range, tho gun-
sounds being heard at tho Quenocs buoy, 16£ nautical miles distant from
the South Foreland. I have stated in another place that the duration
of tho air-echoes indicates " the atmospheric depths " from which they
come.* An optical analogy may help us here. Let light fall upon
chalk, the light is wholly scattered by the superficial particles ; let
the chalk be powdered and mixed with water, light reaches the observer
from a far greater depth of the turbid liquid. The solid chalk typifies
the action of exceedingly dense acoustic clouds ; the chalk and water
that of clouds of moderate density. In the one case we have echoes
of short, in the other echoes of long duration. These considerations
prepare us for the inference that Montlhery, on the occasion referred
to, must have been surrounded by a highly diaconstic atmosphere ;
while the shortness of the echoes at Villcjuif shows the atmosphere
surrounding that station to have been acoustically opaque.
    Have we any clue to the cause of the opacity ? I think we have.
Villcjuif is close to Paris, and over it, with the observed light wind,
was slowly wafted the air from the city. Thousands of chimneys to
windward of Villcjuif were discharging their heated currents ; so that
an atmosphere non-homogeneous in a high degree must have sur
rounded that station. At no great height in the atmosphere the
equilibrium of temperature would be established. This non -homo
geneous air, surrounding Villejuif, is experimentally typified by our
screen with the sourco of sound close behind it, the upper edge of the
screen representing the place where equilibrium of temperature was
established in the atmosphere above the station. In virtue of its
proximity to the screen, the echoes from our sounding-reed would, in
the case here supposed, so blend with the direct sound as to be prac
tically indistinguishable from it, as the echoes at Villejuif followed
the direct sound so hotly, and vanished so rapidly, that they escaped
observation. And as our sensitive flame, at a distance, failed to be
affected by the sounding body placed close behind the cardboard
screen, so, I take it, did the observers at Montlhery fail to hear the
sounds of the Villejuif gun.
                     * ' Phil. Trans.' 1874, pt. i. p. 202.

1875.]                    on Acoustic Reversibility.                  349
    Something further may be done towards the experimental elucida
tion of this subject. The facility with which sounds pass through
textile fabrics has been already illustrated,* a layer of cambric or
calico, or even of thick flannel or baize, being found competent to in
tercept but a small fraction of the sound from a vibrating reed. Such
a layer of calico may bo taken to represent a layer of air differentiated
from its neighbours by temperature or moisture ; while a succession
of such sheets of calico may bo taken to represent successive layers of
non-homogeneous air.
    Two tin tubes (M N and O P, Fig. 3) with open ends were placed
so as to form an acute angle with each other. At the end of one was
the vibrating reed r ; opposite the end of the other, and in the pro
longation of P O, the sensitive flame /, a second sensitive flame (/')
being placed in the continuation of the axis of M N. On sounding the
reed, the direct sound through M N agitated the flame f. Introducing
the square of calico a b at the proper angle, a slight decrease of the
                                      Fig. 3.
action on f was noticed, and the feeble echo from a b produced a barely
perceptible agitation of the flame /. Adding another square, c d, the
sound transmitted by a 6 impinged on c d ; it was partially echoed,
returned through a b, passed along P O, and still further agitated the
flame /. Adding a third square, ef, the reflected sound was still further
augmented, every accession to the echo being accompanied by a corre
sponding withdrawal of the vibrations from f and a consequent
stilling of that flame.
    With thinner calico or cambric, it would require a greater number
of layers to intercept the entire sound ; hence with such cambric we
should have echoes returned from a greater distance, and therefore of
greater duration. Eight layers of the calico employed in these experi
ments, stretched on a wire frame and placed close together as a kind
of pad, may be taken to represent a dense acoustic cloud. Such a
pad, placed at the proper angle beyond N, cuts off the sound, which
in its absence reaches/', to such an extent that the flame/', when
not too sensitive, is thereby stilled, while / is far more powerfully
agitated than by the reflection from a single layer. With the source
                      * ' Phil. Trans.' 1874, pt. i. p. 208.

350             Professor TyndoM on Acoustic Reversibility.        [Jan. 15,
of sound close at hand, the echoes from such a pad would, be of
insensible duration. Thus close at hand do I suppose the acoustic
clouds surrounding Villejuif to have been, a similar shortness of echo
being the consequence.*
     A further step is here taken in the illustration of the analogy
between light and sound. Our pad acts chiefly by internal reflection.
The sound from the reed is a composite one, made up of partial
sounds differing in pitch. If these sounds be ejected from the pad in
their pristine proportions, the pad is acoustically white ; if they
return with their proportions altered, the pad is acoustically coloured.
     In these experiments my assistant, Mr. Cottrell, has rendered me
material assistance.                                              [J- T.J
    * Since this waa written I have sent the sound through fifteen layers of
calico, and echoed it back through the same layers, in strength sufficient to
agitate the flame. Thirty layers were here crossed by the sound. The sound
was subsequently found able to penetrate two hundred layers of cotton net ; a
single layer of wetted calico being competent to stop it.

 1875.]      Sir John Lubbock on English Wild Flowers, dec.           351
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, January 22, 1875.
  Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. MA. Vice-President, in the Chair.
             Sir John Lurrock, Bart. M.P. P.R.S. M.R.I.
                   VICE-CHANCELLOR OF THE UNIVKRSITT OF LOUDON,
           On the Relations of English Wild Flowers to Insects.
The speaker followed out in general the line adopted in his just
published work on 'British Flowers considered in Relation to Insects.'
 He commenced with a short history of the subject, referring in
terms of warm praise especially to the labours of Sprengel, Darwin,
 Hildebrand, Delpino, and Muller. Sprengel pointed out the close
relations which existed between flowers and insects, and the service
rendered by the latter in transferring the pollen from the stamen to
the pistil ; but Darwin was the first to perceive that the importance
of this consisted, not merely in the transference of the pollen from
one organ to another, but from one plant to another. Everyone
indeed knows how important flowers are to insects ; that bees, butter
flies, &c., derive the main part of their nourishment from flowers,
but comparatively few are aware, on the other hand, how much the
flowers themselves are dependent on insects. Yet it is not too much
to say that if flowers are very useful to insects, insects, on the other
hand, are in many cases absolutely necessary to flowers : that if insects
have been in some respects modified and adapted with a view to the
acquirement of honey and pollen, flowers, on the other hand, owe their
scent and colours, nay, their very existence, in their present form, to
insects. Thus, the lines and bands by which so many flowers arc
ornamented have reference to the position of the honey ; and it may
be observed that these honey-guides are absent in night flowers, where
they of course would not show, and would therefore be useless ; as for
instance, in Lychnis vespertina, or Silene nutans. Night flowers,
moreover, are generally pale ; for instance, Lychnis vespertina is white,
while Lychnis diurna, which flowers by day, is red.
     This transference of the pollen takes place in almost all species ;
but, while in most flowers it is effected by insects, in some cases it is
simply caused by the wind. Wind-fertilized flowers, however, have
no colour, no scent, and no honey. The self-fertilization of flowers is
provided against in three principal ways. Sometimes the stamens and
pistil are situated in different flowers; sometimes they come to
maturity at different times ; sometimes they are so arranged that the
pollen from the stamens could only reach the pistil with greater or

352                      Sir John Lubbock on the                 [Jan. 22,
less difficulty. In those plants in which the stamens and pistil are not
mature simultaneously, the pistil in some cases ripens first, as in the
aristolochia and arum ; but in the great majority the stamens ripen
before the pistil.
     In illustration of the great influence which insects exercise over
plants, the speaker then called attention to those cases in which within
a single genus we meet with species having large, and others with
small flowers, as, for instance, in epilobium and geranium ; and pointed
out that the large flowers were those most dependent upon insects.
     Of course these conclusions implied that insects were capable of
distinguishing colours, but the speaker then proceeded to mention
some experiments which he had made, and which seemed to prove
directly that this was the case. For instance, he placed some honey
on a slip of glass, and put the glass on blue paper, and when the bee
had made several journeys, and thus become accustomed to the blue
colour, he placed some honey in the same manner on orange paper.
Then during one of the absences of the bee he transposed the two
colours, leaving the honey itself in the same place as before. The
bee returned as usual to the place where she had been accustomed to
find the honey ; but though it was still there she did not alight, but
paused for a moment, and then dashed straight to the blue paper. No
one, he said who saw this bee at that moment could have had the
slightest doubt of her power of distinguishing blue from orange. He
mentioned one other experiment. Having accustomed a bee to come
to honey on blue paper, he ranged other supplies of honey on paper
of other colours, yellow, orange, red, green, black and white. Then
he continually transposed the coloured paper, leaving the honey on the
same spots, but the bee always flew to the blue paper wherever it
might be.
     Sir John then proceeded to describe a number of common flowers,
and to show how beautifully they are adapted to secure and profit by
the visits of insects, taking as illustrations the berberry, heath, dead-
 nettle, salvia, sweet pea, daisy, eypripedium, &o.
     He then passed on to those cases in which cross-fertilization is
secured by the relative position of the stamens and pistil ; especially
 in the cases of primula and lythrum. He referred very briefly
 to the modifications undergone by bees in order to adapt them to
 flowers ; and after mentioning the well-known cases of the sleep of
flowers, as being possibly connected with their relation to insects, and
 recording some observations on this part of tho subject,—for instance,
 by keeping flowers in the dark he induced them to sleep all day,
 while in other cases he kept them awake all night by means of
 artificial light—in conclusion he remarked that the observations
 commenced by Sprengel have shown that insects, and especially bees,
 have an importance in relation to flowers which had been previously
 unsuspected.
     To them we owe the beauties of our gardens, the sweetness of our
 fields. To them flowers are indebted for their scent and colour, nayi

1875.]        Relations of English Wild Flowers to Insects.            353
their very existence in its present form. Not only have the brilliant
colours, the sweet scent, and the honey of flowers been gradually
developed by the unconscious agency of insects, but the very arrange
ment of the colours—the circular bands and radiating lines, the form,
size, and position of the petals, the arrangement of the stamens and
pistil —all have reference to the visits of insects, and are disposed in
such a manner as to ensure the great object which these visits are
destined to effect. For it is obvious that any blossom differing from
the form and size best adapted to secure the due transference of the
pollen would be less likely to be fertilized than others ; while, on the
other band, those which were rich in honey, which were the sweetest
 and the most conspicuous,would most attract the attention and secure
 the visits of insects ; and thus, just as our gardeners, by selecting seed
from the most beautiful varieties, have done so much to adorn our
 gardens, so have insects, by fertilizing the largest and most brilliant
 flowers, unconsciously, but not less effectually, contributed to the
 beauty of our woods and fields.
                                                                 [J. L.]

354                        Professor Huxley                      [Jan. 29,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, January 29, 1875.
   The Duke op Northumrerland, D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
                 Professor Huxley, LL.D. Sec.R.S.
 On the Recent Work of the ' Challenger ' Expedition, and its Bearing on
                          Geological Problems.
The speaker began by commenting on the sailing of BT.M.S.
' Challenger ' in December, 1872, the nature of her mission, and the
completeness and perfection of her equipment, under the auspices of
the late First Lord of the Admiralty, Mr. Goschen.
    After referring to the course laid down for the ' Challenger,' and
her expected return in the spring of 1876, he said that her work is
rather more than half done, and that important results had been
already obtained, some of which would be especially dealt with in
his discourse ; but it was necessary, first, to give a sketch of the state
of our knowledge on the subject in 1872, in order to do justice to the
'Challenger's' work, without over-estimating its value.
    The first successful attempt to ascertain the nature of the bottom
of the sea, and of the limit of life at depths greater than five or six
hundred feet, was made by Sir John Ross in 1818, who, by the help
of a very ingenious machine of his own contrivance, brought up
several pounds of mud from 1050 fathoms, or 6300 feet, or about
a mile and a quarter, in Baffin's Bay, 72° 80' N., 77° 15' W. The
nature of what was brought up was described by Ross and by Sabine,
who accompanied him. It was a fine greenish mud, but no accurate
determination of the nature of this mud was made. Ehrenberg, in
1853, examined the surface scum and the mud obtained by Penny in
73° and 74° N., and found it to consist of
          Diatoms (vegetable), which live at the surface.
          Radiohria (animal), which live at the surface.
          Sponge spicules (animal), which live at the bottom.
    In 1854, Bailey determined the nature of the mud procured by
Brooke in 900-2700 fathoms (5400-16,200 feet), in the Sea o'f
Kamschatka. There were absolutely no calcareous organisms in the
mud ; it was purely silicious. These and other observations in the
north circumpolar area tend to establish the existence of a circum

 1875.J     on the Recent Work of the ' Challenger ' Expedition.        355
 polar zono of silicious deposit in the Arctic regions, within the
 parallel of 55° N.—a North Polar silicious cap.
     The speaker next alluded to the despatch of the Antarctic expe
 dition under Sir James Ross, in 1839, and the awakening of attention
 to the importance of the work done by minute organisms by Ehren-
 berg, in 1836 and 1838. Ehrenberg discovered that organisms, whose
 skeletons resemble those which occur in cretaceous and tertiary rocks,
and sometimes constitute their whole mass, are still living. The
 observations of Sir James Ross and Dr. Hooker, at two distant points
of the Antarctic zone, proved the existence of a South Polar silicious cap.
     The speaker then noticed the discovery of the nature of the
 sediment forming the bottom of the deep sea in the intermediate zone
(about 110° of latitude), of calcareo-silicious deposit. This dates back
 to 1853, and is due to Ehrenberg's examination of the soundings
 brought up by Berryman from 2000 fathoms (12,000 feet), between
Newfoundland and the Azores. They consisted of silicious Diatoms,
 Radiolaria, and Sponge spicules, as in the Arctic and Antarctic seas :
 but the great mass of the deposit was formed of calcareous Foraminifera.
 On these observations Ehrenberg based the conclusion then enun
ciated, that " chalk is nothing but a heap of dead foraminiferal
 skeletons."
     Professor Huxley then alluded to the confirmation of these results
by Bailey, himself, and others, and to the discovery of the extension
of a similar deposit over the South Atlantic and into the Indian Ocean ;
and the further confirmation on a great scale by the ' Challenger.'
     Having mentioned Ehrenberg's opinion, that Globigerince, &c.,
live at the bottom, and the evidence adduced by Dr. Wallich in
confirmation of that view, he referred to Major Owen's results, and to
the ' Challenger's ' confirmation of the affirmative proposition that
they certainly live at tho top ; he added, that the negative proposition
that they do not also live at the bottom is left open. The fact that
animals which do live at the bottom feed on the Globigerinae is pro
bably of no great weight.
     The speaker next adverted to the Qreensand deposits of various
geological ages, the nature of which was discovered by Ehrenberg in
1854, and to the nearly contemporaneous discovery of recent green-
sand (100-300 fathoms) by Pourtales (1854), and the investigation of
its origin by Bailey in 1856 ; while Parker and Jones subsequently
ascertained the formation of greensand to bo going on in the Austra
lian seas. The ' Challenger's ' discovery of greensand at the bottom
of the Agulhas current (200-300 fathoms) was then mentioned.
Thus far the value of the work of the ' Challenger ' lies in extending
and confirming conclusions already more or less established. The
next matter is especially her own.
    The barrenness of the deeper parts of the Mediterranean, and the
existence of a fine clay there, was already known ; but no one sus
pected the existence of extensive deposits of barren clay in the middle
of the great calcareo-silicious zone in open ocean.
    Vol. VII. (No. 62.)                                        2 o

356                            Professor Huxley                    [Jan. 29,
     The dredgings of the ' Challenger ' have recently shown that
certain deep oceanic valleys contain thick deposits of finely-divided
red clay, composed of a silicate of alumina and peroxide of iron. Thus,
between Teneriffe and S. Thomas a great valley was found at a depth
of about 18,000 feet, the bottom of which was covered with this red
material. The origin of such deposits is suggested by the results of
some experiments by Mr. Buchanan, the chemist to tho ' Challenger,'
who, by treating the Globigerina-marl with dilute acids, obtained about
1 or 2 per cent, of insoluble residuum, which strikingly resembled
the clay in question. Hence the conclusion drawn by Professor
Wyville Thomson, that the great deep-seated deposits of red clay
actually represent the remains of marine organisms, of which myriads
must have suffered decomposition to furnish these vast accumula
tions of their debris. If this conclusion be correct, not only silicious
and calcareous, but argillaceous deposits may be formed by the long-
continued action of vital agencies. And as, by well-known pro
cesses of metamorphosis, such silicious, calcareous, and argillaceous
deposits may be converted into all the chief kinds of rock which con
stitute the earth's crust, it will follow that rocks of almost any mineralo-
gical composition may be directly or indirectly generated by the action
of living organisms. Having discussed various explanations and
dismissed them as all at present unsatisfactory, tho speaker said that
the certainties are :
     1. That, beyond certain depths, the calcareous organisms which
must fall over the area covered by the ocean disappear, and their
place is taken by fine red clay.
     2. That when the ordinary Globigerina ooze has its calcareous
matter removed, a residuum of fine red clay remains.
     But standing firmly on the basis of bare facts, as they are now
ascertained, it is permissible to use these facts as a basis for deductions.
Suppose the globe of the earth to be covered with water uniformly to
a depth of two thousand fathoms (twelve thousand feet, or about two
miles), the merely tidal and current movements which would then
exist in the water would be insufficient to cause any important amount
of degradation of the solid crust, and there would be no sedimentary
doposits worth speaking of.
     Now let tho lowest forms of vegetable and animal life—Diatoms,
Radiolaria, Foraminifera, and Sponges —be introduced, and the result
would be the formation of tho silicious pole caps, and of the calcareo-
silicious intermediate zone ; and these might accumulate until
they formed beds of rottenstono and of chalk, of many thousand feet
in thickness.
     By well-known metamorphic processes the rottenstono might be
converted into a dense opaline rock, or perhaps into quartzite ; while
the chalk might bo converted into crystalline limestone ; and in each
of* these all trace of its origin might disappear.
     Next let parts of the bottom in the calcareo-silicious area be raised

   1875.]     on the Becent Work of the 'Challenger' Expedition.        357
   to within 1000 feet, and others depressed to 18,000 feet. Judging by
  our present knowledge, the former might be replaced by greensand,
  and the latter by red clay. The greensand might be metamorphosed
  into endless varieties of those minerals into which silica, alumina,
  iron, and potash enter in diverse proportions; the clay into shales,
  schists, slates, and even into gneiss and granite.
       And thus our imaginary world would be covered with more or less
  extensive patches of all the most important rocks which enter into the
  composition of the globe, every particle of which would at one time
  have formed a part of a living organism ; though in some, no trace
  of this primitive composition would remain, and though it is quite
  possible that all traces of organic life might be obliterated in every
  one of them.
       Application of those results was then made to the reconciliation of
 an apparent discrepancy between biological theory and geological
 fact.
      1. There is conclusive evidence that the present species of animals
 and plants have arisen by gradual modification of pre-existing species.
      2. There is conclusive evidence that, even geologically speaking,
 the process has been very slow, and has continued over a much longer
 period than that which corresponds with the fossiliferous rocks.
      3. Nevertheless, beneath the fossiliferous rocks lies a great thick
 ness of unfossiliferous quartzites, sandstones, slates, gneiss, and
 granite, almost entirely azoic.
     Theso researches consequently lend great support to the views of
those geologists who find an explanation of the past history of the
rocks in the present operations of nature— views which were held
half a century ago by Sir Henry De la Beche, wore advocated by
Mr. Poulett Scrope, and were still more clearly developed by Sir
Charles Lyell, who has so ably elaborated the doctrine of uniformi-
tarianism originally enunciated by Hutton. Sir Charles has, indeed,
survived the prejudices which at first opposed his views, and has lived
to see most of the reputed heresies of his youth become established
as the oreed of every philosophical geologist.
                                                            [T. H. I!.]
                                                            2 c 2

358                          General Monthly Meeting.                       [Feb. 1,
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, February 1, 1875.
      George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
                     Robert Dunlop Buchanan, Esq.
                     Mrs. Laurence Cave,
                     William Payne, Esq. F.C.S. F.R.G.S.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
The Secretary of State for India—Rig Veda Sanhita. Edited by F. Max Miiller.
     Vol. VI. 4to. 1874.
The Lords of the Admiralty—Report* from H.M.S. ' Challenger,' No. 2. fol. 1873.
Accademia dei Lineei, lieale—Atti. Anno XXVI. Sess. 3, 4. fol. 1874.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1874, Part 1 ; Part 2, No. 2. 8vo.
   Proceedings, 1874, 'No. 8. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXV. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
     1874-5.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1874-5. Nos. 2, 3. 4, 5. 4to.
Cape of Gaod Hope Observatory—Cape Catalogue of 1159 Stars, 1860. 8vo. 1873.
Chemical Society—Journal for Dec. 1874, Jan. 1875. 8vo.
Claudel, M. (the Author)—Tlieorie dea Paralleles selon les Gebmetres Japonais.
     (K 100) 8vo. 1875.
Comitate Geologica d'ltalia—Bollctini, 1874, Nos. 7, 8. 8vo.
Dunant, M. Henri (the Author)—Convention de Geneve : un Souvenir de Solferino.
     6" e'd. 16to. Paris, 1873.
  L. de Cnzenove : La Guerre et l'Humanite' au XIX" Siecle. (Convention, &c.)
     8vo. Paris, 1874.
  J. Kastner: Invention du Pyrophone: Experiences, &c. (L 16) 8vo. 1875.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Nov. 1874. 8vo.
  Astronomical Register for Dec. 1874 and Jan. 1875. 8vo.
  Athenseum for Dec. 1874 and Jan. 1875. 4to.
   Chemical News for Dec. 1874 and Jan. 1875. 4to.
  Engineer for Dee. 1874 and Jan. 1875. fol.
  Journal for Applied Science for Dec. 1874 and Jan. 1875. fol.
   Nature for Dec. 1874 and Jim. 1875. 4to.
  Nautical Magazine for Dec. 1874 and Jan. 1875. 8vo.
  Pharmaceutical Journal for Dec. 1874 and Jan. 1875. 8vo.
  Practical Magazine, Jan. 1875. 4to.
   Telegraphic Journal for Dec. 1874, and Jan. 1875. 8vo.

1875.]                       General Monthly Meeting:.                      359
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 586, 587. 8vo. 1874.
 Geographical Society, Iioyal— Proceedings, Vol. XVIII. No. 3. 8vo. 1871.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1874, No. 12 et seq. 8vo.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 120*. 8vo. 1875.
 Geneve, Socie'te' de Physique—Me'moires, Tome XXIII. Partie 2. 4to. 1874.
'Gladstone, Professor J. H. F.R.S. M.R.I,—The Argonaut. Edited by G.
      Gladstone. Vol. I. 8vo. 1874.
 Greenwich Observatory—Observations in 1872. 4to. 1874.
 Hayne, Charles Seale, Esq. M.R.I.—Eas&yes of Nutural Experiments made in the
      Academie del Cimento. Englished by R. Waller, F.R.S. 4to. 1684.
 Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Part 15. 8vo. 1874.
 Irish Academy. Royal—Proceedings, Nov. 1874. Vol. Il.Ser. II. No. 1. 8vo. 1875.
 Lubbock, Sir John, Bart. M.P. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—British Wild Flowers
      considered in relation to Insects. (Nature Series.) 16to. 1874.
 Manchester Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XIII. No. 12. Vol. XIV.
      Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1874.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, August, 1874.
      Part 1. 8vo.
 Northumberland, The Duke of, D.C.L. Pres. R.I,—A Conference of Pleasure,
      composed tor some Festive occasion about 1592, by Francis Bacon. Edited,
      from a manuscript belonging to the Duke of Northumberland, by James
      Spedding. 4to. 1870.
 Photographic Society -Journal, Nos. 254, 525. 8vo. 1873.
 Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Part 1. 8vo. 1874.
 Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Sept. Oct. 1874. 8vo.
 Prosser, R. B. Esq.—Mr. Tatum's Lectures on Natural Philosophy, Electricity,
      Chemistry, and Physiology. (MSS.) 1810, 1811. 4to.
 Quaritch, Mr. B.—A General Catalogue of Books. 8vo. 1874.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 156, 157. 8vo. 1874.
 Salomons, Sir Dat-id, Bart. M.R.I, (the Author)—A New Method of Signalling on
      Railways. (K 103) 8vo. 1874.
 Smart. B. C. M.D. and H. T. Crofton, Esq. (Oie Authors)—Dialect of the English
      Gipsies. 8vo. 1875.
 Symom, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      Dec. 1874 and Jan. 1875. 8vo.
 Vereins znr Befiirderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Jan.-
      April. 1874. 4to.
  Warden of the Standards—Eighth Annnal Report. 8vo. 1874.
  Wur2burq Physikalisch-Medicinische Gesellschaft—A. Kolliker, Pennatulido
      Umbellula. (M 8) 4to. 1875.
  Yorkshire Archaeological and Topographical Association—Journal, Parts 11, 12.
      8vo. 1874.
  Yorkshire Philosophical Society—Annual Report, 1873. 8vo. 1874.

360                       Mr. James Dewar oil the                [Feb. 5,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 5, 1875.
    Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. V.P. in the Chair.
                       James Dewar, Esq. F.R.S.E.
                   On the Physiological Action of Light.
The late Sir Henry Holland, President of the Royal Institution, in
his essay on the " Progress and Spirit of Physical Science " (1858)
says, " The experiments of D'Arcy prove that the impression of light
is often retained on the retina for fully two and a half minutes, the
time in which a luminous particle or undulation passes through nearly
thirty millions of miles of space ! What is the condition of light-
be it conceived as matter, or motion, or force—when thus arrested
and enchained in a living organism ? "
     To this profound problem of the specific effect produced on the
retina and optic nerve by the action of light, Mr. Dcwar and Dr. Jobn
G. McKendrick have especially directed their attention. Numerous
hypotheses have been made from time to time by physicists and phy
siologists ; but up to the present date our knowledge of the subject is
without any experimental foundation. For example, Newton, Melloni,
and Secbeck stated that the action of light on the retina consisted of
a communication of mere vibrations ; Young conjectured that it was
a minute intermittent motion of some portion of the optic nerve ;
Du Bois-Rcymond attributed it to an electrical effect ; Draper sup
posed that it depended on a heating effect on a choroid ; and Mosier
compared it to the action of light on a sensitive photographic plate.
     It is evident that, in accordance with the principle of the trans
ference of energy now universally accepted, the action of light on
the retina must produce an equivalent result, which may be expressed,
for example, as heat, chemical action, or electro- motive power. It is
well known that the electro-motive force of a piece of muscle is
diminished when it is caused to contract by its normal stimulus, tho
nervous energy conveyed along the nerve supplying it ; and similarly
a nerve suffers a diminution of its normal electro-motive force during
action. In the same manner, the amount and variations of the electro
motive power of the optic nerve affected secondarily by tho action of
light on the retina, are physical expressions of certain changes pro
duced in the latter ; or, in other words, are functions of the external
exciting energy, which in this case is light. Considerations such as
these led them to form the opinion that the problem of what effect,
if any, the action of light has on the electro-motive force of the retina
and optic nerve, would require for its investigation very careful and
refined experiment.
    The inquiry divided itself into two parts— fust, to ascertain the

1875.]                 Physiological Action of Light,                  361
electro-motive force of the retina and nerve ; and, second, to observe
whether this was altered in amount by the action of light. The
electro-motive force of any living tissue can be readily determined
by the method of Du Bois-Reymond. This great physiologist found
that every point of the external surface of the eyeball of a large
tench was positive to the artificial transverse section of the optic
nerve, but negative to the longitudinal section. This ho accom
plished by the use of his well-known non-polarizable electrodes,
formed of troughs of zinc carefully amalgamated, containing a solu
tion of neutral sulphate of zinc, and having cushions of Swedish
filter paper on which to rest the preparation. (To protect the pre
paration from the irritant action of the sulphate of zinc, a thin film,
or guard of sculptor's clay, moistened with a *75 per cent, solution of
common salt, and worked out to a point, was placed on each cushion.)
These electrodes were connected with a galvanometer, and the pre
paration was placed so that the eyeball, carefully freed from muscle,
rested on the one clay-guard, while the transverse section of the optic
nerve was in contact with the other. By following Du Bois-Rey-
mond's method the experimenters had no difficulty in obtaining a
strong deflection from the eyes of various rabbits, a cat, a dog, a
pigeon, a tortoise, numerous frogs, and a goldfish.          The deflection
was frequently so much as to drive the spot of light off the galvano
meter scale.
     With regard to the second question—namely, Whether, and to
 what extent, the electro-motive force would be affected by light ?
 more difficulty was found. The method followed was to place the
 eyeball on the cushions in the manner above described, to note the
 deflection of the galvanometer needle, and then to observe whether or
 not any effect was produced on the impact of a beam of light during
its continuance and on its removal. In a few of the earlier experi
 ments Du Bois-Beymond's multiplying galvanometer was used, but
 finding the amount of deflection obtained was so small that the effect
of light could not be readily observed, they latterly used Sir William
 Thomson's exceedingly sensitive reflecting galvanometer, kindly lent
 them by Professor Tait. They met also with secondary difficulties,
 such as the dying of the nerve, the impossibility of maintaining an
 absolutely constant zero, and an absolutely constant amount of
 polarity, the effects of heat, &c. ; but these difficulties were overcome
 as far as possible by the most approved methods. The changes in
 polarity of the apparatus occurred slowly, and could not be mistaken
 for the changes produced by the action of light, which occurred
 suddenly, and lasted a short period of time. It is also important
 to state that the deflections observed do not at present profess to
 be absolute, but only relative values. About five hundred observations
 were made previous to April 1873, and every precaution was taken to
 obtain accurate results. The effects of heat were carefully avoided
 by covering over the troughs on which the eye under examination
 rested, with a spherical double-shell of glass, having at least an inch
 of water between the walls.

362                      Mr. James Deicar on the                    [Feb. 5!
     The results arrived at are as follows :
     1. The action of light on the retina is to alter the amount of the
electro-motive force to the extent of from 3 to 7 per cent, of the total
amount of the natural current.
     2. A flash of light, lasting the fraction of a second, produces a
marked effect.
     3. A lighted match, held at a distauce of four or five feet, is
sufficient to produce an effect.
     4. The light of a small gas flame enclosed in a lantern, and caused
to pass through a globular glass jar (12 inches in diameter), filled
with a solution of ammoniacal sulphate of copper, or bichromate of
potash, has also produced a change in the amount of the electro
motive power.
     5. The action of light on the eye of the frog is as follows :
When a diffused light is allowed to impinge on the eye of the frog,
after it has arrived at a tolerably stable condition, the natural electro
motive power is in the first place increased, then diminished ; during
the continuance of light it is still slowly diminished to a point where
it remains constant ; and on the removal of light there is a sudden
increase of the electro-motive power nearly up to its original position.
The alterations above referred to are variables, depending on the
 quality and intensity of the light employed, the position of the eye
ball on the cushions, and modifications in the vitality of the tissues.
     6. Similar experiments made with the eye of warm-blooded
animals, placed on the cushions as rapidly as possible after the death
 of the animal, and under tho same conditions, have never given an
 initial positive variation, as detailed in the case of the frog, but
 always a negative variation. The after inductive effect on the with
 drawal of light occurs in the same way.
      7. Many experiments were made as to effect of light from
 different portions of tho spectrum. This was accomplished by causing
 different portions of the spectrum of the oxyhydrogen lime-light to
 impinge on tho eye. All these observations tend to show that the
 greatest effect is produced by those parts of the spectrum that appear
 to consciousness to be the most luminous ; namely, the yellow and
 the green.
      8. Similarly, experiments made with light of varying intensity
 show that tho physical effects observed vary in such a manner as to
 correspond closely with tho values that would result if the well-
 known law of Fechner was approximately true.
      9. The method followed in these inquiries is a new method in
 physiological research, and by the employment of proper appliances
 it may be greatly extended, not only with regard to vision, but also to
 the other senses.
      After April 21, 1873, Mr. Dewar and Dr. McKendrick, the experi
 menters, endeavoured to obtain quantitative results, involving time as a
 variable element in the case of the nction of light on the retina and optic
 nerve. They therefore found it necessary to construct a true graphical

 1875.]                Physiological Action of Light.                363
r epresentation of the variations of the electro-motive force occasioned
 by the impact and cessation of light. It is clear that to register
minute galvanometrical alterations, the only plan that could be
employed would be to photograph on a sensitive surface, covering a
cylinder rapidly revolving on a horizontal axis, the alteration of
 position of the spot of light reflected from the mirror, just as con
 tinuous magnetic observations are registered. As the apparatus re
 quired to execute these observations is very complicated, and would
 require much preliminary practice, they in the meantime adopted a
 simpler method of registration. This plan was to note the position
 of the galvanometer at equal intervals of time before, during, and
 after the impact of light on the eye. In these observations they used
 a seconds pendulum giving a loud beat. One observer read aloud the
 galvanometer ; the other marked every interval of two and a half
 seconds, registered the numbers obtained, and regulated the supply of
 light. A little practice in the method above described enabled them
 to obtain very satisfactory results, agreeing very closely in different
 observations, and showing in a decided way the salient points of the
 variation curve.
      These curves show that on the impact of light there is a sudden
 increaso of the electro-motive force : during the continuance of light
 it falls to a minimum value, and on the withdrawal of light there is
 what they termed an inductive effect, that is to say, a sudden increase
 of the electro-motive force which enables the norve to acquire its
 normal energy. Tho falling off of the electro-motive force by the
 continued action of light is the physical representative of what, in
 physiological language, is called fatigue; the inductive effect ex
 hibiting the return of the structure to its normal state. Occasionally
  the impact of light is not followed by a rise in tho electro-motive
  force, but by a diminution. This is probably to be explained by the
  fact, that the death of the retina and nerve is indicated by a gradual
  falling of tho electro-motive force, and that this change frequently
  goes on so rapidly that the impact of light is unable to produce any
  rise. In these circumstances, the spot of light, which before the im
  pact of light was slowly moving downwards, is on the impact steadied
  for a moment, and then pursues its downward course more rapidly.
       By several distinct sets of observations :
       1. It was proved that though there is no difficulty in obtaining a
  strong current from the skin of the frog, this current is not affected
  by light. This observation demonstrates that the pigment cells of
  the skin in the vicinity of the cornea have nothing to do with the
  results obtained.
       2. The current obtained from a mass of the pigment cells of the
  choroid does not exhibit any sensitiveness to light.
       3. The subcutaneous injection into tho frog of woorara, santonin,
  belladonna, and Calabar bean, docs not destroy the sensibility of tho
  retina to light.
       4. As to the action of tho anterior portion of the eye. On care
  fully bisecting an eye of a frog, so as to removo completely tho an

364                         Mr. James Dewar on the                     [Feb. 5,
terior portion, including cornea, aqueous humour, iris, ciliary muscle,
and lens, and on bringing the retina into actual contact with one of
the clay pads, we readily obtained a large deflection, which was as
 sensitive to light as when the whole eye was employed, thus elimi
nating any possibility of the contraction of the iris under the stimulus
of light having to do with the results previously obtained.
     5. On using the anterior portion of the eye, so that the cornea and
posterior surface of the crystalline lens were the poles, a large deflec
tion, which was, however, insensible to light, was obtained.
     6. The sclerotic and nerve without the retina, in the same manner,
gave a largo natural electro-motive force, also not sensitive.
     7. The distribution of the electro-motive force between the different
portions of the eye and cross section of the nerve may be stated as
follows : The most positive structure is the cornea, then the sclerotic,
then the longitudinal surface of the nerve ; the cornea is also positive
to tho posterior surface of the crystalline lens, and the retina itself
seems to be positive to the transverse section of the nerve.
     8. As to the effects produced by lights of different intensities. If
a candle is placed at a distance of one foot from the eye, and then is
removed ten feet, the amount of light received by the eye is exactly
one hundredth part of what is got at a distance of one foot, whereas
the electro-motive force, instead of being altered in the same pro
portion, is only reduced to one-third. Repeated experiments made
with the eye in different positions have conclusively shown that a
quantity of light one hundred times in excess of another quantity
only modifies the electro-motive force to the extent of increasing it
three times as much, certainly not more.
     9. It was apparent that these experiments would ultimately bear
upon the theory of sense-perception as connected with vision. It is
now generally admitted that no image, as such, of an external object
is conveyed to the sensorium, but that in reality the brain receives
certain impressions of alterations taking place in the receiving organ.
The natural query then arises, Are the physical effects we have do-
scribed and measured really comparable in any way with our sen
sational differences in light perception, when we eliminate all mental
processes of association, &c., and leave only perception of difference
of intensity ? In other words, are these changes the representative
of what is conveyed to the sensorium ? It would appear, at first sight,
that this problem is altogether beyond experimental inquiry. There
is, however, a way of arriving at very accurate measures of the variation
of our sensational differences in the case of light, and this has been
developed theoretically and experimentally by the justly renowned
physiologist Fcchner. Stating the law of Fechncr * generally, wo
may say the difference of our sensations is proportional to the
logarithm of the quotient of the respective luminous intensities. A
recent series of experiments by Dalbcauf f has entirely confirmed the
truth of this law. If, therefore, the observed differences in electro-
   * Feclmer, ' Elemcnte des Psyehophysilc' Hilmhultz, ' Optique Physiologique.'
  t Recent Memoir to Belgian Academy.

  1875.]                Physiological Action of Light.                365
 motive power, registered under conditions of varying luminous inten
 sity, agree with this law of Fechner, regulating our sensational im
 pressions, then there can be little doubt these variations are the cause
 of, and are comparable to, our perception of sensational differences.
 Now, it is stated above, that with a quantity of light one hundred
 times in excess of another quantity, the electro-motive force only
 becomes three times greater. According to Fechner's law, we may
 say the difference of our sensations, with that variation in the amount
 of luminous intensity, would be represented by 2, the logarithm of 100.
 The experimental results being as 3 to 1, the difference is also 2,
 thus agreeing very closely. It is to be remembered, however, that
 these results have been obtained by experiment on the eye of the frog,
 but similar changes have been observed in the eyes of mammals. In
 the latter, however, the amount of alteration is not so great, in all
 probability owing to the rapid death of the parts.
     10. When one clay point is placed in contact with the cornea or
 nerve, and the other with the section of the optic lobe, a current is at
 once obtained which is sensitive to light. In this experiment the eye
 is left in the orbit, and the nerve is uninjured. Thus, the effect of
 light on the retina has been traced into the brain.
     The continuance of these investigations led to the following results :
     1. The light from a beam of uncondensed moonlight, though of
 weak intensity, and almost entirely free from heat rays, is still
 sufficient to alter the electro-motive power of the nerve and retina.
     2. They examined the phenomenon in the eyes of the following
 animals: (1) The common newt— Triton aquatkus ; (2) The gold
 fish— Cyprinus auratus ; (3) The rockling—Motella vulgaris ; (4) The
stickleback — Gasterosteus trachurus ; (5) The common edible crab —
 Cancer pagurus ; (6) The swimming crab—Portunus puher ; (7) The
spider crab —Byascoarctatus ; (8) The hermit crab— Pagurus Bern-
hardus ; and (9) The lobster—Homarus vulgaris.
     The general results with the eyes of these various animals were
similar to those previously described. The eye of the goldfish and
rockling, both sluggish fishes, were found to resemble each other, in
asmuch as the variations in the electro-motive force were slow, and in
this respect they presented a marked contrast to those of the active
and alert stickleback, the eye of which was very sensitive to light.
     The experiments on the eyes of crustacea arc of importance,
because they show that the action of light on the compound eye is
the same as on the simple eye, namely, that it alters the amount of the
electro-motive force of the sensitive surface. The eye of the lobster
was found to give a deflection of about GOO galvanomctrical degrees,
the scale being placed at a distance of about 26 inches. Light pro
duced a variation in this deflection of about 60 degrees, that is, about
10 per cent., the largest amount of variation yet observed in any
eye. It was also demonstrated that the effect of light, diminished
in intensity by distance, was exactly what was observed in the case of
the simple eye. For example, at the distance of one foot a variation

366                         Mr. James Detcar on the                           [Feb. 5,
to the extent of about 100 degrees was observed. At a distance of 10
feet, with x^th part of the amount of light, the effect was not 1 degree
but 20 degrees, or £th of the total amount observed at 1 foot.
     3. The action of light on the electro-motive force of the living eye
in cats and birds (pigeon and owl) has been observed. In the earlier
experiments great difficulty was found in observing sensitiveness to
light in the eyes of mammals and birds, when these were removed
with tho utmost dispatch from the orbit of the animal immediately
after death. This was evidently owing to the fact that the sensibility
of the nervous system in these animals disappears quickly after the
withdrawal of healthy blood. It therefore became necessary to per
form the experiment on the living animal. This was done by first
putting the cat or bird under the influence of chloroform, then fixing
it by a proper apparatus so that the head was perfectly immovable,
and lastly removing the outer wall of the orbit with as little dis
turbance to the ciliary vessels as possible. The optic nerve was now-
cut, the transverse section directed upwards, and the clay points of
the electrodes were now adjusted, one to the transverse section of the
nerve, and tho other to the cornea. With these arrangements a strong
current extremely sensitivo to light was at onco formed.
     4. The effect was traced into the optic lobes of a living pigeon
under chloroform. The following were the results of this observa
tion : a. When one pole was applied to the left optic lobe, and tho
other to the cornea of the right eyo, a deflection was obtained which
was sensitive to light : 6. When the pole was removed from the right
eye and applied to the cornea of the left, a smaller deflection was ob
tained, also sensitive to light ; and c. When light was allowed to
impinge on both eyes, while the one pole was in contact with either
eye and the other with the left optic lobe, the result was nearly
double that produced by the impact of light on one eye alone, either
right or left. These effects may be explained by the decussation of
the optic nerves in the optic commissure.
     5. The eye of the snake* was examined, and in its action resembled
that of the frog.
     6. The law of the variation in the electro-motive force of the
retina and optic nerve therefore holds good in the following groups
of the animal kingdom, Mammalia, Aves, Reptilia, Amphibia, Pisces,
and Crustacea.
     7. Many experiments were made which prove that the psycho
physical law of Fechner, previously alluded to, is not dependent only
on perception in the brain, but in part on the structure of the eye
itself. The effects which occur on, during, and after the action of
light on the retina, also take place after the eye has been removed
from all connection with the brain. Thus the law of Fechner is not,
as has been hitherto supposed, a function of the brain alone, but is
really a function of the terminal organ, the retina.
    * Kindly sent by Mr. Bartlelt, of tho Zoologicnl Gardens, Regent's Park.
Mr. Lloyd, Manager of the Crystal Palace Aquarium, kindly supplied three
specimens of Elcdone (a cuttle-fish, to represent M-,llusc i), but none arrived alive.

1875.J                Physiological Action of Light.                  367
     8. A new method was employed for registering galvanometrical
variations, which may be of service in many physical and physiological
researches. This consists in placing at the proper distance from the
galvanometer, instead of the ordinary graduated scale, the surface of a
cylinder covered with paper, and moving on a horizontal axis by
clock-work. The spot of light reflected from the galvanometer mirror
is rendered more precise by having the shade of the galvanometer
lamp blackened over the entire surface, with the exception of a spot
about three millimetres in breadth, in the centre of which a line
or cross is made of soot. The image of this line or cross is of course
reflected by the mirror upon the cylinder. When the cylinder is set
in motion by the clock-work the spot of light may be accurately
followed by the hand of the observer, after a little practice, with a
fine brush moistened with ink. Tho cylinder employed performed a
complete revolution in eighty seconds. This time was divided into
four equal parts, each representing twenty seconds, by four lines
drawn transversely at equal intervals across the paper on the cylinder.
The first space, between lines one and two, represented twenty se
conds, in which the eye was in the dark, and in which the electro
motive force is represented by a straight line ; the second space,
between lines two and three, represented twenty seconds, during
which tho effect of the impact of light took place, and in which the
variation of the electro-motive force is indicated either by a curve to
the right or to the left ; the third space, between lines three and four,
represented twenty seconds of continued action of light, during which
the electro-motive force gradually rises ; and lastly, the fourth space,
between lines four and one (the point of starting), representing twenty
seconds, during which the electro-motive forces at first rise on the
withdrawal of light, and afterwards sink rapidly.
     It has been experimentally proved — (1) that the impact of light
on the eyes of members of the following groups of animals, viz.
Mammalia, Aves, Reptilia, Amphibia, Pisces, and Crustacea, produces
a variation amounting to from 3 to 10 per cent, of the normal electro
motive force existing between the corneal surface and the transverse
section of the nerve ; (2) that this electrical alteration may be traced
into the brain ; (3) that those rays that we regard as most luminous
produce the largest variation ; (4) that the alteration of the electrical
effect with varying luminous intensity seems to follow very closely
ratios given by the psychophysical law of Fechner ; (5) that the elec
trical alteration is due to the action of light on the retinal structure
itself, as it is independent of the anterior portion of the eye, elimi
nating, therefore, the natural supposition that the contraction of the
iris might produce a similar result ; (6) that it is possible, by experi
ment, to discovor tho physical expression of what is usually called in
physiological language fatigue ; and (7) that the method employed in
this research may be applied to the investigation of the special organs
of the other senses.
                                                                [J. D.]

  368                            Mr. W. R. Greg                       [Feb. 12,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, February 12, 1875.
        George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                               W. It. Greq, Esq.
                          On Life at High-Pretsure.*
      I. Beyond doubt, the most salient characteristic of life in this latter
 half of the nineteenth century is its speed—the rate at which we move
 and the high pressure at which wo work. The question to be consi
 dered is, first, whether this is in itself a good ; and, next, whether it
 is worth the price we pay for it. Unquestionably life seems certainly
 fuller and longer for this speed ; is it really richer and more effective ?
 We can do more; but is "doing" everything and "being" nothing?
      Our pride in our rapidity of movement is natural, but not rational
 or healthy. [The speaker here quoted, in striking illustration of his
 meaning, Baron Hubner's account of his voyage across the Atlantic,
 where, in order to arrive forty-eight hours sooner, the steamers en
 counter dangers fitted to appal the stoutest heart.] The physical con
 sequences of this needless hasto and hurry arc serious enough ; but
 the moral consequences are probably graver still. Chronic disturbances
 of the nervous system and other evils, such as heart disease, ensue from
rapid railway travelling ; and a life of excitement, such as haste inevit
ably involves, can scarcely be deemed an adequate or a worthy life.
An atmosphere of excitement, especially when we enter it young and
continue in it habitually, is fatal to the higher and deeper life ; it
insidiously and gradually conduces to an unsound mental and moral
condition. [Reference was here made to the scenes witnessed in France
during the distressing years of 1870-71.]
     II. But our life at high pressure is shown even more in our style
of work than in our rate of movement. The world is growing more
exacting in its demands from all labourers, except merely manual ones.
[This was illustrated by reference to the increased strain put upon
the powers of the professional classes—lawyers, physicians, and states
men.] And it is not only health and strength that often give way.
Men who give up their entire being to this labour often lose all capa
bility of a better life, all relish for recreation or contemplation, all
true appreciation of leisure, when it comes at last,—when the culmi
nating point of success is reached. Thus it is that we sacrifice life to
a living— the end to the means—
                  " Et, propter vitam, vivendi perdore causas."
   * This discourse (in an enlarged form) was published in the ' Contemporary
Review ' for March. 1875.

 1875.]                       on Life at High-Pressure.                         369
 People maintain that this excess of toil is unavoidable, and that you
 must keep tho pace or fall behind. [The speaker was not convinced of
 this ; and urged, that if it were so, men should not work over long ;
 they should yield the placo to younger and needier aspirants. His
 indictment against the spirit of the ago is, that excess is enforced, and
 that moderation— which to tho wiser Greeks seemed the essence of
 wisdom—is forbidden, or appears to be so.]
     Another point to be noticed is, that while this high pressuro
 assigns its prizes to men of exceptional physique, the average man
 succumbs. Even in intellectual careers, physical strength is nearly
as essential as mental superiority, which often fails for want of it.
 Thus the slow-moving, the tardily-developing, now bid fair to bo
elbowed out of their careers, and the prospect before the dull and
dunces is growing deplorable indeed.
     III. It would seem that the future in England is not to be for the
moderately wealthy any more than for tho moderately industrious or
moderately clever. The aggregate wealth of this country has enor
 mously increased, and more vast fortunes have been heaped up in a
shorter time than probably at any former epoch.* Increased riches
 have brought increased demand for most articles; and in those articles
consumption has overtaken production ; and many of these are articles
of prime necessity,! with consequent higher prices and a rise in
house-rent and servants' wages and maintenance ; and among average
middle-class families the cost of living is 25 per cent, higher than it
 was twenty-five years ago. With this the style of living also has
advanced in an extraordinary ratio : persons who could live in comfort
on 400Z. or 600Z. a year strive in vain to do so now ; and there is a
danger of the moderate, unstriving natures being crushed out between
the upper and nether millstones of a prosperous, well-paid labouring
class and the lavish noblo or ignoble opulent.
     As a remedy to this, the acknowledged chiefs of society should
judiciously set an example by causing simplicity to becomo " good
style," and luxury and ostentation to be voted vulgar. The seeds of
this moral revulsion are already in existence ; and there are thousands
among our upper ranks to whom the indulgences and pleasures around
them bring no true enjoyment, but rather the intense sadness of
satiety.
     In conclusion, the speaker expressed his strong aversion to asceti
cism—that is, to gratuitous self-denial or self-infliction—as an intel
lectual and moral mistake ; and to the opposing demands of body and
mind he applied the words, " Let us seek the conciliation of conflicting
claims not by compromise, but by justice ; by giving to everyone, not
the half of what ho asks, but the whole of what he ought to have."
                  In Millions.                       1858.    1872.     Jj5r«nt
     * Property assessed to income tax        .. ..  327       482          47
                „             schedule D      ....      91     203        112
                                                       1867.          1811.
     t Live stock, i.e. cattle, sheep, and pigs, in^g __« -00     ., _„. 100
         the United Kingdom                        ) '

370                         Dr. E. FranMand                     [Feb. 19,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 19, 1875.
  The Dr/KB of Northumrerland, D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
                Dr. E. Frankland, D.C.L. F.R.S. &c.
                           On River Pollution.
In 1865 a Royal Commission was issued for the purpose of inquiring
how far the present use of rivers in England, for the purpose of
carrying off the drainage of towns and populous places, and the refuse
arising from industrial processes and manufactures, can be prevented,
without risk to the public health, or serious injury to such processes
and manufactures, and how far such refuse and drainage can be got
rid of or utilized, otherwise than by discharge into rivers, or rendered
harmless before reaching them. Inquiry was also to be made into the
water supply of Great Britain.
    The Commissioners appointed were Mr. Robert Rawlinson, Mr.
John Thornhill Harrison, and Professor Way. Their inquiry ex
tended over three years, and they reported upon the state of the
Thames, the Lea, the Aire, and the Calder, and their labours are
recorded in three Blue Books with their appendices. This Com
mission was dissolved in 1868, and a new one appointed consisting of
Major-General Sir William Denison, Mr. John Chalmers Morton, and
the speaker. They were directed to complete the inquiries entrusted
to the previous Commission and to extend them to Scotland. This
second Commission finished its work in June last, or in little more
than six years, and its labours are recorded in six Blue Books with
their appendices.
    Besides the inspection of river basins, towns, and manufactories,
and the holding of courts of inquiry in the more important towns,
these investigations involved the experimental examination of nume
rous processes for the cleansing of foul water, and the execution of
thousands of analyses of foul and unpolluted water. For this purpose
a thoroughly equipped chemical laboratory was provided by Govern
ment, furnished with every requisite for the investigation of water
which modern science could suggest.
    To properly consider the great mass of polluting matter which is
being discharged into rivers and streams, it will be convenient to
classify it into organic and mineral, according to its source and
character. Under the head of organic matter we have, first, town
drainage ; second, drainage from the various forms of fibre manufacture,
—and under this denomination come paper-making, calico industry,

1875.]                         on River Pollution.                                371
woollen industry, linen and jute industries, and the silk manufacture.
Under the head of mineral matter we have, first, mine pollution, or
liquids discharged from mines; and, second, drainage from chemical
works.
     As examples of rivers intensely polluted by each of the above
forms of matter may be mentioned the Clyde, which flows through
Glasgow, as strongly polluted by town drainage ; Dighty Burn, near
Dundee, by fibre manufacture ; Red River, at Gwythian, Cornwall, by
tin mines; and the Sankey Brook, which flows through St. Helens, is
a fair example of pollution by chemical works.
     Polluting matter of organic origin presents itself in water in two
different forms, viz. in solution and suspension, whereas mineral
polluting matter is nearly always present in a state of suspension, and
on account of its greater specific gravity will, if allowed sufficient
time, subside of its own accord. This is not the case with soluble or
suspended organic matter, to get rid of which other means have to be
resorted to.
     Chemistry is not yet able to determine the actual weight of organic
matter which may be present in solution in water. Only two of the
principal elements, carbon and nitrogen, can as yet be determined;
but the presence of these, even in comparatively small quantity,
denotes formidable and offensive pollution.
     The Thames may be taken as an instructive example of organic
pollution. At its source it is a comparatively pure river. It receives
polluting matters from paper factories, and from the drainage of
600,000 people, in its course before it reaches Hampton, and yet it
still looks a comparatively clear and pure river. This is owing to
the deceptive nature of the polluting matter, which is principally
organic, and in solution, and is therefore scarcely discernible by the
unaided senses. If, however, it be followed in its course down to
London Bridge its pollution becomes apparently greatly augmented,
but the organic matter in solution is scarcely perceptibly greater at
London Bridge than at Hampton. In short, were the water filtered
from the suspended mud stirred up by the steamers and currents, it
would, chemically speaking, be nearly as pure at London Bridge as it
is at Hampton.
     Another instructive case is the Aire, which rises in Yorkshire, a
very clear and beautiful river ; but before it reaches Leeds it receives,
besides the house drainage of more than a quarter of a million of
people, the refuse from the following factories :
    1341 cloth and woollen factories ; 1 silk mill ; 1 flax mill ; 10 cotton factories ;
7 paper mills ; 26 tanneries ; 13 chemical works ; 8 grease works ; 4 glue works ;
35 dye works.
     At one of the woollen factories alone the following materials are
annually used :
    Logwood and other dye woods, 320,000 lb. ; chloride of lime, ammonia, and
sulphuric acid, 15,000 1b.; Oallipoli oil, 40 to 50 tons; soap, 70,000 lb. ; alkali,
40,000 lb. ; and 14,000 tons of coal.
     Vol. VII.      (No. 62.)                                             2 d

H72                                   Dr. E. FrcmUand                          [Feb. 19,
       With the exception of the last item, nearly the wholo of these
materials are discharged into the river, and the ashes of the coal
also find their way into the same convenient channel of trans
portation.
       At Leeds this mass of pollution is reinforced by the drainage of
300,000 people, and by refuse materials from the following factories :
      224 cloth and woollen factories; 62 dye works; 6 dye-wood mills; 25 flax
mills; 7 soap works; 1 silk mill; 28 tanneries (which tan 2} million hides
tii in u.i lly ) ; 29 chemical works ; 10 carpet factories ; 3 glue factories.
        The history of the river Calder, which joins the Aire lower down,
is similar ; but this river is less intensely polluted. After receiving
the drainage of all the towns and factories on its banks, its water is
pumped up for the supply of Wakefield.
        The condition of the water may be judged of from the fact that a
local manufacturer was able to write and dedicate a memorandum to
the Local Board of Health with a pen dipped in the river water.
        Now these two rivers—the Aire and Calder—the one running from
Leeds, and the other from Wakefield, meet at Castleford, and there
they fall over a high weir. At this spot the pollution of the water is
so great as to blacken the very foam on its surface. Yet these streams
must, at one time, have been celebrated for their cleanliness and
 purity ; otherwise the well-known couplet would scarcely have been
written :
                        " Castleford lasses may well be fair,
                          Wash'd in the Calder and bathed in the Aire."
 Tho effect of bathing in these waters in their present condition would
scarcely be so satisfactory.
        The accounts of pollution just mentioned are those from town
drainage and fibre factories, and these are essentially all organic.
The pollution from mines and chemical works, with few exceptions, is
mineral, and in suspension.
        In the neighbourhood of mines the amount of mineral matter
present in rivers is sometimes very great. There the ore and matrixes
are crushed together into an impalpable powder, then washed with
water to separate the heavier metallic matter from the rocky matter.
The effluent water from tho settling pits is very muddy, and often
contains poisonous matters in suspension. This is especially the case
in lead mines, where considerable quantities of galena and carbonate
of lead, carried down the streams during floods, ore washed on the
adjacent land, where cattle are grazed. Tho consequences resulting
from this display of ignorance and carelessness are, that the farmers
whose lands are washed by these poison-charged waters suffer the loss
of cattle and poultry, whilst tho profits of the mines leak silently
away. At a lead mine in Northumberland nearly 7 tons of lead ore,
worth 12Z. per ton, are thrown away in every 100 tons of waste
material. At another mine in the same county 2 tons of lead ore,
and more than 9 tons of zinc ore, are thrown away in every 100 tons

1875.]                      on River Pollution.                       373
of waste. In the Welsh mining districts there are also many examples
of similar careless waste. These metalliferous " skimpings " and muds
poison the rivers for many miles, carrying destruction to animal life.
Mud containing as much as 5, 9, 13, and even 25 per cent, of lead ore
is not unfrequently found in the neighbouring streams.
    Such is the pitiable plight to which many of our formerly beautiful
rivers have been reduced, and now the question confronts us,—What
are the remedies for this grievous nuisance. Fortunately, science
gives no uncertain reply to this question. Indeed, for one form—the
casting of solid rubbish into streams—common sense, without the aid
of science, supplies the answer. Such rubbish is laboriously and
intentionally carried to the bank and shot into the stream, and its
prohibition, under adequate penalties, needs only to be enforced.
    The chief sources of river pollution are, first, town drainage and
fibre manufacture ; and, secondly, pollution by mining operations and
mineral works. These are essentially different in their character,
and require distinct remedial measures.
    Before proceeding to investigate the various remedies which have
been proposed for the first species of pollution, it is necessary to be
quite sure that artificial remedies are necessary, and that Nature does
not herself perform all that is really requisite for the purification of
streams. It has been long a theory that polluted rivers cleanse them
selves, and that if you pour into them foul organic matters, the latter
are rapidly destroyed, and, after a flow of twelve miles or so, the rivers
purge themselves completely from the stain, and regain their pristine
purity,—an exceedingly comfortable doctrine, if true. This theory
is in great repute amongst two classes of persons—first, those who are
polluters of rivers ; and, secondly, water companies who abstract their
beverage from points below the outfalls of town sewage. Now consi
dering that this is an exceedingly important question, the Commis
sioners submitted it to very close investigation. They experimented
upon the Irwell, below Manchester ; the Mersey, below Stockport ;
and the Darwen, below Blackburn. They took samples of the water
at particular points of the rivers, and then at other points lower down,
after a flow of a considerable number of miles, and before any other
polluting matters had entered the stream. Thus, they took samples
of the Irwell below Manchester, then eleven miles lower down, and
found, that while there was a reduction in the organic matter in
suspension, there was, practically, no diminution in the quantity in
solution. The organic matter in solution was comparatively unaffected
—certainly not destroyed, although the river falls over nine weirs,
and is thoroughly aerated. The same results, substantially, were
obtained in the Mersey, where there was a 13-mile flow available,
and also in the Darwen, where there was also a 13-mile flow.
    But it might be said that, in the case of these rivers, the pollution
is so intense, that neither animal nor vegetable life can exist in them,
and that it is the action of animal and vegetable organisms in water
which destroys these pollutions. The Commissioners, therefore,
resolved to repeat their experiments upon a river water in which
pollution was much milder, and for this purpose selected the Thames.
                                                            2 d 2

374                         Dr. E. FranEand                    [Feb. 19,
They took first a sample of the Thames below Reading, after it is
joined by the Kennet, and where it is polluted by the drainage of
Reading.
    Sufficient time was allowed for the river water to flow to a point
four miles lower, and between these points no fresh polluting matter
gained access to the stream. After this flow they found the quantity
of organic matter in solution and suspension exactly the same as at
the beginning, although the quantity of mineral matter in suspension
was considerably reduced. Thus it will be seen that these experi
ments completely dispose of the theory of self-purificntion.
    The methods which have been proposed for romedying organic
pollution may be conveniently divided into, first, methods of precipi
tation ; and, secondly, methods of oxidation.
    Amongst the methods of purification those by precipitation have
been most talked about, because they are tho most easily applied
on a small scale, and are, therefore, more easily made the subjects
of experiment. One of these is precipitation by lime. Most drainage
water contains bicarbonate of lime. This is decomposed by slaked
lime or lime-water, and the resulting chalk precipitate lays hold
of and carries down with it any particles of suspended matter that
may be in the water. But it does more ; it acts by surface attraction,
and actually takes out of solution some of the organic matter which
was dissolved in the water. Yet the purification by this means is very
imperfect as regards the soluble organic matter.
    There is, again, the ABC process, which consists in precipitation
by means of a mixture of alum, clay, and an infinitesimal quantity of
blood.
    Then we have the sulphate of alumina method, or Bird's process ;
(lime and clay), or Scott's process ; (lime and chloride of iron, and
superphosphate of alumina and slaked lime). All these methods have
failed to achieve the end in view.
    They aro useful in diminishing the suspended matter, but as
regards purification from the worst form of pollution, viz. organic
matter in solution, they are of little effect.
    They have all had their origin in two erroneous ideas. First, that
tho foul matter in sewage can be removed by chemical means ; and,
secondly, that the matter actually thrown down or precipitated is
valuable as manure. In every case in which it has been tried the
precipitated matter is not worth the carriage for more than a mile or
two, so that it is practically worthless. In fact, the manuring con
stituent of this foul drainage is left almost intact in solution. By
General Scott's process, however, the precipitated matter is converted
into a valuable cement.
    The great lesson taught by all these comparatively abortive
attempts is, that surface attraction is capable of effecting that which
chemical affinity is incompetent to achieve. These aro not cases of
chemical affinity. There is no fixed relation between the matter
precipitated and the precipitant. They are clear cases of surface
attraction ; but the vast quantities of purifying ingredients necessary
to make them really efficient would involve so great an expense as to

1875.J                      on Rieer Pollution.                        375
render them impracticable. Purifying material in each case is manu
factured at great cost, and is laboriously carried to the sewage, and
fished out again and dried at still greater trouble and expense. This,
however, would become of secondary importance if the end desired
were accomplished. But this is not the case ; —the foul liquids are
not cleansed. These purifying materials, chalk, alumina, and oxide of
iron, and other porous substances exist, however, naturally in all
porous soils, and sewage will run to them by its own gravity. Those
materials are capable of removing nearly the whole of the polluting
matter brought into contact with them. We are thus led, by a pro
cess of scientific induction, to purification by irrigation. Foul drainage
is, in irrigation, mixed with vast quantities of soil, which, by surface
attraction, remove from it its polluting matter, both in solution and
suspension. Its fertilizing matter is also removed to a great extent,
and the roots of growing plants ramifying through the soil gather up
and transform the polluting materials into healthy living tissues, thus
preventing the pores of the soil from getting clogged and consequently
useless for purposes of purification.
     No one visiting Aldershot Camp can fail to be struck with the
emerald tint of the irrigated land, contrasting as it does with the
sterile soil around it. Upon the land used for the purpose of purifi
cation by irrigation every variety of crop can be grown, and at the
Barking farm wo can actually realizo in the summer season the
drainage of London transformed into strawberries and cream.
     For the purpose of irrigation one acre of land is requisite for
every hundred persons contributing to the drainage, and, when pro
perly conducted, thero is no nuisance.            The only drawback to
irrigation is the difficulty and sometimes the impossibility of obtaining
sufficient land suitable for carrying on the process near large towns,
and the absurdly high prices claimed for such land. This led to the
experiment of making a given area of land do more work. After con
tinuous filtration, however, the pores of the soil became clogged up,
and the effluent water consequently not purified. The Commissioners
therefore availed themselves of a well known property of porous
matter, its attraction for gases, especially for atmospheric oxygen, and
the great chemical affinity of this oxygen for organic matter. Spongy
platinum possesses this property in a very high degree, and they were
sanguine enough to hope that it might also be possessed by porous
earth, to an extent sufficient to cause the slow but complete combustion
of foul drainage matters.
     Their expectation was not disappointed ; experiments made upon
sewage in their laboratory, and afterwards on the large scale at
Merthyr Tydvil, showed that by bringing air and drainage water alter
nately in contact with the soil, rapid, continuous, and satisfactory
purification was obtained. Indeed, the effluent water from the Merthyr
drainage subjected to this process of purification is, chemically, purer
than the water supplied by some of the London water companies.
     This process is equally applicable to the discharges from fibre
factories of various kinds. It has been carried out for three years at
Merthyr Tydvil, where the drainage from each 3000 people has been

376                          Dr. E. Frankland                  [Feb. 19,
cleansed upon a single acre of land. Crops may be also grown upon
the land so used.
     The Commissioners believe, as the result of their inquiries into
these remedies for organic pollution, that the sewage purification of
the future will be irrigation, but that for the present intermittent
filtration is safer as regards expense. Neither process is any nuisance
to the surrounding neighbourhood, but the carrying on of sewage farms
by Corporations or Local Boards is a thing not likely to pay ; amateur
farming rarely does. By the process of intermittent filtration the ori
ginal expense is much smaller as regards the quantity of land required.
In the one case 30 acres are required for 3000 people, in the other
only one acre for the same number.
     For mining pollution the remedy is exceedingly simple, viz. sub
sidence in properly constructed tanks for six hours. The result,
though not in every case quite satisfactory, is sufficiently so to prove
that the amount of mining pollution in many of our rivers would, by
its adoption, be substantially abolished. Even in the case of drainage
from coal washing, the polluting matter after subsidence was reduced
to a very small amount.
     These plans would be sufficiently effective for the treatment of the
 chief kinds of town, manufacturing, and mining drainage. But it is
 quite necessary, in any legislative enactment to secure the better
 treatment of rivers, that there should be some definition of polluting
 matter. The Commissioners gave great attention to this point, and
 have proposed after much deliberation the following definitions of
 polluting liquids.
     (a) Any liquid which has not been subjected to perfect rest in sub
 sidence ponds of sufficient size, for a period of at least six hours, or
 which, having been so subjected to subsidence, contains in suspension
 more than one part by weight of dry organic matter in 100,000 parts
 by weight of the liquid ; or which not having been so subjected to
 subsidence, contains in suspension more than three parts by weight of
 dry mineral matter, or one part by weight of dry organic matter in
 100,000 parts by weight of the liquid.
     (6) Any liquid containing, in solution, more than two parts by
 weight of organic carbon, or three parts by weight of organic nitrogen
 in 100,000 parts by weight.
     (c) Any liquid which shall exhibit by daylight a distinct colour
 when a stratum of it one inch deep is placed in a white porcelain or
 earthenware vessel.
     (d) Any liquid which contains, in solution, in 100,000 parts by
 weight, more than two parts by weight of any metal, except calcium,
 magnesium, potassium, and sodium.
     (e) Any liquid which, in 100,000 parts by weight, contains,
 whether in solution or suspension, in chemical combination or other
 wise, more than • 05 part by weight of metallic arsenic.
     (/") Any liquid which, after acidification with sulphuric acid,
 contains, in 100,000 parts by weight, more than one part by weight of
 free chlorine.
     (g) Any liquid which contains, in 100,000 parts by weight, more

 1875.]                      on Biver Pollution.                       377
 than one part by weight of sulphur, in the condition either of sulphu
 retted hydrogen or of a soluble sulphuret.
     (h) Any liquid possessing an acidity greater than that which is
 produced by adding two parts by weight of real muriatic acid to 1000
 parts by weight of distilled water.
     (t ) Any liquid possessing on alkalinity greater than that produced
 by adding one part by weight of dry caustic soda to 1000 parts by
 weight of distilled water.
     (k) Any liquid exhibiting a film of petroleum or hydrocarbon oil
 upon its surface, or containing, in suspension, in 100,000 parts, more
 than • 05 part of such oil.
     In any enactment for the correction of river pollution, the above
 standards may be safely qualified by the following proviso : Provided
 always, that no effluent water shall be deemed polluting if it be not
 more contaminated with any of the above-named polluting ingredients
 than the stream or river into which it is discharged.
     Of these standards the first two are by far the most important—the
 standards referring to suspended matter, and to the quantity of organic
carbon and organic nitrogen which ought to be allowed to be transferred
 into streams. These supremely important standards, if enforced by
proper and judicious enactments, giving sufficient time for manufac
turers to carry out improvements necessary for the purification of foul
drainage, would, we believe, abolish fully nine-tenths of all the river
pollution by which our streams are now affected in Great Britain. But
without the enforcing of the first two standards, this gigantic and
growing evil, which is becoming greater and greater every year, will
not be perceptibly diminished.
     These investigations, extending over nearly ten years, show that
the rivers of Great Britain are, in a very large number of cases,
fouled and destroyed, not only for domestic, but also for manufacturing
purposes, so that the extent of our manufactures is limited by the
inadequate supply of pure water ; and no people complain more loudly
of this pollution than the manufacturers themselves, and none are
more ready to adopt judicious measures for removing it. Various
manufacturers have spoken of the value of the streams for them, if
purified to the extent just specified, some of them estimating it at
10002. per annum.
    On the one hand, while the Commissioners have established this
gross abuse of rivers where manufactures and mines are carried on,
they have, on the other hand, very good reason to anticipate that a
comparatively mild form of legislation, if firmly enforced, would have
the effect of restoring many of the rivers to nearly their original
purity. To make them pure for drinking purposes is, perhaps, impos
sible ; but it may reasonably be hoped that they may become sufficiently
so to delight the eye and to repress the pestiferous and sickening
exhalations which at present affect the multitudes of our population
compelled to pass their lives on the banks of such rivers.
                                                               [E. P.]

378                       Mr. W. B. S. Ralston                [Feb. 26,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 26, 1875.
       George Bubk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                      W. R. S. Ralston, Esq. M.A.
               On Popular Tales : their Origin and Meaning.
 At a Friday Evening Meeting on Juno 3, 1870, a paper was read by
 Professor Max Muller " On the Migration of Fables." In it, with
 his customary and enviable precision and clearness, he traced to its
 native soil La Fontaine's well-known fable of the Milkmaid and her
 Milkpail—proving that although the story has long been naturalized
 in Europe, yet its original domicile was India ; whence, by means of
 successive translations from the Sanskrit, it travelled westwards,
 following various paths, one of which led it to poetic consummation
 at the hands of the French fabulist.
      Something akin to what was then done for the fable of the Milk
 maid, it is now proposed to attempt to do for certain representatives
 of what we vaguely term our " Fireside Stories," or even less scientifi
 cally, our " Fairy Tales." Those representatives have been selected
 for the experiment, merely because they are universally known, their
 names being " Cinderella," " Beauty and the Beast," " Blue Beard,"
 " The Sleeping Beauty," and " Puss in Boots." Had less familiar
 tales been chosen, the questions "Whence do they come?" and
 " What do they mean ? " might have been answered in a far more
 complete and satisfactory manner. But the necessity of narrating
 them at greater length would have led to a demand for much more
 time than is at our disposal.
      If we may rely upon what many scholars of mark have stated
  about Popular Tales, we must consider those so long and so unjustly
  neglected as being of the greatest importance to the historian, the
  ethnologist, and the antiquary. According to those scholars the folk
  tale is of vast, prehistoric antiquity.  A mysterious waif, floated to
  us by that tide of time which has destroyed so much, we may gather
  from it some hints as to the ail-but forgotten existence of a vast
  cycle of mythical fables—just as he who wanders along the shores of
  our West Highlands (to make use of Mr. Campbell's illustration)

1875.]         on Popular Tales : their Origin and Meaning.          379
sees in the outlandish objects cast upon the strand by the Atlantic
wave indications of the existence of a great and strange land beyond
the western horizon. The tales current among each people, more
over, we are assured, may be ranked among its earliest records, and
may be admitted to bear witness to the moral and intellectual
character of its infancy and childhood ; while from a comparison of
the tales of various kindred races, we ought to be able to construct
some kind of picturo of the condition of the common stock from
which those races have sprung. Thus the folk-tales of Europe are
held to be part of the heirlooms of the Aryan family ; their mutual
resemblance, and their likeness to the similar tales of India and
Persia, are supposed to point, as clearly as do linguistic affinities, to
the far-off time when the ancestors of the Aryan races, which now
occupy so vast a portion of the world, formed a united family party
somewhere in Central Asia. There, at that remote period (wo are
told), the germs of what are now the folk-tales of Europe existed in
the shape of myths, and each wave of emigrants from the cradle of
the Aryan race carried them away together with their other heir
looms. From these germs have been independently developed the
various stories now known as the folk-tales of the Aryan peoples of
Europe —their common origin in prehistoric times fully accounting
for the resemblance which runs through the numerous collections
which have been made public. Just as in the various Aryan languages
common roots have developed into words more or less different, but
still bearing a strong family likeness, so, we are told, have common
mythological germs independently developed in the minds of the
various Aryan peoples into such stories as Cinderella, or The
Sleeping Beauty, or Beauty and the Beast —stories, the different
versions of which (to borrow an illustration from Professor Max
Miiller) differ indeed as sisters may, but are still marked by an un
mistakable sisterly resemblance. For instance, it may be said, the
germ of the Sleeping Beauty story probably existed long before the
Aryan race split into Easterns and Westerns. From the earliest
times the deathlike stagnation of the earth during winter had
doubtless been symbolized under the form of a maiden's sleep ; and
the earth's renewed activity in spring, due to the vivifying influence
of the sun, had been also symbolized under the form of that maiden's
wakening, when roused by a lover's kiss. The elementary myths to
which this symbolism gave rise were afterwards expanded by their
different inheritors, at different times, into the stories, common to all
the peoples of Europe, in which a sleeping beauty plays a prominent
part. A similar process, it is argued, applied to other mythical
germs of a similarly common nature, has produced the great mass of
European folk-tales. These tales, it is maintained, have not been
borrowed by one people from another. Each people, or at least each
branch of the Indo-European raco, has independently developed its
popular tales. The differences which exist between the versions of
the same tale in various lands are due to the diversities of thought

 380                        Mr. W. R. S. Ralston                  [Feb. 26,
and expression which characterize their kindred but long-divided
inhabitants.
     If all this bo. correct, it is evident that the folk-tales of Europe
 are the direct representatives of the wisdom of our ancestors as it
 existed in the infancy of that family of the human race to which we
 belong ; that from their diligent study we may hope to glean snch
 knowledge as may enable us to form some idea of the mental condi
 tion of those ancestors at a time when the distinctions were unknown
 which now separate the Hellenic, Italic, Keltic, Teutonic, Lettic, and
 Slavic families of speech or of mankind. These folk-tales must be
 regarded as the depositories of a body of invaluable evidence with
 respect to the ideas of our heathen forefathers about the material
 world and its spiritual counterpart, about the forms under which they
 embodied the forces of nature, the parables in which they conveyed
 their teaching as to man's relations with the unseen world, the con
 dition of his spirit after its severance from his body.
     The hypothesis which we have been considering is one which is at
 present widely, if not generally, received. But there is another
 method of accounting for the existence and the similarity of European
 folk-tales. According to it they do not, for the most part, belong
 by birthright to the European peoples, not having been by them
 developed from inherited germs, but having been borrowed from
 without, and merely adapted within. The same question was raised
 long ago with respect to the mediaeval romances. At one time tho
 Crusaders were credited with the introduction of the fictions on
 which those romances wore founded ; at another the Arabs who settled
 in Spain, or the Tartars who so long swayed a vast portion of eastern
 Europe. More recently the spread of the European folk-talcs has
 been attributed to the same or similar agents.
     Before proceeding to compare these hypotheses, it is necessary to
explain with which species of folk-tale it is now proposed to deal. In
 every land there are found several tolerably well defined classes of
 Popular Tales—one consisting of what may be called aneedotes, brief,
often credible, sometimes commonplace ; another of what may be
styled traditions, narratives told at greater length, but resembling
the anecdotes in being generally of a possible nature? dealing to some
extent with persons who have really existed, and events which have
actually taken place. With neither of these classes are we at present
concerned, nor with the beast-fables, nor with the retigious legends.
The stories to which it is proposed to restrict our attention this
evening are the semi-dramatic romances of some length which occupy
so largo a space in all collections of folk-tales— stories containing a
large infusion of the supernatural element, dealing with personages
who are far above the laws of nature, and adventures which frankly
set possibility at defiance. From among their number, moreover, only
five specimens have been selected for detailed examination. But it
may be safely asserted that almost all the European folk-tales of the
class with which we are about to deal may be arranged in one of the

1875.]         on Popular Tales : their Origin and Meaning.         381
two groups to which belong those selected stories, and that therefore
the conclusions at which wo may arrive in tho case of the chosen few
will hold equally good in that of the remaining many.
     Before entering upon any detailed examination of the European
folk-tales, some attention ought to be paid to the method employed
in such investigations. There are a few words in one of the essays
included in Professor Max Muller's ' Chips from a German Work
shop ' (vol. ii., p. 249) which ought to be carefully borne in mind by
every story-investigator. It must be remembered, also, that the first
duty of a commentator upon a folk-tale is to collect and compare
numerous variants of it, in order to discover which among them is
likely to be the oldest or the most elementary. Having done this,
he may then venture to explore its hidden meaning. Neither task is
an easy one. But the first process may be expedited by the applica
tion of the following tests to the confused mass of variants of any tale
from among which it is required to extract the most primary form :
     1. Is there any one among them which is thoroughly in keeping
with the mythology, past or present, of the country in which it is
found ? If so, that is probably an original story, a native of the land
in which it dwells. Let us call that country A.
     2. Are the versions found in another country, which we will call
B, at variance with what we know of the mythology of that country,
but in keeping with the mythology of the other country, A? If so,
they are probably natives of A, which have become naturalized in B.
     3. Are the versions found in the four countries, B, C, D, and E,
all at variance with what we know of the mythologies of those
countries, but all more or less in keeping with the mythology of the
country A ? If so, they are probably all natives of A, naturalized in
B, C, D, and E.
     4. Do we find that the version discovered in A is rendered com
pletely intelligible by our knowledge of A's mythology,— that A's
mythology also serves to explain three-fourths of the most complete
versions found in B, one-half of the similar version found in C,
one-quarter of the similar version found in D, and scarcely any of the
similar version found in E—none of the versions found in B, C,
D, or E being rendered intelligible by the mythologies of those
 countries ? If so, the chances are that the story has travelled from
 its original home, A, to its ultimate destination, E, via B, C, and D
 successively.
     To use a metaphor. If we find a story running on all fours in A,
halting on three legs in B, hobbling on two in C, hopping on one in
D, and crawling legless in E—in that case we may fairly assume
that it has performed a long journey from A to E, tarrying in B,
C, and D successively, and becoming gradually dismembered on its
way.
     Now let us substitute for alphabetical signs geographical names.
Let us suppose, for the sake of the argument, that the same story is
found, under different forms, in India, Russia, Germany, France, and

382                       Mr. W. R. S. Rahton                    [Feb. 26,
 England, and that the Indian story is thoroughly explained by, is in
 perfect harmony with, Indian mythology— while the European variants
remain unintelligible when tested by what we know of the mytho
logies of heathen Earope, but are rendered at least partly intelligible
 by a knowledge of Indian mythology — then in that case we are
entitled to hold that the story in question is a native of India, which
has travelled thence to the European lands in question.
     Finally, let us suppose (what in fact we are never likely to realize)
 that we find the story complete in all its members in India, but lopped
 of one limb in Russia, of two in Germany, of three in France, and
 utterly dismembered in England — then we may at least hazard a
 supposition that the story has travelled from India to England, via
Bussia, Germany, and France successively.
     In actual practice, it is true, the chain of evidence connecting a
story with its home can seldom, if ever, be expected to prove so per
fect as in this imaginary case. Different versions of a foreign tale
may reach any given land by several distinct routes, especially if
that land possess an accessible sea-coast. These versions may sup
 plement or may confuse each other. Moreover, we can seldom feel •
 sure that we possess the most complete form under which a folk-tale
exists in a given land, and therefore we cannot placo implicit reliance
 upon this method of route-tracing. From a great number of observa
 tions, however, we may often succeed in obtaining a sufficiently
approximative result.
     On single resemblances, unsupported by other evidence, too much
stress must not be laid. Similar ideas may have sprung into life
independently of each other in the minds of men widely separated
by time or space, and may have been developed into similar but inde
pendent stories. Thus the similar caudal peculiarities of the bear
and the hyaena may possibly have of themselves suggested the similar
tales by which they are accounted for in Norway and in the heart of
Africa. But it is not possible that out of similar ideas such com
plex narratives could ever have been independently evolved as
Cinderella or Puss in Boots—narratives forming actual dramas,
in the complete versions of which a considerable number of scenes
lead in an almost invariable sequence, to all but identical results.
     The conclusions to which I myself have been led by a comparison
of several collections of folk-tales arc the following :
     1. The longer Popular Tales of the European peoples are, for the
most part, not home products, but foreign importations. They have
not been independently doveloped by those peoples from elementary
myths common to all tho branches of the Aryan family, but have
been borrowed in an already developed form by those peoples,
who have generally altered them so far as to adopt them to their
own use.
     2. They have been subjected to manifold influences, and in many
cases have undergone repeated changes, so that it is often difficult, if
not impossible, to trace the lines of their migrations. But, as a

1875.]       on Popular Tales : their Origin and Meaning.             383
general rule, those lines point steadily eastwards, and the country
towards which most of them converge is India.
    3. The light which these stories may possibly throw upon mytho
logy falls almost exclusively upon Asiatic, generally upon Indian
mythology. It is of but little use to seek in them informa
tion about the ancient religion of our ancestors, unless we wish
to go back to a period anterior to the supposed settlement of
those ancestors in Europe. It is worse than useless to draw from
their study inferences relating to the religious beliefs of the Hellenic,
or Italic, or Keltic, or Teutonic, or Letto-Slavic forefathers of the
present inhabitants of Europe. If we insist upon doing so, we shall
run the risk of attributing to the fierce sea-rover of Norway or
the rude Slavonic herdsman ideas which are really due to the
imagination of an Oriental novelist.
    As regards the five stories selected for investigation, we may
fairly assume that Cinderella, Beauty and the Beast, Blue Beard, and
the Sleeping Beauty are mythological tales, or at least romances based
upon mythological ideas. From Blue Beard the mythological element
has boen all but eliminated, and it has been so modified as to have
become almost unrecognizable in the Western versions of Cinderella
and Beauty and the Beast—the germ of the former story seeming
to have been a myth describing the release of some supernatural
being, generally of a demoniacal kind, from a forbidden chamber, and
that of the two others a belief in the possibility of a divine personage
electing or being compelled to assume the shape or husk of an
inferior creature, human or brutish. The Sleeping Beauty may pos
sibly be the expansion of a nature-myth, referring either to the
nightly slumber of the earth till roused by the approach of the day,
or its winter sleep protracted until the arrival of the spring. But
Puss in Boots belongs to another order of tales, having originally
been, beyond all doubt, a Buddhist parable—one belonging to the
large cycle of apologues contrasting the gratitude of beasts with the
ingratitude of man.
                                                         [W. R. S. B,]

884                      General Monthly Meeting.                 [March 1,
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, March 1, 1875.
         The Duke of Northumrerland, D.C.L. President,
                               in the Chair.
              II. H. Alexander, Esq.
              Blayney Balfour, Esq.
              James Hill Bowen, Esq.
              Mrs. Woodhouse Braine,
              Thomas Browning, Esq.
              Henry James Chaney, Esq.
              Mrs. Thomas Jones,
              Frederick Lehmann, Esq.
              Mrs. G. J. Leon,
              Mrs. George Henry Lewis,
              Edward W. T. Hamilton, Esq.
              Henry Rogers, Esq.
              Mrs. Julia Scaramanga,
              Sir John Scott, K.C.M.G.
              George Fereday Smith, Esq. M.A. J.P. F.G.S.
              Thomas Tomlinson, Esq. M.A.
              James Vavasseur, Esq.
              Hermann Weber, M.D.
              John Westlake, Esq. Q.C.
were elected Members of the Boyal Institution.
     The special thanks of the Members were given to the Sir Charles
Whratstone, D.C.L. F.R.S. for his loan of an Astronomical Clock
for one year.
     The special thanks of the Members were given to the Rev.
Franois J. Holland for his present of a copy of ' Fragmentary
Papers on Science and other Subjects,' by his father, the late Sir
Henry Holland, Bart. F.R.S. President of the Royal Institution.
                  Lecture Arrangements after Easter, 1875.
    Proeessor P. M. Duncan, F.B.S.—Second Series of Four Lectures on the
Grander Phenomena of Physical Geography ; on Tuesdays, April 6 to 27.
    John Hall Gladstone, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S. Fullerian Professor of Chemistry,
B.I.—Five Lectures on Chemical Force ; on Tuesdays, May 4 to June 1.
    Professor H. G. Seeley, F.L. &. G.S.—Five Lectures on the Fossil Forms
of Flying-Animals ; on Thursdays, April 8 to May 6.
    James Dewar, Esq. F.R.S.E.—Four Lectures on the Progress of Physioo-
Chemical Inquiry ; on Thursdays, May 13 to June 3.
    George Smith, Esq.—Three Lectures on Assyrian History ; on Saturdays,
April 10, 17, and 24.
                                                      X

1875.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                         385
     The Rev. Mark Pattmon, B.D. Rector of Lincoln College, Oxford.—A
Chapter of University History ; on Saturday, May 8.
     Walter Hermes Pollock, Esq.—Two Lectures on the Drama, on Saturdays.
May 15 and 22.                                                      '          m
     Professor R. K. Douglas.—Two Lectures on Chinese Language and Litera
ture ; on Saturdays, May 29 and June 5.
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :
      from
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 97. 8vo. 1875.
 Astronomical Society, Soyal—Monthly Notices. Vol. XXXV. No. 3. 8vo. 1875.
 Bavarian Academy of Science—Denkschrif tuber Liebig, von Dr. E Erlenmcver
       4to. 1874.                                                             J '
    Annalen der Hon. Sternwarte bei Miinchen. Band XX. 8vo. 1874.
British Museum Trustees—Ancient Greek Inscriptions. Part I. fol.
Chemical Society—Journal for Feb. 1875. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Soience for Dec. 1874. 8vo.
    Athenaeum for Feb. 1875. 4to.
    Chemical News for Feb. 1875. 4to.
    Engineer for Feb. 1875. fol.
   Journal for Applied Science for Feb. 1875. fol.
    Nature for Feb. 1875. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Feb. 1875. 8vo.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb. 1875. 8vo.
    Practical Magazine for Feb. 1875. 4to.
   Telegraph Journal for Feb. 1875. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 588. 8vo. 1875.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XIX. No. 1. 8vo. 1875.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 121. 8vo. 1875.
Geological Society of Ireland—Journal, Vol. XIV. Part 1. 8vo. 1874.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. IX. No. 2. 8vo. 1874.
      4to. Socie'te'
Harlem,      1874. des Sciences—Verhandelingen. 3de Verz. Deel II. No.• 3 i 4 •
   Archives Ne'erlandaises, Tome VIII. Liv. 1, 2, 4, 5. Tome IX. Liv 4 5 8vo
      1873-4.
Holland, F. J. The Rev. (the Editor)—Fragmentary Papers on Science and other
      Subjects, by the late Sir Henry Holland, Bart, 8vo. 1875.
Lewis, T. R. Esq. (the Author)—Ou Nematode Haematozoa. 8vo. 1874.
   Microscopical and Physiological Researches on the Production of Cholera. 8vo.
      1874.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 78. 8vo. 1875.
Manchester Geological Society-—Transactions, Vol. XIII. Parts 0, 7, 8. 8vo. 1874.
Mancheeter Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. Nos. 7, 8. 8vo. 1875
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 256. 8vo. 1873.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 158. 8vo. 1875.
   Philosophical Transactions for 1874. Part H. 4to. 1874.
Smithsonian Institution—Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge Vol XIX
      4to. 1874.                                                      '    "
   Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections. Vols. XI. XII. 8vo. 1874.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXVH. Part 4. 8vo. 1874.
   Almanack for 1875.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine, Feb.
      1875. 8vo.
Upsala Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta. Series III. Vol. IX. Fasc 1 4to
      1874.
   Bulletin Me'tc'orologique Mensuel. Vol. V. Nos. 7-13. 4to. 1873.

386                            Lord Rayleiyh                   [March 5,
                  "WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 5, 1875.
      George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
               The Lord Rayleigh, M.A. F.E.S. M.R.I.
                        On the Dissipation of Energy.
The second law of thermodynamics, and the theory of dissipation
founded upon it, has been for some years a favourite subject with
mathematical physicists, but has not hitherto received full recognition
from engineers and chemists, nor from the scientific public. And
yet the question under what circumstances it is possible to obtain
work from heat is of the first importance. Merely to know that
when work is done by means of heat, a so-called equivalent of heat
disappears is a very small part of what it concerns us to recognize.
    A heat engine is an apparatus capable of doing work by means of
heat supplied to it at a high temperature and abstracted at a lower,
and thermodynamics shows that the fraction of the heat supplied
capable of conversion into work depends on the limits of temperature
between which the machine operates. A non-condensing steam
engine is not, properly speaking, a heat engine at all, inasmuch as it
requires to be supplied with water as well as heat, but it may be
treated correctly as a heat engine giving up heat at 212° Fahr. This
is the lower point of temperature. The higher is that at which the
water boils in the boiler, perhaps 360° Fahr. The range of tempera
ture available in a non-condensing steam engine is therefore small at
best, and the importance of working at a high pressure is very
apparent. In a condensing engine the heat may be delivered up
at 80° Fahr.
     It is a radical defect in the steam engine that the range of tempe
rature between the furnace and the boiler is not utilized, and it is
impossible to raise the temperature in the boiler to any great extent,
in consequence of the tremendous pressure that would then be
developed. There seems no escape from this difficulty but in the use
of some other fluid, such as a hydrocarbon oil, of much higher boiling
point. The engine would then consist of two parts—an oil engine
taking in heat at a high temperature, and doing work by means of the
fall of heat down to the point at which a steam engine becomes available,
and secondly a steam engine receiving the heat given out by the oil
engine and working down to the ordinary atmospheric temperature.

1875. |                on the Dissilxtthm of Encrjtj.                  387
    Heat engines may be worked backwards, so as by means of work
to raise beat from a colder to a hotter body. This is the principle of
the air or ether freezing machines now coming into extensive use. In
this application a small quantity of work goes a long way, as the
range of temporature through which the heat has to bo raised is but
small.
    If the work required for the freezing machine is obtained from a
steam engine, the final result of the operation is that a fall of heat in
the primo mover is made to produce a riso of heat in the freezing
machine, and the question arises whether this operation may bo
effected without the intervention of mechanical work. The problem
here proposed is solved in Carre's freezing apparatus, described in
most of the text-books on heat. Thero are two communicating
vessels, A and B, which aro used alternately as boiler and condenser.
In the first part of the operation aqueous ammonia is heated in A,
until the gas is driven off and condensed under considerable pressure
in B, which is kept cool with water. Hero we have a fall of heat, the
absorption taking place at the high temperature and the emission at
the lower. In the second part of tho operation A is kept cool, and
the water in it soon recovers its power of absorbing the ammonia gas,
which rapidly distils over. The object to be cooled is placed in
contact with B, and heat passes from tho colder to the hotter body.
Finally the apparatus is restored to its original condition, and there
fore satisfies the definition of a heat engine. M. Carre has invented a
continuously working machine on this principle, which is said to be
very efficient.
    Other freezing arrangements depending on solution or chemical
action may be brought under the same priuciplo, if the cycle of
operations be made complete.
    When heat passes from a hotter to a colder body without pro
ducing work, or some equivalent effect such as raising other heat from
a colder to a hotter body, energy is said to be dissipated, and an
opportunity of doing work has been lost njver to return. If on the
other hand the fall of heat is fully utilized, there is no dissipation, as
the original condition of things might be restored at pleasure ; but iu
practice the full amount of work can never be obtained, in consequence
of friction and the other imperfections of our machines.
    The prevention of unnecessary dissipation is the guide to economy
of fuel in industrial operations. Of this a good example is afforded
by the regenerating furnaces of Mr. Siemens, in which the burnt
gases are passed through a passage stacked with fire-bricks, and are
not allowed to escape until thoir temporature is reduced to a very
moderate point. After a timo the products of combustion are passed
iuto another passage, and the unburnt gaseous fuel and air are intro
duced through that which has previously been heated. The efficiency
of the arrangement depends in great degree on the fact that the cold
fuel is brought first into contact with the colder parts of the flue, and
does not take heat from the hotter parts until it has itself become hot.
    Vol. VII. (No. 62.)                                        2 e

 iS88                          Lord Rayleigh                   [March 5,
 In this way the fall of heat is never great, and there is comparatively
 little dissipation.
      The principal difficulty in economy of fuel arises from the fact
 that the whole fall of heat from the temperature of the furnace is
 seldom available for one purpose. Thus in the iron smelting furnaces
 heat below the temperature of melting iron is absolutely useless.
 But when the spent gases arc used for raising steam, the same heat is
 used over again at another part of its fall. There is no reason why
 this process should not be carried further. All the heat discharged
 from non-condensing steam engines, which is more than nine-tenths of
 the whole, might be used for warming or drying, or other operations
 in which only low temperaturo heat is necessary.
      The chemical bearings of the theory of dissipation are very im
 portant, but have not hitherto received much attention. A chemical
 transformation is impossible, if its occurrence would involve the
opposite of dissipation (for which there is no convenient word) ; but it
 is not true, on the other hand, that a transformation which would
 involve dissipation must necessarily take place. Otherwise the ex
 istence of explosives like gunpowder would be impossible. It is
 often stated that the development of heat is the criterion of the
 possibility of a proposed transformation, though exceptions to this
 rule are extremely well-known. It is sufficient to mention the solution
 of a salt in water. This operation involves dissipation, or it would
 not occur, and it is not difficult to see how work might have been
 obtained in the process. The water may be placed under a piston in
 a cylinder maintained at a rigorously constant temperature, and the
 piston slowly raised until all the water is evaporated, and its tension
 reduced to the point at which the salt would begin to absorb it at the
 temperature in question. After the salt and vapour are in contact
 the piston is made to descend until the solution is effected. In this
 process work is gained, since the pressure under the piston during
 the expansion is greater than at the corresponding stage of the contrac
 tion. If the salt is dissolved in the ordinary way energy is dissipated,
 an opportunity of doing work at the expense of low temperature heat
 has been missed and will not return.
     The difficulty in applying thermodynamical principles to chemistry
arises from the fact that chemical transformations cannot generally
be supposed to take place in a reversible manner, even although
unlimited time be allowed. Some progress has, however, recently
been made, and the experiments of Debray on the influence of
pressure on the evolution of carbonic anhydride from chalk throw
considerable light on the matter. By properly accommodating the
pressure and temperature, the constituents of chalk may be separated
or recompounded without dissipation, or rather dissipation may
theoretically be reduced without limit by making the operation slowly
enough.
     The possibility of chemical action must often depend on the density
of the reacting substances. A mixture of oxygen and hydrogen in the

1875.]                on tlte Dissipntlon of Energy.                  389
proper proportions may be exploded l,y an electric spark at the atmo
spheric pressure, and energy will be dissipated. In this operation
the spark itself need not be considered, as a given spark is capable of
exploding any quantity of gas. Suppose, now, that previously to ex
plosion the gas is expanded at constant temperature, and then after
explosion brought back to the former volume. Since in the combina
tion there is a condensation to two-thirds, the pressure required to
compress the aqueous vapour is less than that exercised at the same
volume by the uncombined gases, and accordingly work is gained on
the whole. Hence the explosion in the expanded state involves less
dissipation than in the condensed state, and the amount of the difference
may be increased without limit by carrying the expansion far enough.
It follows that beyond a certain point of rarity the explosion cannot
be made, as it could not then involve any dissipation. But although
the tendency to combine diminishes as the gas becomes rarer, the heat
developed during the combination remains approximately constant.
     It must be remembered that the heat of combination is generally
developed at a high temperature, and that therefore work may be
done during the cooling of the products of combustion. If, therefore,
it is a necessity of the case that the act of combustion should take
place at a high temperature, the possibility of explosion will cease at
an earlier point of rarefaction than would otherwiso have been the
case.
     It may probably be found that many mixtures which show no
tendency to explode under ordinary conditions will become explosive
when sufficiently condensed.
                                                                  [B.]
                                                          2x2

390                             Mr. F. A. Abel                  [March 12,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 12, 1875.
        George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                     F. A. Arel, F.R.S. Treasurer C.S.
                          On Accidental Explosions.
The winter of 1874-5 has been unusually prolific in so-called acci
dental explosions. On Christmas Evo a colliery explosion entailed
 the sacrifice of seventeen lives, and on one day last January the ' Times '
published accounts of no less than six fatal explosions; two in collieries
 involving the loss of eleven lives ; three boiler explosions, by one of
 which seven persons were killed and twenty injured ; and one coal-gas
 explosion, by which two lives were lost. All these were of the class
 ordinarily termed accidental, but in every caso the casualty was traced
 to a cause which could have been foreseen and guarded against.
     The term " accident," applied in its strict sense to disasters caused
 by explosions, would imply that these were due to some circumstance, or
 combination of circumstances, entirely unforeseen, and that they were
 consequently unpreventable. An explosion which occurs during the
 preparation or investigation of a compound, the explosive nature of
 which is as yet unknown, may be purely accidental, but if, after the
 properties of the substance have been thoroughly ascertained and
 made known, an explosion occurs during its production, by some person
 who has not properly made himself acquainted with, or has neglected
 in some point or other, those conditions essential to its production
 with safety, the knowledge of which is within his reach, the term
" accidental " can certainly not be properly applied to it, although in
all probability it would be so designated popularly, and even by those
entrusted on behalf of the public with the investigation of its origin
and results. The explosion occasioned by a person employing a lighted
candle to search for a gas-escape in a room where there is a powerful
odour of gas, or a gunpowder explosion resulting from the dropping
of a spark into an open powder-barrel from a candle which is held
over it, should properly have as little claim to be called " accidental "
as a boiler explosion occasioned by a person tying down the safety-
valve. There may be criminal intent in the latter case which is
entirely absent in the two former ; but tho probability of an explosion

1875.]                  on Accidental Explosions.                    391
could have been equally foretold in all three instances, and though
ignorance may perhaps be pleaded as an excuse in the case of the gas-
explosion, and carelessness made to account for that of the powder,
those pleas cannot be accepted as grounds for regarding the resulting
disasters as legitimate accidents. Indeed it is often impossible to
forbear stigmatizing as criminal the carelessness or ignorance which
gives rise to explosions of the kind popularly accepted as accidental.
    In the present discourse it is proposed to accept the definition
" accidental " in the loose sense in which it is popularly applied to
explosions, with the object of examining into the nature and causes of
such explosions, and, if possible, of indicating directions in which
there may be hope of successful efforts being made for reducing the
frequency of their occurrence.
    The phenomena attendant upon an explosion are generally due to
the sudden or very rapid expansion of matter, accompanied in most
instances by its change of state from solid or liquid to gas or vapour.
The most simple classes of explosions are those caused by the sudden
yielding to force, exerted from within, of receptacles in which a gas
is imprisoned in a highly compressed condition, or a liquid has been
raised to a temperature greatly exceeding that at which its molecules
have a tendency to fly asunder or to assume the state of vapour or
gas. The strength or elasticity of the envelope which confines them
suddenly yielding to pressure, the liquid passes with great rapidity
into vapour, violently displacing by this sudden expansion the sur
rounding air and any other obstacles opposed to the expanding
molecules.
    Similar explosive effects less simple in their origin are brought
about by the sudden development of chemical activity in mixtures of
gases or vapours, of solids and gases, or of solids only, or in chemical
compounds of unstable character, the result in all such instances
being the development of intense heat and the sudden or very rapid
and great expansion of matter.
    Examples of the most simple class of explosions are the sudden
failure in strength at some particular point, or generally, of the
material composing a vessel in which a gas has either been liquefied
or highly compressed. Accidental explosions of this character take
place chiefly, and happily not very frequently, in the laboratory or
lecture room, yet instances occasionally occur of disastrous explosions
resulting from such causes in manufacturing operations, or in the
practical application of compressed air or other gases. The most
recent illustration of a serious accidental explosion of this kind is
that which occurred in the Arsenal at Woolwich, in January, 1874,
with the air-chamber of a Whitehead, or Fish-Torpedo, when one
man lost his life and several were seriously injured. In this instance
some part of the soft steel diaphragm closing the chamber in which
the motive power of this self-propellant torpedo (air) was imprisoned
under a pressure of about 800 lb. on the square inch, suddenly
yielded to the efforts of the gas to return to its normal condition.

392                           Mr. F. A. Abel                   [March 12,
These air-chambers were invariably tested up to a pressure very con
 siderably exceeding that to which they would be subjected in actual
 service, before they were allowed to form part of the torpedo ; yet in
this instance, some comparatively weak point in the plate in question,
 though it had successfully resisted the force exerted by the very
 highly compressed air for a short period, was eventually tried beyond
 the limits of its strength, by the continued strain exerted by the air
confined at a lower pressure ; the powers of cohesion of its particles
were suddenly overcome, when the confined air, released at one point,
expanded with irresistible rapidity, tearing asunder the splendid
metal which composed the air-chamber, and consequently inflicting
fearful injuries on the poor fellows who were preparing to launch the
torpedo on its trial trip. Most careful steps have been taken to avoid
the recurrence of an accident of this nature, the possibility of which,
with the precautions already adopted, was quite unforeseen.
     Other explosions of this class, which are of more than weekly
occurrence, and but too frequently result not merely in destruction of
property, but in more or less serious loss of life, are due to the
bursting of boilers at factories, mines, and collieries, to say nothing of
those which occur in buildings, in connection with heating appliances
and with kitchen ranges, and bath- or other heating-arrangements.
The explosion of a boiler may arise either from an exceptionally
rapid development of steam, the pressure speedily exceeding that
which the boiler, or some portion of it, can withstand; or from an
absence, or failure in the proper operation, of appliances for re
lieving the pressure in a boiler, by permitting the escape of steam,
and giving warning when the pressure begins to exceed the limit of
safety. The suddenly tumultuous evolution of steam may either
occur from the boiler becoming overheated in parts, in consequence
of the shortness of water, or from the sudden cracking or peeling of a
non-conducting incrustation, or fur, on some part of the boiler,
whereupon the water comes into contact with the overheated metal
beneath it. But by far the chief causes of boiler explosions are
defects in their construction, or repair, and the reduction in thick
ness of the metal in parts by corrosion, or oxidation, internally and
externally, from long use, and neglect of proper measures for periodi
cally cleaning the boilers.
     The accidents due directly to the deposits formed from water in
boilers have been very greatly diminished of late years by the appli
cation of preparations, called boiler-compositions, of which there are
many varieties, their general action being to prevent, more or less
effectually, the carbonate and sulphate of calcium and other impurities
in water, which are separated by its ebullition and evaporation, from
producing hard impenetrable crusts or coatings upon the inner
surfaces of the boiler. The judicious employment of a good anti-
fouling preparation, and the thorough periodical cleansing of tho
interior of boilers, go far to guard against that source of danger,
though, in adopting measures to diminish tho formation of incrusta

  1875.]                    on Accidental Explosions.                        393
  tions, care must also be taken to avoid promoting internal corrosion
  of the boiler by the agents used.
       The operations of the Manchester Steam Users Association for
  the prevention of steam-boiler explosions, founded, mainly through
  the instrumentality of Sir William Fairbairn, twenty years ago, and
  of which Sir Joseph Whitworth has also been a warm supporter from
  its commencement, appear to have gradually succeeded in very
  importantly reducing the annual number of boiler explosions, by
  introducing among its members a system of periodical independent
  inspection, the efficiency of which is clearly demonstrated by the
  circumstance that no case of explosion has yet occurred with boilers
  under the regular inspection of the Association, while between six
  hundred and eight hundred boilers are examined monthly. The
  periodical reports prepared by the talented chief engineer of the
  Association, Mr. Lavington Fletcher, are full of interesting and
  valuable information, and throw great light upon the chief causes of
  boiler explosions, and the means by which they may be guarded
  against. The Association will not allow that the term " accidental,"
  or mysterious, is applicable to steam-boiler explosions. Mysterious
  they certainly are not, as they are generally quite traceable to causes
  which may be obviated, such as inferior material or defective construc
  tion, or local injuries, gradually developing and increasing, which
  would certainly be discovered before they attained dangerous dimen-
. sions, by a proper inspection ; it may therefore not be too harsh to
  maintain that boiler explosions are not accidental, as their prevention
  lies in the power of the steam users, though it is true the same view
  must equally apply to other classes of so-called accidental explosions
  which are referred to in this discourse.
       The following statements, furnished to the speaker by the Steam
  Users Association, afford some idea of the number and nature of
  boiler explosions which have occurred in the last few years. The
  number of explosions recorded annually by the Association, from
  1865 to 1874 inclusive, ranges from forty-eight to seventy-two; the
  average present annual number is fifty. The largest number of deaths
  recorded is eighty-seven, and the smallest thirty-two, the present
  average number being seventy-five. About double that number of persons
  are seriously injured annually. With respect to the causes of boiler
  explosions, 40 per cent, were due (from January, 1861, to June, 1870)
  to malconstruction of the boilers ; 29 per cent, to " defective con
  dition " of the boilers ; 15 per cent, to the failure of seams of rivets
  at the bottom of externally fired boilers ; 10 per cent, to overheating
  from shortness of water ; and less than 3 per cent, to accumulation
  of incrustations.*
       An examination into the particular nature of the services
  performed by boilers which have exploded shows that a con-
      * These data are in part extracted from a Table submitted by Mr. Fletcher
  to the Select Committee on Boiler Explosions, in June, 1870, vide p. 118 of the
  Committee's Report.

 394                          Mr. F. A. AM                    [March 12,
 sidcrable number of oxplosions have occurred at iron works, and a
 very large proportion at collieries, where plain cylindrical externally-
 fired boilers are much used. Many of the explosions of these par
 ticular boilers arise from places which remain for a time concealed in
 the overlaps of the seams of rivets, defying detection, but gradually
 extending from one rivet-hole to another, till some sudden strain
 causes them to extend throughout the entire scam, the boiler splitting
 in two. The particular description of boiler which gave rise to the
 largest number of fatal accidents during the year taken as illustration
 (1873) was the single-flued or Cornish boiler; and it was stated by
 Mr. Fletcher that all these explosions must have been the result of
 glaring neglect, as there is no boiler safer to use when well made and
 properly cared for. The simple precaution of strengthening, or giving
 internal support to the sides of the furnace-tubo of these boilers, the
 importance of which was demonstrated many years ago by Sir W.
 Fairbairn, appears to be still greatly neglected, the result being the
 frequent collapse of the tube through weakness. This illustration
 will suffice to indicate the nature of the " defects of construction "
 which are fruitful of the so-called accidents with boilers. An exami
 nation of the details given in Mr. Fletcher's reports as to the causo
 of explosions reveals a really appalling state of things under the
 head of " defective condition " of the boilers. In one case the plates
 are described as having been reduced by corrosion in places to the
 thickness of paper ; in another, they wero " in some places not more
 than from one-thirty-second to one-sixtieth of an inch thick;" in
another, they were reduced at the primary rent " to the thickness of
a knife-edge ; " in another, tho plates were in some places " eaten into
holes which were roughly patched by means of bolted cement patches,"
 while many of the rivet-heads were eaten off. These are merely
examples of many similar descriptions. Very few explosions in 1873
appear to have been due to the neglect of the attendants, but by far
the greater number to that of the boiler owners or the makers. Tho
ignorance or criminal neglect, or worse, which appears occasionally to
be displayed in the sale, purchase, and use of second-hand boilers is
illustrated by the following two examples : A boiler which burst in
December, 1873, on a rag-puller and waste dealer's premises, scalding
three persons to death and injuring fivo others, was found to have
given way on its first trial by its then owners, simply from old age
and decay. At tho earliest period at which its history could be
traced it was purchased second-hand, and worked for five years; it
was then left exposed to the weather for five years and afterwards sold
to a broker for 51., who re-sold it as old iron for 81. It was then sold
for 18Z. to au engineer, who sold it to its last owners with the assur
ance that it was safe at a pressure of 6O or 70 lb. to the square inch.
Tho jury at the coroner's inquest returned a verdict of " accidental
death,'' but " desired to express their disapprobation of the conduct of
the engineer who sold tho boiler as in good working order when tho
flue-tubes were in some places less than one-sixteenth of an inch

1875.]                   on Accidental Explosions.                     395
thick." The other illustration is that of a large boiler which is
graphically described in a professional journal of high standing as
having been worked to within an inch of its life, being only removed
from its seat because it would hardly hold water. On this boiler there
was a patch, more than two feet long, covering a crack of the same
length ; the patch had only six bolts, three on each side, and was made
tight with a piece of old carpet smeared with white lead. Had this boiler
burst, the verdict would in all probability have been as in the other
case " accidental death," though it was worked almost to the last to
35 lb. pressure.
    The explosion early in January last of a boiler at North Shields,
and of ono at Sheffield, affords further illustration, if it were needed,
of the fearful danger continually incurred, even by those well acquainted
with the properties of iron and steel and the limits of their powers of
resisting strain or pressure, in the employment of boilers long after
they had ceased to be trustworthy. At Shields, at a large manufactory
of chain cables and anchors, the boiler which exploded had been
worked beyond a pressure of 35 lb., while it was unsound, over-
patched, and quite unsafe at that pressure. Seven people were killed
and about twenty others injured, and a vast amount of property was
destroyed, the buildings within 500 yards appearing as though they
had been bombarded. At Sheffield, where the explosion of a boiler
not many days afterwards killed two persons, injuring several others,
a leakage had been observed in the boiler some time before the
explosion, but had not been repaired, and a plate fractured by the
explosion had been greatly reduced in thickness by corrosion. This
boiler .appears to have been worked up to the day of the explosion at a
pressure of from 40 to 50 lb., and the workmen employed are stated to
have expressed fear at working in its vicinity.
    The foregoing and other very numerous illustrations of the appalling
display of ignorance, neglect, or recklessness in dealing with the
application of steam-power, point strongly to the importance of
legislation connected with this subject. A parliamentary committee
of inquiry reported in July, 1870, that the introduction of compulsory
independent inspection of boilers would interfere with the responsi
bility of the boiler owner ; but it is somewhat difficult to realize where
the responsibility lies, in the present condition of things. That a
system of inspection may be made to work well has been demonstrated
by the beneficial results of the now very widely applied labours of the
Steam Users Association ; and that Government realizes these benefits
is demonstrated by the fact that the boilers at the manufacturing
establishments of the War Department are subject to the inspection of
the Association. There can be no reason why the responsibility of the
proper condition of boilers, and steam apparatus generally, should not
bo thrown upon inspectors, just as the proper fencing of machinery in
factories, and the proper condition of steam-boilers in a passenger
steam-ship, are secured by a system of responsible official inspection.
    The explosions which are often recorded as occurring in kitchen

396                            Mr. F. A. Abet                [March 12,
ranges and in boilers used in connection with the heating of buildings
are not unfrequently attended by fatal results. Much of what has
been said with regard to boiler explosions, generally, applies to
accidents of this class. Explosions in such boilers have repeatedly-
arisen from corrosion of the metal, and consequent great reduction of
its thickness in places, due to the accumulation of hard incrustations
or furs which in timo exclude the water from contact with the metal,
causing the latter to scale from overheating. The incrustations will
crack or split from time to time, in consequence of inequality of
expansion or contraction between them and the metal, and if the latter
be heated at the time, pressure of steam may be suddenly generated
which the worn boiler will not withstand unless provided with an
efficient safety-valve.
     As the water in kitchen boilers is often used for culinary and
drinking purposes, the means employed in boilers used for steam-
purposes only, to prevent the formation of hard deposits, cannot be
resorted to ; therefore the only means of guarding against accidents
to domestic boilers from these causes consists in frequont and
thorough cleaning out, which is especially necessary where the water-
supply is hard.
     Explosions also occur with household boilers of the ordinary cir
culating class, unprovided with safety-valves, through the stop-taps of
the pipes which connect them with an overhead cistern being left
closed by accident or negligence, in which case steam pressure must
speedily accumulate to a dangerous extent, all outlets being closed.
Accidents with such boilers are particularly liable to occur during
severe frosts in consequence of the circulating pipes becoming
plugged up with ice, whereby the outlet for steam pressure is as com
pletely cut off as if the stop-taps were closed. Several accidents
due to these two causes, some of them attended by fatal results, were
recorded last year. The obvious and simple method of guarding
effectually against such explosions is to have the boiler fitted with
a reliable safety-valve, of the most simple form ; a valve of pendulous
 dead weight construction is specially recommended for this purpose
 by the Steam Users Association as being inexpensive, certain of action,
 and free from any liability to get out of order. So simple a precau
 tion for avoiding the possibility of a frightful accident surely only
requires public attention being directed to it to secure its general
 adoption.
     Explosions resulting from the ignition of mixtures of inflammable
gas and air constitute even a more formidable class than that just
 described ; for the number of explosions in coal mines which occur in
 a year is very considerably greater than that of boiler explosions,
 while the loss of life occasioned by the former is very consider
able, and is occasionally appalling in its magnitude. Thus, in 1871,
there were fifty-two fatal explosions, 268 men being killed, and 234
non-fatal explosions, by which it is estimated that 368 men were

1875.]                  on Accidental Explosions.                   397
injured ; and, as examples of specially calamitous explosions, may be
mentioned that at Risca Colliery in 1860, when 142 men were killed,
and those at Oaks Colliery in 1866, and Ferndale Colliery in 1867,
when 334 and 178 men were killed.
     If marsh-gas, or light carburetted hydrogen, which exists im
prisoned in coal-beds and escapes into the atmosphere in the pit-
working, either gradually or sometimes under considerable pressure,
becomes mixed with the air to such an extent that there are about
eighteen volumes of the latter to one of the gas, the mixture burns
with a pale blue flame, which will surround that of a candle contained
in such an atmosphere ; the appearance of such a " corpse light "
round the flame of the pitman's candle or lamp-flame is a warning,
too generally unheeded, of the presence of fire-damp in quantities
likely to be dangerous ; for if the proportion of marsh-gas increases
much beyond that above specified, an explosive atmosphere will be
formed, the violent character of which increases as the proportion of
fire-damp approaches that of one volume to ten of air. Marsh-gas
requires for its ignition to be brought into contact with a body raised
to a white heat ; fire-damp, or a mixture of marsh-gas and air, is
therefore not inflamed by a spark or red-hot wire, but will explode
if brought into contact with flame. The fact that this contact must
be of some little duration to ensure the ignition of the fire-damp
was applied by Stephenson in the construction of his safety-lamp ;
and a very philosophical application of the property possessed by
good conducting bodies, such as copper or iron, of cooling down a
flame below the igniting point of the gas, and thus extinguishing
it, was made by Davy in the construction of his safety-lamp.
     All the efforts of eminent scientific and practical men, for the
better part of a century past, to diminish the number of coal-mine
explosions, by improving the ventilation of the mines and providing
the miner with comparatively safe means of illumination, appear to
have had very little effect in reducing the number and disastrous
nature of these accidents. Since the construction of safety miners'
lamps by Davy, Stephenson, and Clanny, repeated and partially suc
cessful efforts have been made to reduce the loss of light consequent
upon the necessary enclosure of the flame, and thus to lessen the
temptation of the miner to employ a naked flame at his work in
fiery mines. Yet investigations after mine explosions still frequently
disclose instances of the employment of candles where they are un
doubtedly dangerous ; and the regulations which have been made law
with the view of preventing accidents through tho use of naked
lights by miners, where there appears any likelihood of fire-damp
escaping and lodging, aro in many cases either habitually neglected
or very carelessly carried out. One practice which appears to have
become very general in mines where fire-damp is known to exist,
that of sending firemen with safety-lamps to examine the mines,
the men then proceeding to work with naked lights in all places
marked as safe by those officials, is obviously a most dangerous

398                           Mr. F. A. Abel                 [March 12,
one, the lives of many being made absolutely dependent upon the
vigilance and trustworthiness of one or two; yet it appears to be
one almost forced upon the managers of collieries by the men them
selves, who often absolutely refuse to go to work with safety-lamps.
 Of the three colliery accidents which occurred between December 23rd
 and January 7th last, by which twenty-eight men lost their lives,
 two afford sad illustrations of the fact that the overlookers and the
 miners themselves are chiefly to blame for the frequency of these
 accidents, and that the practice of employing " firemen " just referred
 to is a highly perilous one.
     In the case of the explosion at Bignall Hill Colliery, North
 Staffordshire, the Government Inspector gave evidence to the effect
that the explosion occurred in what was admitted to be the most
fiery seam in the North Staffordshire coal-field, and in which no naked
 light ought ever to be used. The overlooker stated that, having found
 gas in the heading on the morning of the explosion, he told the men
 not to go to work there with naked lights ; that " he had authority
 to order lamps, but he had not done so, because he had not seen any
necessity for it. The explosion might have been avoided if the man
 whose light was believed to have fired the gas, had done his duty and
 used a lamp." Another witness " had found gas on the morning of the
 explosion, but not sufficient to lead him to suspect danger. He found
 gas in the place after the fireman said he had cleared it away ;
 the workings always were considered safe, and if ho asked a man to
 use a lamp he would often be laughed at."
     The Government Inspector deposed that "all the circumstances
 went to show that the fireman did not examine the place before the
 men went to work, and that one of the men walked into it with a
 naked candle and ignited the gas." At tho second explosion (at the
 Aldwarke Main Colliery near Rotherham) the fire-trier appears to
 have made his customary inspection and found all safe at the place
 where the explosion occurred, and had left his usual sign to indicate
 to the men that all was right.        The opinion of the engineer was
 that a considerable fall of roof (of the working) had occurred aftor
 ho had left, and that, before the liberated gas had time to be carried
 away by the ventilating current, the men entered and met the gas,
 which immediately fired. " Had there been a delay            or had the
 men been provided with safety-lamps the accident would in all proba
 bility have been averted." In the Report of the accident it is stated
 that the men in that district will rather leave a colliery than be sub
ject to the strict enforcement of tho rules of the Act passed to ensure
 their safety, and that some such calamity was needed to enforce proper
 regulations for the safe working of the mine. There can be no
 question that the comparatively dim light afforded even by the best
 constructed lamps in general use, is a cause of great temptation to the
 men to use uncovered lights ; it is therefore much to be hoped that
 continued efforts may be made to apply the electric light to the illu
 mination of mine workings. Some approach to success in this direction

1875.]                     on Accidental Explosions.                          399
was already attained ten years ago, and one cannot but have great
faith in the ultimate feasibility of some portable method of illumi
nation by electric agency.
     There are, however, causes other than the use of unprotected lights,
which contribute to the production of coal-mine explosions. Efficient
ventilation of workings, whether in use or not, whereby all dangerous
accumulation of fire-damp is avoided and any sudden eruption of gas
may be rapidly dealt with (the gas being largely diluted and swept
away as speedily as possible) is indispensable to the safo working of
the mine (without any reference to the health of the men) so long as
there is any temptation for the use of naked lights. The original
laying out of a working greatly affects the question of efficient venti
lation, and explosions have been clearly traced to gas accumulations,
which there was sufficient power of ventilation to reduce, if the nature
of the working had admitted of its proper application. At the Big-
nail Hill Colliery where the fearful explosion occurred on Christmas
Eve last, the ventilation had been reported imperfect about three
weeks before the accident, and the Government Inspector stated that
the deficient ventilation was due to the improper laying out of the
work. In arranging for the efficient ventilation of a mine, ample
provision for rapidly applying extra artificial ventilating power should
be made ; and, in connection with this, the interesting and useful series
of observations should be borne in mind which have been made public
in communications to the Royal Society and the Meteorological Society
by Messrs. R. H. Scott and W. Galloway. Those gentlemen have
clearly established a connection between the occurrence of meteoro
logical changes and colliery explosions; they have shown that ex
plosions frequently occur at the time of considerable barometric
disturbances which must unquestionably affect the rate of diffusion of
the fire-damp into air and the rapidity of air circulation in a mine.
They also point out that when the external temperature rises very con
siderably, the natural ventilation, due to the higher temperature of
the air in a mine, is liable to ceaso, by the external atmospheric tem
perature becoming equal to, or perhaps exceeding, that in the mine.
They consider that of 233 explosions -which occurred in 1872, 58 per
cent, were due to disturbances of atmospheric pressure, and 16 per cent,
to excessive heat of the weather, and they have similarly traced the
proportion in which the same meteorological changes have contributed
to bring about explosions in other years.*
    * Reference must be made here to an ingenious application, made by Mr. Ansell,
of the laws of diffusion and osmose for detecting the presence of tire-damp in
coal-pits. Two or three forms have been given by Mr. Ansell to the detector
apparatus ; perhaps the most simple consists of a ball of thin india-rubber, filled
with air and fixed upon a stand under a lever which slightly presses the upper
surface of the ball. If from any cause the lever is raised it liberates a spring
which sets a bell in vibration, or brings an electro- magnetic alarum arrangement
into operation. If this apparatus is placed where fire-damp exists to an important
extent, the light carburetted hydrogen passes through the pores of the india-rubber
ball, and as the air in the latter passes outwards at a much lower rate, the ball

 400                             Mr. F. A. Abel                       [March 12,
     Since the employment of gunpowder as a means of rapidly removing
 coal, or overlying shale, has come into considerable use, there can be
no question that an additional and a very serious source of danger has
 been imported into the working of collieries. That the explosion of
 a charge of powder in a blast-hole, or the " firing of a shot," has by
 no means unfrequently resulted in the production of a fire-damp
 explosion, has been clearly established by careful inquiry. This has
 been ascribed to two causes, one of them the direct ignition of the
explosive gas-mixture by the flame from the shot, the other the dis-
 lodgment of fire-damp from cavities or disused workings by the
 concussion produced, and its ignition by some naked flame or defective
 lamp in the neighbourhood. If a shot takes effect properly (i.e. if
 the force is fully expended in breaking the coal or rock at the seat of
 the charge), there is seldom flame produced ; but if the tamping which
 confines the charge in the blast-hole is simply blown out of the latter
 like a shot from a gun (which not unfrequently occurs when the rock
 is very hard or the tamping is not sufficiently firm, or when the charge
 of powder is excessive), the powder-gas issuing from the blast-hole
 will produce a flash of fire as obtained with a gun ; and if the fire
 damp were in the immediate neighbourhood, it would no doubt be
 ignited thereby. But this combination of conditions is not likely
 frequently to occur ; the second causo above given is therefore more
 likely to be fruitful of accidents : hut the existence of a third cause,
 to which the majority of explosions connected with blasting in collieries
 is most probably ascribable, has been very clearly established by the
careful inquiries, sound reasoning, and ingenious experiments of Mr.
 W. Galloway, Inspector of Mines. The fact has long been known
 that if an explosive gas-mixture be driven, in a current of sufficient
 force, through the gauze of a safety-lamp at right angles to the lamp,
 flame may be forced through the meshes, and may thus ignite the
 explosive mixture outside the lamp ; but Mr. Galloway conceived, and
 has clearly established by experiments in tho laboratory and in coal
 pits, that the sound-wave established by the firing of a shot (especially
 by the sharp explosion produced when the tamping is shot out of a
 hole) will by transmission, even to very considerable distances, have
 the effect of forcing flame through the meshes of the gauze of a
 safety-lamp, and will thus lead to the ignition of an explosive gas-
 mixture surrounding tho latter. Safety-lamps may frequently be
accidentally surrounded by (or purposely introduced, for purposes of
inspection, into) an explosive atmosphere at the time that shots are
 fired in neighbouring workings ; and the circumstantial evidence col
lected after the occurrence of some explosions has undoubtedly
soon distends, exerting sufficient pressure on the lever to bring into action the
signalling arrangement, which, if electric, may be placed at any convenient dis
tance from the fire-damp detector, being connected with the lever by means of
conducting wires. It would appear as though a detector of this nature could be
made of important service in fiery mines; but its employment does not seem as
yet to have passed beyond the experimental stngo.

1875.J                  -on Accidental Explosions.                      401
indicated that this is the most probable explanation of the cause of
the accident. It is probably not to be expected that even in fiery
coal-pits miners will forego the advantages derivable from the employ
ment of gunpowder, and it appears next to impossible to enforce pro
hibitory regulations with respect to such pits ; but it may perhaps at
any rate be hoped that the miner may be trained to a knowledge of
the danger he incurs by the incautious use of gunpowder, although
the persistent recklessness with which he sacrifices safety to comfort,
in despising the use of the safety-lamp, forbids sanguine expectations
in this direction.
    Reference has not been made to another very possible source of
accidents, due to the employment of gunpowder for blasting purposes,
namely, carelessness in the keeping and handling of the explosive
agent by the men. Personal observation by the speaker of the reckless
manner in which powder is frequently dealt with in mines, leads
him to believe that this contributes its quota as a cause of colliery
explosions.
    The accidents in collieries have their parallel in domestic life, in
coal-gas explosions, which, though at first sight of comparatively
small importance, if judged by the loss of life and property which
they occasion, yet merit serious consideration on account of the great
frequency of their occurrence, and the demonstration which they
almost always afford of ignorance or culpable carelessness. Whether
occasioned by defective gas-fittings or by want of care in dealing with the
gas-supply, the escape of gas in a confined space, in any but very small
quantities, must speedily result in the production of an explosive gas-
mixture, by the rapidity with which the gas will diffuse itself through
the atmospheric air surrounding the point of escape. The application
of flame to such a mixture must inevitably result in an explosion, the
destructive effect of which is regulated by the quantity of gas
escaping, and the time which it has had to mix with the air.
    The circumstance that the admixture of even minute quantities of
coal-gas with air can be at once detected by the unmistakable odour
of the gas, should serve as a safeguard against accidents; unfortu
nately, however, thoughtlessness or want of knowledge frequently
causes this very fact to lead to the opposite result. Escapes of
gas in comparatively small quantities often occur, at the point of
union (generally by a ball-and-socket joint) of a hanging burner
or chandelier with the gas-pipe, or at the telescope-joint of such
gas-fittings ; the column of water required in the joints to con
fine the gas becoming very gradually reduced by evaporation. In
such instances an explosive mixture will accumulate in the upper
part of an apartment of which windows and doors are closed, while
the air in the lower part will continue for a long time free from any
dangerous admixture of gas ; and instances are continually recorded
in the public prints of the deliberate ignition of such explosive mix
tures, by persons who, observing the smell of coal-gas upon entering

402                            Mr. F. A. Abel                 | Marc!. 12,
the room, proceed forthwith to search for the point of escape by
means of a flame. It need scarcely be stated that such a test is a
perfectly safe one in itself, and that if the acceptance of the warning
given by the odour of gas in the lower part of the room were promptly
followed by the simple precautionary operation of leaving open for
some time all windows and doors, so as to afford ready ingress of
fresh air, and thus speedily expel, or very largely dilute, the gas-
mixture, the leakage could be looked for with no risk of accident.
     Gas explosions, generally of a serious nature, do occasionally
occar through no fault of those who are the direct agents in bringing
them about, as by a person entering with a light a closed apartment
in which there has been a very considerable escape of gas for some
time, or a building into which gas has been entering from a leakage
in the supply-pipe or the main. A very sad accident of the latter
kind occurred in January last at Durham, resulting in the death of
two persons. The occupants of a house had noticed on a Saturday
afternoon a smell of gas, which was traced to a leakage in the main-
pipe by the gas company's servants, who stated that it could not be
repaired until the following Monday. The man, being satisfied that
the gas-escape did not occur in his house, lighted a candle some time
afterwards, with the result that a terrific explosion nearly wrecked
the house, which had become to a very considerable extent filled with
explosive gas-mixture. In another recent instance, the accidental
ignition of an explosive coal-gas mixture issuing from a drain-pipe
communicating to the sewer in which gas had leaked from the main,
caused the demolition of one house and the partial demolition of
another, the inmates, in both instances, escaping fortunately with bad
injuries. The first of these accidents, at any rate, would not have
occurred if prompt means had been taken for stopping the leakage
when its source was discovered ; and it may be confidently affirmed
that a very large majority of the accidents resulting from coal-gas
explosions might be avoided by the exercise of ordinary care and
intelligence.
    The employment of illuminating agents closely allied to coal-gas,
namely, liquid carbo-hydrogen compounds obtained by the distillation
of coal or shale, or derived as natural products from coal-bearing strata,
gradually extended during the earlier part of the last quarter of a
century until they became formidable rivals of mineral and vegetable
oils and even of gas itself. Among the very earliest of these so-called
mineral oils was paraffin oil, first obtained from a particular descrip
tion of schist or coal, by Mr. Young ; but some time before then, the
most volatile products obtained by the distillation of coal-tar were
employed in lamps without wicks, of such construction that the
volatile liquid, flowing by gravitation from the reservoir to the source
of heat, was converted into vapour as it reached the point where the jets
of flame were produced.        The great facility with which the more
volatile portions of rock-oil or petroleum, and of the products of dis

 1875.]                  on Accidental Explosions.                     403
(dilation from coal and scbist, were applicable as brilliant illuminating
agents in lamps of simple, cheap, and convenient construction, combined
with the low price at which they could be retailed, consequent upon
the great development of the petroleum industry in America, soon led
to thoir extensive employment by the general public, and the importa
tion of these volatile oils or spirits attained in a short time a scale of
considerable magnitude.
    The several varieties of so-called petroleum spirit which are known
as naphtha, benzine, benzoline, gasoline, japonncr's spirit, &c., yield
vapour more or less freely on exposure to air at ordinary atmospheric
temperatures, and even in some cases below 50° Fahr. Their low specific
gravity and volatility permit of their employment in very simple and
inexpensive lamps—the commonest form now extensively used by tho
poorer classes all over the country being the " sponge lamp " in which
a small strip of sponge or coarsely plaited wick serves the purpose of
drawing the spirit up from the reservoir to the orifice, where it is
vaporized and burned. Although much the largest proportion of
the petroleum spirit employed is probably used in lamps of somo
form or other, there are additional important uses to which it is
applied in large quantities, e. g. as a detergent, by dyers, &c. ; as a
substitute for turpentine in paints and varnishes ; as a means of
imparting luminosity to non-luminous inflammable gas, or of render
ing atmospheric air itself the vehicle for illumination by saturating
it with benzoline vapour ; as a solvent and purifying agent in con
nection with the manufacture of artificial alizarine, &c.
    The statistics of the imports into London and Liverpool during
the last three years show a very considerable increase in the con
sumption of petroleum spirit, as will be seen from tho following
numbers :
                                 1872.      1873.     1874.
                •  ,,.
       „ „ . imported     •• {( 26;871
                                33,693    45,889     58,687
       Barrels                            27't394    47,200 London.
                                                            Liverpool.
    The imports of the less volatile and properly refined petroleum
products, known generally as petroleum oil (also called kerosine,
crystal oil, rock oil, astral oil, and, incorrectly, paraffin oil), which
do not yield vapour below a temperature of 100° Fahr., have fluctuated
considerably during the last six years, but have increased lately to
about five-fold into London, and four-fold into Liverpool, of what
they were in 1872, as shown by the following numbers :
                                 1872       1873      1874
       „       .   . ,
            . imported
       Barrels            •• (/ 48,295
                                46;679   206,573
                                         1(Hii55    245,291
                                                    159,700 London.
                                                            Liverpool.
    The so-called paraffin- or petroleum-lamp explosions, of which in
the earlier days of the employment of these illuminating agents there
were so many recorded in the newspapers, and of which one still
hears occasionally, were, with very few exceptions, not correctly
designated as explosions, and when they were so, were not caused by
    Vol. VII. (No. 62.)                   *                     2 r

404                               Mr. F. A. Abel                       [March 12,
the employment of the volatile oils or petroleum spirit. As these
vaporize very freely at the slightly elevated temperature which a reser
voir of a lamp soon attains, air is either entirely expelled from the latter
by the vapour, or so diluted by it, that the mixture is not explosive. If
therefore flame can have access to vapour escaping from any opening
in the reservoir near the wick, in a badly-constructed lamp, it will
merely burn as it escapes. If a lamp charged with petroleum spirit
be carried incautiously, or accidentally jerked so that the liquid is
suddenly brought into contact with the warmer portion of the lamp,
near the flame, a very rapid volatilization may thereby be caused,
resulting in a considerable outhurst of flame. In either case, a
nervous person, holding the lamp at the time, may drop it in alarm,
 or the reservoir, if of glass, may be broken by the sudden burst of
vapour and the resulting large flame ; in such instances, the spirit will
be scattered and at once inflamed, inflicting injuries more or less
severe on the instigator of the accident, or setting fire to the premises.*
A so-called petroleum-lamp explosion which occurred, quite recently,
at Gloucester, resulting in the death, from burns, of a woman, was
evidently brought about by the cause last described.
      If a petroleum oil which has been imperfectly refined, and which
 therefore contains some proportion of the very volatile products, or
 spirit, be employed in a lamp, a slight explosion may be caused by its
 yielding up a small amount of vapour at the temperature to which the
 reservoir becomes heated, and thus producing a feebly explosive
 mixture with the air in the latter, which may become ignited by the
 flame of the lamp. An explosion thus produced is not at all of
 violent character, being generally merely a feeble puff; it may, how
 ever, cause the cracking of the reservoir, and the consequent spilling
and inflaming of the oil, and may at any rate lead to accident as
 already described, by the alarm which it occasions to nervous or
ignorant persons.
      There is no doubt whatever that a very considerable proportion
 of the accidents which occur to persons using petroleum-lamps are
 really traceable to the erroneous belief, which is still so very preva
 lent, in the explosive character of these liquids. The fact that they
and their vapours are simply inflammable, and that the latter require
    * The Reports by Captain Shaw to the Metropolitan Board of Works of the
causes of fires in London, show a generally steady increase in the number of fires
caused by lamps: thus there were 20 in 1866, 30 in 1869,49 in 1871, 56 in 1872, 47
in 1873, and 67 in 1874. These returns include fires from lamps of all kinds (many
not defined) ; but it may be reasonably assumed that three-fourths of the totals
noted were caused by petroleum-lamps. From one to seven fires annually are
reported as caused by upsetting, " drawing off," or explosion of naphtha, paraffin,
crystal oil, or petroleum. The proportion which fires from the above causes bear to
fires caused by candles is small, but has been on the increase in the last few years.
From 1866 to 1870 inclusive, the fires caused by candles were from seven to ten
times more numerous than those caused by lamps ; but in 1872 they were only
about five times ; in 1872 and 1873, four times ; and in 1874 only little over three
times more numerous.

1875.]                   on Accidental Explosions.                     405
to be mixed with a large volume of air before their ignition can be
accompanied by explosive effects, is so slowly realized, that in publio
prints petroleum is still often spoken of as an explosive substance,
although these very prints have recorded such events as the burning,
in 1866, of warehouses at Bow containing 1000 barrels of petro
leum, besides four barges laden with petroleum lying alongside the
wharf, without any explosion ; and the ignition at New Jersey (in
August, 1874) of a petroleum tank in the Erie Railway Company's
oil-yard, and the consequent burning of 70,000 barrels of petroleum.
The popular belief in the explosiveness of these simply inflammable
liquids contrasts strangely with the fact that many explosions have been
brought about by the careless employment of candles or other naked
flames in premises where the volatile varieties have been stored, or
where the operation of transferring the liquid from one vessel to
another for purposes of sale is carried on, the result being the ignition
of the explosive mixture produced by the volatilization of the spirit
and its diffusion through the air. This fact does indeed tend to
discourage the hope that the proportion of accidental explosions of
gunpowder, which are apparently due to ignorance, may become very
greatly diminished by keeping its explosive properties before tho
minds of those using it.
     Although those petroleum accidents which are the results of care
lessness or ignorance are very difficult to attack, tho community has
unquestionably benefited very considerably in the matter of optional
comparative security by the legislation of the last few years, in con
nection with the storage and sale of petroleum, imperfect though it
still is. The prohibition of the sale of petroleum spirit of any kind,
unless distinctly labelled so that the public may be alive to its specially
dangerous nature as a very volatile liquid, and the limitation of its
storage and sale, by properly licensed persons, to localities specially
selected and inspected by responsible officials, have most certainly
contributed greatly to the protection of the public against accidents
entailed by the use of these materials. A still more important benefit
which has resulted from legislation on this subject, aided by the
zealous action of the Petroleum Association and of municipal autho
rities, is the almost complete exclusion from the market of such petro
leum oil as yields inflammable vapour at temperatures considerably
above the maximum atmospheric temperatures of Great Britain.
The danger arising more especially from the transport and storage
of oils bearing names which apply to the properly refined and there
fore safe petroleum- or coal-oils which do not demand special pre
cautions for their safe storage and use, and are consequently not sub
ject to any restrictive or precautionary regulations, renders the appli
cation of the existing legal regulations to the inspection of petroleum
oils imported into England of special importance. Such inspection,
if efficiently conducted, must afford important protection to consumers
and communities, by maintaining strictly the lino of demarcation
which it has been the object of legislation to establish between very
                                                             2 p 2

  406                                Mr. F. A. Abel                     [March 12,
  volatile and therefore highly inflammable petroleum-, or coal-products,
  and thoso liquid hydro-carbons of the same origin which are compara
  tively very safe illuminating materials, because they do not evolve
  vapour at any temperature below about 100° Fahr. A thoroughly trust
  worthy and sufficiently simple method of testing the oils is essential
  to the attainment of this result; and after much consideration and
  practical experience had been brought to bear on this subject, the so-
  called flashing test, described in the Act of Parliament, was adopted as
  the fairest and most reliable one which could be prescribed for general
  application ; but there is no doubt that, when applied to oils which
  nearly approach in their flashing point the limit prescribed by the
  Act, the operation of the test is not sufficiently sharp, nor the pre
  scribed method of conducting it sufficiently rigid, to preclude the
  possibility of its furnishing conflicting results in different hands, and
  thus leading to decisions, the justness of which may be legitimately
  open to dispute. It is therefore undoubtedly desirable, in the framing
  of any future Act, that this test should be carefully reconsidered, as
  well as the question whether some narrow limit below 100° Fahr. may
  not reasonably, and without incurring any increased risk, be fired
  within which the flashing point of an oil (i. e. the temperature at
  which it evolves vapour) may range.*
       Such accidents as the explosion of a mixture of petroleum vapour
  and air in a ship on the Thames (the ' Maria Lee '), laden with abont
  300 barrels of petroleum and with other inflammable materials (in
  June, 1873), followed by her complete destruction by fire, in somewhat
  alarming proximity to the Purfleet powder magazines, and a similar
  accident in Glasgow Harbour, demonstrate the importance of the
  regulations which aro imposed by the local harbour authorities, as
  directed by the existing Act of Parliament, upon all ships carrying
- petroleum spirit, with respect to their mooring and the landing of
  their cargo. The Act also gives to the municipal and other licensing
  authorities the very important power of including, as conditions of the
  licences, regulations with regard to the quantity of petroleum spirit to
  be stored in a particular locality ; tho nature and situation of the store
  with reference to inhabited buildings ; tho mode of storage, and the
  nature of the other goods to be stored with it. Very efficient regu
  lations have consequently been adopted by tho Metropolitan Board of
  Works—and some other local governing authorities— with regard to
  the stores themselves, the exclusion of any source of fire or artificial
  light from them, the nature of the receptacles in which the petroleum is
  kept, &c. The latter is a point of the utmost importance, as specially
  affecting the risk of accident in storing and transporting petroleum
  spirit, and one which it is very necessary that legislation should deal
      * As the law at present stands, an oil, the flashing point of which is declared
  to be 99° by the official inspector, must be condemned ; but another operator may
  make the flashing point of the same oil to be slightly above 100°. Practically,
  an oil with a flashing point of 97° or 98° would be quite as safe as one which
  answers to the test at 100°, in the hands of the same operator.

1875.]                    on Accidental Explosions.                    407
with more specifically than is at present the case. The existing Act
specifies that limited quantities, for sale or consumption, may be kept
without a licence, provided they are contained in small vessels of
glass, earthenware, or metal, but it is silent on the subject of the
vessels in which larger quantities are to be stored, or with respect to
any regulations conducive to safety in the transport of petroleum
spirit. As regards the first point, it certainly gives ample power to
licensing authorities ; but that legislation is urgently needed in regard
to the second, was demonstrated by the recent fearful catastrophe on
 the Grand Junction Canal.
     The liability of oil or spirit to leak from casks or barrels even of
the best construction, consequent upon the rough usage to which these
are unavoidably subjected when transferred from store to ship or
carriage, and tho reverse, neod scarcely be pointed out. But even in
the absence of leakage from the openings of the barrels, or from any
accidental point of escape, evaporation or diffusion of the volatilo
petroleum will occur through the wood itself of which they are con
structed, especially in the warm holds of ships or in stores exposed to
the sun, even though the precautionary measure is frequently adopted
of rinsing the barrel out before use with a solution of glue. It is
evident that the object of imparting an impervious coating to the
interior of the barrel can thus be only very imperfectly attained, and
that, even if it were, the alternations of temperature to which the
barrels must be exposed must in course of time open up places for
escape by leakage or evaporation.
     It is stated, on the authority of the manager of tho extensive
depot for petroleum oil and spirit of the London Wharfing and Ware
housing Company, at Plaistow, on the Thames, that in spite of the
adoption of special arrangements for keeping down the temperature
of the petroleum-spirit stores, whereby it is made not to exceed 62°
Fahr. in the very hottest weather, the loss of spirit by leakage and
evaporation is very considerable, amounting to an average of 18 per
cent. As the loss on petroleum oil from leakage at the same esta
blishment amounts to about 9 per cent., it is evident that the limpidity
and volatility of the spirit give rise to a loss as great again as that
which is simply due to leakage from imperfectly closed vents or
defects developed by rough usage.
     The dangers resulting from the escape of petroleum spirit or its
vapour from receptacles in which it is kept, in confined spaces, where
little or no ventilation exists, has been but too frequently exemplified by
explosions more or less violent, followed by fires, in localities where
it is stored or handled, or in the holds of vessels in which it is trans
ported. Accidents of such kinds have been duo either to carelessness
in transferring petroleum from one vessel to another, in a shop or
store in which a light has been burning at the time, or to a light
being carried into or a match struck in a store where vapour has
been escaping until it has formed an explosive mixture with the air.
The explosion which occurred in a sewer at Greenwich last January,

 408                           Mr. F. A. Abel                  [March 12,
 and was productive of much damago, was clearly traced to the entrance
 into the sewer of certain petroleum products (from a patent gas
 factory in the neighbourhood) ; the vapour from these had formed an
 explosive mixture with the air, which had become accidentally lighted,
 perhaps by the dropping of an inflamed pipe-light through one of the
 sewer-gratings. Tho speaker has a vivid recollection of an accident
 of this kind which he witnessed at the Royal College of Chemistry in
 1847. Mr. C. B. Mansfield, who was then engaged in his important
 researches on the composition of coal-tar naphtha, which led a few-
 years afterwards to his sad untimely death, was engaged at one
 extremity of a low room (38 feet long, about 30 feet wide, and 10 feet
 high) in converting one of the most important of these products—
 benzol—(which boils at 176° F.) into nitrobenzol in a capacious retort,
 which suddenly cracked, and, yielding to the pressure of its contents,
 allowed the warm liquid hydro-carbon to flow over the operating table.
 There was a gas-flame burning at the other extremity of the laboratory
 and no other source of fire. Within a very few minutes after the
 fracture of the vessel a sheet of flame flashed from the gas-flame along
 the upper part of the room and communicated to the table upon which
 the liquid had been spilled.
     Tho firing of the ship ' Maria Lee ' just now referred to was clearly
 proved to have been preceded by the explosion of a mixture of air
 and petroleum-vapour, produced by leakage or evaporation from the
 barrels stored in the hold of the vessel. The weather was very hot
 at the timo, and, there having been a heavy thunderstorm tho night
 before the fire, the hatches had been kept closed and covered over
 with tarpaulin, so that there was no possibility of ventilation. The
 vapour gradually diffused itself through the air in the ship during the
 night until the explosive mixture extended to the cabin at the after
part. As tho captain entered this cabin quite early in the morning
(the immediate source of the fire was not clearly traced) a loud explo
sion occurred, and flame was immediately observed issuing from the
fore part of the ship.
     A similar explosion of petroleum-vapour and air occurred not long
since in a ship at Glasgow ; and lastly it was established by a sound
chain of circumstantial evidence, that the explosion of the powder-
laden barge in the Regent's Park must have been caused by the igni
tion, in the cabin of the barge, of an explosive mixture of air and of
the vapour of petroleum, derived from the leakage of certain packages
of the spirit which were packed along with tho powder. The descrip
tion given by an eye-witness, on board a barge in front of the ill-
fated 'Tilbury,' of a bluish flash of flame, emanating from the
cabin of the barge within a very brief period of the explosion,
corresponds with the result produced when flame is applied to a
mixture of hydro-carbon vapour with a largo proportion of air. Tho
manner in which the freight of the barge was enclosed by tarpaulins
precluded ventilation, and was most favourable to the gradual diffusion
of inflammable vapour, from even slight leakages in the barrels,

 1875.]                   on Accidental Explosions.                    409
 through the confined air, nntil an explosive mixture extended to the
 opening in the bulkhead or partition, which in these barges separates
 the cabin from the hold.
     It is impossible to protect heavy packages from rough usage, in
 the processes of unloading ships or other vehicles of conveyance ; it is
 therefore most important that means should be adopted of thoroughly
 closing the vents of receptacles of petroleum spirit, by such means aa
 are capable of sustaining ordinary rough usage without any injury to
 their efficiency, and that the improvement of the nature and construc
 tion of the receptacles themselves should be seriously considered with
 the view of reducing the liability to accidents resulting from the escape
 of the spirit or its vapours, and the consequent creation of danger
 connected with the transport and storage of these valuable illuminating
 materials.
     The fact that combustible, and especially inflammable solid sub
 stances, if of sufficiently low specific gravity, and reduced to a
 sufficiently fine state of division to allow of their becoming and
 remaining for a time suspended in air, may furnish mixtures with
 the latter which partake of explosive character, scarcely needs to
 be pointed out. The ignition of a particle of such a substance,
 surrounded by atmospheric oxygen, will, under these conditions, at
once communicate to others immediately adjacent to it ; and if the
particles of suspended solid matter be sufficiently numerous and
finely divided, the ignition will spread throughout the mixture
with a rapidity approaching that of a mixture of inflammable vapour
and air, the development of gaseous products and heat being suffi
ciently rapid and considerable to produce explosive effects, which
may oven be of violent charactor, their violence being regulatod by
the nature and inflammability of the solid substance, the proportion
and state of division in which it is distributed through the air, the
quantity of the mixture, and the extent of its confinement.
     Explosions of an accidental nature produced in this way are
believed to have occurred in connection with operations in the
chemical laboratory ; but it was scarcely to be expected that the
first clearly authenticated cases of any importance should have
arisen out of the apparently harmless operation of grinding corn.
     That a mixture of very fine flour and air will ignite with a flash
when light is applied to it, and produce in a very mild form the
species of explosion observed on applying a light to lycopodium
suspended in air, is not very difficult of demonstration ; but it is not
easy to realize the possibility of the production of violent explosive
effects by the ignition of such a mixture even upon a very large
scale, though the rapidity of its ignition be accidentally favoured
by the warmth of the atmosphere. Cotton mills have been known
to be rapidly fired by the ignition of cotton particles suspended in
the air ; but, compared with flour, cotton is very combustible. Flour
when absolutely dry would contain only about half its weight of

410                          Mr. F. A. Abel                  [March 12,
carbon, and about 6 per cent, of hydrogen, the remainder consisting
of nitrogen and mineral substances ; constituents which, by absorbing
heat instead of contributing to its development, must tend to reduce
the rapid combustibility of the substance. Yet the possibility of
very serious calamities arising out of the accidental ignition of a
mixture of flour-dust and air has been but too conclusively demon
strated.
     On the 9th July, 1872, the inhabitants of Glasgow were startled
by an explosion which was heard to a considerable distance, and
occurred in some very extensive steam flour-mills, of which the front
and back walls were blown out, while the interior was reduced to
ruins, and speedily enveloped in flume, destroying the remaindor of
the extensive buildings. Several persons were killed, and a number
of others were severely burned, or injured by the fall of masonry.
That the explosion was not occasioned by the steam-boilers employed
as motive power in the mill was soon made clear ; and by the evidence
of persons employed in the mill at tho time of the explosion, its
origin was conclusively traced to the striking of fire by a pair of mill
 stones, through the stopping of the " feed," or supply of grain to
 them, and the consequent friction of their bare surfaces against each
 other, the result being the ignition of the mixture of air and fine
 flour-dust surrounding the mill-stones.
     This ignition alone would not suffice to develop any violent
explosive effects ; such ignitions, though occasionally observed in
small mills, being caused either by the striking of fire by the stones,
or by the incautious application of a light near the mill-stones, or tho
meal-spout attached thereto, have not in these instances been attended
by any serious results. But in an extensive mill, where many pairs
of stones may be at work at one time, each pair has a conduit attached
to it, which leads to a common receptacle called an exhaust-box ; into
this tho mixture of air and very fine flour-dust which surrounds the
mill-stones is drawn by means of an exhaust-fan, sometimes aided by
a system of air-blowers. The fine flour is allowed to deposit partially
in this chamber or exhaust-box, and the air then passes into a second
chamber, called a stive room, where a further quantity of dust is
deposited. It follows that when the mill is at work, these chambers
 and the channels or spouts connecting them with the atmosphere
immediately surrounding each mill-stone, are all filled with an
 inflammable mixture of the finest flour-dust and air, and that con
 sequently the application of a light to any one of those channels, or
 the striking of fire by any one of the mill-stones, by igniting some
 portion of the inflammable mixture, will result in the exceedingly
 rapid spread of flame throughout the confined spaces which are
 charged with it, and will thus develop an explosion. The violence
 of such explosions depends much upon details of construction of
 the exhaust-boxes and stive rooms, and upon the dimensions of the
 channels of communication ; it must obviously be regulated by the
 volume of inflammable mixture through which fire rapidly spreads,

1875.]                   on Accidental Explosions.                     411
and upon the extent of its confinement. In the case of tho catastrophe
at Glasgow, the production of a blaze at a pair of mill-stones was
observed to be followed by a crackling noise as tho flame rapidly
spread through the conduits leading to the exhaust-box upon an upper
floor, and a loud report from that direction was almost immediately
heard. Professors Rankine and Macadam, who carefully investigated
the cause of this accident, report that other flour-mill explosions
which they have inquired into had been observed to be attended by a
similar succession of phenomena to those noticed upon this occasion.
The bursting open of the exhaust-box by a similar though less
violent explosion, attended by injury of workmen, the blowing out of
windows and loosening of tiles*, appears to have taken place on a
previous occasion at these particular mills. In the last accident,
however, the more violent explosion appears to have been followed by
others, the flame having spread with great rapidity to distant parts of
the mills through the many channels of communication in which the
air was charged with inflammable dust, resulting from the cleansing
and sifting operations carried on in different parts of the building,
and rapidly diffused through the air by the shock and blast of the
first explosion.
     The subject of flour-mill explosions, though it has attracted little
if any attention in this country previous to the Tradeston explosion,
is discussed in Continental treatises on flour-mills, and the results of
Messrs. Rankine and Macadam's inquiries have demonstrated that
accidents of this kind are actually of ordinary occurrence in mills,
especially since the introduction of the exhaust arrangements. Those
gentlemen point out that it appears scarcely possible to guard against
such accidents altogether, although the frequency of their occurrence
may probably be much reduced by adopting efficient precautions to
prevent, as far as possible, a stoppage of the " feed " to the mill
stones or the accidental introduction of nails between them together
with the grain, and by prohibiting the employment of naked lights in
the vicinity of the mills and the dust passages. In order to reduce as far
as possible the damage and risk of sacrifice of life resulting from such
explosions, it is important that all receptacles into which the dust-
laden air is drawn from the mills, should be fixed outside tho
buildings, and constructed so as to offer as little resistance as possible
to the sudden expansion resulting from the ignition of the inflam
mable mixture. The conduits leading from the mills to the exhaust-
chambers should, moreover, be of small dimensions, and there should
be no other communication between the interior of the building and
the dust receptacles, which must not be opened whilo the mill is at
work. By adopting precautions of this kind, the mill-owner may
succeed, at any rate, in reducing the mischief resulting from an
accidental ignition of flour-dust at the mill-stones to such limits that
the mill itself and the lives of those engaged in it will not bo
endangered.

 412                          Mr. F. A. Abel                  LMarch 12,
     The production of explosions by mixtures of air with marsh-gas,
 coal-gas, petroleum vapours, or a finely divided inflammable solid,
 such as flour, has been shown to be due to the application of suffi
 cient heat to some portion of the mixture to cause the atmospheric
 oxygen to combine with the combustible constituents of the gas,
 vapour or solid, the results being the development of chemical action,
 the formation of gaseous products, and their expansion by the heat
 developed. It need scarcely be said that the same explanation applies
 to the production of explosions by that class of so-called explosive
 agents which is prepared by intimately mixing combustible or inflam
 mable solids with a solid oxidizing agent (i. e. an oxygen-compound
 which readily yields lip a part or tho whole of that gas under the in
 fluence of heat, and with the co-operation of chemical force, to carbon,
 hydrogen, or other readily oxidizablo elements). Distinct from these
 explosive mixtures as regards their nature, but quite analogous to
 them in their behaviour and the effects they produce when subjected
 to heat or other disturbing influences, are explosive compounds. The
 majority of these contain carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen as the most
important components ; they are more or less susceptible of sudden
 or extremoly rapid transformation into gases or vapours, attended by
 development of great heat, in consequence either of their resolution
 into their elementary constituents or, generally, of the rearrangement
 of these into comparatively simple forms of combination. Some of
 these explosive compounds are of such unstable character, that they
are liable to undergo change from very slight inciting causes, such as
the existence in them of minute quantities of foreign substances of
active chemical character ; or they may even be prone to absolutely
spontaneous change. In such substances decomposition may bo in
the first instance established only to a very minute extent ; but this
decomposition, by the products to which it gives rise, and by the
attendant development of heat, however small, may speedily promote
further and more rapid change in the mass of the substance, so that
eventually decomposition of violent nature may be established, and
the principal portion of the compound may suddenly undergo the
same transformation into gases or vapours, attended by the same
development of heat, as though any one of the agencies (i.e. fire,
friction, or percussion) ordinarily employed to determine the explo
sion of these bodies had been applied. Cases of so-called spon
taneous explosion thus brought about are more familiar to scientific
and manufacturing chemists than to the general public ; but accidental
explosions of very alarming and, in a few instances, of very calami
tous character, are on record, which, though not actually of spon
taneous nature, in the strict application of the term, have been
brought about without any apparent application of external inciting
agencies, and have hence, from a practical point of view, not been
incorrectly classed as spontaneous explosions.
     A few substances, well known to chemists, are so very unstable in
character, or are so very difficult to prepare in a condition approach

1875.]                     on Accidental Explosions.                           413
ing purity, that they either begin to undergo change as soon as they
have been produced, or very shortly afterwards, such change proceed
ing sometimes gradually and quietly until the substance has been
transformed into non-explosive bodies, or occurring, in other in
stances, with a rapidity speedily resulting in the violent decomposi
tion or explosion of the substance. Injuries more or less severe
have been inflicted upon the discoverers or investigators of substances
of this kind, or upon those who prepare them and exhibit their pro
perties for instructional purposes ; and such accidents occasionally
occur, even though all possible or reasonable precautions appear to
have been taken to guard against them. It has occasionally also
happened that serious accidents have resulted from attempts to apply
to practical purposes the explosive power of such substances (as, for
example, the chloride of nitrogen and iodide of nitrogen,) by persons
imperfectly acquainted with their properties or those of explosive
substances generally. The great danger in which want of knowledge
may involve experimenters in this direction is too obvious to need
being dwelt upon.*
     The risk of accident resulting from the liability of explosive com
pounds to so-called spontaneous decomposition has been on several
occasions exemplified in the past history of the two most important of
these compounds, guncotton and nitroglycerine. Until within the
last few years it was believed that both these substances were in
themselves so prone to change, that their preservation for any length
of time without undergoing spontaneous decomposition, resulting
most probably in explosion, was regarded as, at best, a great uncer
tainty. They acquired this character for instability partly from the
    * The great danger incurred in experimenting with, or attempting the manu
facture upon a large scale, of substances of unstable and explosive nature, the
properties of which are imperfectly understood, has been exemplified by repeated
accidents with a liquid called inethylic nitrate, the vapour of which is highly
explosive. In 1872 a young English chemist of great promise lost his life by a
very violent explosion whicli occurred in a laboratory iu Germany, where he had
been engaged in preparing large quantities of this substance with a view to its
employment as a substitute for nitroglycerine preparations. No conjecture could
lie formed of the immediate cause of the explosion. Some time after a German
manufacturing chemist of eminence lost the sight of one eye by the violent
explosion of a very small quantity of the same substance while he was heating it
in a glass tubo ; and in November last a very violent explosion occurred at the
works of a manufacturer of dyes at St. Denis, in a building where very considerable
quantities of the methylic nitrate wore being prepared and purilied for colour-
making purposes. Two men were killed, and a number seriously injured. In
this case the accident was clearly traced to an act of recklessness of one of the
 workmen. The use of lights was prohibited in the building where the purifica
tion of the substance was carried on, in consequence of the inflammable vapour
 ovolved and the danger of explosion from its ignition. But on this occasion, a
 man not only brought a lamp into the room, but actually lowered it into a largo
 boiler from which the liquid was being decanted with a siphon, his object being
 to see how much remained. The vapour in the boiler was at once fired, and a
 violent explosion occurred almost immediately, followed by a second, there being
upwards of 1000 lb. of the material in an adjoining store.

414                            Mr. F. A. Aid                     [March 12,
imperfect purification of specimens prepared from time to time for
scientific or instructional purposes, and partly from repeated attempts
 to utilize their explosive properties, and therefore to produce them in
 considerable quantities, while their nature and properties were still
 very imperfectly understood (this being specially the case with gun-
cotton). The liquid nature and some other peculiar properties of
nitroglycerine delayed any important attempts at its application for
many years ; on the other hand, guncotton presented to the superficial
experimenter so many alluring advantages as an explosive agent that
its discovery was very soon followed by its manufacture and storage
upon a large scale, which speedily resulted in such serious disasters
that the material acquired, within a very brief period of its
discovery, an unmerited, but for a long time completely damnatory,
reputation for utter untrustworthiness. The stability of properly
purified guncotton, as well as that of nitroglycerine, has, however,
now been for some time past fully established, and no difficulty exists
in carrying on with safety their manufacture on such a scale as to
satisfy the continually increasing demand for efficient preparations of
these violent explosive agents. At the same time, the experience of the
last few years has afforded repeated illustrations of the terrible risks and
responsibilities incurred by manufacturers of these substances by the
slightest departure from conditions essential to perfection and safety
of manufacture, or by a relaxation of the strictest supervision in the
production, purification, and storage of the materials. The calamitous
explosion at Stowmarket in 1871, and many serious explosions at
nitroglycerine (or dynamite) factories during the last few years, in
different parts of the Continent, have demonstrated the liability of
these substances to so-called spontaneous explosion, if the acids
employed in their production are allowed to remain in contact with
them for protracted periods, even in very small quantities. Any
negligence whatever, therefore, in the production and purification of
these substances, or the introduction, by accident or otherwise, of acid
impurity into the finished materials, must in all probability prove
destructive of their stability, and may lead to most serious disasters.
     In these respects the utilization of explosive compounds of this
class involves special risks not attendant upon the manufacture of
gunpowder and modifications of that substance ; in others, however,
it presents important elements of comparative safety. Thus, with
proper precautions, the conversion of glycerine into nitroglycerine
may be carried on with safety ; the purification of the substance is not
attended by any danger, and the manipulations attendant upon its
conversion into suitable preparations for use (e. g. dynamite) are also
in themselves perfectly safe operations. Again, the manufacture and
purification of guncotton, and its conversion into the compressed or
granulated substance, are absolutely safo operations, the material
being wet throughout the entiro course, and therefore quito uninflam
mable, until, when completed, it is driod by long exposure to air, or
by artificial heat. On the other hand, gunpowder, and all preparations

1875. J                 on Accidental Explosiom.                      415
of similar nature, are explosive from the very commencement of their
manufacture ; the roughly mixed ingredients already furnish a mate
rial which deflagrates violently when a spark reaches it, and the
subsequent operations of intimate mixture or incorporation, compres
sion, granulation, &c., which are necessarily carried out with the nearly
dry material, are all of a highly dangerous character, demanding for
their safe performance the strictest attention to precautions which
have been dictated by practical experience and knowledge of the
sources of danger to be guarded against.
     Accidents at gunpowder factories are very frequent, and though
they may not often involve considerable loss of life or destruction of
property, the fact that their occurrence must in most instances be
caused by partial, occasional, or complete and persistent neglect of
precautions absolutely essential to the safety of the people employed
in the works, or to a reduction of the risks of accident to the
minimum, points to the necessity for improved legislation connected
with manufactories of gunpowder and other explosive preparations,
whoreby the proper attention to regulations and precautions for safety
may be rendered compulsory, and seconded by an efficient system of
inspection. The absolute exclusion of lucifer matches from such
works ; the adoption of every possible precaution for excluding grit
from all buildings in which the explosive substance is submitted to
any kind of operation, by proper construction and closing of the
buildings ; the employment of special shoes and other external
clothing for use in the buildings only ; the total exclusion of iron, in
any form, from the works ; the proper separation from each other of
the buildings in which the several operations are carried on, and
their construction with a view to divert the force of a possible
explosion into comparatively harmless directions ; the reduction
within particular limits of the quantity of explosive allowed to remain
in any one building ; the provision of efficient lightning conductors ;
 —such are some of the principal precautionary measures which go far
 to reduce the possibility of accident in works of this kind (or the
 mischief accruing from such accidents when they do arise), and the
 adoption of which does not present any serious difficulty. And
 lastly, though properly first in importance, the manufacturers of gun
 powder and other explosive agents should not only themselves possess
 some scientific as well as a practical knowledge of the nature and
 properties of the substances in the manufacture of which the lives of
 their workmen are at stake, but they also should ascertain and insist
 that at any rate the persons who act as managers and foromen in
 their factories should not be deficient in the elementary knowledge
 indispensable to a proper performance of their duties.
      Major Majendie, the Government Inspector of Gunpowder Works,
 &c., has reported officially that he was " much struck, in the course of
 his inspections, with the extraordinary ignorance of even the most
 elementary dangers, and the precautions necessary for avoiding them,
 which prevails among persons in charge of important factories and

416                           Mr. F. A. Abel                  [March 12,
magazines," and that there can be no doubt that to the ignorance and
incompetence of such persons a large number of the accidents which
occur are indirectly due. Surely it is in the interest of employers to
adopt measures for securing that the management of their works is in
the hands of competent men, experienced in the details of the manu
facture, and possessing adequate genoral education and technical
knowledge to fit them for posts of such responsibility. The obvious
mode of securing this is to render it compulsory for such men to
obtain certificates of competency before they can hold responsible
appointments in manufactories of gunpowder and other explosive
agents.
    The manufacture of firoworks, ammunition, percussion caps, and
other articles involving the application of explosive agents is, it need
scarcely be stated, attended by liability to accidents similar to, and
sometimes even greater than that existing in manufactories of gun
powder and materials of similar nature, and necessitates the adoption
of precautions of the same nature as apply to theso works.
    Such necessity has, however, been very much disregarded in the
arrangement and management of factories of this kind; and many
very sad casualties have resulted either from utterly inadequate
arrangements for localizing explosions and reducing them to small
proportions, by regulating the quantities of material dealt with in one
building, and sufficiently separating and subdividing the manufacturing
operations, or from neglect of simple regulations for excluding
sources of fire from the buildings. Thus, in inquiries following on
explosions at ammunition or firework factories, it has been found in
some instances a common practice for the men to wear their ordinary
clothing when in the factory, and to carry lucifer matches about
them. Again, at an ammunition factory, at Birmingham, where an
explosion, not long since, resulted in the deaths of fifty-three women,
it was brought to light during the inquest that there were open
stoves, not even provided with fenders, in the middle of the sheds in
which the powder-work was carried on ; at these stoves the women
used to cook their dinners, and they were also in the habit of shaking
the grains of powder off their aprons into the stoves.
    Other and special sources of danger exist sometimes in connection
with this branch of the industry of explosive substances. Great
stress has beon laid upon the dangers which may arise in the manu
facture of guncotton, and nitroglycerine preparations, from the lia
bility of those substances to spontaneous change in consequence of
the readiness with which their stability may be affected by imper
fections in their manufacture. But there are several important in
stances of accidental explosions on record, which have occurred in the
manufacture of pyrotechnic compositions and other articles of ex
plosive nature in consequence of a liability to the establishment of
chemical activity between the ingredients of such preparations by
even very slight inciting causes. Thus, certain descriptions of
coloured fires are readily susceptible of so-called spontaneous ignition

1875.]                  on Accidental Explosions.                    417
or explosion, either simply from the unstable nature of one or other
of their ingredients, or from so apparently trifling a cause as the
absorption of a small amount of moisture, or the employment of a
small quantity of an easily oxidizable oil or fat in connection with
their application to pyrotechnic purposes. Two remarkable instances
of unforeseen danger in dealing with materials of this kind, even when
their stability, under normal conditions, is beyond question, have come
under the notice of the speaker. In one case, an explosive mixture,
prepared for use in percussion caps, was preserved in a moist condition
with the view of storing it in a non-explosive form, but this very
precaution gave rise to a serious explosion; chemical activity
became established between the components of the mixture, through
the agency of the water, attended by development of heat and the
speedy production of violent chemical change, a result which would
certainly not have occurred had the mixture been kept dry. In the
other instance, some signal-lights, composed of a mixture of ingredients
which long experience had shown to be in every way as permanent as
those of gunpowder, were found to be undergoing decomposition to
an extent which, had it not been noticed in time, must have resulted
in serious consequences. The cause of this change baffled inquiry for
some time, but ultimately it was clearly established that a very minute
quantity of free acid contained in the paper linings of the cases in
which the composition was confined (and derived from the antichlore
used in the manufacture of the paper) had set up an action between
the saltpetre and the orpiment composing this material, which spread
gradually but with increasing rapidity through the highly compressed
mass, being of course accelerated by the heat developed. Such occur
rences afford instructive illustrations of the dangers which surround
the manufacture and application of explosive substances, and of the
necessity for combining continued study with untiring vigilance in
dealing with these branches of manufacture.
    Many of the most distressing accidents connected with firework-
manufacture have occurred in dwelling houses of the lower class,
situated in crowded districts, in which not unfrequently several
families reside, and where people, generally in very poor circum
stances, have carried on the manufacture of squibs, crackers, or pin-
wheels, which they have either retailed, or generally supplied to more
extensive firework makers or sellers. This production of fireworks
has almost always been carried on illegally, i. e. without the maker
having obtained the licence necessary, under an existing Act of Par
liament, to enable him to manufacture fireworks ; hence work of this
kind has mostly been conducted as secretly as possible, other dwellers
in the same house being often unaware of the dangerous operations
carried on in the house itself, or sometimes in small sheds or out
houses. It can only be matter of surpriso that firework accidents
have not been more numerous, when it is remembered that the pro
cesses of mixing the firework compositions, ramming them into cases,
&c, have frequently been carried on by these illegal makers in the

418                          Mr. F. A. Abel                  [March 12,
common dwelling room, the several members of the family old and
young taking part in the work, while cooking and even smoking may
have been going on in the same room, and the work continued by
candlelight in busy seasons, the powder or finished fireworks being
placed in a cupboard in the room, or perhaps even in places affording
less protection. This illegal firework making has been greatly
checked of late by vigilance on behalf of the Government officials,
and it is to be hoped that it will disappear almost entirely when new
regulations are introduced which will facilitate the profitable employ
ment of these small firework makers upon sufficiently extensive and
properly organized premises of large manufactories, thus reducing
the temptations which have hitherto existed for large vendors to
purchase cheap fireworks of the poor people who carry on the manu
facture illegally, and for the latter to convert their dwellings into
sources of danger to themselves and their neighbours.
    The fearful recklessness with which gunpowder and other explosive
agents are handled and used by uneducated persons, such as these
small firework makers, of which there are large numbers in the
mining and manufacturing districts, and by the most extensive con
sumers of powder, namely, the miners and quarrymen, can scarcely
be realized by anyone who has not had opportunity to acquiro by
personal observation a knowledge of the state of things. A miner
may bo seen with his naked lamp or tallow candle fixed in his hat
or plastered against the rock close to the blast-hole he is about to
load, pouring the powder into his rough measure, or his cartridge
case, from the flask produced from a pocket which is often also
 tho receptacle of lucifer matches, and at times of a half-finished
 pipe of tobacco (if he has not the pipe actually alight in his
 mouth). Having inserted the charge into the hole, ho will proceed
 with the operation of tamping, which consists in ramming debris of
 the rock into the hole as tightly as possible by means of a heavy
 iron tool and a hammer. Grains of powder lying upon tho sides of
 the hole, and sometimes forming a train to the charge at the bottom,
 are thus frequently submitted to most violent friction, and it is
 wonderful that accidents in this process of loading are not more
 frequent ; but when, in spite, of oft-repeated cautioning, the miner
 proceeds to submit to the same, and sometimes even to more violent,
 treatment a cartridge of guncotton, dynamite, or other explosive
 agent ignited more readily than gunpowder by friction (and which
is tightly confined in the blast-hole by the act of ramming with
a heavy tool), it is not a matter of surprise that fatal accidents
 should occur during the employment of these substances by the
miner, although he is exposed to less danger with them when
 carrying them about his person or handling them for actual use,
because they are not violently explosive in small quantities when un-
confined.
    It is, however, more particularly from the fact that there are
 no regulations forbidding or restricting the making up, in dwelling

 1875.J                    on Accidental Explosions.                            419
houses, of blasting cartridges, mining fuzes and the so-called powder-
 straws used in blasting, that the chief liability to accidental explosions
 in mining districts arises. Miners are constantly in the habit of
 keeping considerable quantities of powder in their dwelling rooms,
and making up their cartridges or fuzes (straws) at night. In a
recent official report the Head Constable of Middlesborough stated,
" In one case, at Eston, the roof of a house was blown off, and on
inquiries being made respecting it the man .... stated that he was
tallowing the end of the straw, when he put it too near the candle
flame, which ignited the straw ; he threw the straw away and it fell
into the barrel of powder, which exploded." The Head Constable
of Richmond in Yorkshire reported as follows : " I have seen miners
with a quarter cask (25 lb.) making their charges by the fire fre
quently, and they generally keep it under the bed or in the pantry,
where their children have access to it." At Wigan a collier was
filling cartridges from a can of powder, when a spark from the candle
fell into the can and produced a sorious explosion. In another
instance a boy was left alone in a house where an open barrel con
taining 7 lb. of powder, with a piece of wood simply placed over the
head, was in the bedroom. A box of matches was known to be in
the room, and it is supposed that the boy, who died from injuries
received, exploded the powder by means of them.
     Numerous illustrations such as these could bo quoted of the fear
fully careless manner in which powder is very generally dealt with
in manufacturing districts. It naturally follows that other explosive
agents, such as dynamite and guneotton, should be treated with similar
and perhaps even greater recklessness. The apparently less dangerous
nature of such materials when unconfined tends to render the miner
even more regardless of precautions, and hence it is unquestionably
wrong to foster the notion of the safety of these materials in the
hands of the miner, especially as it frequently occurs that the men
who use these materials are unable to read the printed instructions
which are supplied by the manufacturers with the cartridges for the
purpose of guarding against accident. Thus several frightful acci
dents have occurred through direct exposure to the fire of frozen
cartridges of dynamite for the purpose of thawing them,* and the ap
parently harmless nature of dynamite and compressed guneotton has
on more than one occasion caused the miner, when a charge has
become jammed in a blast-hole, to endeavour to drive it home with his
rammer, with all the force at his command, with what result need
    * The necessity for thawing dynamite cartridges before use in cold weather,
and the disregard of instructions furnished by tho makers for doing this with
safety, constitute one of the chief causes of accidents with this material. Fatal
explosions have resulted from the placing of cartridges in front of a fierce fire or
upon a stove. Quite recently a pit sinker, at Mountain Ash, placed some
dynamite in the oven of the fireplace in his house and gat down to breakfast.
Before the meal was ended the dynamite exploded, killing the man and injuring
two others.
     You. VII.      (No. 62.)                                         2 a

 420                             Mr. F. A. Abel                      [March 12,
  scarcely be stated.* The wholesome effect of stringent regulations
  which keep constantly before the minds of the ordinary operative the
  dangerons nature of gunpowder and all operations connected with
 it and with other explosives, is well exemplified by the care and
 caution which generally become developed as characteristics in the
 men employed in Government factories of this class ; and although
 there is but little hope of the possibility of enforcing even the mildest
 precautionary measures with the miners themselves, it can hardly be
 doubted that their minds must become to some extent influenced by
 example, and that, by constantly witnessing the strict enforcement of
 precautions at the stores to which they resort to obtain their supplies,
 they must in time become impressed with the necessity for the exorcise
 of some amount of care in handling explosive substances.
     It does not admit of dispute, however, that the recklessness of the
 miner has actually been fostered hitherto by the utter disregard of all
 ordinary precautions which they must but too frequently witness at
 the stores where the powder is sold or issued to them. The practices
 of small dealers in gunpowder present illustrations of ignorance and
 recklessness if anything even more appalling than those which the
 habits of the miners furnish. The manner in which powder is often
 dealt with by those in charge of the stores or magazines in quarries
 or mines, and who have to issue supplies to the men, may be illus
 trated by one or two examples from a report to the Home Office by
Major Majendie. At a quarry in Scotland he was conducted by the
 man in charge to a magazine containing about 6 cwt. of powder.
 For this purpose the man lit a naked candle ; as they entered the door
 it was blown out by the draught, but the man produced some matches
 from his pocket and rekindled it. When asked how he issued the
 powder to the men, he held the candle with his loft hand, and ladled
 the powder out with the other hand. The practice of smashing in
 the head of a powder barrel with an iron crow-bar is stated to be a
very common one, or else a large stone is used, or a hole is bored into
the head with a steel bit ; and as an extreme instance of recklessness
the case of a man is quoted who was in the habit of boring into the
barrels with a red-hot poker ; on one occasion, the lid of the barrel
being thinner than usual, the heated iron was thrust into the contents
of the barrel, and the man fell a victim to his very original mode of
dealing with packages of gunpowder.
     In some mining districts it has been customary to pay no regard
whatever to the suitability, in point of safety, of the localities selected
for the storage of powder. It has not unfrequently been kept in
large quantities (e.g. 500 lb.) in ordinary buildings, quite close to
dwelling houses. An instance is quoted in an official report by a
    * A fatal accident occurred quite recently at Ebbw Vale in consequence of a
man using great force in ramming a dynamite charge into a blast-hole with a
wooden rammer. The printed instructions distinctly laid down that .the cartridges
were never to be rammed. It came out at the inquest that the partner of the
man killed could not read.

1875.]                  on Accidental Explosion*.                     421
chief constable, of about 3 cwt. of powder being kept in a colliery
lodge constantly used by workmen, and in which a fire was regularly
kept. Even where magazines have been provided, in connection with
extensive mines and quarries, many instances are on record of gross
ignorance or carelessness in regard to the precautions essential to the
safe handling of gunpowder. The men who go to the magazines for
supplies of powder, and even the man who is in charge, are allowed to
enter the building in their iron-shod dirt-covered boots, often coming
to the store smoking, the pipe being merely put into the waistcoat
pocket when they get close to the building; the barrels containing
loose powder are often left unheaded, and powder grains lie upon the
floor ; the door of the magazine in some instances opens inwards,
scraping the floor as it is pushed open. A magazine in which this
utter want of precautions was observed in the most extreme degree
contained several tons of gunpowder. In illustration of the way in
which explosions occur at such stores, it may be mentioned that some
children saw some loose powder outside a store (in Cornwall), and set
fire to it ; the contents of the building were thus exploded, there
being a train of powder grains leading under the door to the stock
of powder in the building.
     The strenuous exertions of the Government inspectors during the
last few years have already resulted in a considerable amelioration of
 this lamentable condition of things, although the existing state of the
law affords them little power to enforce simple regulations which are
vital to the safety of the people employed, and often of the neigh
bourhood, but scant regard being but too frequently paid to the
position of even extensive stores or magazines with reference to
contiguous habitations.
     The fearful explosion which occurred at a gunpowder merchant's
magazines at Erith, containing 51 tons of powder, in October, 1864,
and the explosion at Liverpool, in the same year, of tho ship ' Lottie
Sleigh,' laden with 11^ tons of powder (through the accidental spilling
and ignition of some paraffin oil), directed public attention at that
 time to the existing laws relating to explosives just as forcibly as did
the recent explosion in London, and their very defective condition
 was then, as now, apparent. No steps have been taken since that time,
in the way of legislation, to afford the public greater protection from
dangers arising out of the storage and transport of gunpowder, or to
 bring the doings of powder makers and consumers more under legal
control, although the Government did in 1865 contemplate for a time
the enactment of new laws relating to explosives.
     Very considerable alarm was felt then, as lately again, at the
 possibility of most calamitous disasters arising out of the collection
 of very large stores of gunpowder, by powder merchants as well as by
 the Government, in particular localities, some of them in close proximity
 to populous districts. In some instances representations to the Home
 Office, which were followed by efficient inspection, made at the instance
 of Government by Colonel Boxer, led to the closing of extensive
                                                             2 o 2

422                         Mr. F. A. Abel                  [March 12,
merchants' magazines existing in objectionable positions, or to a con
siderable reduction in the amount of powder stored in them ; but it
does not appear that any substantial improvement occurred in the
extent to which precautions, vital to the safety of the magazines,
were observed or attempted to be carried out by persons in charge
of them.
    The subdivision of the reserves of gunpowdor, which it is the duty
of the Government to maintain to as great an extent as is compatible
with efficient arrangements of inspection, and with the exigencies of
the service in time of war, is unquestionably most advisable. It is
admitted to be desirable that the magnitude of depots of powder at
some of the principal establishments should be reduced in extent, and
in some instances extensive depots which existed in close proximity
to towns have been removed or reduced to insignificant proportions.
It must be borne in mind, however, that the possibility of the explo
sion of magazines, where powder is simply stored as a reserve,
emanates almost exclusively from causes external to the depots
themselves ; and that as long as these are situated at such distances
from habitations as will secure them against fire reaching any part,
the precautions adopted by Government to guard against accidents
from electric discharges, and against the possibility of any danger
arising within the establishments themselves, render such depots
quite safe, provided operations connected with gunpowder (such as
the making up or breaking up of cartridges) are not carried on at or
in close proximity to such magazines. It is only in conducting
manipulations with gunpowder that danger may arise (from any causes
excepting fire or electric discharges) ; and therefore any operations
with powder, such as the making up of cartridges, or any transactions
involving the frequent issue and receipt of powder, or the opening or
repacking of powder packages, should be imperatively conducted in
establishments distinct from those simply devoted to the preservation
of reserve supplies.
    The recent powder explosion revived the discussion which arose
some years ago as to the probable advantages to be derived, in point
of safety, from a dilution of gunpowder, for purposes of storage and
transport, with some incombustible, non-conducting material, which,
by isolating the grains from each other, would prevent the transmission
of fire from one to those surrounding it. Although quantities of
gunpowder may thus be rendered practically non-explosive, there can
be no doubt that the possibilities of accident must be considerably
increased by the additional manipulations to which the powder must
be subjected in the application of such a safeguard. If, as in the case
of compressed guncotton, gunpowder could be preserved in a suffi
ciently wet condition to be perfectly uninflammable, the drying, as a
final manufacturing operation, being simply deferred until the material
was required for use, the protection afforded by a diluent could be
secured without the introduction of any extra operations involving,
by their adoption, the usual risks invariably attendant upon manipula

  1875.]                     on Accidental Explosions.                        423
  tions with an explosive. The impracticability of such a course need
  however be hardly pointed out ; in this particular respect, therefore,
  guncotton possesses a decided superiority over gunpowder, especially
  as for almost every purpose to which it can be advantageously applied
 it may be employed in the wet perfectly uninflammable condition
 as effectively as if perfectly dry, by the adoption of very simple modes
 of exploding it.* Supplies of guncotton in the condition in which it
 can actually be used without further preparation may therefore be
 stored without the precautionary measures indispensable in the case
 of gunpowder.
      Experiments on a considerable scale made by the late Government
 Committee on guncotton, &c., demonstrated conclusively that when
 stored in small quantities (two or three hundred pounds) dynamite
 and dry guncotton are unquestionably much less dangerous in their
 character than gunpowder. Such quantities, even if confined in strong
 boxes and contained in buildings filled with inflammable matter, may
 burn away entirely, when these are set on fire, without developing
 explosion ; but the burning of 5 to 6 cwt. of these materials under
 similar conditions may terminate in an explosion, unless they be less
 strongly confined ; and there is no doubt that very considerably larger
 quantities, if set fire to, will not even need other confinement, to
 develop an explosion, than that to which the interior of the mass of ex
 plosive is subjected by the external portions, and by the pressure of
 gas developed by the fierce burning of the substance. The degree of
 comparative safety with which explosive materials of this description
 may be stored is therefore regulated by the quantity and the extent of
 confinement, and hence great caution must be exercised in relaxing in
 their favour the precautions and restrictions applied to gunpowder.
 Indeed, the prudence of relaxing them at all is questionable, as the
 result may be the fostering a sense of security in those who have to
 use these substances, which, by encouraging negligence and forget-
 fulness as to the properties of the materials dealt with, may be
productive of disastrous results.
     A regulation of the quantity of an explosive stored in one place,
and of the mode of storage, by the nature of the particular material,
and the circumstances which may tend to develop its violent explosion,
would involve a combination of complex rules with an unpractically
comprehensive system of supervision ; and it is therefore obviously
not only wise but also necessary to deal with the storage, upon an
extensive scale, of all explosive substances upon the broad general
basis of their being susceptible of violent explosion from accidental
causes ; any relaxation in favour of the comparatively safe materials
being suffered only to apply to small quantities.
    * In experiments recently conducted by the late Guncotton Committee at
Eastbourne, two separate tons of compressed guncotton, in the wet condition in
which it is now stored by Government, were exposed to fierce fires in strong
magazines, the guncotton being confined in stout boxes and in wooden tanks.
No explosion occurred ; the guncotton was slowly converted into gases and vapour.

424                            Mr. F. A. Abel                  [March 12,
    The safe transport of gunpowder and other explosive agents
demands the application not only of many of the precautionary
measures which should be observed in their manufacture and storage,
but also of certain others of special character, to meet the liability to
casualties arising out of the ordinary accidents of locomotion, and out of
the more or less unavoidable exposure of the explosive agents during
transport to treatment and conditions involving risk of accident. Thus
the submission of packages of gunpowder and many other explosive
substances to the continued concussion unavoidable in transit by road
or rail necessitates the employment of strong and thoroughly sound or
tight receptacles, so as to prevent the escape of fine particles or dust
from the packages into the conveyances, and the possibilities of acci
dent resulting therefrom. Again, the transmission of both large and
small quantities of explosives by land or water must be governed by
well-defined rules regarding the extent and manner which the transport
of such materials should be kept distinct from that of other goods, the
nature and construction of the conveyances specially devoted to, or
occasionally selected for, their transport, and the conditions generally
under which such transport shall be accomplished.
    The utter inadequacy of the existing regulations as to the con
veyance of powder, &c., by land or water, and the flagrant manner in
which even these defective regulations are but too frequently dis
regarded, are matters to which public attention has beon much directed
since the explosion in October last, and which are but in harmony
with the negligence and ignorance displayed to so alarming an extent
in connection with the handling and storage of gunpowder. Thus, the
packages (barrels, &c.) in which powder is transmitted to distant
places arc often so imperfectly constructed that the grains escape into
the cart, or the hold of a vessel in which the powder is stowed, where
they may become mixed up with grit and be eventually trampled upon.
As regards the vehicles in which the powder is transported, some
regulations exist with respect to the employment of covered or un
covered carts with reference to quantities of powder exceeding con
siderable limits ; but there is no law requiring carts or barges to be
specially constructed or employed so as to exclude sources of danger
(such as grit, employment of iron fastenings, &c.). In the mining
districts and even in towns powder is constantly conveyed in dangerous
quantities in ordinary carts, which may have been used for carrying
stones, coal, or road rubbish. It may be and frequently is conveyed
in carts with other geods, sjich even as lucifer matches and petroleum ;
there is no regulation to prevent the person in charge from smoking
while in his cart, or stopping at a public house, leaving the powder
standing at the door, and Major Majendie reports that such occurrences
are frequent.
    Public conveyances often carry packages of powder, without any
precautions, other than perhaps a caution to a passenger who may
unwittingly be exposing himself and companions to immediate danger.
Thus there is a case officially recorded of a man who, on getting on to an

1875.J                   on Accidental Explosions.                    425
omnibus at Wigan, was requested to put out his pipe, as the passenger
next to him had 100 lb. of powder in a barrel beside him. The con
veyance of large quantities of gunpowder in a number of wagons
passing close together through towns has been no uncommon occur
rence ; thus Major Majendie discovered that it was a practice in
Edinburgh to convey as much as twenty tons and upwards of powder
at one time through the streets, the public having thereby incurred
the greatest possible risks, through smoking going on while the carts
have been standing in crowded places. A similarly extensive con
veyance of powder through the most populous districts of London for
transfer to ships at wharves has often taken place ; and as one of
many instances mentioned by the police authorities may be quoted
that of a train of fifteen vehicles loaded with about twenty tons of
gunpowder passing from Camden Town to Blackwall Stairs (a densely
populated place) to be shipped oflf, the whole of the loaded vans being
detained in the street for some time for the arrival of the barge to
which the consignment was to be transferred. Railway companies
as a rule adopt comparatively efficient precautions with respect to the
transport of powder and explosives. The former is conveyed, when
in sufficient quantities, in vans specially constructed, and more or less
well adapted to the purpose, or, when the quantities are comparatively
small, in barrels separately packed in specially constructed metal
cylinders. With regard to the conveyance of other explosives and of
small packages of fireworks, the regulations and charges adopted are
in most instances so restrictive, that they lead to much surreptitious
carriage of such goods, whereby passenger and goods trains are often
exposed to great risk.
    The carriage of powder and other explosives by water should be
the safest mode of conveyance, if proper regulations could be enforced ;
but here again the Regent's Park catastrophe has afforded a terrible
example of the danger to which the public has been continually
exposed, by the profound oblivion which appears to have reigned in
the minds of those engaged in the transport of powder by water-
traffic as to the explosive nature of this material. The arrangements
made by Government for the transfer of gunpowder by barges from
the factory to the depots, illustrate the nature of the precautions which
are regarded as indispensably necessary by those who have well
considered the subject. No iron whatever is allowed to enter into
the construction of the barges ; the men engaged in stowing the powder
wear special shoes and clothing ; every particle of grit or dust is most
scrupulously removed before the powder packages are introduced, and
these are very carefully and securely covered in. The bargemen are
strictly prohibited from smoking and carrying lucifer matches either
about them or in any part of the vessel ; no fire is permitted on board
during the loading, carriage, and unloading of the powder, and the
strictest regulations exist with regard to the manner in which the
journeys are to be performed. The barges are, moreover, provided
with valve-arrangements by means of which they may be sunk in a

426                          Mr. F. A. Abel                 [March 12,
very short space of time, should danger of fire arise from neigh
bouring barges or other sources.
    In other vessels used occasionally for the transport of powder by
Government the foregoing precautions arc carried out as far as
possible; the vossols are not specially constructed, but, in order to
exclude all iron fastenings and accidental grit from contact with the
powder barrels, hides and thick woollen covers are spread over the
bottom and sides of tho vessel. Although tho barges of canal owners
and others are subjected to this practice when carrying powder for
Government, it has not been so with regard to the freights of powder
carried for merchants ; and regulations respecting abstinence from
smoking, or exclusion of fires or matches, have been avowedly of the
most lax description, or have even become a dead letter, although the
existing law is thus set at defiance. The practice of carrying lucifer
matches about the person, and of smoking, has unquestionably been
among the most prolific sources of accidents connected with gun
powder, and it need scarcely be stated that they are almost the most
important dangers to be guarded against in the transport of powder
in barges. During the inquest which followed the great explosion at
Erith in 1864, it transpired that lucifer matches were allowed, as a
rule, on board the barges and vessels carrying merchants' gunpowder ;
and while one powder barge was unloading, another empty one by
its side was seen to have a fire on board. Tho falling of a match
from a man's pocket while he was engaged, in a stooping attitude, in
moving the powder packages from tho barge to the magazine was
considered by Colonel Boxer, after careful investigation, to have been
the most probable cause of that explosion.
    Another source of danger, which, viewed in conjunction with the
 non-exclusion of sources of fire, is of a most alarming nature (and
 which has evidently been of common occurrence), is the carriage of
 gunpowder in barges as part of a miscellaneous cargo. There are
 obviously many goods which may be transported together with
 powder without danger to the latter, although the special care which
 gunpowder should always receive renders its isolation from other
 goods desirable under all circumstances. Recent experience has,
 however, demonstrated that it has not been the custom to exercise any
 discrimination in the stowage of packages of gunpowder with other
 goods, when the former was insufficient in quantity to constitute a
 barge load. It is scarcely to be realized that the indifference with
 which gunpowder has been treated by those who undertake its trans
 port by water could have attained such an extreme that powder
 packages could be stored in the hold of a barge side by side with
 casks of petroleum spirit, by persons whoso experience must have
 mado them cognizant of the liability to leakage of petroleum from
 such casks. Such leakage (occasioned perhaps by rough handling in
 placing it on board) must inevitably furnish in course of time an
 explosivo atmosphere by tho diffusion of inflammable vapour through
 the air confined in the barge-hold (which is closely covered in) ; the

  1875.]                 on Accidental Explosion*.                    427
  extension of this explosive mixture to the small opening which these
  barges contain in the bulkhead separating the hold from the smnll
  cabin, or its penetration through crevices in the bulkhead, is but an
 affair of time ; and then, whichever of the several sources of fire pro
  vided on board the barge, i. e. the stove, lamp, or lucifer matches,
  happens to come within reach of the quickmatch which the explosive
 atmosphere constitutes, completes the arrangement for inflaming any
  small quantity of petroleum which may have leaked out on, or in
 close proximity to, a powder barrel. But for the fact that a concur
 rence of several conditions is essential to the communication of fire to
 gunpowder, through the agency of a leakage from a petroleum cask in
 a confined space, it can scarcely be doubted that the rude awakening
 which the public recently received, to the danger they were fre
 quently exposed to in the vicinity of canals where powder traffic goes
 on, must have occurred long since. The simple flash produced by
 the ignition of a mixture of hydro-carbon vapour and air would pro
 bably not suffice to ignite powder grains exposed to it ; but any small
 quantity of the liquid itself which, leaking from a cask, has furnished
 the vapour, may be in close proximity to a few grains of loose powder,
 or upon a powder barrel which is not securely closed, or some other
 simplo conditions resulting in the conveyance of the fire to the powder
 may be fulfilled, and then explosion must ensue.
     The imperative necessity for better legislation in reference to the
 transport of powder has been so convincingly demonstrated by the
 Regent's Park disaster, that the long-contemplated revision of the law
 relating to explosive agents would, there is little doubt, have been
 hastened thereby had the serious attention of the Government not
 already been devoted to this subject. During the first two years
 which succeeded the appointment of Government Inspectors of Gun
powder Factories and Magazines, the unceasing labours of Major
Majendie resulted in so convincing a demonstration of the utter
inadequacy of the existing laws relating to the manufacture, storage,
transport, and uso of gunpowder, and other explosive agents,
to afford protection to the public and to those dealing with these
substances, that the intention (already entertained by the Govern
ment in 1865) of framing a bill to amend the Gunpowder Act was
actively pursued by the late Ministry in 1873. Although the sub
mission to Parliament of new measures was delayed by the change of
Government, this delay has been productive of benefit, inasmuch as
the present Government has secured most important aid in the prepa
ration of the comprehensive bill which has recently been submitted
to Parliament, from the labours of a Select Committee, appointed
last session, to inquire into the working of the existing laws, and the
directions which fresh legislation should take.
     The rapid development which has taken place in the manufacture
and use of other valuable explosive agents has considerably increased
the necessity for comprehensive measures regulating these important
branches of industry. When the introduction of nitroglycerine into

428                           Mr. F. A. Abel                   [March 12,
this country, a few years ago, was speedily followed by numerous
deplorable disasters, the protection of the public demanded the impo
sition for a time of severe restrictions in dealing with an explosive
agent of most violent character, the nature of which was still very im
perfectly understood. A measure was therefore made law in 1869,
whereby the employment of nitroglycerine itself and of its pre
parations was placed entirely under the control of the Government.
Although this arrangement involved great labour on the part of the
 Government officials, and placed what now certainly appear to be
unduly severe restrictions upon the manufacture and employment
 of dynamite, its necessity and beneficial operation as a temporary
measure have been fully admitted by those chiefly interested in the
 progress of nitroglycerine preparations ; and thero is no question
 that it importantly promoted the wholesome development of the
 application of dynamite in Great Britain, where it has during the
 last three years secured a firm footing as a material indispensable to
 mining industry. The existing laws relating to nitroglycerine
preparations can now be modified with great advantage, and no im
portant difficulty should bo experienced in including in a general
Act the measures necessary for developing and regulating, with proper
security to the public, the production of this and other valuable sub
stitutes for gunpowder, in such a manner as not to hamper the powder
industry with undue restrictions. Other long-established branches
of manufacture connected with explosive materials, which are quite as
dangerous as many of new creation, but have enjoyed comparative im
munity from restrictions, will also be brought under the operation of
 that systematic supervision which the security of the public demands.
     It is obvious that to attempt to deal in detail in one, or more than
one Act of Parliament with the various modifications of regulations
specially applying to gunpowder, which the peculiarities of other
explosive agents, or of branches of manufacture involving risk of
explosions, necessitate, would be to overburden the law with an un
wieldy mass of measures which, however circumstantial in their nature,
would certainly fail to embrace all conditions and contingencies likely
to arise. Hence the wisdom (which has been so clearly demonstrated
by the Nitroglycerine Act) of entrusting the Government with dis
cretionary powers, under the operation of a comparatively simple but
sufficiently comprehensive Act of Parliament, can scarcely admit of
question.
     The beneficial results attainable by a systematic and thoroughly
authoritative supervision, by Government inspectors, of factories and
stores of explosive agents, if conducted with intelligence and discre
tion, have been most convincingly demonstrated by the great good
which it is admitted on all sides that the inspectors have already
succeeded in accomplishing, even with the very insufficient powers
which the present state of tho law affords them. The favourite argument
of some, that Government inspection must operate mischievously, by
diminishing private responsibility, has certainly received no support

1875.]                   on Accidental Explosion!.                  429
from the results of inspection, so far as the experiment has been tried.
 It will scarcely be asserted that a manufacturer or store-holder who
may have willingly adopted, as suggestions which the inspector has
 no power to enforce, measures conducive to the safety of life and
 property, would be careless in the application of those measures
 because their adoption was no longer optional, or because the re
sponsibility for their due observance was to some extent shared by the
inspector. This very system of inspection cannot fail to benefit
those interested in different branches of the industry of explosives by
reducing the necessity for hard and fast rules with respect to the
arrangement and conduct of works, which might in many instances
entail hardship or inconvenience without any real necessity, and by
strengthening the hands of factory owners, and thus rendering com
paratively easy the proper observance and enforcement of regulations
for the safety of the men and the works. It is, however, especially
in connection with the storage, transport, and employment of gun
powder and other explosives in mining districts that efficient
inspection, supported by the reasonable power which a well-con
sidered Act of Parliament cannot fail to afford, may be confidently
expected to produce important beneficial results, not the least of
which will probably be the wholesome influence exercised indirectly,
by the force of example, upon the miner or pitman, whoso ignorance
has fostered the indifference with which long habit has led him to
regard the possibility of danger.
     But although improved legislation, and the beneficial regulations
thus supplied, may be confidently hoped to effect an important reduc
tion in the number and magnitude of the disasters now recorded as
accidental explosions, it would obviously be worse than shortsighted
to encourage a reliance upon legislation alone as a safeguard against
the evils which lead to casualties of this kind. Punishments inflicted
for transgression of the law may engender caution, but the disasters
which arise from ignorance are not likely to be importantly reduced
in number by legislative enactments alone.
    It is to the general promotion of education among the people, and
to the spread of scientific and technical knowledge, if even of the
most elementary kind, among employers and employed, that we must
look for a substantial diminution of these casualties which the
uneducated mind is but too prone to attribute to accident, and the
prevention of which rests, at any rate to a large extent, with those
who are at present tacitly content to regard them as inevitable.
                                                          [F. A. A.]

430                       Dr. Richard Liebreich              I March 19,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 19, 1875.
  Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President, in the Chair.
               Richard Lierreich, M.D. M.R.C.S. M.R.I.
                  On the Real and Ideal in Portraiture.
Greek sculpture, arriving at its highest development, fixed for the
representation of the deities types of ideal beauty. Ever since,
sculptors have divided themselves into such as followed those laws of
beauty derived from the study of the classic works of art, and such as
worked after nature, putting the truth derived from it above the perfect
beauty. In our times certain subdivisions have been observed, forming
various shades within each of these two schools, without, however,
effecting a real amalgamation of the two different tendencies. Thus,
in the idealistic school some have strictly adhered to the antique ;
others, though making the study of the antique their starting-point,
have yet in their compositions made concessions to our modern
feelings. On the other hand, among the realists, some, though guided
by the direct observation of nature, have yet adhered to the principles
of antique sculpture as far as the choice and representation of the
subject are concerned, whilst others have preferred the exact copying
of actualities.
    In painting, idealists and realists are certainly as far apart as in
sculpture. There exist, however, in the different individualities
of the artists almost all the transitions from one tendency to the
other.
    I shall therefore keep principally to sculpture, when trying to
analyse the question of the real and ideal in portraiture. Among
the Greeks the portrait, as representing the real, formed originally the
contrast to the ideal creations of the types of the deities. It was only
much later that in the portrait also the contrast showed itself dis
tinctly between real and ideal ; and especially so from the time when,
under the successors of Alexander the Great, Lvsistratus came to the
realistic extreme, and made casts after nature, filling them with wax
and retouching them afterwards.
     In the Roman period the realistic portrait developed itself to such
a perfection as still to give to this branch of art value and significa
tion, when sculpture in general was rapidly approaching degeneration.
The contrast between the idealistic and realistic portrait in this

 1875.]            on the Beat and Ideal in Portraiture.             431
period is principally based upon the purpose of the representation.
The custom of representing as deities the emperor and his family,
his friends, the higher functionaries, and even private persons of no
merit, led to the imitation of the ideal types of the deities, with a
face more or less approaching this ideal type. To this the purely
iconic realistic bust, showing the individual in his real aspect, origin
ally formed a sharp contrast, though occasionally a sort of confusion
was produced by a realistic head being placed on an idealistic body.
    Though no such reason any longer exists in our time for so sharp
a separation, yet the separation itself still exists. Upon what condi
tions, then, is it based ? This we shall try to show by examples, and
in order to enable us to do so, we must above all see these examples
in a proper light, on the importance of which I should like to make a
few observations.
    The importance of the background and light for the impression
to be produced by pictures is generally acknowledged ; it appears
however that the public are not so generally conscious of the fact that
the background is quite as important for sculpture, and that for it
the right light becomes a vital question. Otherwise an improvement
in the system of exhibiting classic works of art in museums would
be insisted upon ; and in private collections the places assigned to
sculptures would not be allowed to depend upon accidental circum
stances. Thus in the Louvre we see its jewel, the Venus of Milo,
placed in a bad light. In the South Kensington Museum, the highly
interesting busts of the Florentine School of the fifteenth century are
placed in such a manner that the height of their position, the colour
of the background, and the light falling upon them, render it all but
impossible to examine them, whilst very trivial objects have received
the best position and light. In the National Portrait Gallery, the
busts are set on shelves 9 feet from the floor and in front of the
windows ; so that they can only be seen from below, while they are
lighted from the front and from below. Among the faulty arrange
ments for exhibiting sculpture we must mention also that of the
Royal Academy. It will certainly be improved, as soon as the public
begin to take an interest in this matter and to understand it. For
this purpose it is only necessary to afford an opportunity of seeing a
well-arranged exhibition. I convinced myself of the simple means
by which such an arrangement may be effected, when visiting the
exhibition in Milan in September last. We have attempted to give
you an idea of the Italian arrangement, of which you will find an
imitation in the Library. Several distinguished artists have kindly
sent in some of their works for this purpose, and it will surely afford
you a truly artistic enjoyment to see them after the lecture. There
you will receive the general impression of sculpture exhibited in
the right light : here we shall analyse the details of this effect, and
that with reference to the face chiefly.
    The absolute dependence of sculpture on the light that falls upon
it might be considered a defect in the art, and confirm the not

432                      Dr. Richard Liebieich                [March 19,
infrequent assertion that sculpture is altogether unfit for portraiture.
In order to be perfectly just let us enter into the argument at once.
 The painter, the draughtsman, the photographer, if about to make
a portrait, carefully select the right light, being convinced that to a
great extent the success of the portrait depends upon this. As soon
as they have fixed upon the effect of light which they wish to produce
in their picture, this effect will remain substantially the same under
all circumstances, although the general impression of an oil painting
may be slightly modified according to the light which falls on it and
according to its surroundings. The sculptor, on the contrary, shapes
a body which may bo exposed to all the various effects of light to
which the original might be exposed, and amongst others to all those
under which the painter would declnre it impossible to paint the
original. What painter, for instance, would consent to paint a portrait
 with the light coming from the front and from below ? The effects
 of light and shade characteristic for the human face disappear com
 pletely under such circumstances. Let anyone cover a human face
with white paint and throw a light upon it from the front and from
 below ; then it will be found that the features disappear completely ;
yet marble busts are frequently exposed to this kind of light.
     The reason why the human face appears to advantage only when
light is thrown upon it moro or less from above, and why its likeness
can bo correct only under such a light, is one very deeply rooted.
The nature of man, his erect bearing, the direction of his look, every
thing that in his appearance distinguishes him from the animal bent
to the earth, necessitates that conformation of the forehead, the nose,
the month, &c., which is characteristic of the human face, and
which was required by reason of the sunlight coming to him chiefly
from above. And therefore, also, it is only the light coming more or
less from above that shows the forms of his features in a characteristic
way. Thus, it is no exorbitant demand that sculpture ought to be
seen in the same light in which the original appears to the best
advantage, and which every painter is free to choose for himself and fix
in his picture.
     In the plastic reproduction of the body, the coarser and more
general forms may be seen with tolerable distinctness even when a
false light falls upon them, as the stereoscopic view aids tho spectator.
In the case of the more subtle features of the face, however, the
stereoscopic impression plays but a subordinate part, on account of
the slight difference of depth of the characteristic features. The true
impression of the face in a bust therefore depends almost exclusively
upon the play of light and shade which gives to the one-coloured
material the intended aspect. And this light and shade will bo
judiciously disposed only if the portrait is looked at as nearly as
possible! from the direction and in the light in which the artist
intended it to be seen.
     A closer examination of the technical details will convince us that
this does not only apply to works of sculpture which specially aim at

 1875.]            on the Real and Ideal in Portraiture.              433
 a picturesque effect, but also to those which keep strictly to the form.
 The more elaborate the modelling, the more expressive the features,
 the richer the detail in the bust, the more it has to gain by a correct
 light and to lose by a false one. That is the reason why, in exhibi
 tions arranged without due consideration to light, we find that
levelling influence which places in the same range the best and the
 worst, and thus gives the finishing stroke to that infinitely wearisome
impression produced by the pale marble heads placed one near the
 other on a shelf, which the spectator passes as quickly as possible
 in order to get to the more attractive picturo gallery of the Royal
 Academy.
     Let us now compare, with correct and with false light succes
sively, one realistic and one so-called idealistic bust.
     We will so turn these busts round a vertical axis, that by degrees
 everyone, in the various parts of the theatre, may obtain a fair front
view of them. I wish we were able to turn the revolving table round
a horizontal axis as well, in order to avoid the foreshortening, which
must be inconvenient to those sitting in the higher rows of the
theatre. This, however, would have required too complicated an
apparatus.
     The idealistic bust is the portrait of a great poet : the realistic
that of a natural philosopher. I dare say that at first sight the
 greater part of the audience, especially those sitting at a distance,
 will prefer the idealistic bust. We shall see at once whether this
 feeling will hold good, when we compare the two- busts with reference,
firstly, to technical execution ; secondly, to anatomical correctness
 and truth to nature ; thirdly, to likeness ; and, fourthly, to life-like
 expression and intelligent conception of the individuality.
     To begin with the technical execution. On superficial inspection,
the smooth and soft surface of the idealistic bust may speciously charm
the eye ; a somewhat closer examination, however, will show that a
vagueness of outline and want of detail are concealed behind this
easily attainable external finish, and that this particular idealistic
bust at least is greatly inferior to this realistic one. In a still
higher degree this is the case, when truth to nature and anatomical
correctness are considered. If we hold this skull close to the real
istic bust, to whatever part of it we may direct our attention, we shall
 always be able to discern the same correct proportions in the corre
 sponding part of the bust ; and, so to speak, to trace the bone in it.
In the other bust, on the contrary, anything as well as a skull might
be hidden below the conventionally-shaped surface ; and in those
places where the shape of the bone is but little covered by fleshy
parts, as, for instance, at the forehead, the temples, the nose, and the
under jaw-bone, it is easy to prove the anatomical impossibilities.
 The third point, that of likeness, might appear to be entirely implied,
since anatomical anomalies necessarily include unlikeness. This,
however, is only partially true, for a certain likeness of the whole
physiognomy is not incompatible with dissimilarities in some of the

  434                      Dr. Bichard Liebreich               [March 19,
  features, as is proved by caricature. Two portraits in oil, by Phillips,
  one of which (the original) is in the possession of Lord Lovelace,
  and a copy of it in the National Portrait Gallery, and the other in
  possession of Mr. Murray, as well as more than twenty different
  engravings, which are to be seen in the British Museum, and which
  represent Lord Byron at different periods of his life, from boyhood
  to the time of his death, provide us with a sufficiently exact idea of
  his personal appearance to enable us to judge of the likeness of this
  bust. If I deny this likeness, you may, perhaps, feel inclined to
 reply : " But we recognized it at once." Allow me, however, merely
 to cover with two fingers tho well-known curl over the forehead, and
 then to ask you whether you would still recognize tho original. What
 remains uncovered, although it is the entire face, might as well belong
 to any other person—or, to speak more correctly, it could belong
 neither to Byron, nor to any other specimen of the human race.
      On tho other hand, if we cover any portion of Dr. Ray's face, the
 uncovered part will characterize the individuality of that learned
 man, as well as his own face would have done if partly covered in the
 same way. And we can easily prove the fidelity of the likeness by
 comparing the bust with tho different engravings of Dr. Ray, one of
 which, in the British Museum, made about the same time as the bust,
 resembles it most.
     But the most striking difference between the two busts is shown
 when they are compared as to lifelike expression, and the intelligent
 conception of individuality.
     How shall we imagine a spark of that wild poetical genius flashing
 out of these flat button hole-shaped eyes without pupils ? How can
 we imagine the sarcastic smile of the merciless satirist playing round
 these stiff conventionally-shaped lips ?
     How different is the bust of Dr. Ray 1 Full of life and truth, it
 (shows the grave, earnest look of the keen observer of nature, the deep
lined features of tho unwearied toiler, who published most important
books in such widely different subjects as botany, zoology, philology,
and theology. It is true that we can only fully appreciate the ex
pressiveness of these features when we look at them in the right light;
for if we change the light, so that it comes from the front and from
below, the wholo expression vanishes, or, at least, is entirely changed ;
and while, under such a light, the idealistic bust becomes almost like
a piece of white paper, the realistic bust, you will observe, having
much more to lose, appears to still greater disadvantage.
     After what I have said, it might appear as if I wished to speak
against idealism in portraiture altogether. I wish to guard against
being thus misunderstood, and therefore state expressly that it is to
one special tendency, falsely called idealistic, and of which this bust
is a specimen, that my objections are directed ; for I consider the true
idealism in portraiture consists in something widely different from
the erroneous imitation of mere externals of ideal classical works.
     We will now show the busts in light coming from below, and for

  1875.]           on the Real and Ideal in Portraiture.                 435
 those who are at too great a distance to be able to distinguish the
 details of the features, we will show two photographs of each bust,
 the one taken in light coming from above, at an angle of 45 degrees,
 the other taken in light coming from below at the same angle.
      If I look at these busts in this bad light (and to such light
 busts are only too frequently exposed) I no longer wonder at the
 remarks one occasionally hears in conversation, such as, " Did you
 ever see any likeness in a portrait bust ? " or, " I am very fond of
 painting, but I cannot see anything in sculpture." Such remarks
 express the feelings of a great part of tho public with reference to
 sculpture.
      After what we have seen, the idealistic, stylistic, classic artist, or
 whatever you choose to call him, will have the advantage over the
 realistic artist when their respective works are seen in the same bad
 light, and he might feel himself confirmed in his tendency if he
 reckens that his busts will never have the chance of being seen in a
 better light. On the other hand, the realist must.take care not to bo
misled in the opposite direction, by the conviction that the merits of
 his tendency can only be appreciated in a perfectly correct light ; for
confiding in the sharpness of that light, he might be induced to
render details which are not characteristic and essential, but merely
 accidental.
     Now the question arises, What should be called accidental and
 what should be called essential in a face? Each artist will give a
 different answer to this, and the view he takes will be characteristic
of his whole tendency, and, in any given case, will determine the
nature of his work. This might seem to imply that nothing generally
applicable could be said on the subject. This, however, is not the
case, for up to a certain point it is possible to determine what must
be considered essential, and not only the artist but even the public
may derive some advantage from such an analysis.
     Let us start from an anatomical point of view, and begin with
the bone. Concerning the skull, the question may be easily and
absolutely answered thus : Nothing in the skull ought to be consi
dered accidental and of secondary importance. The general propor
tions, as well as each detail of the shape, must be respected as
characteristic of the individual, and scrupulously adhered to without
any arbitrary modification. There is no occasion for supporting this
principle by any phrenological or physiognomical consideration ; the
undeniable fact being that, in a portrait most excellently finished
in every other respect, the slightest arbitrary modifications of the
skull will never fail to produce a defect in likeness. All painters
of good portraits, whatever may be the manner they adhere to,
whether thoy have an idealistic or realistic tendency, will be found
to submit strictly to this law.
     Not so the sculptors, at least not those belonging to a certain school.
Perhaps the forehead of the Olympian Jupiter, the neck of the Apollo
Belvidere, the thorax of the torso of Hercules, are before their mind's
     Vol. VII. (No. 62.)                                         2 h

436                       Dr. Richard Liebreich             [March 19,
eye, when, having to make the portrait of a mortal, they indulge in
modifications which classical antiquity was never guilty of in the
portrait. The consequence of this is not merely that the likeness of
the portrait is lost, but, moreover, a production results which the
natural philosopher on close examination must declare not to belong
to the human species in its present state of development. The
custom of honouring civic virtues, liberality, activity for the public
good, &c., by transmitting the memory of those who had such merits
to posterity by means of portraits and busts, affords us amplo oppor
tunity for comparison between the portraits of the same person made
by sculptors and painters. We may thereby easily convince ourselves
of the falsification of individuality—I can use no milder expression—-
into which sculptors of the so-called classical or idealistic school in
portraiture have an irresistible tendency to fall.
    In order to settle the question which of the two was right, the
painter or the sculptor, in making two entirely different portraits
of the same person, it is not absolutely necessary to know the original,
where the features and especially the formation of the cranium and
the proportions of the facial bones in the bust contain anatomical
impossibilities. Let no one imagine that it would be easy or even
possible to alter the shape of the human skull and yet to remain
within the limits of physiological truth.
    It is a more difficult and complicated task to answer " what is
essential and what is accidental " with reference to the skin. Whilst
one school of painters renders only a general impression of colour
corresponding to the complexion of the individual, the realists copy
carefully all the minute irregularities of the skin. Among the
sculptors the same contrasts are met with. Some imitate every
small detail in the skin, whilst others do as little justice to its
natural peculiarities as to any other anatomical element. Thus they
work the surface of the marble as smoothly as possible, giving, it is
true, by skilful manipulation, a very soft and smooth appearance to
the stone, but nothing which reminds us of flesh and blood. The
hair, tho flesh, the drapery, and the pedestal, all appear to be of the
same substance, and remind us only of the material of which the
artist forms them, and not of those substances which he intends to
represent. The neglect of anatomical details might be traced to the
fact, erroneously applied to portraiture, that tho Greeks in their ideal
compositions did not mark the muscles and veins. In the Greek as
well as in the Roman portraits, however, we find the character of the
skin carefully expressed ; and all characteristic lines which are the
lasting effect of certain motions of the facial muscles recurring
frequently in the habits of the individual are thus carefully rendered.
In order to get thoroughly acquainted with these lines and folds, we
must study the muscular actions by which they are produced. Let
us begin with the forehead.
    The muscles of the forehead are very thinly and flatly spread out
in a state of repose, therefore they alter but slightly, through their

1875.]             on the Real and Ideal in Portraiture.                 437
substance, the shape of the forehead as determined by the bone.
They are, however, of the greatest importance in various mimic
motions of the face, inasmuch as they produce the folds in the skin
of the forehead, and also the position and alteration of shape of the
eyebrows. Tbe broadest of these muscles, the frontalis, by means
of its chief substance lifts the eyebrows straight up, and thereby
forms on the forehead parallel folds which, with slight undulations,
run horizontally over the whole forehead, bending down to the
temples on both sides in curved lines. According to the thickness
of the skin, and especially according to the degree of thickness of
the layer of fat underlying the skin, these folds are more or less
numerous, and broader or narrower ; and they are most numerous in
lean old men with thin skin. In the treatises on mimics and phy
siognomy, and on anatomy of expression, these horizontal folds of the
frontal skin, and the uplifting of the eyebrows, are usually spoken of
as giving to the face the expression of attentiveness, of astonishment,
and of cheerfulness. It is a new proof how irrational it is to charac
terize such motions of the muscles taken isolatedly, because, accord
ing to their combination with other movements of other parts of the
face, just the contrary physiognomic expression may be produced.
     Thus the horizontal folds and the lifted-up eyebrows are certainly
expressive of attentiveness and astonishment, if the eyes are widely
open ; on the contrary, if the upper lids are only imperfectly lifted, those
actions of the frontal muscles produce the expression of fatigue and
drowsiness. Even without the real existence of drowsiness or fatigue,
this expression will be found in all cases in which the muscle which
 lifts the upper eyelid has become weak, or, what comes to the same
thing, where, in consequence of the lengthening of the skin of the
eyelid the task of lifting the eyelid has become too heavy for the
strength of the muscle whose function it is to lift it. The material
effect of such conditions is much stronger than that of the mimic
motions, which, even if they have become a habit, nevertheless do not
act mechanically in such a decisive manner as those constant contrac
tions which are required to assist the insufficient muscle of the eyelid.
      As an instance, I show you here the cast of a marble bust from
the fifteenth century, which is in the Museo-Nationale at Florence.
 It is done by Benedetto di Majano, and is worked in the manner
 characteristic of the Florentine school of that period. You see
 that the horizontal folds on the forehead, which are very strongly
 expressed, and strictly copied from nature, do not at all produce the
 expression of astonishment, attention, or cheerfulness. They evi
 dently do not indicate any transient expression such as springs up
 suddenly, and dies away as quickly, and which, for that very reason,
 would be unfit for a portrait ; but they do indicate such an habitual
 expression as was characteristic of the appearance of the individual.
 Measurements will prove this very easily. The eyebrows (you will
 observe) arc, at their extremities, lifted up a quarter of an inch above
 their original length. Though the skin is considerably stretched
                                                             2 n 2

 438                      Dr. Richard Liebreieh               [March 19,
 between the eyebrows and the margin of the upper lids, yet above
 the cartilage of the lid a broad fold has been formed, and as, at the
 same time, the slit of the lids is only very moderately opened, it
 shows clearly that the skin of the upper lid must bo so considerably
 lengthened, that without the effort of the muscle of the forehead, and
 the lifting of the eyebrows, it would necessarily overhang the lid.
 Thus, the opening of the eye would overtask the strength of the
 muscle to which this function pertains. Imagine to yourselves this
 bust with smooth forehead, and the likeness would at once disappear.
 Therefore it is that such folds of the skin must not be considered as
 accidental, but as essential.
     It is the same with the vertical folds of the forehead. They are
produced by the contraction of two muscles proceeding from the centre
of the lower margin of the forehead, and taking a horizontal direction
towards the eyebrows. They draw together the two eyebrows, and
thus form in the middle of the forehead, just above the upper part of
the nose, one or more vertical folds ; and if the contraction is very
energetic, a series of short vertical folds may be seen also above the
inner half of the eyebrows. The mimic expression of seriousness, of
effort, of deep meditation, of passionate anger, is transiently thus pro
duced. Any lasting or habitual contraction of these muscles, caused
by any reason whatever, leaves stationary vertical lines and folds on
the forehead, as you see in this portrait of the Bishop of Fiesole, made
by Mino da Fiesole, tho original of which is in the Church of Fiesole ;
and also on this portrait of an unknown of about the same period.
Only very rarely we find on the forehead, as a lasting feature, that
form of folds produced by the simultaneous straining of all the muscles
of the forehead, which gives an expression of the deepest pain. There
the eyebrows are drawn together with their inner extremities, and,
at the same time, drawn much upwards, as is so beautifully expressed
in the Laocoon. But, for the portrait, this folding of the skin of the
forehead, and this position of the eyebrows, need scarcely be taken
into consideration, because they do not form any lasting physiogno
mical characteristic.
     A lasting fold is formed by the skin, to a degree increasing with
age, at tho two sides of the mouth, descending from both sides of the
nose. On the cheeks and under the chin regular folds, such as appear
in the bust by Benedetto di Majano, are only seen in later age, and
even then but rarely so strongly marked as in the before-mentioned
bust. On the contrary, numerous minute folds will show themselves
much earlier in life in those places of the facial skin where it is thin
nest, that is to say, above the upper and under the lower eyelid up to
the margin of the socket of the eye. Here the slightest modifications
in the quantity of fat below the skin manifest themselves so distinctly
that alterations may be observed even at different times of the day,
and may be very quickly produced by any little change of the general
state of health. This kind of formation of folds in that part of tho
skin exercises great influence on the expression of the face.

1875.]              on the Real and Ideal in Portraiture.               439
    The blood-vessels of the face are of importance for the painter in
so far as the colour of the skin in the different parts of the face depends
upon them. For the sculptor, only certain large veins are of import
ance, which, especially with men in later life, come out so strongly on
the forehead, tho temples, and the neck, that they stand out from the
surface of the skin, and nave a characteristic influence on the coun
tenance. In the body, and chiefly in the extremities, the muscles are
visible, even if not contracted. In the face they do not come out sepa
rately, firstly, because they are so thin, and secondly, because they are
so much covered by a relatively thick layer of fat and by the skin,
that only their effect on the form and movement of the covering parts
can be noticed. Let us imagine these covering parts removed, and glance
briefly on those muscles the exact study of which is of such great
importance for the artist who has to represent tho human face. The
muscles of the forehead we were obliged to describe in order to explain
their effect on the formation of folds in the skin of the forehead. On
the nose, besides thoso fascicles of frontal muscles which go down to
its upper part, wo find two muscles : first, one originating from the
nasal bone and descending on both sides towards the nostrils, which,
by contraction, opens the nostrils, as in the process of inspiration ;
secondly, one arising from the upper jaw, and descending partly to
the nostrils and partly to the upper lip. This muscle lifts simul
taneously the nostrils and the upper lip. Its opponent is a small
muscle arising from the upper jaw above the front teeth. It is inserted
into the lateral cartilage of the nostril and pulls it down. The con
traction of these muscles, with the exception of the two which lift tho
nostrils and upper lip, usually produces only a very small but almost
continual motion, viz. that which accompanies respiration, and which
only under the influence of passion will be found to increase. This
movement, however, though slightly apparent, is very important for
the expression, inasmuch as it keeps the nostrils in that position which
is characteristic of life. With the last breath, and with tho consequent
relaxation of muscles, the nostrils collapse, and this greatly contributes
to produce the expression of death.
    The common elevator of the nostrils and upper lip, if contracted
very strongly, produces the expression of suffering or of disgust ; if
only slightly contracted, it combines with the other muscles of tho
cheek in their action upon the lips.
    The movements and alterations of form in tho lips, so very im
portant for the expression, are produced through the alterations of
tension in a circular-shaped muscle, which constitutes the principal
substance of the lips. It is called the orbicularis oris, and the muscles
coming from the upper and lower maxillary bone, and directing them
selves towards its margin, act upon it in the most various combinations.
These muscles are—
    1. The elevator of tho nostrils and of the upper lip.
    2. Tho proper elevator of the lip.
    3. The elevator of the corner of the mouth.
                                                                            \

440                        Dr. Richard Liebreich               [March 19,
     These three arise from the upper jaw near the orbit, and then
joining themselves to the npper lip and the angles of the mouth, lift
these parts by their contraction.
     4. The zygomaticus arises from a process of the cheek-bono
which joins the temporal bone, and is inserted into the angle of the
mouth. The angle of the mouth is drawn down by the depressor
anguli oris, arising from the base of the lower jaw, and is inserted
into the angle of the mouth. The lip itself is drawn down by the
quadratus menli, whilst the levator menti alone accomplishes the task of
lifting the chin, and, in common with the last-mentioned muscle,
enables one to pout the under lip. By strong contraction of these
muscles, all the motions of the face are produced which are required
for the expression of the most various passions and emotions. The
consideration of these passions and emotions lies outside our subject,
because any passionate expression must be unfit for representation in
a portrait, since from its very nature it cannot be lasting. The small
vacillations, however, in the tension of the above-mentioned muscles,
are of tho greatest influence on the portrait, because they produce
those minute modifications of form in the lips and cheeks which,
conlbined with the analogous effect around the eyes, are the principal
contributors to the expression of the human face. Their correct
choice, on the painter's part, and the true rendering of them, are
identical with the right understanding of the individuality, and make
the painter as well as tho sculptor avoid the danger of giving to the
face rigidity, lifelessness, and want of expression, instead of the repose
that becomes a portrait.
     The conditions acting on the mouth and on the eyes are much
more similar than one might suppose to be the case. To begin with,
 we must be clear that what is commonly called the expression of tho
eyes depends only in a very slight degree on the eye itself, that is, on
the eyeball, and in the whole remaining degree on the conditions
 of the surrounding parts. The movements and alterations of form of
the eyelids are produced in quite an analogous manner to those of the
lips, viz. through the contraction of a circular-shaped muscle, the
orbicularis palpebrarum, and of its two opponents, viz. 1, a particular
elevator-muscle of the upper lid ; and 2, the different muscles which
displace the frontal skin and the eyebrows, and which we described
 when speaking of the forehead.
     In the same manner as the circular-formed muscle of the mouth,
that of the lids is apt to contract itself either as a whole, or only in
its single parts, or to contract one part more than the other, according
as it has to prevail more or less over its opponents. The mechanical
 effect which is thus obtained on the position of the margin of tho
lids, and on the shape of the whole slit of the lids, is certainly
neither as extensive nor as manifold as the analogous effect of the
much more complicated apparatus of the muscles of the cheeks and
lips on the form of tho mouth. However, the influence upon the
expression is by far greater with the eye, inasmuch as the minutest

1875.]            on the Reat and Ideal in Portraiture.                441
alteration in the margins of the lids would have very considerable
effect upon the aspect of the eyeball.
     In order to acconnt for this, let us set apart for the moment all
other influences, and supposing all the other parts of the face to be
covered, and the eyeball itself perfectly immovable, the pupil looking
straightforward, let us study, in one eye, the influence of the smallest
alteration in the slit of the eye on the expression. We see then that the
upper lid moves up and down like a curtain before the eyeball, not
however in a plane, but adapting itself to the surface of the eye. This
curtain at the angles of the eye is connected with another curtain
formed by the under lid, which moves up and down in a similar manner,
 but in an opposite direction. These two connected lids cover by far
 the greater part of the eyeball, so that only a somewhat oval section of
 it becomes visible. It is this section alone which, from an aesthetic
 point of view, we are accustomed to consider as the eye, and the size
 and form of which produce the apparent size and form of the eye. I
 say apparent, because in reality this latter, of course, undergoes no
alteration at all. If we speak of large or small eyes, we only under
stand by it this apparent size, which depends entirely on the width of
 the slit, and the conditions of the orbit. The real size of the eye is
 altered only in certain anomalies, for instance at a very high degree
 of short-sightedness. This is not meant to imply that the effect on
 the expression is exclusively produced by the surroundings of the
 eye, and not at all by the eyeball itself. We may prove this by
 another experiment, where we leave the lids and eyebrows immovable,
 while the eyeball is made to turn on its own axis from the right to
 the left. Of course the pupil also moves inside the slit from one end
 to the other, altering the expression considerably even in one single
 eye, much more so if the movement is observed simultaneously in
 both eyes, and most of all if this movement is not only a lateral one,
 but is combined with an upward rolling of the eye, which naturally
 implies an alteration of form in the slit of the eyelid. Those move
 ments which alter the direction of the visual line of each eye, and the
 relation existing between the visual lines of the two, and which also
 alter the position of the cornea and pupil in the opening of the
 eyelid, constitute what we call the look. To the look, painters, in
 their compositions as well as in their portraits, have always paid great
 attention. In several of the old masters it struck me that they had a
 sort of predilection for a certain direction of the look. Thus Murillo
 gives the preference to a look of extasy directed straight upwards,
 whilst Guido Reni has a certain predilection for painting an eyeball
 turned obliquely upwards, and he gives to this direction of the look quite
 a peculiar character by the posture of the head, and position of the
 eyelids and eyebrows, imitated from the Laocoon or the Niobe. In
 his numerous portraits Vandyke evidently prefers the following
 direction of the gaze. His portraits look somewhat to the side of the
 observer into the distance, and in such a manner that the heads turned
 to the right have their eyes directed to the left ; and, wee cersd, the

 442                       Dr. Ricliard Liebreich             [March 19,
 beads turned towards the left have their eyes directed so far to the
 right, that sometimes the iris comes quite near the right angle of the
 Blit of the lids. Those of his portraits that have been shown in this
 year's exhibition of the Old Masters confirm this observation. They
 are twelve in number, and they have all of them the above-mentioned
 direction of the eyes. Of course those portraits are excepted which
 represent two persons speaking to each other ; for instance, that of
 Rubens, by Vaudyke, in the National Gallery.
      In sculpture, the representation of the look is more difficult.
 There is, above all (at least in our time), the want of colour, which,
 by defining the pupil and the iris that surrounds it, clearly indicates
 the position of the eyeball. Nevertheless the direction of the eyes
 is to be recognized even in the ideal compositions of classic antiquity
 by the position of the eyelids and the shape of the visible part of the
 eyeball. In the portrait, however, especially in the purely iconic
 representations, the Greeks used to indicate the pupil by a small flat
 tening of the eyeball, by which the shadow of the upper lid became
 broader, or they indicated the look in the way on which you see it
 here in the busts of Demosthenes, Pericles, and Alexander tho Great,
 the beautiful originals of which arc in the British Museum. In the
 realistic busts of the Roman time the pupil was indicated by a small
 hollow which gave shadow, and the margin of the iris or cornea was
 designated by a fine engraved circular line. The same or a similar
 manner of indicating the pupil has been since adopted by the majority
 of sculptors, and it is to be considered as a misunderstanding if
 sculptors of a certain tendency believed that they imitated the antique
 in the portrait bust, when they left the eyes perfectly expressionless,
 without pupil, with the lids and the eyeball shaped in a conventional
curve, by which the inanimate look of the rest of the features was
considerably increased.
     Tho utility of anatomical and physiological knowledge for the artist
has been repeatedly denied. As a chief support for this assertion, it has
been alleged that the Greeks did not know anatomy, and moreover that
the knowledge of anatomy possessed by tho artists of the Renaissance
and modern times rather led them to an exaggerated ropresentation of
the muscles, and caused them to indulge in complicated and unusually
difficult positions of tho body. Wo must, however, remember that
though the Greeks certainly did not possess the same facilities for
studying anatomy as the artists of present times, they notwithstanding
possessed a perfect knowledge of that which was essential for them
in anatomy. They knew the skeleton. One, cast in metal, existed in
the temple at Delphi, to which Hippocrates had presented it. They
possessed descriptions of anatomy ; they dissected animals ; and they
could complete the knowledge thus acquired by the observation and
the study of the nude form, not in the state of repose or weariness of
a tired model as now, but in the free display of the muscles shown by
the boxers and wrestlers and other competitors in the public games.
     Without such means of correcting and completing anatomical

  1875.]            on the Real and Ideal in Portraiture.               443
  knowledge, derived only from the study of the dead body, the artist
  might be led to adapt it incorrectly to life. Of course this does not
  imply anything against the usefulness of anatomical knowledge ; it
  only proves the necessity of completing it physiologically. As for
  the portrait, the advantageous influence of a thorough knowledge 'of
  anatomy, and of physiognomy based upon it, will be clearly manifest.
  It will preserve the realist from the petty imitation of mere accidental
 details by the conscious observation of those physiognomic movements
  of the features which are characteristic of the expression. He will
 learn how to ennoble his works by animation and intellectual expres
  sion, and thus he will approach the true idealism ; for it is in such
 refinement of the material, through a clear understanding of the indi
 viduality, that we see the true idealism in portraiture, and not in mere
 embellishment of the features as to colour or form.
      The study of anatomy is still more important for tbe artist belonging
 to the classical school. Unfortunately this view is not shared by many
 of those who have to regulate the courso of studies in schools of art.
 Thus we see the artistical education often based exclusively on the
 copying of the antique. The consequences of this system are the
 imitation of certain externals, without a clear understanding of what
 is essential in classic art ; and the incapacity of observing nature with
an open mind and unprejudiced eye. Thus a tendency develops itself
 among the sculptors which produces those portraits falsely called
 idealistic, whose want of merit has not yet been sufficiently stigma
 tized. There is neither beauty nor art, neither truth nor power,
nothing but mannerism and specious hollowness ; and the pretended
classicality only serves as a cloak for indecisiveness and emptiness.
In this we see not only danger for the artist and his school, but at
the same time a danger for tho taste and interest of the public. There
fore, from this spot devoted to natural science, may I be allowed to
Bay : Go back to nature, to the true and conscious observation of
nature. They are only mediocre artists who are afraid to find in the
clearness of science an impediment to their poetic flights and the
inspiration of their genius. The great artists of all times knew of
no such hindrances, but based all their works on the most careful
 study of nature, whatever were the ideals they aimed at ; for they all
 knew that there is no beauty without truth.
     Vol. VII. (No. 62.)                                          <i i

 Ui                          General Monthly Meeting.                    [April 5,
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, April 5, 1875.
   The Duke of Northumrerland, D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
                   Witham Matthew Bywater, Esq.
                   Charles Elliot, Esq. C.B.
                   The Lady Caroline Kerrison,
                   Hugo W. Muller, Esq. Ph.D. F.R.S.
                   Francis Peacock, Esq.
                   The Hon. Sir Colley Harman Scotland,
                   Henry Charles Stephens, Esq.
                   Capt. Antony Olivier Tabuteau,
                   Sir Harry Verney, Bart. M.P.
                   Richard Wheen, jun. Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Managers reported, that they had this day appointed
Professor Alfred H. Garrod, Esq. Fellow of St. John's College,
Cambridge, Fullerian Professor of Physiology, in pursuance of the
Deed of Endowment.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1874, Part I., No. 3; Part II., No. 3. 8vo.
  Proceedings, 1874, No. 9. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXV. No. 4. 8vo. 1874-5.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences—Sitzungsberichte. 1874. Heft 3. 8vo.
Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society—Journal, No. 29. 8vo. 1874.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1874-5. Nos. 7, 8, 9. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for March, 1875. 8vo.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. XXXIX. 8?o. 1874-5.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Jan. Feb. 1875. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for March, 1875. 4to.
  Chemical News for March, 1875. 4to.
  Engineer for March, 1875. fol.
  Journal for Applied Science for March, 1875. fol.
  Nature for March, 1875. 4to.
  Nautical Magazine for March, 1875. 8vo.
  Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1875. 8vo.
  Practical Magazine for March, 1875. 4to.
  Telegraph Journal for March, 1875. 8vo.

1875.J                       General Monthly Meeting.                       445
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 589. 870. 1875.
Geographical Society, Boyal—Proceedings, Vol. XIX. No. 2. 8vo. 1875.
Hinrichs, Dr. G. (the Author)—Principles of Chemistry and Molecular Mechanics.
      8vo. 1874.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1874, No. 2. 8vo. 1875.
Kerslake, Thomas, Esq. (the Autltor)—Saint Ewen, Bristol, and the Welsh Border.
      (K 100) 8vo. 1875.
MaiUy, M. E. (the Author)—Adolphe Quetelet. (K 100) 8vo. 1875.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIII. Part 9. 8vo. 1875.
Manchester Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XIV. No. 9. 8vo. 1875.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham — Proceedings, August, 1874.
      Part 2. 8vo.
Meteorological Office—Meteorological Conference, London, 1874. 8to. 1875.
Oakes, Lieut.-Col. W. H. A.I.A. (the Author)— Loans Payable by Drawings and
      Debenture Interest Tables. 8vo. 1870.
Pharmaceutical Society—Calendar for 1875. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 257. 8vo. 1875.
Prewisische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte, Nov. Dec. 1874. 8vo.
Boyal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXVU. Part 2. 4to. 1873-4.
   Proceedings, Nos. 87, 88, 89. 8vo.
Boyal Society 0f London—Proceedings, No. 159. 8vo. 1875.
Squire, P. Esq. F.L.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Companion to the latest Edition
      of the British Pharmacopoeia. 10th Edition. 8vo. 1874.
Twining, Thomas, Esq. M.R.I.—S. Maffei, Verona Blustrata. fol. Verona, 1732.
   J. Collier's Historical, Geographical, Genealogical, and Poetical Dictionary :
      with Supplement and Appendix. 4 vols. fol. 1701-21.
Vincent, Mr. C. W. (the Editor)—The Year Book of Facts in Science and the
      Arts for 1874. 16to. 1875.
 Wilkins, W. N. Esq. (the Author)—DurabUity in Art. (K 100) 8vo. 1875.


          iSogal institution of (great Britain.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 9, 1875.
 William Spottibwoode, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Treasurer, R.S. Secretary
                    and Vice-President, in tho Chair.
                 Sir William Thomson, D.C.L. F.R.S.
                  PRESIDENT OV THE ROTAL BOCIKTT OF EDJNRURGH,
                                  On Tides.
Julius Cssae, speaking of the night following the fourth day after
his first landing in Britain, says : —" That night it happened to be full
moon, which day was accustomed to give the greatest risings of water
in the ocean, though our people did not know it." So, though a storm
was raging at the time, nothing was done to secure the transports left
high and dry on the beach, while he was fighting the Britons ; and
tho water rose so high in the night as to damage them seriously.
Strabo, quoting Posidonius, says that " soon after moonrise the sea
begins to swell up and flow over the earth, till the moon reaches mid-
heaven. As she descends thence the sea recedes till about moonset,
when the water is lowest. It then rises again, as the moon sinks to
mid-heaven under the earth, then recedes again until about moonrise,
when the water is again at its lowest, and again begins to rise ; " and
so on. Besides this daily circuit of the sea, Posidonius spoke of a
regular monthly course, and of an annual course, reported by the
Gaditani ; his description being, in fact, a fairly accurate account of
what is observed at the present day at Cadiz, the locality whence he
derived his information.
    In commenting on these statements, the speaker said that the mere
mention of these courses indicated that the daily rise and fall of the
sea are related to the sun as well as to the moon. Galileo criticized
Keplor for assuming that the motions of the water depend upon the
moon ; but Kepler was proved to be right. According to Newton's
theory, the moon's and the sun's attractions are the tide-generating
force.
    By models and diagrams the phenomena of the t\&efc ^exe WVhlb-
trated, and it was shown that there are two distinct -Vva-nftV>'?'''^^ t^xe
sun, but only one way by which the moon, produces irkr^" cj$&c^m*fiK OIi
the earth—the sun by his heat and attraction, the ttx X ^ Vaca
tion only. It was also explained how regular dai\^J^H^» «S^ ^* ^
tions of the sea-level are produced by the sun's V» _^ \^ «Jw cv ^
    Vol. VII. (No. 63.)                                    ^VaT^.

448                   Sir Wm. Thomson on Tides.                 [April 9,
semi-diurnal and annual and semi-annual changes of level produced
by the sun's attraction.
    In conclusion, after stating that theory is utterly weak to calculate
tides beforehand, the speaker exhibited an improved form of self-re
gistering tide-gauge, which shows the height of the tide at every
moment for the whole time the instrument is in action, together with
a roll of paper illustrating the working of the tide-gauge at Liverpool.
He then adverted to the tide-calculating machine, an important in
strument invented to utilize the results of the tide-gauge. In pre
paring the results for this apparatus there is a process of harmonic
analysis by which the complicated action derived from the tide-gauge
is analyzed into its several constituents, each representing what is
called a simple harmonic motion. This harmonic analysis, when it is
worked out, becomes, as it were, a piece of scientific book-keeping,
and any number of tide-tables may be constructed according to proper
summations of averages. This, though an exceedingly simple, is a
very laborious process; but by the tide-calculating machine tide-
tables may be calculated beforehand for any port in three or four
hours of mechanical working. The result shows not merely the times
and height of high water, but also the height of the water at every
moment of time, day and night, for the year. By the use of this
machine the labour of the hydrographic department of the Admiralty
would be enormously diminished.

1875.J       Professor Gladstone on the Progress of Science.         449
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, April 16, 1875.
  William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Treas. R.S. Secretary and
                     Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  Professor Gladstone, Ph.D. F.R.S.
            The Progress of Science in Elementary Schools.
The speaker commenced by defining his subject moro fully as the
" Rise and Progress of Natural Science in the public Elementary
Schools of the United Kingdom." He then briefly recounted the his
tory of elementary education, and the origin of the large educational
societies. He showed that till recently natural science had scarcely
any place in the instruction of the masses, though the efforts of such
men as the Rev. Arthur Rigg, for a long time principal of Chester
Training College, and of the late Dr. Birkbeck, and Lord Brougham,
were worthy of all honour.
    The Great Exhibition of 1851 seemed to show to the people of
England that they were deficient in the knowledge both of art and
of practical science. This was followed very shortly by the establish
ment of the Science and Art Department. The Great Exhibition in
Paris in 1869, gave a second and perhaps still more powerful lesson
in the same direction ; and many of our statesmen—Dr. Lyon Playfair
and others—took up the matter, and showed that unless we did educate
our artisans more thoroughly wo should fall back in the race, and that
our manufactures would fail in the competition with Continental
nations. Thus the movement which had been started by Christian
philanthropy received an impulse from more selfish considerations ;
and it was determined by the British people that education should be
more general, if not universal ; while at the same time there rose a
great desire that the education should be of a more scientific character
than it had been hitherto.
    In speaking of the introduction of science into our schools we have
to consider three different classes of persons. There are the school
masters and mistresses, who must have some knowledgo of science
before they can teach it ; the pupil-teachers ; and the scholars.
    With regard to the teachers, the training colleges established in
connection with all the largo educational societies have not been
slow in taking advantage of the offers of the Government, and forming
science classes. In this way we find that the large bulk— almost all—
of these young men and young women who are in training to be school
masters and schoolmistresses attend certain classes in science now,
                                                           2 k 2

450                         Professor Gladstone                        [April 16,
go up for the examination of the Science and Art Department, and
thus take their elementary or advanced certificate in science. In fact,
last year there came from twenty-eight of the training colleges of
England and Scotland alone—according to the Directory-—2343
students in science. The following Tablo indicates the sciences which
they took up.
                                         Training Colleges (1874).    St. Thomas
                   Subject.                                        Charterhouse S.S.
                                          Colleges.   Students.     Sludents (1875).
  Theoretical Mechanics                       9           424              40
  Acoustics, Light, and Heat                   6          344             130
  Magnetism and Electricity                    9          450             120
  Inorganic Chemistry                          4          314              75
  Geology                                      7          316              12
  Mineralogy                                   1            50
  Animal Physiology ..                       19          1097             197
  Elementary Botany ..                         4          201              70
  General Biology                              2          105              35
  Physical G eography . .                    25          1539             230
     Tho mathematical sciences have not been included in tho above
 table, nor those that are distinctly allied to technology. It will be
 seen that the largest number of students attended classes of physical
 geography. Next to this subject comes animal physiology. Almost
 all the leading colleges take up this. There are two, however, both
 colleges for young women — that at Southlands, belonging to the
 Wesleyans, and that at Liverpool, belonging to the Roman Catholics
 —which instead of animal physiology take up tho somewhat allied
 subject of general biology. Magnetism and electricity seem to be the
 next favourites, especially with the National School Society, and in
 Scotland ; and then acoustics, light, and heat. The study of chemistry
 is not so general, being taken up by only four of the colleges. They
 happen, however, to be among the most important. There exist also
 good laboratories ; for instance, at the training colleges in Westminster
 and the Borough Road.
      The speaker then drew attention to the next column—the statistics
 of the St. Thomas Charterhouse School of Science in the Goswell Read.
 This was established entirely for teachers—not necessarily adult, for
 there aro many pupil- teachers. The present is the third season of its
  existence. It was started by the Rev. John Rodgors, the vicar of St.
  Thomas Charterhouse, and is carried on mainly under tho direction
 of the National schoolmaster, Mr. C. Smith. There were 200 students
  the first year, 450 the second, and this year there have been 550
  students. Physical geography is the greatest favourite, as in other
  places ; then animal physiology.
      The Science and Art Department have arranged that certain
  teachers —acting teachers—should attend practical classes in the

1875.]         on the Progress of Science in Elementary Schools.            451
summer time at the School of Science, South Kensington. The classes
last for three weeks. The teachers are chosen from those who apply,
and have this instruction gratuitously afforded to them, and every
expense paid in coming up to London. A great number of these
students come over from Ireland. They study mechanics, botany,
chemistry, physics, mathematics, and so on. There were 170 last
summer. The speaker saw forty or fifty of these men, all practical
teachers, in Professor Guthrie's laboratory. They had been listening
to a lecture that he had given, and Professor Barrett was instructing
them in the making of apparatus. These students were all men
educated to a certain extent in the subject which they were consider
ing ; but they had not previously seen the apparatus, or experiments.
They soon learn how to make various things ; and through the kindness
of Professor Guthrie the speaker was able to put upon the table a large
collection of pieces of apparatus made by these schoolmasters last year,
including an air thermometer, a dissected Leyden jar, an electroscope
and discharger, a Wheatstone bridge, a monochord, a spectroscope, a
thermopile, a barometer, and many other physical instruments, plain
but perfectly efficient. Professor Frankland gives instruction in prac
tical chemistry to a similar class of acting teachers. They conduct
 simple analysis in his laboratory at South Kensington.
      Of course these various classes give a considerable amount of scien
 tific knowledge to the teachers who attend them, and in the London
 School Board every encouragement is given to the schoolmasters and
 schoolmistresses to obtain certificates from the Science and Art Depart
 ment. Preference is given to those that have such certificates. The
 salary is 51. a year more for every male teacher who brings with him
 three advanced science certificates ; and if a female teacher brings one
 advanced certificate she has 21. 10s. a year additional. There is a
 somewhat similar arrangement made in the Irish Model Schools,
 where 10?. extra are given to a master or mistress who actually teaches
 physical science in the school.
       As to pupil-teachers, science is not an essential part of the Govern
 ment requirements for them ; but additional marks are given if they
 take up one science subject at the end of their period of apprenticeship
 before entering the training colleges. This science subject may be
 mechanics, chemistry, animal physiology, acoustics, magnetism, phy
 sical geography, or botany. The Scotch code is a little more liberal,
  giving marks for two of these subjects. The present proposal of the
 School Management Committee of the London Board is that male
 pupil-teachers shall all learn animal physiology and chemistry.*
 Many pupil-teachers attend the ordinary science classes.
       Science is not demanded of the scholars of elementary schools by
  the Education Department, excepting perhaps a little of what may be
  called physical geography in the second standard ; but there are certain
      * Since this discourse was delivered the Board has placed these two subjects
  in its " honours courso " for pupil-teachers.

452                             Profcssor Gladstone                              [April 16,
0 specific subjects," and in the new code which has just become law
these comprise mechanics, animal physiology, physical geography,
botany, and domestic economy for girls, which last includes cookery.
There is an admirable note appended to the table of " specific subjects,"
which affirms a principle of wide application. It runs as follows :
     " It is intended that the instruction of the scholars in the science
subjects in this table shall be given mainly by experiment and illus
tration, and in the case of physical geography by observation of the
phenomena presented in their own neighbourhood. If these subjects
are taught to children by definition and verbal description, instead of
by making them exercise their own powers of observation, they will be
worthless as moans of education."
     Not merely is it allowed that these specific subjects shall form
part of the ordinary teaching in an elementary school, but under
certain circumstances a Government grant of four shillings a head is
to bo given for every pupil who passes a satisfactory examination in
not moro than two of these subjects, so that there will be a pecuniary
advantage accruing to the school from the teaching of these various
subjects. We shall see gradually how this works ; it will to a certain
extent stop the learning of science by some of the younger scholars
that take up the matter now ; yet probably till a boy is twelve or
thirteen years old it is not very advisablo that he should go in for
these examinations. It is astonishing what young children sometimes
pass at the present time. The following Table drawn up by Major
Donclly will exhibit this.
                              Result/-, of the Examination* of 1873 and 1874 combined.
    Age of Students.          Elementary Stage.                      Advanced Stage.
                     Number who came up Percentage Number who came up Percentage
                       in 1873 and 1874.       who passed.   In 1873 and 1874.    who passed.
 In their 11th year          2,110                 33
    „     12th „             5,283                 39                66               S3
     „    13th „             9,850                 44              166                52
     „    Hth „             11,972                 51              470                50
    .,    15th „            11,148                 56              793.               52
     A large number of the above no doubt arc pupil-teachers, and
many others are scholars in elementary schools. There are certain
scholarships offered by the Government under the name of Elementary
school scholarships ; but few take advantage of them, only thirty-two
apparently last year, of whom seventeen were in Scotland.
     The way in which science is taught in schools is by means of pro
perly graduated object lessons. The regulations of the School Board
for London lay it down as one of the essential subjects to be taught
in all the schools : " In the infant schools object lessons of a simple
character ; and in junior and senior schools systematized object lessons,

 1875.]       on the Progress of Science in Elementary Schools.       453
 embracing in the six school years a course of elementary instruction
 in physical science, and serving as an introduction to the science ex
 aminations which are conducted by the Science and Art Department."
 Liverpool and some other towns have followed London in this respect.
 Object lessons also have long been given in the best voluntary schools,
 and boxes containing small specimens of a large number of substances
 may be purchased, and many excellent diagrams of natural objects
 have been published. A collection of these, illustrating nearly all
 branches of science, was exhibited.
     The speaker then described an object lesson on a cocoanut, given
 to a class of children of about six years of age, and showed that the
 value of these object lessons depends very much upon the amount of
 knowledge possessed by the teacher, and the study which has been
 given beforehand to the preparation of the lesson. Then taking a bottle
 of sand out of the object box, he showed that even so unpromising a
 material as sand was suggestive of most interesting topics of instruc
 tion at least for elder children. He afterwards described a lesson on
 a snail and the mollusca in general, which he had heard given to girls
 of about twelve years of age, from one of the natural history diagrams ;
 and he followed this up with a description of lessons on magnetism
 given to the elder boys in the practising schools of the training col
 leges at Battersea and the Borough Road, and how the boys were
 encouraged to make little mariners' compasses for themselves.
     The speaker then, while freely admitting the greater importance
 of moral teaching, contended for the young people becoming acquainted
 with some branches of natural science. This knowledge will intro
 duce the boys to technical studies for the various handicrafts which
 they are to pursue in after life, and prepare the girls for their
 domestic duties. And beyond this, the study of natural history and
 natural science has a very peculiar and special power in training the
judgment in the pursuit of truth. With reference to the question,
 which is the most important of these science subjects, the speaker
expressed a favourable opinion of physical geography, including the
knowledge of the world in which wo are, its relation to other worlds,
and the materials of which it is made ; but he spoke more strongly
in favour of animal— that is human physiology, especially for girls,
pointing out its great importance in relation to health. That the girls
in elementary schools will grow up to be mothers themselves, or ser
vants entrusted with the care of children, is a powerful additional
argument in its favour. Then he would have some chemical or
physical study—something that tells of the various natural forces, and
how they act and react. It is very desirable to teach by observation
and experiment. Children are always inquiring. To us books are
beautiful things : we use them as we use telescopes or microscopes to
assist our vision. But a book is a very different thing to those who
are not able to read with ease. A book is only a 6ettt^,rwl8I,aTel1*
medium to most children. Books of course will \j^ \p. the hands of
the teachers ; but let the children see the things tli^xfla^'6& ^-t6^> aai

454     Professor Gladstone on the Progress of Science, &c.   [April 16,
become acquainted with them, and then the books will become lumi
nous with intelligence ; and they will care to read them, and thus
advance in their studies. It is well that tho children should have
collections of objects, and be encouraged to make little collections for
themselves. Cabinets of specimens and models do exist in some
English and Continental schools, and the Museum of the Home and
Colonial Training College is worthy of imitation elsewhere.
    In conclusion, the speaker claimed for natural science an
honoured place in the curriculum, being sure that we shall benefit tho
rising race greatly if we make them well acquainted with tho various
objects of nature round about them, and the various forces that act
upon them. In this way they will have much greater power in the
world, and much more chance of success in the great battle of life
which they are all to enter upon, for they will be fighting not with
unknown but with known combatants ; and their knowledge will tend
to maintain healthy bodies, and that will not interfere in any way
with sound minds or clear consciences.
                                                          [J. H. G.]

 1875.]          Professor Ramsay on the Pre-Miocene Alps.                 455
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 23, 1875.
      George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                  Professor A. C. Ramsay, LL.D. F.R.S.
          DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF THE GEOLOGICAL SURVXT OF THE UNITED KINGDOM,
  The Pre-Miocene Alps, and their subsequent Waste and Degradation.*
The speaker began by referring to his discourse last year.f when he
expressed his opinion that in pre-miocene times the Alps were as high
as they are now, notwithstanding that since miocene times they have
been upheaved about 5500 feet. Sir Charles Lyell having expressed
his surprise at this statement, and his wish for an explanation of the
grounds upon which it was based, led to the working out of the subject
in detail, and the preparation of the present discourse. The Professor
then alluded to the origin of mountain chains through the contraction
of the earth's crust; some parts of this crust sinking, other parts
being crumpled and relatively raised. Thus, at a certain period
in geological history, preceding tho formation of the miocene rocks,
which belong to the middle tertiary or cainozoic strata, a dis
turbance of the earth's crust took place, duo to shrinkage, so that
tho Alpine strata were thrown into highly contorted forms, resulting
in a great pre-miocene mountain range, the base of which was just
about sea-level. That these pre-miocene Alps did really exist as a
great mountain range the Professor proceeded to demonstrate, and by
a series of calculations showed the immense amount of miocene
deposits formed partly in tho sea, but chiefly in lakes only a little
abovo tho sea level, such deposits being the proceeds of the waste and
degradation of theso pre-miocene mountains by various physical causes,
similar to thoso now acting on the earth's surface, and occupying an
immense period of time.
    In support of his argument, the Professor estimated tho thick
nesses of tho various subdivisions of tho miocene strata, and striking
an averago for tho country between Genova and Constanco (about 8000
   * The lecture was illustrated by diagrams, without which it is difficult to
make all tho points plain.
   t See p. 27U of Royul Institution Proceedings, vol. vii.

456                         Professor Ramsay                  [April 23,
square miles), he estimated the thickness of the miocene deposits at
4000 feet, containing about 33,037,700,560,000 cubic yards, equal to an
oblong rectangular mass, 109 miles long, 18 miles broad, and 15,840
feet high, of solid rocks ; a mass of matter equal to that which would
occupy an area four times the length and of equal height to Mont
Blanc as it now stands, between Martigny on the north-east, the
sources of Bonnant on the south-west, the valley of Chamouni on
the north-west, and the Val de Ferret and the Alice Blanche on the
south-east.
    This was followed by an account of the methods by which ho
endeavoured approximately to estimate the cubic contents, as they
now exist, of the pre-miocene strata of the Oberland, from the Rhone
between the Lake of Geneva and Martigny, and the country somewhat
east of the Upper Rhine. south of the Lake of Constance ; and it was
stated that the original bulk of the miocene strata, derived from the
waste of these pre-mioccne Alps, was far more than equal to the cubic
contents of the whole of the uppermost 5000 vertical feet of this
range.
     The last great disturbance of the Alps heaved up the miocene
strata which had been previously deposited and more or less consoli
dated at their base, and by this latter upheaval the rango may have
been elevated somewhat more than 5000 feet. The question therefore
is this : Was the amount of waste and degradation that took place
during miocene times, and which resulted in the deposition of the
miocene strata at the baso of the Alps, equal or more than equal to
 the post-miocene elevation of 5500 feet ? It was ; and even if the
 Alps had suffered no waste since then, they may have been as high
 before miocene times as they are now. But they have suffered much
 further waste, by atmospheric denudations, during the later tertiary
 epochs, during which the various formations of the crag and forest
 beds were deposited, comprising a series of geological episodes so long,
 that palaeontologically considered they may perhaps be comparable to
 the Miocene epoch itself. Later still, we must take into account the
 prodigious amount of degradation suffered by the Alps during the
 glacial epoch, when on the south the mighty glaciers filled every
 southern valley, and spread in vast fan-shaped masses far out on tho
 area now occupied by the plain of Piedmont and Lombardy, while on
 the north of the chain glaciers more gigantic still overspread all the
 lowlands of what is now Switzerland, till they abutted on the Jura ;
 and all across the space where the Lake of Constance now lies, the old
  Rhine glacier spread far northward into Bavaria.
     To estimate the amount of work performed by such glaciers, both
 south and north of the chain, wo may take as an example the great
 moraine of the Dora Baltea, which beyond the mouth of the Val
 d'Aosta forms a vast amphitheatre sixty miles in circuit, about seven
 miles wide, and in great part 1650 feet in height, and which, in spite
 of age and decay, still retains an amount of matter that, if piled in
 mountain form, would be as long as, and have one quarter the height

1875.]      '           on the Pre-Miocene Alpt.                     457
of Mont Blanc. Multiply this by the old moraine matter of the five
great glaciers that descended from the south side of tho Alps to the
valley of the Po, as far east as tho Lago d'Iseo ; add to that tho
degrading and transporting power of the five great northern glaciers
that overflowed the plains of Switzerland between Geneva and the
Lake of Constance ; think of all that has been done in the same
direction since the close of the glacial epoch ; and to all these add the
vast amount of matter won from the more ancient Alps to form the
miocene strata, as previously estimated ; and it seems impossible to
resist the conclusion that in pre-miocene times the Alps must have
been not only as high, but higher than now, even though since that
time they may have been heaved up 5500 feet. Tho speaker con
cluded by expressing his opinion that tho history of many of the
other great mountain ranges resembles that of the Alps, for in a
geological sense their epochs of upheaval are the same.

458                               Mr. Hartley                             [April 30,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 30, 1875.
        Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.O.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                      Walter Noel Hartley, F.C.S.
                  DEMOK8TEATOR OP C1IEKISTRT, KHSG's OOL1.ECE, LOXDOK,
              On the Action of Heat on Coloured Liquids.
 All substances whatever may be divided into two classes, the coloured
 and the colourless. By simple inspection it is impossible to dis
 tinguish ono colourless liquid from another, but the case is very
 different with coloured substances. In dealing with compound sub
 stances derived from the metals, we find generally that a certain colour
 is characteristic of a certain metal. Thus a bluo is the tint which
 prevails in most compounds containing copper, while green is
 characteristic of nickel, and pink or red of cobalt. If we examine the
 colour of a metallic solution by transmitting light through it, and
 analyzing this light with a prism, as Dr. Gladstone did in the year
 1857,* we then get a spectrum which serves in some degree to identify
 the metal present in the solution. Taking, for example, three liquids
 containing the same metal—a green, a purple, and a red solution— the
 green chloride, the purple sulphate, and the red oxalate of chromium,
 we have such a diversity of behaviour with chemical reagents, and
 such a variety of tints, that it is not an easy mattor to recognize the
 presence of the same base unless the light transmitted by those
 solutions is analyzed by the prism, and if this be done in a wedge-
  shaped cell, we have the advantage of seeing through many different
  thicknesses of liquid at one glance. We then got a spectrum in each
  case with chromium compounds, which has a great similarity, its
  chief characteristic being that the red, green, and bluo rays are trans
 mitted, while all the yellow are cut out. It has long been known that
  certain metallic solutions darken on oxposure to heat, and in this way
  prisoners sometimes effect a secret correspondence outside the prison
  walls. The method consists in writing with an invisible solution
  between the lines of their letters, which is afterwards developed by
  those who aro in the secret. Such solutions have bceu called sympa
  thetic inks, and one in particular, called Hcllot's sympathetic ink, is
               * ' Proceedings of the Royal Institution,' vol. ii. p. 336.

1875.]          on the Action of Heat on Coloured Liquids.              459
the chloride of cobalt, which being of a palo pink colour, in the state
of a dilute solution, on drying and heating turns a very dark blue.
Writing executed with this ink is all but invisible until a hot iron be
passed over it, when it appears beautifully distinct, and on cooling
disappears again. The Fenian criminal, Barrett, when confined in
the House of Detention, was found to bave in his possession a small
tube containing chloride of gold : in the woollen stockings sent to
him was noticed some white powder, which could be shaken out.
 This was evidently for the purpose of secret correspondence. The
 powder was found to be sulphate of iron ; writing with a dilute
 solution of chloride of gold would be invisible until washed over with
 sulphate of iron, which solution developes the characters. The blue
 colour of cobalt chloride (Hellot's ink) is more easily produced if the
 salt be mixed with calcium chloride ; such a mixture is that used for
 the little instrument called the chameleon barometer. This, which
 is in reality a hygrometer, or an indicator of the amount of moisture
 in the air, consists simply of a piece of paper soaked in the two solu
 tions, protected by a glass and frame. The way in which it is
 differently affected by dry and moist air may be easily seen. Placing
 two of these under different bell-jars, one containing a little vessel of
 oil of vitriol, which dries the air, the other a little water, which of
 course keeps it moist, the paper in tho former will be blue, and that
  in the latter red ; then, if their places be changed their colours change.
  That a solution of cobalt chloride could be turned blue by the addition
  of hydrochloric acid, of sulphuric acid, of alcohol, or of chloride of
  calcium, has for some time been known ; it has also been noticed that
  an acid solution of chloride of cobalt, red at an ordinary temperature,
  becomes blue if heated, such being also the case with a dilute solution
  containing alcohol ; furthermore, that a dilute solution, if heated
  under pressure in sealed tubes to a higher temperature than that of
  boiling water, becomes blue.
      In 1871 I found that a strong perfectly neutral aqueous solution
  of the purest cobalt chloride, which had been prepared from Claudet's
  salt, changed colour with the greatest possible ease upon heating.
  A small tube-full held in the hand changed from deep crimson
  to a decided purple tint in a few minutes ; a little of the solution
  smeared over the fingers soon became blue ; and a quantity of the
  liquid heated in an open dish became blue at 70° C. It was noticed
  that a very small tube of flattened glass, containing a solution of
  cobalt chloride, which was perfectly transparent when cold, upon
  heating to 70° C. became quite opaque. It was evident that the
  change from red to blue noticed was not simply a difference in
  refrangibility of the transmitted light, but an increase in the quantity
  of light absorbed by the solution. Hence it appeared to be a matter
  of great interest to examine tho change of colour by means of the
   spectroscope, and even to go beyond this, and examine the action of
  heat on all coloured liquids by the same means, but especially was it
   expected that the bromido and iodide of cobalt would yield intensified

460                            Mr. Hartley                      [April 30,
effects of the samo kind. Observations have been made on about sixty
difforent solutions, most of which were prepared from metallic salts.
Many of these compounds had been but imperfectly examined, while
others wore quite new. The solutions were generally made by
allowing cold water to stand for some days with the crystallized salt,
giving it frequent agitation.
     The examinations wero made in wedge cells cut out of blocks of
glass, and polished ; one side of the cell was made by fixing on a
piece of plate-glass by means of a screw clump. Two sizes of these
hollow wedges were used to facilitate the examination of liquids of
different intensities of colour. They were each of the same height,
namely, three-quartors of an inch, the larger cells being at their
thickest part three-quarters of an inch, diminishing to nothing ; the
smaller being not more than three-sixteenths of an inch thick. The
refraction caused by the thick wedge of liquid was corrected by the
wedge of glass winch formed one side of the cell. A little copper
hot-air cupboard, with two opposite sides of easily removable plates
of glass, was used for heating the wedges filled with liquid. These
wedges were covered with plates of glass, as far as possible to pre
vent evaporation. Sunlight was used when possible, and in many
cases when this was impossible an argand gas burner was used, of
such a construction that oxygon gas could be blown into the flame to
increase the brilliancy and whiteness of the light.
     The spectra of metallic solutions were noticed as being principally
of three kinds : those caused by the uninterrupted transmission of
certain rays, such as the blue by salts of copper and the green by
nickel ; those consisting of continuous spectra interrupted by sharp
black bands, such as didymium and uranium salts yield ; and those
resulting from two groups of rays of different refrangibilities, as the
green and red seen in chromium salts, and the blue and red in cobalt
compounds. Such spectra are those of dichroic solutions. The
difference between monochroic and dichroic solutions is easily shown
in the following manner, thus : when the spectrum of the electric lamp
is thrown on to the screen, and a cell containing sulphate of copper
or nickel is interposed, a simple green band of light appears ; if, instead
of a spectroscope slit, a round disk is used, only one imago of this is
seen ; and if the image of the carbon points of the electric lamp be
thrown on to the screen, when a prism is interposed containing
nickel solution, one image, and that a green one, is formed. Taking a
dichroic liquid such as chrome alum, we get a spectrum consisting of
red and green rays, separated by a band of darkness ; a disk of light
becomes resolved into two, one of a rich red and the othor of a green
tint, both colours of great beauty ; where the two disks overlap the
original colour of the liquid is formed.
     If we project the image of the carbon points through a hollow
prism of the liquid, two images are formed, one red, the other green.
Precisely the same thing occurs with cobalt chloride, but the two
colours are purple and orange.

1876.]          on the Action of Heal on Coloured Liquids.            461
     The amount of absorption of light taking place in different thick
nesses of a solution is easily observed when wedge cells are used, and
it is thus easy to ascertain what change will take place on diluting the
liquid, provided water is without chemical action. Liquids presenting
a wedge-shaped spectrum alter in colour on dilution, in the ratio
indicated by the relation of the angle of the wedge-shaped spectrum
to that of the wedge cell. These solutions, having spectra bounded by
perpendicular straight lines, are only slightly affected by dilution.
Some crystallized chromate of potash was dissolved in as little water
as possible, forming a beautiful canary yellow colour. This, when
diluted to 12,000 times the original weight of the salt, was not
greatly altered, the change being not in depth of tint but in
brilliancy. Permanganate of potash shows five black lines in the
 green portion of the spectrum when much diluted with water, and
three of these are perfectly well seen when looking through half an
inch of liquid which contains only one part of the salt in 118,000
parts of water. The loss of colour caused by the dilution of ammonio-
chloride of palladium is indicated by its wedge-shaped spectrum, and
 was illustrated by dissolving one grain weight of the salt in water and
 diluting the dark brown liquid till the colour disappears ; a pint and
 a half of water was sufficient for the purpose. On repeating the
 experiment with permanganate of potash the liquid remained of a
 beautiful pink colour, even after five gallons of water had been added.
      It is a remarkable fact, that although the first step in practical
 chemistry is the solution of a substance in water, it has hitherto not
 been ascertained what really takes place when this operation is per
 formed, consequently we are in ignoranco of the chemical constitution
 of the resulting liquid. The chief reason for undertaking this
 investigation was the hope that this question, to which very doubtful
 and unsatisfactory answers could alone be given, might be finally
 decided, and the work recorded has been well bestowed on the subject.
      Most metallic salts form combinations with water; the ordinary
 carbonate of soda (washing soda) is the carbonate of the metal united
 with ten molecules of water, which may be separated in the form of
 steam by heating to 100° C. It therefore contains not far from two-
 thirds of its weight of water, and many other salts combine with
 water in the same way. Carbonate of soda, however, is colourless ;
 but many coloured substances combine with different proportions of
 water to form compounds varying in colour; thus we see in tho
 accompanying tabular statement the variation between the colour of
 the anhydrous salts and their different combinations with water are
 very striking. Many compounds do not lose all their combined water
  at 100° C, and these salts are amongst the number.
      It is a remarkable fact the substances named in the following table
  are those which change colour most notably on heating their solutions,
  hence a number of conclusions have.been arrived at as to the internal or
  molecular structure of these solutions. The spectroscope itsolf would
 be quite unavailable in giving us the desired information -, but chemical

462                             Mr. Hartley                            [April 30,
                                 SUBSTANCES VARYING IN COLOUR,
                Anhydrous.             Compounds produced at 100° C. from ordinary
                                                       Crystals.
  CuCI, Yellow                        CuCl, H,0
  CuBr, Black and lustrous            CuBr, - H,O     Dark brown
  CoCl, Lavender ; blue when hot . .  CoCl, • 2H,0 Purple ; blue when hot
  CoBr, Vivid green                   CoBr, • 2H,0 Purple ; blue when hot
  Col-   Lustrous intense black       Col, • 2H,0 Moss-green
  NiBr, Yellow                        (NiBr,H,0?) Dark red
  Nil,   Lustrous intense black       (Nil, • 2H,0 ?) Dark brown           ..    ..
research, aided by tho observation of optical properties, yields what
neither alone could do.
    A distinct statement regarding this action of heat here follows :
                 The effect of Heat on Absorption-spectra.
     When saturated solutions of coloured salts are heated to 100° C,
1st, there are few cases in which no change is noticed. 2ndly, gene
rally the amount of light transmitted is diminished to a smnll extent
by some of the more refrangible, tho less refrangible, or both kinds of
rays being obstructed. 3rdly, there is frequently a complete
difference in the nature of the transmitted light. Anhydrous salts
not decomposed, hydrated compounds not dehydrated at 100° C, and
salts which do not change colour on dehydration, give little or no
alteration in their spectra when heated.
    Solutions of hydrated salts, and most notably those of haloid com
pounds, do change ; and the alteration is, if not identical with, similar
to that produced by dehydration and the action of dehydrating liquids,
such as alcohol, acids, and glycerine, on the salts in crystals or
solution.
    A particularly interesting inetanco of the action of heat on an
aqueous solution is that of cobalt chloride, which gives a different
series of dark bands in the red part of the spectrum at different
temperatures, ranging between 23° C. and 73° C. Band after band of
shadow intercepts the red rays as the temperature rises, till finally
nothing but the blue are transmitted. Drawings of six different
spectra of this remarkable nature have been made. The changes are
most marked between 33° and 53°, when the temperature may be told
almost to a degree by noting the appearance of tho spectrum. Though
to the unaided eye cobalt bromide appears to undergo the same
change, yet, as seen with the spectroscope, it is not of so curious a
character, tho bands being not so numerous.
    With cobalt iodide a band of red and green rays is transmitted at

1875.]           on the Action of Heat on Coloured Liquids.                   463
  WITH THEIB STATE OF HYDBATION.
                                                  Colour of Solution.
            Ordin»ry Crystals.
                                             Strong.                  Dilute.
 CuCl, • 2H,0 Blue                    Grass green                Blue.
 CuBr, • 5H,0 Golden green . .        Red brown                  Blue.
  CoCl, - 6H,0 Cherry red      .. ..                             Pink.
  CoBr, • 6H,0 Deep crimson . .       Deep crimson               Pink,
  Col, • 6H,0 Dusky red-brown ..      Dark brown                 Pink.
  NiBr, • 3H,0 Green                  Madder brown               Apple green.
 Nil, • 6H,0 Bluish green             Yellowish brown . .        Apple green.
low temperatures ; the band of light moves towards the opposite end of
the spectrum, with rise of temperature, until it is transferred to such
a position that it consists of green rays only. In this instance the
change to the eye is more striking when seen without the spectroscope,
because the mixtures of red, yellow, and green rays, which are formed
during the transition, give rise to very beautiful shades of brown and
olive green. Thus a saturated solution at 16° C. was of a brown
colour, at — 10" C. it became of a fiery red and crystals separated, at
-f 10° reddish brown, at 20° the same, at 35° Vandyke brown, at 45°
a cold brown tint with a tinge of yellowish green, at 55° a decidedly
yellowish green in thin layers and yellow brown in thick, at 65°
greenish brown, thin layers green, and at 75° olive green. This was
shown by heating a little of the liquid in a globular flask while it was
rapidly rotated by the hand, the liquid thus being spread in a thin
layer over a large surface. An examination of this cobalt salt has
shown that there are two distinct crystalline hydrates— the one, formed
at high temperatures, has the formula CoCI,2H,O, and is of a dark
green colour ; the other, which contains a much larger proportion of
crystalline water, CoCI,,6H,O, is produced at a low temperature, and
its colour is generally brown, in cold weather inclining to red.
     The formation of the dihydrate and the anhydrous compound was
beautifully shown in the following manner : A glass plate, upon
which was smeared a thin but even layer of the cobalt iodide, was
held in the rays of the electric light projected on to a screen. At
first nothing was to be seen, but on warming the plate a spot of
greenish yellow light appeared, and this spreading in every direction
showed itself to be a mass of green crystals ; the application of a little
more heat soon converted these into the black anhydrous compound.
     In the case of didymium nitrate a new line was seen to come into
existence. The instances of the third kind were frequently so altered
by heat, that the less refrangible group of rays was extinguished
partially, if not entirely. Cobalt and chromium compounds furnish
examples of this.
     Vol. VII. (No. 63.)                                              2 l

 464                            Mr. Hartley                     [April 30,
     The formation of different hydrates of the same salt, each of which
 has its characteristic colour, is very strikingly shown with bromide
 and iodido of cobalt ; thus a sketch of sea and sky is made with the
former, the liquid is pink, and not strong in colour, so that very little
 is seen until the paper be warmed, when tho most beautiful azuro
 tints appear. If carefully managed, the green anhydrous compound
 may be produced, and so give a greenish tinge to the sea. The red
 hexahydrate of cobalt bromide is first converted into the blue di-
 hydrate, and then into the green anhydrous compound. But an
 infinitely more astonishing change is that produced by warming a
 sketch of foliage and water made with the iodide and bromide of
 cobalt. It has the appearance of a warm-tinted sepia drawing, which
 gives the foliage quite an autumnal appearance. On warming, tho
 blue of the sky and water, together with exquisite green tints in tho
 foliage, appear. By varying the quantity of the cobalt iodide put on
 with the brush, colours varying between the most delicate green of
 spring-time, the full richness of summer, and all kinds of greenish
 brown autumnal tints, even black, may be produced. The atmospheric
 moisture re-forms the original hexahydrated salts, and tho colours
disappear when the paper gets cold again. Two sketches of this kind
were exhibited which resumed their original brown colour in the
 course of half an hour.
     It has been suggested, even quite lately, that when a salt such as
a chloride is dissolved in water, it is resolved into a hydrochlorate of
a metallic oxide, and that hydrated chlorides are always compounds
of this kind. Hence, when cobalt chloride is dissolved in water,
change from pink to blue might be owing to the alteration in the
dissolved compound, from a hydrochlorate of cobalt oxide to a cobalt
 chloride.
     The first step to be taken is the refutation of this. When a
solution of cobalt chloride, bromide, or iodide is dissolved in water, and
cold alkali, such as potash or soda added, the precipitate formed is
not, as one would expect, a hydrate or an oxide, but an oxy-chloride,
oxy-bromido, or oxy-iodide, showing that in solution the halogen is
still combined with the metal, and is only partially removed by the
more powerful base. Similar basic compounds are formed by pre
cipitating other cobalt solutions, such as nitrate.
     Equations I. and II. illustrate the supposed and possible decom
posing action of water on cobalt chloride, while III. and IV. show the
reactions with alkali which would consequently take place; but as
these latter do not represent the truth, it necessarily follows that the
former are incorrect.
                CoCl4 + ±ijU
             I. <Joui4   H,0 = CoO-2HCl.
                                uou-imui.
            II. rv.ni
            tt         + w
                CoCI, j-   n =
                         H,0 — CoO   j. 2HC1.
                                rnri +  <mro
           III. CoO-2HCl + 2KHO = CoOH,0 + 2KC1 + H,0.
           IV. CoO + 2HC1 + 2KIlO = CoO + 2KC1 + 2HsO.
     I. Hence we may conclude that when a salt is dissolved in water
it is not decomposed into a mixture of an oxide and an acid, nor does
a compound of the oxide with the acid result.

1875.]              on the Action of Heat out, Coloured Liquids.                465
     II. When a salt is dissolved in water it does not necessarily attain
its maximum state of hydration.
     This was long ago suspected by Dr. Gladstone, who, experimenting
with cupric chloride, found that a saturated solution of a deep green
colour became blue on the addition of water, and this blue became
green again upon heating. Furthermore, the blue liquid could be
turued to green by tho addition of strong hydrochloric acid. These
facts of course have been corroborated by spectroscopic observations,
and I have succeeded in obtaining others in support of this. Thus the
following saturated solutions change colour when diluted with from
four to seven times their bulk of water :
    Saturated Solution.                                Dilute Solution—Culour.
  Cupric chloride           Grass greet) ..      Blue.
     ,,   bromide           Deep red-brown       Yellowish green to azure blue.
  Nickel                    Dark mndder brown             „            apple green.
     „ iodide..             Yellowish brown . .
     As illustrations two cylinders were taken, one containing cupric
chloride, the other cupric bromide ; the former grass green, and the
latter deep brown. The colours were shown by swilling the liquid
round the sides of the vessels ; on dilution with about a quart of water
clear azure blue liquids were produced.
     A still more striking example is that of the cobalt iodide solution,
which is formed by allowing the dihydrate, or the anhydrous salt to
deliquesce ; it is of a deep green, and on dilution to a very small
extent becomes red.
     Kegnauld and also Person have shown that on diluting a saturated
solution of a salt, as a rule there is an absorption of heat. The latter
calls this tho latent heat of dilution. The former noticed one or two
 cases in which heat was evolved on dilution. There is every like
 lihood that this phenomenon is due to the formation of a liquid
hydrate. It is impossible of belief that accompanying such a circum
 stance there should be no measurable development of heat ; and
 these experiments have proved that in all cases when the change of
 colour consequent on dilution is great, the heat disengaged is very
 considerable. On diluting a solution of cobalt iodide till the
 red colour appears, the thermal eft'ect not only registers several
 degrees on an ordinary thermometer, but it may be perceived by the
 hand.
      The author has not yet completed any exact thermal measurements
 bearing on this matter, though some experiments have been made in
 this direction.
      III. When a hydrated salt is dissolved in water to form a saturated
 solution at the ordinary temperature its crystalline molecule remains
 chemically intact, except in certain exceptional cases, when it appears
 to lose water.
                                                                      2 l 2

466                           Mr. Hartley                      [April 30,
    The evidence bearing on this consists of the fact that most solu
tions of hydrated salt, if saturated, aro of the same colour as the solid
compound ; though in the state of dilute solutions on the one hand, or
of partial dehydration on the other, the colour may differ widely from
this. In support of this we have the case of cobalt chloride and
cobalt iodide, more especially the formation and behaviour of the
green solution of the dihydrate of the latter salt. The molecule of
the salt is neither hydrated nor dehydrated on solution, otherwise*
such salts as those named would change colour.
    An exceptional phenomenon is marked when cupric chloride,
cupric bromide, nickel bromide, and nickel iodide are dissolved in
water to saturation. Cupric chloride is a blue salt not deliquescent
or liable to absorb water from the air, but rather efflorescent, i. e. apt
to part with its water of crystallization ; hence, when the blue crystals
are dissolved in water they form a deep green liquid, which on dilution
becomes azure blue, this azure blue solution by heating again becomes
green. The remaining salts are of a yellowish green tint, but on dis
solving in as little cold water as possiblo they give intensely coloured
brown liquids. Cupric bromide crystals effloresce, losing 10 per cent,
of water, and becoming vory dark brown, nearly as possible black in
colour even in ordinary air, but in presence of moisture they are
deliquescent.
    Solution facilitates chemical change. Hence, when green cupric
bromide crystals arc dissolved in water the chemical attraction which
binds the one molecule of metallic bromide to the five molecules of
water of crystallization is so weakened that the cohesive attraction
of the mass of the solvent water overcomes the chemical attraction of
the crystalline water, and the resulting liquid is brown. When more
water, however, is added a reversion of this action takes place, and
the brown solution becomes green or blue.
    IV. When a salt forms two distinct crystalline hydrates, A and B,
at temperatures below 100° C, a saturated solution of A will, on
heating to 100°, become a solution of B ; at intermediate temperatures,
a mixture of these two compounds.
    This is inferred from the similarity in change of colour of a salino
solution to the change of colour in the solid when heated. Bromide
and chloride of copper, and, above all, iodide of cobalt, exhibit such
changes.
    The behaviour of this latter salt, which has been already men
tioned, cannot possibly be explained except by the assumption that
the hexahydrate, CoI,,6H4O, exists in the brown solution, and the
dihydrate, CoI,,,2H8O, in the green liquid produced from this by
heat. The action of heat on cobalt chloride is not so well defined ;
that it is caused by dehydration wo are certain, but whether the com
pound in solution is the dihydrate or the anhydrous cldoride is a
matter undetermined. It is not at all unlikely that the blue produced
by alcohol is due to the formation of an alcoholate, for the spectrum,
though very similar, is not quite identical with that of the hot aqueous

1875.J          on the Action of Heat on Coloured Liquids.           467
solution. An experiment made on the hexahydrate was incidentally
confirmatory of the action of water on the cupric chloride and
bromide. When this salt was dissolved nearly to saturation in abso
lute alcohol the liquid had the usual magnificent blue colour ; it was
put aside under a bell-glass for crystals to separate, these appeared at
the bottom of the deep blue liquid to be also of the same colour.
When removed, however, and pressed between folds of paper,
they had precisely the same composition and red colour as the
original salt. Hence, though water could not on solution remove the
water of crystallization from the salt, yet alcohol could do this, but
on crystallization the original crystalline hydrate was formed, as is
the case with cupric chloride and bromide.
    V. The effect of heat on what are called the purple chromium
solutions is not traced to dehydration, but to a distinct chemical
reaction which yields a distinct class of compounds.
    The violet or purple compounds of chromium have the general
formula Cr'"R, • a;H,O, or Cr,"'R"s-a;H./) ; when solutions of these in
water are heated to 100° C. there is formed a class of substances
which may be written thus, Gt^'OB^-xO/), and Cr,'"OR",-a;HiO, or
the first compounds may be said to contain the metal Cr'" as the base
of the compound, while the second contain the radical Cr,'"O. This
radical I would propose to call chromyl. just as UrO is called uranyl.
And it may then bc stated, that while the purple compounds aro salts
of chromium, tho green are salts of chromyl.
    This conclusion is derived more from the chemical behaviour
of these solutions than from thoir optical properties. Thus green
solutions having the same spectrum may be produced from tho
sulphate or nitrate—(1) by boiling a solution of the purple salt;
(2) by dissolving an excess of chromic hydrate in the purple solution ;
(3) by neutralizing with an alkali one-third of the acid in a solution
of the blue salts. 50™ of a boiled solution containing half a gramme
of the sulphate or nitrate of chromium will not give a precipitate if
boiled with two or three litres of water ; but when one-third of the
acid present has been previously neutralized, or when an excess of
chromic hydrate is dissolved in the blue solution, a basic salt is
thrown down on boiling with much water. This is exactly tho
behaviour characteristic of a salt described by Schrotter, to which he
assigns the formula CrsO,-2SO,, or which may bo written Cr„O"2SO,.
Loewel describes a similar chloride, which is formed at 100° C. ;
this he writes thus, Cr,,O, ' 4HC1, and the formula may be modified in
the following manner, Cr^O-C^^H,O. The modification has the follow
ing recommendation —that it explains the decomposition of the sub
stance when heated to a high temperature, which Loewel's formula does
not. At or about 300° C. the compound is resolved into a mixture
of the anhydrous violet compound of chromium and chlorine, CrCl,
or Cr^CL,, and tho anhydrous green oxide, Cr^Oa ; if the original salt
were a combination simply of hydrochloric acid with chromic oxide,
heating would drivo off the volatile acid and leave the oxide only, but

468              Mr. Hartley on the Action of Heat, Ac.     [April 30,
tho actual change indicates that the chromium and chlorine are in
direct combination.
    Having thus brought forward a now, if limited, application of
spectrum analysis to chemical research, it is only necessary to add
that the field of inquiry thus commenced is by no means exhausted.
It has lung been the writer's intention to add new facts to the study
of organic chemistry by examining the invisible photographic spectra
of colourless carbon compounds, but one pair of hands in the leisure
hours of a not too long vacation cannot keep pace with one's ideas.
                                                        [W. N. H.]

  1875.]                          Annual Meeting.                             469
                          ANNUAL MEETING,
                              Saturday, May 1, 1875.
        Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
      The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year 1874,
 testifying to the continued prosperity of the Institution and its effi
 cient management, was read and adopted.
      Sixty-four new Members were elected in 1874.
      Sixty-two Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were de
 livered in 1874.
      The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1874 amounted to about
 213 volumes, making, with those purchased by the Managers, a total
 of 347 volumes added to the Library in the year, exclusive of
 periodicals.
      Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
 the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the Professors, for
 their services to the Institution during the past year.
      The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers for
 the ensuing year :—
       President—The Duke of Northumberland, D.C.L.
       Treasurer— George Busk, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.
       Secretary—William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Treas.RS.
               Managers.                                  Visitors.
William Bowman, Esq. F.R.S.                 John Derby Allcroft, Esq.
Adm. Sir Henry John Codrington, K.C.B.      John R. Andrews, Esq.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.        John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
The Duke of Devonshire, K.G. F.R.S.
   Chanc. Univ. Camb.                       Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton, Bart.
Sir T. Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G.          Alexander John Ellis, Esq. F.R.S.
Francis Galton, Esq. F.R.S.                Thomas Hyde Hills, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Wm. Robert Grove, M.A.        Richard Liebreich, M.D. M.R.C.S.
   F.R.S. Just. C.P.                       William Longman, Esq. M.A.
Cfesar H. Hawkins, Esq. F.R.S.
Alfred Latham, Esq.                        A. C. Brisbane Neill, M.D.
The Lord Josceline W. Percy.               John Rae, M.D. LL.D.
William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.             The Rev. Arthur R'igg, M.A.
The Lord Rayleigh, M.A. F.R.S.             John Bell Sedgwick, Esq.
The Lord Arthur Russell, M.P.              James Spedding, Esq.
C. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.
Sir Charles Wheatstone, D.C.L. LL.D.       George Andrew Spottiswoode, Esq.
   F.R.S.                                  The Hon. John Gage Prendergast Vereker.

470                        General Monthly Meeting.                    [May 3
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, May 3, 1875.
George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
     The following Vice-Presidents for the              ensuing     year were
announced :
           The Duke of Devonshire, E.G.
           William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
           C. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.
           George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer.
           William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. Secretary.
       George Critchett, Esq. F.R.C.S.
       Constantine Ionides, Esq.
       Mrs. Samuel Joshua,
       Henry Joslin, Esq.
       The Right Rev. Charles Perry, D.D. Lord Bishop of Melbourne,
       Lieut.-Col. George Frederick Whitelocke,
 were elected Members of tho Royal Institution.
       John Tyndall, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
 was re-elected Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, vis. :—
 The Secretary of Slate for India—Indian Trigonometrical Survey Synopsis,
      Vols. II. and III. 4to. 1874.
 Director-General of the Geological Surrey—Mineral Statistics for 1872 and 1873.
      8vo. 1873-4.
   Memoirs. 2 Parts. 8vo. 1873.
 Geological Survey of India—Memoirs, Vol. X. Part 2 ; Vol. XI. Part 1. 8vo.
      1873-4.
   Records, Vol. VII. 8vo. 1874.
   Palseontologia Indica, Ser. X. 1. fol. 1874.
 Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Second Series, Vol. XI. Part 1.
      Index to Second Series, Vols. I.-X. 8vo. 1875.
 Aitronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXV. No. 5. 8vo. 1875.
 Cazalet, W. C. Esq.—Dr. J. F. Churchill ; Consumption and Tuberculosis : their
      Treatment by the Hyposulphites. 8vo. 1875.

1875.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         471
Chemical Society—Journal for April, 1875. 8vo.
Clarke, Hyde, Esq. (the Author)—Researches in Pre-historic and Proto-historio
     Comparative Philology, Mythology, and Archaeology. 8vo. 1875.
Dudgeon, P. Esq. (the Author)—Historical Notes on the Occurrence of Gold in
     the South of Scotland. (M 9) 4to. 1875.
Editors—American Journal of Science for March and April, 1875. 8vo.
   Athen°um for April, 1875. 4to.
   Chemical News for April, 1875. 4to.
   Engineer for April, 1875. fol.
   Journal for Applied Science for April, 1875. fol.
   Nature for April, 1875. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for April, 1875. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for April, 1875. 8vo.
   Practical Magazine for April, 1875. 4to.
   Telegraph Journal for April, 1875. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 590. 8vo. 1875.
Geographical Society, Uoyal—Proceedings, Vol. XIX. No. 3. 8vo. 1875.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1874. No. 16. 8vo.
   Jatirbuch, 1874. No. 4. 8vo.
Linnean Society—Journal, No. 79. 8vo. 1875.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIII. Part 10. 8vo. 1875.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Part 40. 8vo. 1875.
Meteorological Office—Report of International Meteorological Congress at Vienna,
     1874. 8vo. 1875.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Register, 1859-73.
      Jan. 1875. 8vo.
Roberts, W. Chandler, Esq. M.R.I.—Society for Photographing Relics of Old
      London : Six Photographs of the Oxford Arms, Warwick Lane. April, 1875.
Royal Society of London —Proceedings, No. 160. 8vo. 1875.
Smee, Alfred, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Mind of Man: being a
      Natural System of Mental Philosophy. 8vo. 1875.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXVIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1875.
Sieeetman, Walter, B.A. (the Author)-Through the Night. A Tale, &c. 2 vols.
      16to. 1869.
   Poems. 2 vols. 16tn. 1871-5.
   Thoughts on Free-Will. (K 101) 8vo. 1873.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      April, 1875. 8vo.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 79. 8vo. 1875.
 University of London—Calendar for 1875. 8vo.
 Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 32. 8vo. 1875.
 Wurzburg Physikalisch-Medicinische Gesellschaft—Sitzungsberichte, 1873-4. No. 1.
      8vo. 1875.

472                              Professor Cornu                             [May 7,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 7, 1875.
      George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                             Professor A. Cornu,
    PROFESSOR AT THE POLTTECHNIC SCHOOL, AND COUNCILLOR OF THE PARIS ORSERTATORT.
              On New Determinations of the Velocity of Light.
The old philosophers and astronomers, until Galileo, thought that
the propagation of light was instantaneous.
     Astronomical Determination of the Velocity of Light.—Bxemer, a
Danish astronomer, called to the Paris Observatory by the illustrious
Picard, after having computed from some old observations the eclipse
times of Jupiter's satellites, found great discrepancies between the
calculated and observed times : the eclipses appear too soon when
Jupiter approaches the earth and too late when it goes away. Roemer
ascribed these differences to the time necessary for the propagation of
light, and concluded from his observations that light requires about
eight minutes to come from tho sun to the earth.
     Bradley, one of the most illustrious English astronomers, seeking
 to put in evidence certain small annual motions of the stars caused by
the displacement of the earth in space annual parallax), found such
a motion, but quite different from the expected one. The apparent
deflection of the direction of a star—for instance, y Draconis, near the
pole of the ecliptic—-instead of being at every moment directed, as
expected, towards the centre of the terrestrial orbit (the sun), is
directed at a right angle. The greatest elongation (called aberration)
rises to 40 - 7" from six to six months. Bradley, after many attempts,
ascribed this effect to tho composition of tho velocity of light with the
velocity of the elliptic motion of the earth ;1728).
     From those observations, and from tho approximate knowledge of
the distance from the sun to the earth, the velocity of light was found
equal to about 200,000 English miles in a second, in other terms, one
million times the velocity of sound.
     Direct Determinations of the Velocity of Light were for a long
time considered as impossible, owing to the enormous value of this
velocity. The first solution was given by M. Fizeau (1849) by the
method of the toothed wheel.
    Induced by some considerations analogous to the celebrated acces
theory of Newton, M. Fizeau, one of the most illustrious members

 1875.]                  on the Velocity of Light.                     473
 of the Paris Academy, and recently elected Honorary Member of the
 Royal Society, succeeded in rendering perceptible and even measurable
 the duration of the propagation of light for a distance of a few miles.
     The principle of the method is the following :
     A beam of light passes through the interval between two teeth of
 a rotative toothed wheel (roue dentee) : this beam is reflected on a
 mirror rixed some miles distant, comes back exactly on the same line,
 and passes again through the same interval as before. An observer
 can receive this beam : he will see a luminous point, a luminous echo,
 through each hollow between two teeth : if the wheel revolves with
 an increasing speed the luminous impression will first become con
 tinuous. The wheel will soon revolve with sufficient rapidity to turn
 a small angle during the time necessary for the beam of light to go
and come back again. The angular velocity can be so regulated that
 tho solid part of a tooth is substituted for the hollow part during this
time ; then, on coming back, the beam will be obstructed by the
wheel. The same obstruction will take place at each tooth, and the
luminous echo will disappear.
     If the velocity of the wheel be doubled, the luminous point will
appear again, because the reflected beams will meet with the following
hollow and pass through. With a triple velocity a new extinction will
take place, as before.
     The following apparatus is necessary to produce the exact re
flexion of the beam :—At each station a telescope is directed to aim
at the centre of the object-glass of the opposite station. The beam of
light is sent through the first telescope : the pencil of rays, rendered
nearly parallel, is received by the second and concentrated in its focus,
and there reflected by a small mirror. After reflexion, the rays follow
exactly the same path, and come back at the very point they start
from. The observer can receive these return rays without bein<*
blinded by the source of light, by interposition of a piece of transparent
glass, which reflects a good part of these return rays.
     M. Fizeau's Experiment (between Suresne and Montmartre) was
made to prove that it was possible, not only to establish the duration
of the propagation of light, but also to measure its velocity without
the intervention of astronomical phenomena. The distance of the
stations was 8633™, about 5£ English miles. The number found by
M. Fizeau agreed sufficiently with the astronomical result to givo the
greatest confidence in the exactness of the method, when applied under
fair conditions. A new experiment was arranged with Arago in the
Paris Observatory, but Arago's death prevented the execution of this
design.
    Professor Cornu's Researches.—First experiments were made
between the Polytechnic School in Paris and Mont Valerien.
(Distance, 10310"', about 6£ English miles.)
    His researches were conducted with a view to improve the method
of the toothed wheel, in order to obtain the greatest exactness. The

474                          Professor Cornu                    [May 7,
chief difficulty for the practical application of this method is to
measure the angular motion or velocity of the wheel, to which the
velocity of light is directly compared. The simplest means would
have been, as in M. Fizeau's experiment, to give an uniform motion to
the wheel ; but such a motion is practically impossible to obtain, so
it was necessary to find another mode of measure. The principle of
the new improvement was the use of an electrical registering apparatus,
to register the continuous increase of motion of the wheel. With that
arrangement an exact uniform motion is no longer necessary, the
observer being able by a peculiar electric signal to point out the
instant at which the right velocity is obtained.
     The second improvement, and one very important for the exactness
of the method, is the substitution of a pair of observations of tho
return rays, when reduced to a determined feeble intensity, for the
single observation of a total extinction.
    These improvements, experimentally tried in 1872, gave tho
velocity of light as 298,000 kilometres per second. The probable
error does not rise to 1 per cent.
    Professor Gornu's New Determination was made between the Paris
Observatory and the tower of Montlhery. (Distance, 22910", about
14^- English miles.)
    A direct determination of the velocity of light was ordered at the
beginning of 1874 by the Council of the Paris Observatory, on the
proposal of M. Le Verrier, Director, and of M. Fizeau, Councillor.
The best conditions wero chosen for the optical and mechanical
apparatus, and the stations were placed at an increased distance.
One was erected upon the higher terrace of the Observatory, and
supplied with a telescope of O'SS™ (11 foot) aperture, and 9m (30 feet)
focal length. The telescope and the remainder of the apparatus
(toothed wheel, registering cylinder, clocks, &c.) were sheltered under
a large cabin constructed on purpose. The opposite station was
erected on the top of the tower of Montlhery ; it contains only a
reflexion telescope sheltered by a cast-iron tube.
    The experiments were made in the summer of 1874. The average
of 508 pairs of observations gave the velocity as 300,400 kilometres in
a second of mean time. The probable error appears not to exceed
one-thousandth.
    Second Solution for Direct Measurement of the Velocity of Light
was obtained by the method of the revolving mirror (1850) ; based on
the use of it by Sir Charles Wheatstone in his beautiful researches on
the Velocity of Electricity (1834). Arago, after an enthusiastic
account of these researches before the Paris Academy, showed how
the new apparatus might be adapted to solve some most important
problems of optics (1838), and specially to decide between the
emission and tho undulatory theory of light. He gave (April, 1850)
a full description of his own attempts on the subject, but he was not

1875.]                    on the Velocity of Light.                  475
able, through failing eyesight, to fulfil his design. Some days after,
the complete solution of the problem was brought before the Academy
simultaneously by Foucault and by MM. Fizeau and Breguet.
Foucault, in the year 1805, improved in several points the revolving
mirror method, and obtained a direct determination of the velocity of
light (298,000 kilometres).
     The principle of the experiment is as follows :—
     A beam of light reflected on a revolving mirror is normally
reflected by a fixed concave mirror, and comes back again on the
evolving one : daring the time of the propagation of light from the
first mirror to the second and back, the revolving mirror has suffered
a littlo angular motion; the new reflexion on it produces a small
deflection on the return beam ; from that deflection the velocity of
light can be computed.
     This method is certainly one of the most curious, but the deflec
tions are so small and the march of the rays takes place in such
extraordinary circumstances that it is difficult to ascertain the degree
of approximation of the result.
     Physical Importance of the Direct Determination of the Velocity of
Light. —Tho importance of the result is perhaps greater for those
physicists who occupy themselves with electricity than for those who
work on optics. The beautiful experiments and theories of Prof.
Maxwell, Sir William Thomson, &c., so clearly expounded by the
British Association Electrical Standard Committee, have shown that
tho velocity of light is a coefficient common to the undulatory waves,
and to tho mode of motion which is called electricity. Several
determinations, but purely electrical ones, have been made in England
of that coefficient, and the results agree as well as possible, in that
delicate matter, with the above-given value.
     Astronomical Importance of the same Determination. —Tho numbers
measuring the phenomena discovered by Roemer and Bradley, combined
with the approached distance of the sun to the earth, have a hundred
and fifty years ago furnished an approximate value of the velocity of
light. Now the progress of science requires an inverse march ; the
exact value of the velocity of light permits, by the inverted calculus,
the computation of the mean distance of the sun or the sun's parallax,
that is to say, the same element which is directly given by the
transit of Venus. Professor Cornu's last result, combined with
Delambre's equation of light (deduced from more than a thousand
observations of eclipses of Jupiter's satellites) or of Bradloy's
aberration value, which seems one of the best determined number,
agree exactly with the result obtained by M. Le Verrier in his
researches on planetary perturbations, and with the already known
results of tho last transit of Venus observations.
                                                               [A. C]

476                     Mr. Evans on the Coinage               [May 14,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 14, 1875.
       Georgk Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
     John Evans, Esq. F.R.S. F.S.A. Pres. G.S. Pres. Num. Soc.
        The Coinage of the Ancient Britons, and Natural Selection.
The speaker began by saying that he feared that the title of the
discourse might not at the outset appear to have that coherence
between its two parts which is so desirable in the foundation on
which a lecturer has to build. Ho hoped, however, that even by itself
a slight sketch of tho native coinage of this country, Rtniek at u
period when it had not as yet been brought under the Roman yoke,
might not be without interest. If in addition ho should be able to
 show that the succession of the types of tho coins followed certain
 laws, to a great extent analogous with those by which the evolution of
 successive forms of organic life appear to be governed, the two
 subjects would no longer seem to be incongruous. Should ho go on
to show that a recognition of the successive stages of development in
 the coinage was absolutely necessary for its being properly under
stood, and for placing the various coins in even approximately chrono
logical order, it would bo seen that instead of a want of coherence
 there was, in fact, an intimate connection between the two portions of
the subject.
     Coins are excellent indicia) of tho state of civilization of any
country. Thoy exhibit the condition of the arts, especially with
regard to the production of metals and metallurgy, aud tho skill of
the engravers. They also illustrate the amount of commerce as dis
tinct from barter, for the more numerous the denominations of tho
coins, the greater must have been the demand for them for the daily
necessities of life ; while their values and proportions, as compared
with those of neighbouring countries, and the character of the types
upon them, may illustrate the relations of a country to those around
it. The devices on the coins also frequently serve to throw a light
on the history and mythology of the countries in which they were
struck.
     Before proceeding to describe the coinage of ancient Britain, it

1875.]        of the Ancient Britons, and Natural Selection.        477
was thought desirable to notice some of the early accounts of this
country as given by Roman and Greek historians.
    The intercourse between Britain and the more highly civilized
nations of Southern Europe dates back to a remote period. So early
as the middle of the fifth century b.o. Herodotus excuses himself for
not being acquainted with the Cassiterides from which tin was
brought to the Greeks. In the middle of the fourth century B.C.
Aristotle makes mention of the Britannic Isles, Albion and Icrne ; and
again, in the second century r.o. Polybius apologises for not writing
about the Britannic Isles and the working of tin. It is not, however,
until the latter half of the first century r.c. that we obtain from
Diodorus Siculus and Strabo, both of whom wrote shortly after the
invasion of Julius Caesar, some more detailed accounts of Britain, its
customs and inhabitants. After giving some particulars of these
latter, the speaker more especially called attention to the history of
the commerce in tin, as given by these authors. Diodorus relates
how, after it had been converted into ingots and carried to the island
of Ictis — possibly St. Michael's Mount—it was purchased by mer
chants, who transported it to Gaul, through which country the tin
was carried on horses by a thirty <lays' journey to the mouth of the
lihone. Strabo states that the tin and lead also were bartered for
earthenware, salt, and bronze vessels, and that the traffic was carried
on principally by Phoenicians from Cadiz. He it is who relates the
aneedote of the Phoenician captain who, being followed by a Roman
ship in order to ascertain the route to Britain, deliberately ran his
vessel on a shoal, and received from the state the value of his cargo,
in return for not having divulged what was then a national secret.
    These relations have all the alipearance of having been derived
from some earlier sources, and are mainly important as showing the
amount of intercourse there must have existed between the Continent
and the extreme west of Britain.
    With regard to the actual condition of Britain at the time of tho
invasion of Julius, r.o. 55, we must look to the account of tho invader
himself, and the supplementary notices of other authors. At that
time a very considerable invasion of the warlike Belgic tribes from
the Continent had taken place, driving into the interior those who by
the tradition of the period were the indigenous race. In these Belgic
districts the names of the towns were often the same as those of the
continental homes of the settlers. The inhabitants were numerous ;
the buildings like those of Gaul ; there was an abundance of cattle ;
and though some animals, such as hares, common fowls, and geese
were not eaten, they were kept for amusement. The principal pro
ducts which are noticed are corn, cattle, gold, silver, and iron, skins,
slaves, and dogs, such as were used by tho Gauls in war. Kent was
the most civilized part, owing to its contiguity to the Continent.
    In the interior the inhabitants did not 60w corn, but lived on milk
and flesh, though they did not know how to make cheese, incredible
as this may appear to Welshmen. They had wives in common, and

478                     Mr. Evans on the Coinage                [May 14,
in many other respects there was a marked contrast between the
tribes on the southern and south-eastern coast and those of the in
terior.
    But though the former were so much more highly civilized than
the latter, there is one remark of Caesar which has caused many to
doubt the existence of any coinage among them. The passage, as
commonly received, is as follows : " Utuntur aut sere aut annulis
ferreis ad certum pondus examinatis pro nummis." " They use either
brass, or rings of iron adjusted to a certain weight, instead of money."
It has, however, been pointed out by the late Mr. Hawkins that the
passage is corrupt, and that in several MSS. thero is express mention
made of gold coins. But in addition to this, a letter to Cicero from
his brother in Britain speaks of a tribute in money having been
imposed upon the island " imperata pecunia " ; and from other authors
there seems reason to believe that a tribute was? actually paid.
    On any examination of the circumstances of the case, the absence
of a coinage in Britain appears in the highest degree improbable. There
was at the time of the invasion a remarkably close intercourse between
Gaul and Britain. During the Gallic war a league of Gaulish tribes
sent over to Britain for assistance. The news of Ctcsar's intended
invasion is reported to have been carried over to Britain by the
traders; no less than four ports are mentioned by Strabo as those
from which there was constant commerce to this country from the
Continent, and Divitiacus is expressly mentioned as having held
dominion ovor a considerable part of Britain as well as in Gaul.
Other facts might be cited ; but these suffice to show that if the use of
coins was known in Gaul—-and of this there is no question —it must
also have been known in Britain. So far therefore as this passage is
concerned we must regard it either as not containing tho original
statement of Caesar, or else as being based on some misrepresentation
of facts.
     That this is tho case is proved by the testimony of the coins them
selves. Throughout the whole of the southern and south-eastern part
of Britain, as far as a line joining the Severn and the northern part of
Yorkshire—that is to say, in those parts which wero once settled by
Belgic tribes, and the adjoining districts— coins undoubtedly of British
origin havo been found in considerable numbers.
     They are of two classes, uninscribed and inscribed, and in tho
names, types, and inscriptions on many of those of the latter class the
influence of contact with the Romans maybe traced. This class may,
indeed, for the most part be attributed to tho period between the
second landing of Julius, B.C. 54, and the conquest by Claudius,
a.d. 43-44, though some are of even later date.
    During this interval of rather less than a century there was much
intercourse between Britain and Rome, including, of course, tho
Roman province of Gaul. No doubt the annexation of Britain might
have taken place at an earlier period than it did, had not Augustus
purposely avoided extending the Roman Empire to Britain. More

1875.]          of the Ancient Britons, and Natural Selection.              479
than once, however, he was induced to undertake the task, though he
allowed himself to be diverted from it. On one of these occasions it
was by British ambassadors, who deposited offerings in the Capitol,
and are said by Strabo to have brought the whole island into friendly
connection with the Romans. The Britons, indeed, are said to have
agreed to pay duty on all exports and imports from or to Gaul, and
this was considered preferable to garrisoning the island.
     That Rome was here as elsewhere recognized as the mistress of the
world was evinced by Adminius, a son of Cunobelinus the British
chief, seeking refuge with Caligula, as did also ono Bericus at the
court of Claudius, and as had formerly another British prince at
the court of Augustus.
     It can therefore well be imagined that Roman art became known
in Britain, and that probably artists trained either in Italy or Gaul
settled in this country. It is certainly not surprising to find devices
borrowed from Roman coins superseding or modifying the more purely
native types.
     Although numerous British tribes are mentioned by early historians,
it is difficult in most cases to assign particular coins to them. This
is partly owing to the names of the tribes but rarely occurring upon
the coins, and partly to the difficulty in assigning exact limits to their
territories, which, from conquests or other causes, appear to have been
continually varying.
     It has therefore been thought safer to treat of the coins under the
head of districts rather than of tribes. The study of this class of
coins is to a certain extent like that of geology ; we have no written
history on which to rely, and the annals of the past have to bo recon
structed from the evidence of contemporary but dumb witnesses,
disinterred from the soil. With gold coins, the geographical range
of which is, as is well known, wider than that of those in the baser
metals, it is unsafe to argue from only one or two instances ; where,
however, numerous coins of any given type have been found, we are
able to fix their original home, and, by means of the types, to arrive
at some conclusion as to the chronological order even of uninscribed
coins.
     The coinage of the several districts was next described, and dia
grams of various specimens exhibited, some of which are reproduced
in the accompanying * plate.
     The inscribed coins of the western district, comprising Somerset
shire, Gloucestershire, and Wilts, and parts of adjoining counties,
give the legends BODVOC, CATTI, COMVX, VO-CORIO, EISV,
&c., which are of doubtful interpretation. There are also coins of a
prince ANTEDRIGVS, of which a specimen is engraved in Fig. 7.
     In the south-western district of Hampshire, Sussex, and western
Surrey, are found coins of Commius, an Attrebatinn chieftain mentioned
by Caesar, and of two of his sons, Tincommius and Verica. Many of
    * The drawings are taken from Evans's ' Ancient British Coins,' 8vo, 1864, to
the plates of which reference is also occasionally made.
     Vol. VII. (No. 63.)                                          . 2 m

480                     Mr. Evans on the Coinage                 [May 14,
these are executed in an artistic manner, and probably by foreign
engravers.
    The coins of a third son of Commius, Eppillus, are found in the
Kentish district, which embraces Kent and eastern Surrey, as are also
those of Amminus and Dubnovellaunus. This latter prince was
among those who came as suppliants to seek aid from the Emperor
Augustus, and his name is found under the forms DAMNO BEL-
LAVNVS and AOMNI2N BEAAAYNOS on the celebrated monument
of Ancyra. Figs. 23 and 29 show specimens of his coins.
    In the central district, comprising Bucks, Beds, Herts, Middlesex,
Essex, Northampton, and parts of neighbouring counties, numerous
coins have been found. The principal are those of Andocomius,
whose territory seems to have been in Bucks and Beds ; Tasciovanus,
whose capital was Verulam, now St. Alban's ; and his son Cunobelinus
—the Cymbeline of Shakspere—whose capital was Camulodunum,
now Colchester. Coins of Tasciovanus and Cunobelinus are shown in
Figs. 16 and- 8, but there exists a vast variety of other types in gold,
silver, and copper, many of which are distinctly copied from contem
porary Roman coins.
    The eastern district of Norfolk, Suffolk, and some part of the
adjoining counties, appears to have been occupied by the Iceni. The
coins are principally in silver, but there are gold coins of a chief,
Addedomaros (Figs. 10 and 11), and also some uninscribed gold coins,
such as Figs. 12 and 13.
    The Yorkshire district comprises parts of the adjacent counties to
the south, and was mainly occupied by the Brigantes. The legends
on the coins, VOLISIOS, DVMNO-CO VEROS; VEP. CORF, &c.,
have as yet defied interpretation. Some coins from this district are
shown in Figs. 26, 27, and 28.
    Taken as a whole, the series of inscribed coins bears witness to a
considerable degree of civilization prevailing in Britain, especially in
the parts most nearly adjacent to the Continent. Not only are there
numerous and varied types skilfully engraved, but the different deno
minations of the coins show that the requirements of trade were by no
means inconsiderable. Taking, for instance, the currency under
Tasciovanus, we find a larger gold coin, weighing about 84 grains, and
a smallor, representing one quarter of its value. There is but one
denomination of silver coins, a small piece weighing about 20 grains.
In copper, however, there are coins of three sizes, intended to weigh
about 68, 34, and 17 grains respectively. So that about the Christian
era there were current at Verulam, for the purposes of internal trade,
no less than six denominations of coins.
    The second class of coins, the uninscribed, occur also in the three
metals, gold, silver, and copper, as well as occasionally in tin.
     In many cases they appear to have been current at the same time
as the inscribed coins, as they are found in the same hoards ; but
for the most part they appear to belong to an earlier date. In
some parts of Britain, however, thero docs not appear to have ever

1875.]       of the Ancient Britons, and Natural Selection.         481
been an inscribed coinage. Among the gold coins, and not unfre-
quently among those in the other metals, there is a great general
similarity of type on one or both faces. On the obverse there is
usually a wreath in some form or other, and on the reverse a horse
more or less distinctly portrayed; and this circumstance at once
points to a derivation of the different varieties of type from some
common source.
    Two questions are therefore suggested : 1. What is this prototype
or source ? and 2. What are the laws which seem to govern its modi
fications ?
    Fortunately the prototype of many of the derivatives is readily to
be recognized in the coins like Figs. 2 and 3 in the Plate, which are
found over the whole of the south-east of Britain, though they would
appear to be most abundant in Kent. The parentage of this British
prototype can also readily be traced. There can be no doubt of its
being a descendant from the Philippus—the gold slater of Philip II.
of Macedon.
    Nor is it difficult to see in what manner a type from so remote a
country as Macedonia travelled to Britain. The close intercourse
between that country and Gaul has already been mentioned, and in
Gaul a coinage had existed for several centuries B.C. The knowledge
of the art of coining seems to have been introduced from Massilia—
now Marseilles —a Phocaean colony founded about r.o. 600, and from
other Greek colonies founded in the south of France. The silver
coins of Massilia were at an early period imitated in the surrounding
districts, but until the latter half of the fourth century B.C. the
currency of gold coins among the Greeks was limited in extent.
     About r.c. 356, however, the gold mines of Crenides or Pbilippi
were acquired by Philip II., and were soon made to yield an amount
of gold equivalent to nearly 250,OOOZ. per annum. An enormous
extension of the gold coinage was a natural result, and the staters of
Philip became current all along the coasts of the Mediterranean, and
were soon seized on as objects for imitation by those who, like tho
 Gauls of southern France, were on the borders of Greek civilization.
The extension northwards through Gaul must soon have followed, and
the transition thence into Britain was a natural consequence.
     Though intermediate types exist between the Philippus, Fig. 1,
and what is termed the British prototype, Figs. 2 and 3, it is needless
to adduce them, the modifications which the types have undergone
not preventing their original identity from being apparent, though
they are by no means inconsiderable in extent.
     On the obverse the laureate head of Apollo, or, as somo have
thought, of the young Hercules, has received additions in the shape
of a bandlet round the head and a gorget on the neck, not improbably
to give it the attributes of some more purely Gallic divinity. The
 wreath and hair have been reduced into a regular system, the back
 hair being rendered by a series of flowing locks all of one pattern,
 and the front hair by three open crescents. On the reverse, which
                                                          2 m 2

482                     Mr. Evans on the Coinage                [May 14,
originally commemorated the victories of Philip at Olympia, the
charioteer has grown wings, but her body, forearms, and whip have
become represented by a series of dots or pellets, the wheel of the
chariot only at times survives, and the two horses have become amal
gamated, though the legs are often bifid in remembrance of the
original duality of the animal. All traces of the name <MAHIIIOY
have disappeared.
     Starting with this British prototype, the next question is as to the
laws which regulate its farther modifications, and how they are allied
to those of natural selection. It is hardly necessary to enter at any
length upon the theory of this form of evolution with which the name
of Darwin will ever be associated. It is, however, desirable to givo a
brief summary of some of its principal features.
     In successive generations of animals and plants, though the off
spring as a rule absolutely resembles the parents, thero is always a
tendency to variation, so that forms in some degree varying from the
parent form are from time to time liable to make their appearance.
     If in the struggle for existence these new varieties possess any.
advantage over the forms already in being, they are likely to be per
petuated, though for a length of time there is a liability in their
progeny to revert in tho direction of the earlier form.
     Even long after some organ, owing to modifications in tho mode of
life, has ceased to be of service to the organism, it frequently survives
in what is known as a rudimentary form.
     Moreover, the degree in which a variety or modification is advan
tageous, and therefore likely to be perpetuated, is to a great extent
dependent on external conditions, the changes in which afford oppor
tunities for new forms to prove their utility.
     No doubt this theory of descent with variation holds good with
regard to most of the appliances of man ; but it is more especially
with regard to the changes in the types of coins, and in other orna
mental devices among people in a low stage of culture, that we can
trace laws somewhat analogous to those of natural selection. To the
evolution of culture Colonel Lane Fox has devoted especial attention,
and the present discourse is restricted to one special class of coins,
though similar results to those which are found in Britain might be
observed in the early coinage of some other countries.
     The necessities of the caso with regard to coins are : 1. That the
successive issues or generations of coins should resemble each other
siifliciently to pass current together; but, 2. Art being imperfect,
there must have been more or less important variations and modifica
tions in the successive dies which were engraved. This tendency to
variation was increased by the necessity of the dies being rather
larger in diameter than the coins which were struck from them, so
that the new dies were often copied from coins not showing the whole
of the device. They were also frequently copied from coins worn by
circulation, and in many instances the external influence of the intro
duction of foreign artists made itself powerfully felt. 3. When not


&.
%&*
    EVOLUTION

1875.]         of the Ancient Britons, and Natural Selection.        483
disturbed by this foreign element, the requirements which the types
had to fulfil in order to be perpetuated were, in addition to the neces
sary resemblance to the pre-existing types, a, that they should be of
easy execution ; and b, that they should present symmetry of form.
    It is well known that the natural instincts of man seem to lead
him in all parts of the world to the adoption of simple and symme
trical forms of ornament ; while in all stages of culturo the saving of
trouble and the production of the greatest amount of show at the least
possible expenditure of labour, is an object of universal desire.
    Thus among the ancient Britons the reduction of a complicated
and artistic design into a symmetrical figuro of easy execution, was
the object of each successive engraver of the dies for the coins, though
probably they were themselves unaware of any undue saving of
trouble on their part, or of the results which ensued from it.
    In devices modified in the manner suggested, it may well be
expected that wo should find some portions of the original devices
surviving in a merely rudimentary form, nor need we be surprised if
from timo to time we find a tendency to revert in the direction of the
prototype.
     The descent of some of the types of British coins was next traced
by means of diagrams, some of which are reproduced in the accom
panying Plate.
     The principal features in the prototype, Figs. 2 and 3, are on the
obverse, the wreath, the cross-band, the gorget, the back hair, which
on Fig. 2 is arranged in one row instead of two, the front hair, and
the face.
     The latter, being difficult of execution and near the edge of the
coin, is the first part to disappear, though it often survives in a rudi
mentary state as a mere swelling, like that on Figs. 4 and 5. Passing
by some intermediate steps, it will be seen that by the time the stage
represented by Fig. 14 is reached, the head has become reduced to a
somewhat symmetrical pattern. The wreath is the main feature, but
runs in two directions from a central boss ; the bandlet and the upper
portion of the gorget form a cross line to the wreath. The back hair
has been simplified into two large locks, one on each side of the
bandlet ; and only one crescent of the front hair survives. In another
stage, two crescents back to back have come to occupy the centre of
the wreath, while the cross line has become developed into a second
wreath at right angles to the first, and the whole device assumes tho
form of a cruciform ornament, in which the human bend is difficult of
recognition. On an examination of Fig. 9 it will, however, be seen
that three of the angles of the cross are occupied by the gorget, some
locks of the back hair, and a crescent representing the front hair, all
in their proper positions. In Pig. 15 tho artist has thought it suffi
cient to fill up each of tho angles with locks of the back hair; and in
 Fig. 10 tho ornaments in the angles are a V-shaped representative of
 the gorget, and a crescent of the front hair, with pellets and annulets
 symmetrically arranged around them. Each of tho four branches of

 484                      Mr. Evans on the Coinage                [May 14,
  the cross wreaths starts from a ring ornament, or a ring containing a
  pellet ; and it seems probable that the artist who executed this cruci
  form device was unconscious of the fact that ho was engraving the
 head of Apollo. When once this cruciform stage was attained, farther
  simplification becamo easy, of which examples are seen in Figs. 10
 and 17. Fig. 18 gives another variety, in which the centre is occupied
 by a circular ornament instead of the crescents, and assists in showing
 how the ultimate descendant from the head, a sort of four-leaved
 flower, as seen on Fig. 19, was developed.
      In other lines of descent the wreath retained its predominance,
 but there was still the tendency to develop a symmetrical ornament.
 This is illustrated in Figs. 20, 25, 26, and 27, the two latter of which
 show coins from the Yorkshire district. Another coin from the same
 district, Fig. 29, retains a small part of the original device, but little
 altered except by enlargement, so that three locks of back hair and
 a small portion of tho wreath suffice to fill the field.
      In another line of descent the wreath survived, modified in the
 same manner as on the coins with the cruciform devices, with the
 croscents either in the centre or at the side of the wreath, as in Figs.
 23 and 24. In Fig. 29, copied probably from a worn coin, there is
 merely a raised band across the field, marking the position of the
 wreath ; and in Fig. 22 the field is perfectly plain but convex, though
 the reverse is identical with that of Fig. 21, which shows the head on
 tho obverso.
     In another class of coins, which belong to the eastern district, the
 central crescents become the principal features. These arc somewhat
 ornamented on tho coin of Addedomaros with the cruciform type,
 Fig. 10, but form the whole device on another coin of the same prince,
 Fig. 11. On Figs. 12 and 13 other symmetrical modifications, with
 large crescents in tho centre, are shown.
     On other coins, as on those of the western district, the wreath alone
is preserved, but in a form somewhat resembling a fern leaf (see
Figs. 6 and 7). On the coins of Cunobelinus, when Roman art had
attained great influence in Britain, it reappears as an ear of bearded
corn.
     On the reverses of the coins the fact of the device being a horse
was rarely forgotten, although it came to be represented in a curiously
disjointed manner, which saved the engraver much trouble. In
Fig. 28 this conventionalized horse has its peculiarities perhaps carried
to an extreme. In Fig. 5 another variety is shown, in which great
importance seems to have been attached to the representation of the
four legs. This form prevailed in Dorsetshire and the neighbouring
counties. In most cases, however, when the artist who engraved the
dies possessed sufficient skill, there was a reversion towards the
original horse.
     A remarkable metamorphosis of the horse is illustrated in the
annexed woodcut. Tho upper figure shows a derivative from the type
of the charioteer, which can be traced through ' Evans,' Pl. E, 9, and

 1875.]        of the Ancient Britons, and Natural Selection.           485
 allied coins up to ' Evans,' PI. D, Nos. 3 and 4, though several of the
links are missing. When the type was placed before a Roman engraver
it must have been difficult for him to understand its
 meaning. The general resemblance to a full face with
 wings above is, however, evident, and there can be but
 little doubt that some classical artist reproduced it as
 the head of Medusa on the coin engraved below. One
 thing is certain, that the coins of the two types are found
together.
     In another descendant of the Philippus not shown in
 tho Plate, the wreath and hair become represented by a
 series of diverging lines, and from a coin of this kind it
 appears probable that the vine-leaf on the coins of Verica ('Evans,'
 PI. II. 9) was derived. Such a complete change of the human head,
 might appear incredible, but there are other instances. The close
 resemblance of the types of the first two coins in tho annexed cut is
evident, though the general device is in one case turned to the right
and in the other to tho left. The third coin shows that the device on
the second is a boar, and on turning the page round at a right angle
it will be seen that on the first is portrayed a human head in profile.
These are silver coins from the eastern district.
     It was thought needless to show the derivation of numerous types
of coins belonging to the latter part of the series from Roman originals,
and the bearing of the development of type upon the classification of
the coins was next discussed.
     As a rule those most distant from the prototype in character are
the latest, though, of course, regard must be had to the locality to
which the coins belong, as the districts nearest Gaul were exposed
to different conditions from those more remote.
     But, beside the succession of types, there is another important guide,
which also results from a law that appears to be natural to all absolute
governments which strike coins, if not indeed to other ruling powers.
This is the great law of effecting economy at the expense of others,
and is carried into effect by striking coins of the same denomination
as those already in circulation, but either of less weight, or of baser
alloy, or both.
     In England we have been fairly free from the operation of this
law, but our silver penny weighs but 7^ grains, instead of the real
" pennyweight " of 24 grains. In Scotland, however, before the
Union, the diminution in weight had been carried so far that the

486                     Mr. Evans on the Coinage                [May 14,
 pound Scots was tho equivalent of only one shilling and eightpence
English. But for the successful application of this law the palm must
be awarded to Franco, where the franc or livre, and its parts, the sou
and denier, are the direct descendants from the same stock as our
£. s. d.
     We have already seen how in many respects the ancient Britons
were far removed from that barbarism with which they are so commonly
credited, and certainly they understood that part of the art of govern
ment which relates to a tampering with the currency, remarkably well.
     Tho coins which have been termed the British prototypes are of
 remarkably fine gold, and weigh from 110 to 120 grains, the weight
 of the original Philippus being about 133 grains. Those which come
 nearest to this prototype, as, for instance, those of the types Figs. 4,
 5, and 20, usually weigh from 95 to 100 grains. Coins like Figs, 14, 21,
and 22 are commonly about 90 grains in weight. The coin engraved
as No. 9 weighs about 86 grains, and by tho time tho cruciform orna
ment was established the weight was brought down to about 84 grains,
at which point it became permanent, or nearly so, though the gold
 was reduced in purity to such an extent that many coins, like Fig. 27,
 and of analogous types, do not contain a quarter of pure gold.
     It is evident that such a reduction as that from 120 to 84 grains
could not have been sudden. It is far more probable that it was
effected by gradual and almost insensible alterations, as is indeed
suggested by tho varying weights of the coins.
     Taken in conjunction with the type, the diminution in weight may
give some idea as to the time necessary for the changes in the coinage
to have been effected. The date of the Philippus is known, as is also
that of some of the ancient British coins ; and we may either take the
amount of time necessary for the degeneration of the Philippus to the
form of the British prototype, or for the metamorphosis of this latter
into some other type of ascertained date, or both these means, to
assign an era for the commencement of the British coinage.
     There are coins of Commius and his sons of much tho same type
as Fig. 21, but weighing only 84 grains; and as Commius was a con
temporary of Julius, they probably date about 30 or 40 r.o.
     Dubnovellaunus, again, some of whose coins are given in Figs. 23
and 20, was a contemporary of Augustus, whoso protection he appears
to havo sought about r.o. 21 or 22.
     Cunobelinus died about a.d. 40, and as his reign was of long
duration, as was also that of his father, Tasciovanus, the date of r.o. 30
assigned for tho commencement of the rule of Tasciovanus, is probably
not far wrong. One of his early coins is shown in Fig. 16.
     Taking a hundred and twenty years as tho time necessary for the
change in weight and type from the British prototype to tho coins
just mentioned, tho date r.o. 150 would be assigned to the prototype.
On the assumption that the Philippus was first initiated in tho south
of Gaul about B.C. 300, this would give a hundred and fifty years as
the period for the change from Fig. 1 to Figs. 2 and 3.

1875.J         of the Ancient Britons, and Natural Selection.        487
     If the reduction in weight took place at a uniform rate, and
commencing with 133 grains in r.o. 300, came down to 84 grains in
B.C. 30, the weight of the prototype, 120 grains, would be reached about
r.o. 229 ; but this is probably too early. Looking, however, at the
stage of evolution to which the coinage had attained within but a few
years after the invasion of Julius, there can be no doubt of the use of
money having been known in Britain long before his time.
     In conclusion, a hope was expressed that the value of these coins
as throwing light on one of the obscurest portions of the history of
this country had been made evident, as also that in their interpreta
tion, the recognition of some laws of development analogous to a great
extent with those of natural selection, afforded no mean assistance.
     Under any circumstances, the author trusted that a more favour
able impression of our ancestors or predecessors in this country at
the time of Cwsar's invasion had been created than that which com
monly prevailed. He hoped they would no longer be regarded as the
merest savages, " who stained themselves blue, sat under the mistletoe,
and indulged in obscene rites," and who burnt the living in wicker
baskets, instead of, in accordance with modern views, burying their
dead in those useful articles, for the manufacture of which Britain
was famous even in Roman times.
                                                               [J. E.j

488                    Mr. James Baillie Hamilton              [May 21,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 21, 1875.
   William Spottiswoode, LL.D. Treasurer, Secretary, and Vice-
                         President, in the Chair.
                     Jakes Baillie Hamilton, Esq.
             On the Application of Wind to String Instruments.
The ^Eolian harp is an instrument played upon by the wind uncon
trolled by human agency. The sounds thus produced, though wild
and fitful, are so impressive and peculiar, that when we hear similar
sounds or produce such by accident or design, we immediately identify
 them and characterize them by the name iEolian.
     The well-known sounds thus produced, although useless for
musical purposes, have long shown the capabilities of wind and strings,
and have excited in many minds the desire to reduce these .3Dolian
sounds to human control. In order to gain control the draught would
be increased by a bellows or other artificial means, and concentrated
upon the string by approximating the surfaces between which it lies,
until nothing was left but a narrow slit, corresponding to the string's
dimensions. Power and control would certainly be gained, but the
intermittent closing of the slit by the string would produce only a
reedy effect, and the pleasing features of the tEolian tone would be
lost. If, however, this slit was reduced to a small portion of the
string's length, the remainder of the string would be free from this
defect, and subject to control by the finger or other means. The por
tion on which the wind impinged would, moreover, be flattened so as
to offer more resistance to the draught.
     These have been the steps generally adopted by all those who have
attempted to gain any musical results from wind and string, and the
means employed by them may be described as a string excited by a
current of air concentrated on a flattened portion of its length,
generally at or near the end.
    Many years ago Mr. John Farmer, our organist at Harrow School,
substituted the tongue of a harmonium reed for this flattened portion
of the string, and showed that the remainder of this compound string
could be played upon like the string of a violin. Before the comple
tion of an instrument a further knowledge of the laws affecting reeds
and strings was of course essential. But Mr. Farmer will show to
you this evening what can be done by substituting for a bow the
action of wind upon a reed. And it is clear that as long as a reed
and string are used in combination, whatever results may be achieved
and whatever modifications be necessitated, Mr. Farmer must be
regarded as their original author.

 1875.]      on the Application of Wind to String Instruments.              489
     The reed plays such an important part in all experiments shown
 to-night that it may be well to describe at once the kind here em
 ployed. It is a "free reed," such as is used in harmoniums and kindred
 instruments. It consists of a tongue of metal vibrating from a root,
 and having a definite pitch. It lies over a frame which leaves a hole
 corresponding to the surface of the tongue, the fixed end of the tongue
 being riveted to this frame. If this tongue be plucked it affords a note
 of a certain pitch. This note is sustained in reed instruments by a
 draught of air ; but in order that this draught may allow the vibration
of the reed-tongue it is necessary to create true suction upon it by
 allowing some tube or channel to follow the reed-tongue. The mere
frame of the reed acts as a rudimentary channel ; and it will be seen
on blowing a reed with the lips that the draught must always tend
towards the frame, unless indeed the reed be preceded by some tube or
cavity which allows of its vibration. But, as a rule, it is found more
convenient to allow true suction to be formed by a channel following
the reed. Accordingly, in harmoniums where pressure is employed,
the air escapes from a common chest past the reed, and then through
a channel. But when suction is employed, as in American organs,
the air enters past the reed and its rudimentary channel into the
general cavity. In both cases the pallet or valve succeeds the reed.
    The following diagrams will help to explain the action of the
draught on the reed in these instruments.
                              o
                                              A.1
                                                -^
                                                           \
                        1                     II II ¦
                                             PRESSURE
                       Harmonium where pressure ia used.
                li, reed.          C, channel.          P, pallet.
                            I
                                            r        R
                                                      i
                          1                C             1
                                           \
                     SUCTION
                                American Organ.
   These drawings are only diagrammatic, as the modifications now used are very

490                        Mr. James Baillie Hamilton                  [May 21,
    The mode of connecting reed and string now adopted is a rigid
pin passing from the free end of the reed-tongue to the string. The
reed and string may thus be on different levels, and enjoy the con
ditions which suit them best respectively.
    The following diagrams show the arrangements necessitated by
this mode of connection.
                      These drawings are only diagrammatic.
               s, string.                      P, connecting-pin.
               '/, bridge.                     J!, reed.
               8, soundboard.
           The arrows indicate the direction of the draught.
  /I\                           Itr-                     ,a          7W
                                                         /- PALLCT,
                                                           CLOS INC CHANNEL
                                       V
    1. Suction. In this case no new arrangements are necessitated as
regards the reed in order to allow its connection with the string. But
in the case of pressure (2) it will be seen that a channel intervenes
between reed and string, accordingly the piu passes through this
channel, which is preserved air-tight by a " purse," which allows the
required movement of the pin which it surrounds.
          REED                                   S™'Na
    The original mode of connection may bo thus represented, and
illustrates most conveniently the way in which the reed enters into
the constitution of the string so as to alter the intervals obtainable
from it. Unlike a bow, whose weight does not affect the intervals of
the string which it moves, the reed forms part of the string which
it excites, and if a string were set at the same length and tension
in conjunction with a succession of reeds, the proportional lengths
corresponding to given intervals would alter with every reed
applied.
    [Large diagrams exhibited upon the walls were here referred to.
The diagrams showed that, taking strings of different calibre and with
uniform tension upon them, each string being 64 inches in length, the

  1875.]        on the Application of Wind to String Instruments.                   491
  relations of lengths to musical intervals as in a free string plucked,
  were not maintained, thus :
                                              The Third The Fourth The Fifth The Octave
                                                 at         at        at         at
                                                 In.        in.   |   in.        in.
  A string giving at 64 inches the 16 feet)
     C when connected with a reed of same J      51         48        40        23
    pitch gave when shortened to . . . . |
  Simihirly connected reed and string pro-\      50*        47*
     ducedl6feetE                          J,                         41        26
  Ditto, ditto, 8 feet G 8                       51         47       40*        22
 Also showing that when under slackened tension the string divided
 into two segments, the free segment was always of greater length than
 the segment connected with the reed. In the instances above, measure
 ments respectively were :
            The free segment 34 inches as against reed segment 30 inches.
 Every combination of reed and string having variable ratios according
 as the power of one or the other preponderates. )
      Musicians will recognize these divisions as different from those
 of free strings. There is a point, however, more interesting than
 intervals, and that is, the qualities of tone resulting from this com
 bination of reed and string. It is hardly necessary to speak of the
 numerous varieties of tone obtainable from either of these sources
 separately. The stops of harmoniums and reed organs show how
many varieties of tone may be obtained from reeds with the most
 rudimentary channels and appliances ; and the varied qualities of
strings are equally remarkable according to their calibre, soundboard,
and mode of excitation. But it might be supposed that the tones
afforded by their combination must be either that of a string or reed,
according as either element predominated. A single experiment will
remove any such impression. Here is a very large reed combined
with a very small and short string ; also a small reed with a very
long one : yet the former gives a pure clean tone indistinguishable
from this organ pipe (an open metal diapason) which I try against it,
whilst the latter, in spite of the predominance of the string, gives a
comparatively coarse and reedy effect. The real varieties of tone
and their causes are due mainly to the following simple facts, which
may be expressed almost in a tabular form :
     In free reeds, as a general rule, large excursions of the tongue tend
to produce reedy, coarse, and striking tones ; small excursions, more
pure and soft and massive. For example, here are two reeds precisely
similar, only the tongue of one of them is confined by a spring, so as

492                    Mr. James Baillie Hamilton                 [May 21,
artificially to render its vibrations of small amplitude : the difference
in purity of tone is at once apparent.
    In strings, flexibility promotes large excursions, — rigidity, small
excursions ; the flexibility or rigidity of the string being determined by
its relative length, tension, or calibre. If a given reed were connected
with a flexible string, and then with a rigid one, the result of the first
combination would be a tone of the nature of a reed-pipe, and the
second of a flue-pipe in an organ.
     This is of course a very general description, for the gradations of
flexibility of strings and of tones in these two great classes of organ
pipes are in both cases very numerous.
     But the main results may be illustrated by the following experi
ment : Hero are two reeds affording by themselves, as you hear, a note
of the same pitch. These are now attached to two different kinds of
strings. The first is a thin wire a foot long, at a moderate tension, so
that it comes under the head of flexible strings. The result is a note
somewhat of the trumpet character, loud, brilliant, and reedy. The
other and similar reed is attached to a wire at the same tension, which,
however, is three feet long, and six times the calibre of the other.
Though this is also a flexible string, the result is different, for the
 weight of the string seems to regulate the vibrations of the reed very
 much according to its own natural movement ; consequently tho
 excursions of the reed are in no way exaggerated, and the result is a
 decided string tone, free from all reedy character. Again, here are
 two strings affording a similar pitch ; they are both a foot long, and of
 tho calibre of a pianoforte string about the middle of the scale. They
 are both at a somewhat high tension. To tho first is attached a largo
 reed of a very low pitch, many octaves below the note of the string,
 and that of the combined tone now afforded, which is of a soft,
 massive character, such as characterizes the flue-pipes of an organ.
     In this case the naturally large and powerful vibrations of the
reed are simply confined and transmitted to the soundboard by the
small rigid string. The tone of the reed is thus completely purified,
and the displacement of air which its naturally large excursions would
have caused, is far more than replaced by tho action of tho sound
board. The other similar string is attached to a reed far nearer to
its own pitch, whoso tono it purifies and intensifies in the same way.
But as there is a more perfect sympathy existing between their natural
note of vibration, the result is a note equally pure, but more rich and
cloying, differing from the other as the note of a French horn differs
from that of a stopped flue-pipe. On these simple causes four main
sources of variety of tone depend.
     All theso experiments aro mado under the same conditions of reed
channel and soundboard. But when it is remembered that any one of
them can be modified as it stands, by the simple treatment which
affects reeds, and the arrangement of soundboard which affects strings,
it will be seen that any one of them can be multiplied by tho causes
that affect either reeds or strings so as to afford distinctive qualities,

1875.]       on the Application of Wind to String Instruments.       493
and that these qualities may be further combined and merged into
each, so as to afford all the gradations between trumpet and horn, and
flute and voice and string.
      In all these experiments, and in the wind violin, the string com
bined with the reed vibrates in a single segment. But if the string
were prolonged on either side it would resolve itself into three seg
ments. Here is such a note ; on comparing it with this diapason pipe,
its sweetness and intensity are apparent. It will be seen that in this
case the string is thus resolved, the nodes and segments being very
clear and well defined.
      The two terminal segments are equal, whilst that to which the reed
 is attached is shorter.
      This resolving of the string into segments is now unnecessary for
 the production of a good tone. But it had at one time an important
 influence upon the development of reed and string, both as affording
 encouragement by the tones obtained, and by indicating optically the
 direction in which results were to be looked for. For there was a
 time when the only results that could be shown were a few notes
 produced violin fashion on a single string. And before liberty and
 means could be gained for developing Mr. Farmer's principle, it was
 necessary that something essentially remarkable as sound should be
 produced. In the search for this, the best results always occurred
 when the string was thus resolved, and for it a perfect sympathy of reed
 and string was thus secured, which the most deliberate arrangement
 can hardly surpass when one segment alone is used.
       The notes thus obtained produced the desired effect, and many
 celebrated musicians and savants urged the prosecution of experiments.
 Sir Fred. Ouseley was one of the first to declare that as far as sound
 went the matter was worth prosecuting to the uttermost. Lord
  Lindsay then kindly set his laboratory at the disposal of the under
  taking, and it has been there that notes obtained by a kind of natural
 coincidence, and slow of speech and difficult to control, have become
  systematized deliberately and rendered prompt and simple in their
  action. And if reeds and strings fulfil what they seem to promise,
  it will be due to the generosity and patience of many men.
       Before explaining the musical results obtainable from reed and
  string instruments, it may be as well to deal with some difficulties
  which may have been anticipated.
       When used as a wind violin, no difficulties present themselves
  except that of arranging the strings and intervals so as best to suit
  the performer. But when used in a rigid instrument, two difficulties
  at once suggest themselves: 1st, the notes might not respond to
  the touch ; 2nd, they might go out of tune.
       As regards the first difficulty, anyone is welcome to satisfy him

 494                   Mr. James Baillie Hamilton                 [May 21,
 self. And it may seem remarkable that the most rigid strings
 ensure as a rule the most perfect promptness, and the better the note
 the quicker its speech, any delay being due to a want of that sym
 pathy between string and reed, which necessarily requires long
 study to establish.
      But it might naturally appear that an instrument partially com
 posed of strings might share their liability to alter in pitch. At one
 time it was determined to obviate this by using a string which should
 be insensible to changes at tension within certain limits.
     It may be noticed that an elastic band extended and plucked does
 not alter its pitch until its elasticity is nearly exhausted by tension,
 when it alters rapidly. Hero is an elastic string in metal forming
 apparently a solid bar, which is really a flattened steel band thrown
 into a helical form. On tuning it and striking it with a hammer, it
 may be compared with this pianoforte string beside it. The tension
 which affects the solid string by nearly an octave hardly alters
 tho spiral string a semitone. Moreover, a short length of such a
 string might be attached to a solid wire and lie beyond the bridge
 so as to act as a compensator. This would correct all structural
 displacement. But as a matter of fact, the strings now used are so
 short, the framework so compact, and the tension on the whole series
 so low, that structural displacement need no longer be considered.
 Next, strings may be affected by temperature ; but thero are metals
 and alloys which are practically unaffected. And although these
 could not be hitherto used in pianofortes and instruments which de
 pend on the free string for their sound, yet, in this case, the substauce
of the metal wire which conveys the reed's vibrations is immaterial.
     Another source of derangement in string instruments hitherto,
has been the gradual exhaustion of the string's retractile power by its
own constant vibration, and especially by the shock conveyed in causing
it so to vibrate.
     Now when a reed is tho motive power there is no such shock ; and
as has been already shown, the amplitude of excursion is reduced to a
minimum. Moreover, tho reed is capable of holding its own against
the string, as much as the string of influencing the reed. Supposing a
reed and string in combination to afford notes of varied quality, prompt
in speech, easy to control, and simplo in arrangement, what form
will musical instruments so constructed assume, and what position
will they occupy in music ?
     When it is desired to gain the same control over a string worked
by a reed as the violinist gains over a string worked by a bow, the
strings are set before the performer, at a convenient level, and subject
to the control of both hands, as in a zither. Wind is supplied to the
reeds by a small feeder, as in a harmonium. It is admitted to each
reed by a valve, which is opened by the same pressure of the hand
which controls the string thus sounded. For a strip of wood which
opens the valve by a " roller action " may run parallel to each string
in the position naturally occupied by the thumb of the hand which

1875.]      On the Application of Wind to String Instruments.       495
controls it. The " feet " thus supply the place of the " bow," both
hands, being left free to control the strings. The quality of the sound
can be any of the numerous ones which string and reed can supply ;
and Mr. Farmer has shown us that the " glide " and expression and
control of the string, which can only be obtained from the violin by
long practice, are here within the reacli of tho most unpractised hand.
But when those sounds are controlled by a " key " we should consider
rather the application of strings to wind instruments and the applica
tion of wind to strings.
     The introduction of tho " free reed " into Europe has brought
within everyone's reach wind instruments deficient only in these very
respects, in which string and reed instruments excel.
     Anyone who examines a harmonium or reed organ will seo
that all that in unsatisfactory in them is duo to the want of a real
reinforcement to each note. All that the most costly arrangement of
tubes or resonators can supply is effected tho moment that a reed
is connected with a string, which not only entirely purifies its sound
by confining its vibrations, but transmits those vibrations to a sound
board, and thus reproduces tho work of tho reed in a form which
is pure, massive, and voluminous, and eminently suited to support tho
human voice, as is tho case with all sounds due to tho action of a
string and soundboard. As the space occupied by each string need
not exceed the scale of each note on keyboard or pedals, it is hardly
necessary to point out the economy of this system. A " stop," or
series of such notes of a certain quality, naturally assumes a some
what harp-like form. Tho wind is admitted to tho reed of each string
by a tracker or rod connected with its key.
     Though it has been shown that such a string can perfectly imitate
a diapason pipe, those strings need not bo expected to supplant pipes
in an organ, but rather to supply certain tones desirable in an organ
which it is at present difficult or impossible for pipes to afford,
especially in tho lower part of tho scale, whore a largo column of air
is required to reinforce every note. Accordingly it is in doing what
it is inconvenient or impossible otherwise to do that wind and string
must cam its place in music.
     I cannot conclude without once more reminding you that what
ever results maybe obtained, and whatever credit earned in developing
the capabilities of reed and string, these experiments wore instituted
upon Mr. Farmer's original invention, and to him wo all owe our
thanks.
                                                           [J. B. H.J
     VOL. VII. (No. 63.)                                      2 <U+043B>

  496                         Colonel A. Lane Fox                [May 28,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 28, 1875.
        Gkorqe Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                   Col. A. Lank Fox, F.S.A. M.R.I.
                    PRE81DKNT OF THK ANTHROPOLOGICAL IHSTITUTR,
                         On the Evolution of Culture.
 If we accept the definition of the term science as " organized common
 sense," we necessarily reject the idea of it as a " great medicine "
 applicable only to particular subjects and inapplicable to others ; and
 we assume that all those things which call forth the exercise of our
 common sense are capable of being scientifically dealt with, according
 as the knowledgo which wo pretend to have about them is based on
 evidence in tho first place, and in the sequel is applied to the deter
 mination of what, for want of a hotter word, we call general laws.
     But in using this term law, we do not employ it in the sense of a
 human law, as a regulating or governing principle of anything, but
 merely as deduction from observed phenomena. We use it in the sense
 of a result, rather than a cause of what we observe, or at most wo
 employ it to express the operation of proximate causes ; and of tho
 ultimate causes for the phenomena of naturo we know nothing at all.
     Further, in this development of tho principle of common sense
it has been said that the inductive sciences pass through three phases,
which have been termed the empirical, the classificatory, and tho
theoretical.
    Of these, tho first or empirical stage may be defined as represent
ing that particular phase of unorganized common sense in which our
knowledge is simply a record of the results of ordinary experience,
such as might be acquired by any savage or uneducated person in his
dealings with external nature.
    But as this condition of knowledge might perhaps be denied tho
claim to be considered scientific, it might be better perhaps to extend
the term so as to embrace all that can be included under a practical
knowledge of tho subjects treated, in which these subjects are studied
for their own sakes, or on account of their practical uses to man, and
not with a view to generalizing upon them.
    In this way it may be said that agriculture represents tho empirical
or practical stage of botany ; mining that of geology ; hunting and the
domestication of animals that of zoology ; the trade of the butcher
that of anatomy ; navigation by means of the stars that of astronomy.
    Passing now over the boundary line which separates what are gene
rally recognized as the physical sciences from the science of culture, in

 1875.]                  on the Evolution of Culture.                497
which the subjects treated are emanations from the human mind, we
find that these also have their corresponding phases of development.
    Commencing first with the science of language, which has been the
earliest and perhaps the most important branch of human culture the
study of which has been scientifically treated as yet, we find that
Professor Max Muller, in the series of lectures delivered in this Insti
tution in 18G1-63, has shown that the science of language has its
corresponding empirical or practical stage, in which it is studied
only for its own sake, or for its utility as a means of intercommunica
tion ; not as a means of generalizing upon language as a whole, but
merely for the purpose of understanding the particular languages
which we wish to make use of in our intercourse with others.
    In like manner passing from language to the particular department
of culture which, for the reasons to be explained hereafter, I shall
make the subject of this discourse, viz. the material arts, I shall en
deavour to show that there exists also in relation to them a prac
tical or empirical stage, which is the stage that we are now in with
respect to them, in which we may include the whole of the construc
tive arts of mankind from the simple flint knife to tho most complex
machine of modern times when viewed from the standpoint of the
mechanic or the artificer, not as subjects for generalization, but
merely from an utilitarian point of view.
     There are many persons no doubt who regard utility, not as a
primary stage, but as the final and highest result of science. But
the highest achievements of science, even the highest practical
achievements, would never have been reached by the mere utilitarian.
There is a force within us by which we are moved in the direction of
acquiring knowledge for its own sake and for the sake of truth,
regardless of any material advantage to be derived from such know
ledge. Sooner or later such knowledge is sure to bear practical fruits,
even though we may not live to realize them.
    It is in this spirit that men of science have advanced to the second
or classificatory stage, in which, with a view to higher generalization,
the subjects studied are grouped together according to their affinities,
and specific points of resemblance are taken as the representatives of
each class.
     These classes are at first grouped round independent centres ; but
such an arrangement of them, having no existence in reality, is purely
subjective and can only be transitional. The margins of the classes
so formed represent only the margins of our knowledge or our ignor
ance, as the case may be.
     By degrees, as the classes become extended, sub-classes are formed,
and they are seen to arrange themselves in the form of branches
radiating from a central stem. By still further observation the stems
of the several classes are seen to tend towards each other, and we are
led to trace them to a point of union.
     Thus from the classificatory or comparative wo pass gradually
into the third stage, which I have spoken of as the theoretical, but
                                                           2 n 2

498                       Colonel A. Lane Fox                    [May 28,
which may perhaps be more clearly defined as the evolutionary. By
the use of this term evolutionary we make it apparent that our third
stage is but a development of the second, evolution being merely tho
necessary and inevitable result of the extension of classification, im
plying greater unity and broader generalizations.
    These three stages then, the empirical or practical, the classificatory
or comparative, and the evolutionary, are applicable to tho develop
ment of all the inductive sciences.
    But it has been held by some that a broad line of demarcation
must be drawn between the physical sciences properly so called, such
as zoology, botany, and geology, which deal with external nature,
and those sciences which have been termed historic, which deal with
the works of man.
    This question has been ably treated by Professor Max Miiller in
the series of lectures to which I have referred, a course of lectures
which must be regarded as a starting point and basis of instruction
for all who follow after him in the same path.
    But in claiming for the science of language, and for language only,
a place amongst the physical sciences, he has made admissions to
opponents which, in my humble judgment, ought not to be made, and
which are inconsistent with that more extended view of the subject by
which I contend that, if language, then all that comes under the head
of culture must be included amongst the physical sciences. Thus,
for example, wo find him admitting this passage as a sound and
reasonable argument on tho part of those who deny the claim of
language to be included amongst the physical sciences : " Physical
science," he says, "deals with the work of God, historical science with
the works of man."
    Now if in dealing with what are here termed the historical
sciences, we were to take the subjects of such sciences, as for example
the arts or language, implements or words, and were to regard them
as entities to be studied apart from their relation to mind, and were
to endeavour to deduce from them the laws by which they are related
to each other, it is evident that we should be dealing with a matter
which could not bo correlated with the physical sciences ; but such a
course would be absurd. It would be as absurd to speak of a boome
rang as being derived by inheritance from a waddy, as to speak of a
word in Italian being derived by inheritance from a corresponding
word in Latin ; theso words and these implements are but the outward
signs or symbols of particular ideas in the mind ; and the sequence,
if any, which we observe to connect them together, is but the outward
sign of the succession of ideas in the brain. It is the mind that we
study by means of theso symbols.
    But of the particular molecular changes or other processes which
accompany the evolution of ideas in the mind, we know no more than
wo do of the particular molecular changes and other processes which
accompany tho evolution of life in nature, or the changes in chemistry.
    If then wo are to understand the expression " the work of God "

 1875.]                 on the Evolution of Culture.                  499
 as implying the direct action of ultimate causes, it is evident that we
 are not in a position either to affirm or to deny or to make any state
ment whatever respecting such ultimate causes which may operate
either as directly or as indirectly in the one case as the other. We
know nothing about them, and therefore to invoke ultimate causes as
a reason for distinguishing between the sciences is to take up a position
which cannot be scientifically maintained.
     With equal if not greater truth we may combat the assertion that
the science of culture is historical, whilst nature, on the other hand,
as dealt with by the physical sciences, is incapable of progress.
However valid this objection might have appeared during the em
pirical and comparative stages of the physical sciences, it cannot be
maintained, since the researches of Darwin and others have fairly
landed them in their evolutionary phase. The principles of variation
and natural selection have established a bond of union between the
physical and culture sciences which can never be broken. History is
but another term for evolution. There are histories and histories, as
anyone may determine who has read Green's ' History of England,'
and compared it with the kind of matter which passed for history in
his school days. But our position with regard to culture has always
been one which has forced on our comprehension the reality of pro
gress, whilst with respect to the slow progress of external nature, it
has been concealod from us, owing to the brief span of human exist
ence and our imperfect records of the past. The distinction, therefore,
between the sciences, as historical and non-historical, is but a subjec
tive delusion, and not an objective reality ; and herein, I believe, lies
the secret of most of those errors that we have to contend with.
     But the point in which I venture more particularly to differ from
the conclusions of the learned author of the Science of Language is the
line which he has drawn between language and the other branches of
culture by including language amongst the physical sciences whilst
he excludes the rest. " If language," he says, " be the work of man
in the same sense in which a statue, a temple, a poem, or a law, are
properly called works of man, the science of language would have
to be classed as an historic science ;" and again he says, " It is the
object of these lectures to prove that language is not a work of human
art in the same sense as painting, or building, or writing, or printing."
    In dealing with this question it is material, as regards the relative
claims of language and the arts to be studied as physical sciences, to
distinguish between the general and the particular. If it is said that
language as a whole is not a work of human design, the same may with
equal truth be said of the arts as a whole. A man who constructs a
building, a tool, or a weapon, can no more be said to have devised
a scheme of arts, than the introducer of a new word can be said to have
invented a language ; but each particular word bears the impress of
human design as clearly as a weapon or a coin. A. word may be said
to be a tool for the communication of thought, J\ib\, «s ft weapon is an
implement of war.

500                        Colonel A. Lane Fox                   [May 28,
    But, says Professor Muller, " art, science, philosophy, religion, all
have a history ; language or any other production of nature admits
only of growth." But unless it can be shown that words are entities
having the power of generating and producing other words, which arts,
tools, or weapons, do not possess, tho word growth can only be
applied figuratively to language as it is to the arts, and in that case
growth and history are synonymous terms. But this is absurd. Words,
as I said before, are the outward signs of ideas in the mind, and this
is also the case with tools or weapons. Words are ideas expressed
by sounds, whilst tools are ideas expressed by hands ; and unless it
can bo shown that there are distinct processes in the mind for
language and for the arts they must be classed together.
    But it is said, " language has the property of progressing gradually
and irresistibly, and the changes in it are completely beyond tho
control of tho free will of man. This, however, can only be accepted
relatively. We know that in certain phases of savage life the use of
particular words may be tabooed in the same manner that the use
of particular implements or weapons may be tabooed ; but it would be
quite as hopeless for any individual to attempt to change the entire
course of the constructive arts as to change the form of a language ;
the action of the individual man is limited in both cases to the pro
duction of particular words or particular implements, which take their
place like bricks in a building.
    Man is not the designer in the sense of an architect, but he is
the constructor in the sense of a brickmaker or a bricklayer.
    But the difficulty of tracing fleeting words to their sources operates
to a great extent in effacing the action of the individual in language.
Words become public property before they are incorporated in a
language. It would be difficult to establish a system of patents for
new words. Here again we see that the line drawn between language
and the arts is a subjectivo delusion, not an objective reality. It is
not true that words do not originate with individual men, but merely
that we do not perceive it.
    Modifications of words, like modifications in the forms of the arts,
result from the succession of ideas or other causes affecting particular
minds. They obtain acceptance through natural selection by the
survival of the fittest.
    The chance which a new word or a new implement has of surviving
depends on the number of words or implements to be superseded, on
their relative importance to the art or the language, and the persistency
with which these superseded words or implements are retained. The
truth of this is seen in the fact that vocabularies change far more
rapidly than grammatical forms; because the same grammatical ter
minations are employed with a large number of different words, and
they are therefore a more constant necessity of speech.
    Hence early and barbaric languages may bo connected by their
grammatical forms long after their vocabularies have entirely changed.
The same truth is seen in the fact admitted by philologists, that in

1875.]                 on the Evolution of Culture.                  501
small communities new words and modifications of words gain more
ready acceptance than in large communities; because the struggle
of the new words for existence is less in small than in large com
munities, and the dialects therefore change more rapidly. And the
same causes influence the transformations which take place in the arts.
Objects in common use change more slowly than those which are but
little employed ; the difference is merely one of degree and not of kind.
    In dealing with the arts, each separate contrivance occupies a
larger share of our attention, to the exclusion of any comprehensive
survey of them as a whole. The arts present themselves to our
mental vision on a larger scale, and we view them analytically ; we
aro as it were in the brickmaker's yard seeing each brick turned
out of hand, whereas in dealing with language we see only the finished
building, the details are lost. We view language synthetically. The
arts may be said to present themselves to us as a sea beach in detached
fragments ; language in the form of a compact sandstone. The
empiric or the utilitarian may deny that there is any resemblance
between them ; but the geologist knows that the mode of deposition
has been the same in both cases, and he classes the whole as rocks.
     Then again there are facilities for collecting and arranging the
data for the study of language which do not exist in tho case of the
arts. Whilst words take seconds to record, hours and days may be
spent in the accurate delineation of form. Words cost nothing, may
be packed in folios, transmitted by post, and stored on the shelves of
every private library. Ten thousand classified words may be carried
in the coat pocket without inconvenience, whilst a tenth part of that
number of material objects require a museum to contain them, and are
accessible only to a few : this is the reason why the arts have never
been subjected to those classifications which form the groundwork of
a science.
     But when we say that words and implements are both tools
employed for the expression of thought, it is important to bear in view
one difference between them, which has a practical bearing on tho
relative value of the two studies as a means of tracing the evolution
of culture in prehistoric times and amongst savages. The word is the
tool of the ear, the implement the tool of the eye ; and for this reason
language is the science of historic times, whilst tho arts constitute
the subject of science to be studied in relation to prehistoric times.
    Every new tool or weapon formed by the hand of man retains the
same form as long as it continues to exist ; it may be handed from
man to man, from tribe to tribe, from father to son, from one genera
tion to another ; or buried in the soil, it may under special conditions
continue for untold ages without change of form, until in our own
time it may be discovered and employed as evidence of the condition
of the arts at the time it was fabricated. Very different, however, is
the history of words. Each word coined by the exercise of the inven
tive faculty of man to express an idea is liable to cbftUfto as '* passes
from mouth to ear. Its continued identity is <l^-ne0^611*' B0^y on

502                       Colonel A. Lane Fox                  [May 28,
memory, and it is subject to phonetic and acoustic changes from
which the forms of the .arts are exempt.
     When by the invention of writing each word receives its equiva
lent in forms that are appreciable to sense of sight, it gains stability,
which places it on a footing of equality with the arts, and enables us
to trace with certainty the changes it has undergone ; and therefore in
historic times language is the surest test of social contact that we
can have. But in prehistoric times, before it has acquired this
permanence through the invention of writing, the forms of language
were, to use Mr. Sayce's expression, in a constant state of flux.
     The truth of this is seen in the immense number of dialects and
 languages employed by savages at the present time. Thus amongst
 the one hundred islands occupied by the Melanesian race, tho Bishop
 of Wellington tells us, and his statement is confirmed by the late
lamented Bishop Patterson, that there are no less than two hundred
languages, differing so much that the tribes can have but very little
interchange of thought ; and similar accounts are given of rapid
 changes of language in Cambodia, Siberia, Central Africa, North,
Central, and South America.
     The greater stability of the material arts as compared with the
fluctuations in the langnago of a peoplo in a state of primaeval
savagery, is well shown by. a consideration of the weapons of the
Australians, and the names by which they are known in tho several
parts of that continent. These people, from tho simplicity of their
arts, afford us tho only living examples of what we may presume to
have been the characteristics of a primitive peoplo. Their weapons
are the same throughout the continent ; the shield, the throwing-stick,
the spear, the boomerang, and their other weapons differ only in
being thicker, broader, flatter, or longer, in different localities ; but
whether seen on the east or the west coast, each of these classes of
weapons is easily recognized by its form and uses. On the other
hand, amongst the innumerable languages and dialects spoken by
these people, it would appear that almost every tribe has a different
name for the same weapon. The narrow parrying-shield, which con
sists of a piece of wood with a place for the hand in tho centre, in
South Australia goes by the name of Heileman, in other parts it is
known under the name of Mulabakka, in Victoria it is Turnmung,
and on the west coast we have Murukanye and Taraarang for the
same implement very slightly modified in size and form. Referring
to the comparative table of Australian languages compiled by the
Rev. George Taplin, in tho first number of the 'Journal of the
Anthropological Institute,' we find the throwing-stick, which on tho
Murray River is known by the name of Yova, on the Lower Darling
is Yarrum, in New South Wales it is Wommurrur, in Victoria Kar-
rick, on Lake Alexandrina Taralye, amongst the Adelaido tribes,
South Australia, it is Midla, in other parts of South Australia it is
called Ngeweangke, and in King George's Sound Miro.
    From these considerations we arrive at the conclusion that in the

1875.]                 on the Evolution of Culture.                   503
earliest stages of culture the arts are far more stable than language,
whilst the arts are subject only, or chiefly, to those changes which
result from growth ; language, in addition to those which result from
growth, is also affected by changes arising from phonetic decay.
    The importance therefore of studying the grammar, so to speak, of
the arts becomes apparent, as it is by this means alone that we can
trace out the origin and evolution of culture in the earliest times.
    The task before us is to follow by means of them the succession of
ideas by which the mind of man has developed, from the simple to the
complex, and from the homogeneous to the heterogeneous ; to work out
step by step, by the use of such symbols as the arts afford, that law
of contiguity by which the mind has passed from simple cohesion of
states of consciousness to the association of ideas, and so on to broader
generalizations.
    This development has to be considered under the two heads of
culture and constitution, that is to say, that we have to consider not
only the succession of ideas in the mind resulting from experience,
but also the development by inheritance of the internal organism of
the mind itself, or, to use the words of Mr. Herbert Spencer, " In the
progress of life at large, as in the progress of the individual, the
adjustment of inner tendencies to outer persistencies must begin with
the simple and advance to the complex, seeing that both within and
without, complex relations, being made up of simple ones, cannot be
established before simple ones have been established."
    We find no difficulty in assenting to the general proposition that
culture has been a work of progress. Our difficulty lies in realizing
the slow stages of its early development, owing to the complexities
both of our mental constitution and of the contemporaneous culture
from which experience is drawn, or, again to use Mr. Spencer's more
expressive words, "of our inner tendencies and outer persistencies;"
we are apt to regard as intuitive, if not congenital, many simple ideas
which in early culture can only have been worked out through the
exercise of experience and reason during a long course of ages.
    We see this error of our own minds constantly displayed in the
education of children. The ideas in a child's mind, like those of
mankind at large, are necessarily built up in sequence. The instructor
makes use of some word, the meaning of which is clearly understood
by him, but which does not fall into the sequence of the child's reason
ing ; the conception associated with it in the child's mind must, how
ever, necessarily conform to such sequence. Hence a confusion of
ideas, which is often attributed to the stupidity of the child, but which
is in reality due to the inexperience of the instructor; as, for instance,
in the case exemplified by Pip, in Dickens' ' Great Expectations,' who,
having imbibed the precept that he was to walk in the same all the
days of his life, was led by his sequence of ideas to infer therefrom
that he was invariably to walk to school by the same path, and on no
account go round by the pastrycook's.
    And bo in studying savages and early races w^os6 mental devc

504                        Colonel A. Lane Fox                   [May 28,
lopment corresponds in some degree to that of children, we have to
guard against this automorphism, as Mr. Spencer terms it, that is to
say, the tendency to estimate the capacity of others by our own, which
appears almost completely to incapacitate some people from dealing
with the subject.
    The question of the free will of man enters largely into this study.
I shall not be expected to say much upon a subject which has so lately
occupied the attention of the public, having been discussed by some of
our ablest scientists ; but I cannot avoid quoting, in reference to this
point, a passage from Dr. Carpenter's ' Mental Physiology,' who in
this controversy is certainly entitled to be regarded as the champion
of free will ; and therefore by quoting him we run no risk of over
stating the case against freo will. " Our mental activity," he says,
" is entirely spontaneous or automatic, being determined by our con
genital nervous organism. It may be stated as a fundamental
principle that the will can never originate any form of mental acti
vity. . . . But it has the power," he continues, " of selecting any one
out of several objects that present themselves either simultaneously
or successively before the mental vision, and of so limiting and inten
sifying the impression which that particular object makes upon the
consciousness, that all others shall be for the time non-existent to it."
    The truth of this, in so far as regards the limitation of the will,
cannot fail to force itself upon the student of culture. It is, I venture
to think, by classifying and arranging in evolutionary order the actual
facts of the manifestations of mind, as seen in the development of the
arts, institutions, and languages of mankind, no less than by compara
tive anatomy, and far more than by metaphysical speculation, that we
shall arrive at a solution of the question, to what extent the mental
Ego has been, to use Professor Huxley's expression, a conscious
spectator of what has passed.
    I propose, therefore, with your permission, to give a few examples,
by means of diagrams, of material evolution derived from the earliest
phases of culture. In language and in all ideas communicated by
word of mouth there is a hiatus between the limits of our knowledgo
and the origin of culture which can never be bridged over, but we
may hold in our hand the first tool ever created by the hand of man.
     It has been said that the use of speech is the distinctive quality of
man. But how can we know that ? We are literally surrounded by
brute language. We can imitate their calls, and we find that animals
will respond to our imitations of them. But who has ever seen any of
the lower animals construct a tool and use it.
     The conception of man, not as a tool-using but as a tool-making
animal, is clear, defined, and unassailable ; probably if we could trace
language to its sources, we should be able to draw the same line
between natural sounds employed as a medium of communication, and
the created word. Thus the arts which we can study may perhaps be
taken to illustrate the origin of language, which we cannot study in
this phase.

 1875.]                 on the Evolution of Culture.                   505
      The ape employs both sticks and stones as missiles and as ham
 mers to crack the shells of nuts. But wo have no evidence that he
 even selects special forms for special uses. The arts thereforo afford
us a clearly defined starting point for the commencement of culture.
     To go in search of a particular form of stick or stone in order to
apply it to a particular use would require greater effort of the will in
 fixing attention continuously on the matter in hand, than is found to
exist amongst the lower animals except in cases of instinct, which term
 I understand to mean an inherited congenital nervous organism which
adapts the mind to the ready reception of experience of a particular
kind. But this instinct does not exist in the case in question; there is
no tool-making instinct : our tool has to be evolved through reason and
experience, without the aid of any special organism for the purpose.
     The process we have to assume therefore is that, in using stones
as hammers, they would occasionally split. In using certain stratified
rocks this would occur frequently, and so force itself on the attention
of the creature. The creature going on hammering, it would force
itself on his notice that the sharp fractured end was doing better
work than before. It would be perceived that there were hard things
and soft things, that the hard things split the stone, and the soft things
were cut by it ; and so there would grow up in the mind an associa
tion of ideas between striking hard things and splitting, and striking
soft things and cutting, and also a sequence by which it would be
perceived that the fracture of the stone was a necessary preliminary
to the other ; and in the course of many generations, during which
the internal organism of the mind grew in harmony with this experi
ence, the creature would be led to perform the motions which had
been found effectual in splitting the stone before applying it to the
purposes for which it was to be used.
     Thus we arrive at a state of the arte in which wo may suppose
man to be able to construct a tool by means of a single blow. By
constantly striking in the same direction, flakes would bo produced ;
and by still further repeating the same motions, it would at last bo
found that by means of many blows a stone could be chipped to an
edge or a point so as to form a very efficient tool.
     But this continued chipping of the stone in order to produce a
tool, implies a considerable mental advance upon the effort of mind
necessary to construct a tool with one blow.
     It implies continued attention directed by the will to the accom
plishment of an object already conceived in the mind, and its subse
quent application to another object which must also have been
conceived in the mind before the tool was begun.
     Now we know from all experience, and from all evolution which
we can trace with certainty, that progress moves on in an accelerating
ratio, and that the earlier processes take longer than the later ones.
     But the implements of the drift, which are the earliest relics of
human workmanship as yet recognized, are most of them multifiaked
tools, such as tho implement which I hold in my hand, requiring a

506                        Colonel A. Lane Fox                  [May 28,
considerable time to construct it, and the use of innumerable blows in
order to trim it to a point at one end.
    It appears therefore evident that in the natural course of events
the drift period must have been preceded by an earlier period of
considerable extent characterized by the use of single-flaked tools.
And we may therefore consider it probable that should any evidence
of man be hereafter discovered in miocene beds, they will be associated
with such large rude flakes as those now exhibited, which require a
feebler effort of attention and of reason to construct.
    If we examine the forms of the flint implements of the drift, we
find that out of many intermediate shapes we may recognize three in
particular, which have been minutely described by Mr. Evans in his
valuable work on the stone implements of Britain ; 1st, a side tool,
consisting of a flint chipped to an edge on one side and having the
natural rounded outside of the flint left on the other side, where it
appears to have been held in the hand ; 2nd, a tongue-shaped imple
ment chipped to a point at one end, and having the rounded surface
for the hand at the big end ; and 3rd, an oval or almond-shaped tool,
which is often chipped to an edge all round.
    We have no evidence to show which of these kind of tools was the
earliest ; but that they were employed for different uses there can be
little reason to doubt. But have wo any evidence to throw light on
the way in which these several forms originated in the minds of men
in the very low condition of mental development which we may
suppose to have existed at the time 't
    About eight years ago, whilst examining the ancient British camps
on the South Downs, I chanced to discover in the camp of Cissbury,
near Worthing, a large flint factory of the neolithic age. There were
some sixty or more pits from which flints had been obtained from the
chalk, and these pits were full of the debris of tho flint workers.
The factory was of the neolithic age, the most characteristic tool of
which is the flint celt, a form which differs but slightly from the oval
or almond-shaped palaeolithic form, but the cutting edgo of which is
more decidedly at the broad end. The debris, some six hundred or
more specimens of which were collected, consisted chiefly of these
celts in various stages of manufacture.
    If anyone will attempt to make a flint celt, as I have done some
times (and Mr. Evans, from whom I learnt that art, has <lone frequently),
he will find that it is difficult to command the fracture of the flint
with certainty ; every now and then a large piece will come off, or a
flaw will be discovered which spoils the symmetry of the tool, and it
has to be thrown away. In arranging and classifying the remains of
this flint factory, I found that all the paheolithic forms were repre
sented by one or' other of these unfinished celts, so much so as to
make it doubtful whether some of them may not actually have been
used like them.
     A colt finished at the thin end, and abandoned before the cutting
edge was completed, represented a tongue-shaped paheolithic imple

1875.]                  on the Evolution of Culture.                   507
ment ; a celt finished only on one side represented a palaeolithic side
tool ; and a celt rudely chipped out, and abandoned before receiving
its finishing strokes, represented almost exactly an oval palaeolithic
tool, only differing from it in being somewhat rougher, and showing
evidence of unfmish.
     Taking a lesson then from this flint-worker's shop of the later
neolithic age, we see how the earlier palaeolithic forms originated.
They were not designed outright, as the nineteenth-century man would
have designed them for special uses, but arose from a selection of
varieties produced accidentally in the process of manufacture. The
forms were also suggested by those of the nodules out of which they
were made. We see, by examining the outside surfaces that were left
on some of them, how a long thin nodule produced a long thin celt,
a broad thick nodule a broad thick celt, and so forth. Indeed, so
completely does the fabricator appear to have been controlled by the
necessities of his art, that in tracing these successive forms one is
almost tempted to ask whether the principle of causation lay mostly
in the flint or the flint worker, so fully do they bear out the statement
of Dr. Carpenter and the other physiologists, that nothing originates
in the free will of man.
    On these two diagrams (Tlates I. and II.) I have shown how from
the same form of palaeolithic implement already described, the more
complex forms of the spear and axe blade of the subsequent periods
were developed. The point developed into a spear, and the broad end
into en axe blade. You will see by reference to Plate I. that the oval
tool of the drift suggested the smaller leaf-shaped spear-head of the
early neolithic age. This, by a gradual straightening of the sides,
became the lozenge-shaped form, which latter developed into the'
barbed form, and this last into the triangular form, which consists of
barbs without a tang.
    On the other hand, this same oval tool of the drift (Plate II.), when
used as an axe blade with the broad end, became the celt of the neolithic
period, chipped only at first and subsequently polished. This gave rise
to the copper celt of the same form having convex surfaces, which grew
into the bronze celt with flat sides. Then the bronze celt was fur
nished with a stop to prevent its being pressed too far into the handle
by the blow. Others were furnished with projecting flanges to prevent
them from swerving by the blow when hafted on a bent stick. Others
had both stops and flanges. By degrees the flanges were bent over the
stops and over the handle, and then the central portion above the stops
being no longer required, became thinner, and ultimately disappeared,
the flanges closed on each other, and by this means the weapon grew
into the socket celt. On this socket celt you will see that there is
sometimes a semicircular ornamentation on each side. This semi
circular ornament, as I pointed out, in a paper on primitive warfare
read some time ago, is a vestige of the overlapping flange of the
earlier forms out of which it grew, which, like the rings on our brass
cannon, are survivals of parts formerly serving for special uses.

 508'                      Colonel A. Lane Fox                   [May 28,
      In the vertical columns I have given in the order of their occur
 rence the successive periods of prehistoric time, viz. the early palaeo
 lithic, late paheolithic, early neolithic, late neolithic, early bronze,
 late bronze and iron periods, beneath which I have placed lines for
 two distinct phases of modern savage culture, viz. tho Australian
 and the American Indian. A cross beneath each form denotes the
 periods in which they occur, and a vertical bar denotes that they are
 of rare or doubtful occurrence ; so that the sequence of development
 may be seen at a glance, and it is only a glance that I ask you to take
 at these diagrams on the present occasion. I have checked them with
 Mr. Evans' work and also with Sir William Wilde's Catalogue, and I
 do not think that any of tho statements made in them will be chal
 lenged; but as these forms were not developed for the purpose of
 filling in the spaces in rectangular diagrams, such diagrams only
 imperfectly convey an idea of the evolution which has taken place,
 and must be regarded only as provisional and liable to be improved.
     In tracing the evolution of prehistoric implements, we are of
 course limited to such as were constructed of imperishable materials.
 No doubt our prehistoric ancestors used also implements of wood, but
 they have long since disappeared ; and if wo wish to form an idea of
 what they were, we must turn to those of his nearest congener, the
 modern savage.
     In speaking of savages, the question of progression versus degene
 ration is probably familiar to most of those present, through the
 writings of Sir John Lubbock and Mr. E. B. Tylor. To the several
 weighty arguments in favour of progression given by those writers I
 will add this one derived from the sequence of ideas.
     If the Australians, for example, were the degenerate descendants
of people in a higher phase of culture, then, as all existing ideas are
made up of previous ideas, we must inevitably find amongst their arts
traces of tho forms of earlier and higher arts, as is the case amongst
some of the savages of South America who early came in contact
with Peruvian civilization ; but the reverse of this is the case; all the
forms of the Australian weapons are derived from those of nature.
     In the same way that we saw that tho forms of the palaeolithic flint
implements were suggested by accidental fractures in tho workshop,
so the several forms of the Australian wooden implements were sug
gested by the various forms of the stems and branches out of which
they were mode. These savages, having only flint tools to work
with, cannot saw out their weapons to any form they please ; they
con only trim tho sticks into a serviceable shape. All their weapons
are therefore constructed on the grain of the wood, and their forms and
uses have arisen from a selection of tho natural curves of the sticks.
     I have arranged on Plate III. drawings of nearly all the weapons
used by the Australians, placing them together according to their
affinities in such a manner as to show hypothetically their derivation
from a single form. As all the forms given on this diagram are draw
ings of weapons in use at the present time, and there are many inter-

    <U+0412>
    <U+042D>
    ^
            ^^**
                                                      - tt                                      t
                                                                                                          OUBTFUL
                                                                                                         DR
                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                          <U+0448>
                                                                                                          <U+043A>
                                                                1
    IE
    <     ^^S3
                                                      t t                                       t        <U+043E>
                                                                                                          <U+0430><U+0441>.
                                                                                                          1<U+041B>
                                                                                                          <U+0448>
                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                          <U+0448>
  ul
  £ S!
  N **
                              t ttl t\                                                          t
  Ü. Ul
  < 0_
  <U+042B> ^
       Q
      C/î
           <ig>)
                              t + \\                                               -
                                                                                                t         <U+044B>
                                                                                                          <U+043E>
                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                          <U+044B>
                                                                                                          <U+0435><U+0435>
                                                                                                          <U+0435><U+0435>
     1?
  DI O
                 t            ••
                                                                                                          <U+0438>
                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                           <U+043E>
                                                                                                           <U+043E>
                                                                                                           <U+043E>
                                                                                                           X
                                                                                                           <U+043E>
                                                                                                           <U+0441>»
                                                                                                          <U+0441><U+043E>
                 t            •<U+0428>
                                                                                                         0
                                                                                                          <U+044B>
                                                                                                          <U+044C>-
                                                                                                          z
                                                                                                          <U+0448>
                                                                                                           0
                                                                                                              i
  11^ t                       -
                                                                                                         t
                 PALEOLI—THIC PLATE
                 EARLY         ALEOL—ITHIC-                                         USTRALIAN-—
                                                                                   AMODERN
                                                                                                 MERICAN
                                                                                                AMODERN
                                            NEOLITKIC NELATB
                                            EARLY       OLITHIC BRONZE
                                                                EARLY BRONZE
                                                                       LATE PERIOD
                                                                             IRON
l


VOL. VII. (\o. f,:;.}
                      i



Plaie TH.
          /
            f
      <
      H
      Z
      <U+043E>
      <U+043E>
   3<U+043E>
!<U+0413>1

1875.]'                on the Evolution of Culture.                   513
mediato forme not given here, I have not arranged them in horizontal
lines, as in the previous diagrams, to show their place in time, but
have arranged them as radiating from a central point. We know
nothing of the antiquities of savage countries as yet, and therefore
 cannot trace their evolution in time. The development has therefore
 been shown by means of survivals of early forms existing at the present
time.
     In the centre I have placed the simple cylindrical stick, as being
 the simplest form. By a gradual development of one end I havo
 traced upwards the formation of a sharp ridge and its transition into
a kind of mushroom form. To the right upwards I have traced the
same development of the mushroom head, the projecting ridge of which
is constantly liable to fractures by blows; and as savages always
systematize accidental fractures so as to produce symmetry, scollops
have been cut out of the ridge in different places for this purpose,
which had the effect of concentrating the force of the blow on the
projections. These were further developed; one of the pilci of the
 mushroom head was made larger than the others, and this suggested
the form of a bird's head, so that it was only necessary to add a line
for the mouth and a couple of eyes to complete the resemblance. To
 the right we see that the plain stick held in the centre gave the first
 idea of a defensive weapon, and was used to parry off the darts of the
 assailant ; an aperture was then made in the stick for the hand, and
 the face of it became broader, developing into a shield, the narrow
 ends, however, being still retained for parrying. Below I have shown
 that the long stick simply pointed at one end became a lance ; a row
 of sharp flints were gummed on to one side to produce a cutting edge,
 and these wore then imitated in wood, and by pointing them obliquely
 they were converted into barbs. To the right another kind of barb
•was produced by binding on a piece of sharp-pointed wood. Between
 this and the shields wo <U+0432><U+0441><U+0435> that tho first idea of the throwing-stick,
 employed to project these lances, was simply constructed like the
 barbed point of the lance itself. The gradual expansion of the stick
 arose from its being employed like a battledore, to fence off the enemy's
 lances. To the loft below I have shown the gradual development of
 a peculiar curved weapon, called the malga, formed from a stem,
 and the branch projecting from it at different angles. The part
 where the continuation of the stem was cut off was trimmed to a kind
 of ridge ; this ridge developed, and suggested the crest of a bird's
 head ; ultimately the eyes were added, in the same manner as in tho
 club on tho opposite side of the diagram. To the left we see the plain
 round stick first flattened, then curved. Savages are in the habit of
 throwing all their weapons at their adversaries and at animals. In
 throwing a flat curved stick it rotates of its own accord, and as tho
axis of rotation continues parallel to itself, tho thin edge is presented
to the resistance of the air in front ; this increases the range, and
its peculiar flight must have forced itself on tho attention of the
savage as the result of experience : but ho has never had tho slightest
                                                             2 <U+043E> 2

.4                       Colonel A. Lane Fox                   [May 28,
lowledge of the laws of its flight. The different curves of the
lomerang are the natural curves of the sticks, and like all the Austra-
m weapons, they are made on the grain of the wood. Some are
 icker than others ; some will fly in the curves peculiar to that
sapon, and others will not : scarcely two arc alike.
   To the left above, we see the mushroom-headed waddy, with its
-ojecting ridge flattened, then curved ; one side becomes more
iveloped than the other, and this being thrown develops into the
iddy boomerang, the ridge of tho earlier forms being still repre-
nted by a mark on the flat head of the weapon; an intermediate
lk connects it with the true boomerang.
   Many other examples might be given to illustrate the continuity
lich exists in the development of all savage weapons ; but I only ask
,u to glanco at tho sequence shown in this diagram and the pre-
ding ones in order to convince you of the truth of the statement
aich I made at the commencement of this discourse, that although,
ring to the complexity of modern contrivances and the larger steps
' which we mount the ladder of progress in the material arts, their
ntinuity may be lost sight of, when we come to classify the arts
  savages and prehistoric men, the term growth is fully as applicable
  them as to the development of the forms of speech, and that there are
, grounds upon the score of continuity, history, or the action of free
.11 to separate these studies generically as distinct classes of science.
   But in dealing with evolution we have to speak not only of
 owth, but, as in all other natural sciences, of the principle of decay.
f decay I do not mean the decay of the materials of the arts, but
e decomposition of the mental ideas which produced them.
   As complex ideas are built up of simple ones, so there is also a
rther process by which they become disintegrated, and the parts go
 form parts of other ideas.
   This decay in tho arts corresponds to what is called phonetic
«ay in language ; and in both cases it arises either from incapacity,
e desire to save trouble, or the necessity of abbreviating when ideas
iginally cvolvod for one purpose come to form parts of other ideas
  which they are merely accessory and subordinate, as in the well-
lown dialectic changes of speech. Every sound in language had
iginally a distinct meaning of its own ; gradually these sounds or
ots came to form parts of words in which tho original meanings of
o sounds were lost.
   I will now endeavour to draw a parallel to this in the arts, by
sans of what may be termed realistic degeneration.
   I will not say much as to the place of realism in culture. The
chaeological world has lately been somewhat startled by the dis-
very of well-executed designs of elephants and other animals in the
:ench caves in association with the rude stone implements of the
 laeolithic age, and by the more recent discovery of Mariette-Bey,
at the earliest Egyptian sculptures of the third dynasty are the
Dst truthful representations of the human form that are to be found

       1875-]                on the Evolution of Culture.                 515
       in that country. I gee nothing surprising in this, when we consider
        the power that is developed in many children of eight or nine years
       old of making drawings of animals and other objects, which, when
       allowance is made for the feeble hand of childhood, are often as
       truthful as those of the cave-period men, at a time when their minds
       have acquired but little power of reasoning or generalizing, or even
       of taking care of themselves ; all which goes to prove that this power
       of imitation, which is a very different thing from ideal art, is one of
       the most early developed faculties of the mind of man.
           When the power of imitation had once been developed, it would
      naturally be made use of as a means of intercommunication ; thus the
      drawing of a stag would be made to convey information to people at a
      distance that there was a herd of deer in the neighbourhood to be
      hunted ; and as the object of the drawing was no longer to depict
      truthfully the peculiarities of the beast, but merely to convey infor
     mation, the amount of labour expended upon it would be the least
     that could be employed for the required purpose. All written cha
     racters have originated in this way; and no one now requires to be
     told how pictographic representations developed into hieroglyphic
     and subsequently into phonetic characters.
          But realistic degeneration would equally take place in all cases in
     which pictorial representations came to be employed for other pur
     poses than those for which they were originally designed, as in the
     case of ornamental designs.
          So also a coin receives upon its surface the image of a king or a
    god as a stamp of authority. When from any cause the object of the
    original design is lost, the object of the stamp being no longer to
    convey a likeness, but being merely used as a test of genuineness, or
   perhaps amongst an unlettered people to denote its value, the tendency
   to realistic degeneration would be proportioned to the difficulties of
   execution; no further labour would be expended on it than was neces
   sary for the object to be attained. Here I must again remind you of
   the interesting discourse delivered in this Institution a fortnight ago,
  by Mr. Evans, on the evolution of British coins. With his permission
  I have introduced some of his diagrams. You will remember how
  the coin of Philip of Macedon having been introduced into Britain,
  the head on the obverse gradually disappeared, leaving only the
  wreath as a band across the coin, which was ultimately converted into
  a cross • and how on the reverse, the chariot and two horses dwindled
 into a single horse, the chariot disappeared, leaving only the wheels,
 the driver became elevated, not elevated after the manner unfortu
 nately but too common amongst London drivers, but elevated after the
 manner of the Spiritualists, except that you see he had the precaution
 t take on a pair of wings, differing also both from the London driver
      1 the Spiritualists, inasmuch as instead of having lost his head he
f° lost his body, and nothing but the head remains ; the body of the
horse then gradually disappears, leaving only four lines to denote
the legs.

 516                            Colonel A. Lane Fox                   [May 28,
      I will now show you an exact parallel to these transformations in
 a collection of designs, supposed to be tribal marks, which are drawn
 upon the paddle blades of the New Irelanders, a race of Papuan savages
 inhabiting an island on the north-east coast of New Guinea.
      Having noticed one or two allied varieties of design in specimens
 that came into my possession, I determined to collect all that I could        J
 find as they came to this country. In the course of several years I
 succeeded in obtaining the series represented upon Plate IV.
     The first figure you will see clearly represents the head of a Papuan :
 the hair or wig is stuffed out, and the ears elongated by means of an
 ear ornament,jafter the manner of these people ; the eyes are repre
 sented by two black dots, and the red line of the nose spreads over
 the forehead. This is the most realistic figure of the series. In the
 second figure the face is somewhat conventionalized : the line of the
 nose passes in a coil round the eyes ; there is a lozenge pattern on
 the forehead, representing probably a tattoo mark ; the body is repre
 sented sitting in full. In the third figure the man is represented
 sitting sideways, simply by lopping off an arm and a leg on one side.
 In the fourth figure the legs have disappeared. In the fifth figure the
 whole body has disappeared. In the sixth figure the nose has expanded
 at the base, and the sides of the face are made to conform to the line of
 the nose ; the elongated ears are there, but the ear ornament is gone: the
 nose in this figure is becoming the principal feature. In the seventh
 figure nothing but the nose is left : the sides of the face and mouth
 are gone ; the ears are drawn along the side of the nose ; the head is
 gone, but the lozonge pattern on the forehead still remains; the -coil
 round the eyes has also disappeared, and is replaced by a kind of leaf
 form, suggested by the upper lobe of the ear in the previous figures ;
 the eyes are brought down into the nose. In the eighth figure the
 ears are drawn at right angles to the nose. In tho ninth figure
 the nose has expanded at the base; all the rest is the same as                 J
in the last figure. In tho tenth figure the lozenge pattern and the
ears have disappeared, and a vestige of them only remains, in the
form of five points ; the base of the nose is still further expanded into
a half moon. In the last figure, nothing but a half moon remains.
No one who compared this figure with tho first of tho series, without
the explanation afforded by the intermediate links, would believe that
it represented the nose of a human face. Unfortunately we do not
know as yet the exact meaning of these designs, but when further
information is obtained about them it will throw considerable light on
similar transformations in prehistoric times.
     My next and last illustration is taken from the relics of Troy,
recently brought to light by Dr. Schliemann.* In the valuable work               *
lately published by him he gives illustrations of a number of earthen-
    * For illustrations, see ' Troy and its Remains,' by Dr. Henry Schliemann.
Murray, 1875. The figures may be taken in the following order : No. 185,
No. 74, No. 132, No. 13, No. 173, No. 207, No. 12, No. 11, No. 133, No. 141,
No. 165.

Plate IV.
       Fig. 1.        Fig. 2.             Fig. 3.            Hg. 4.
      Fig. 5.            Fig. 6.             Fig. 7.         Fig. 8.
              Fig. 9.            Fig. 10.            Fig. II.
  ORNAMENTATION OF NEW IRELAND PADDLES, SHOWING THE
                       TRANSITION OF FORM.

1875.1                .i the
ware vases and otki obj
the wpiereiMion of wh&
 which he believes to kjj>t
 called lij Hornet Gkako
 "mfc the iace of an i
  opinion that the vrotl "
  owUwsec^Valt can onl
   will venture no opinio
   rity fot the TUJuJij m
   in no way weaken tk
    of the true site of 1
    taws ipmcipie of re
     an owl but a hums;
          The Agates ow
      representations, a.
      thediffOTeu\,\a,ii'v
      by Mm except tl
       can be b&seA m
       fcisfc f\£Vttes it \
        face, all the i
        mouth. W <5i
         still a nose a'
          also b-j Vta
          ^gvntes the i
           of a beak, \
            realistic d
             form.,\svA,
              goes on i
                   In t
               "eax'O&en
                Bhown
                 Ttiaste.
                         \
                   the
                      »ti
                      lri

1875.]                  on the Evolution of Culture.                    519
ware vases and other objects called by him idols, having on them
the representation of what he conceives to be the face of an owl, and
which he believes to represent Athena, the tutelary goddess of Troy,
called by Homer Glaukepis Athene, which signifies, according to him,
"with the face of an owl." Professor Max Miiller has given his
opinion that the word " glaukepis " cannot possibly be taken to mean
owl-faced, but can only mean large or bright-eyed. On this point I
will venture no opinion, but accepting Professor Muller's high autho
rity for the usually received interpretation of it being correct, I shall
in no way weaken the evidence in favour of Dr. Schliemann's discovery
of the true site of Troy if I succeed in proving that, according to the
true principle of realistic degeneration, this figure does not represent
an owl but a human face.
     The figures on this diagram are all taken from Dr. Schliemann's
representations, and as the depth of each is given it will be seen that
the different varieties of face occur in all the different strata excavated
by him except the highest, and therefore no argument as to antiquity
can be based upon the depth at which they were found. The two
first figures it will be seen are clearly intended to represent a human
face, all the features being preserved. In the two next figures the
mouth has disappeared, but the fact of the principal feature being
still a nose and not a beak, is shown by the breadth of the base and
also by the representation of the breasts. In the two succeeding
figures the nose is narrowed at the base, which gives it the appearance
of a beak, but the fact of its being still a human form is still shown
by the breasts. Had the idea of an owl been developed through
realistic degeneration in these last figures, it would have retained this
form, but in the two succeeding figures it will be seen that the nose
goes on diminishing.
     In the five next rows of figures, which are of solid stone, not
earthenware, and which Dr. Schliemann believes to be gods, it is clearly
shown by the rude scratches representing the eyebrows, and their
want of symmetry, that this degeneration of form is the result of
haste.
     What then are these solid stone objects ? I cannot for a moment
doubt, from their resemblance to the vases, from the marks denoting
the junction of the cover with the vase, and from the representations of
handles, that they are votive urns of some kind, similar to those Egyptian
 stone models of urns represented in the two figures above. Urns of this
kind were used by the Egyptians to contain the viscera of the mummies ;
 but with the cheaper form of burial, in which the viscera were retained
in the body, stone models of urns, of which these figures are drawings
from originals in the British Museum, were deposited in the graves
as vestiges of the earlier and more expensive process ; these objects
therefore cannot be idols, but votive urns. The fact of human remains
having been found in some of the human-headed urns, and the hasty
scratches on tho stone models, show that they are merely models

520        Colonel A. Lane Fox on the Evolution of Culture.      [May 28 ,
appertaining to the conventionalized survival of some earlier or moro
elaborate system of urn burial.
     We see from these facts that both growth and decay, the two
component elements of evolution, are represented in the study of the
material arts.
     My object in this discourse has been not, as I fear it may have
appeared to you from the brief time at my disposal and my imperfect
treatment of the subject, to extol the material arts as being intrinsically
of more interest or importance than other branches of culture, but to
affirm the principle that it is by studying the psychology of the
material arte alone that we can trace human culture to its germs.
     The theory of degradation is supported only by the study of those
branches of culture of which the early history is lost.
     The tree is the type of all evolution : all trees are seedlings, but
they diner in their mode of growth. Some, like the beech and oak,
throw their branches upwards, and these are typical of the develop
ment of the material arts ; others, like the straight-stemmed pine,
throw off their branches downwards, and these are typical of the
development of some other branches of culture. It is quite true, as
stated by mythologists, that the history of myths is one of continued
degeneration in so far as they can be traced, and that the element of
 decay enters far more into their composition than that of growth. But
 the whole accessible history of these myths represent drooping branches
 from the upward growing stem of free thought out of which they
 sprang. What is the space of time which separates us from the
 Vedas as compared with the whole upward growth of humanity
 before and since !
     There are huge gaps in our knowledge of the history of the human
 race, and it has been the pleasure of mankind in all ages to people
 these gaps with jugglers and bogies ; but surely, if slowly, science
 will open up these desert places, and prove to us that, so far as the
 finite mind of man can reach, there is nothing but unbroken continuity
 to be seen in the present and in the past.
                                                              [A. L. P.]

 1875.]       Professor Gladstone on the Copper-Zinc Couple.          521
  NOTES OF PROFESSOR GLADSTONE'S FIFTH LECTURE
                       ON CHEMICAL FORCE.
                         Tuesday, June 1, 1875.
                  The Copper-Zinc Couple and its Effects.
 In an ordinary Voltaic cell the liquid is decomposed under the
influence of the two different metals in contact, but this decomposition
is always impeded more or less by the " resistance " of the liquid ;
indeed, in the case of very many compounds, especially organic
liquids, this internal resistance is so great that practically no Voltaic
decomposition is capable of being effected. When the junction of the
 metals is made outside the cell as in all batteries, there is also more
or less external resistance. Now the resistance offered by a badly
 conducting liquid, such as pure water, depends upon the amount of it
 that lies between the two metals, and the power is most advantageously
applied when the distance is reduced to a minimum, and there is no
part of the circuit outside the liquid. This is effected in the copper-
 zinc couple, which has been recently applied by Professor Gladstone
and Mr. A. Tribe in the laboratory of the Institution, and elsewhere,
to the decomposition of many compound bodies, and the preparation
of several substances hitherto unknown.
     If a piece of zinc be immersed in a solution of cupric sulphate,
copper is deposited upon it in a minute state of division, and thus
the two metals touch at myriads of points. When this " couple " is
immersed in a binary liquid, the liquid at each point of junction is
exposed to the full chemical or electromotive force of the metals.
     In this way pure water may be decomposed with the production of
puro hydrogen gas ; organic haloid bodies, such as ethylic iodide, and
its congeners, may be split up, and thus there may be prepared zinc
ethyl, zinc propyl, &c., bodies spontaneously inflammable in the air ;
the same haloid bodies in the presence of alcohol may be decomposed
with the production of the hydrides of the radicals, such as marsh gas,
and a new set of compounds the zinc haloid cthylates ; chloroform,
bromoform, and iodoform may be made to yield the same hydrides,
haloid ethylates, and acetylene; while isomeric bodies such as the
chlorides of ethylene, and ethylidene, may be examined as to their
chemical structure.
    The importance of time as an element in chemical action is well
illustrated in many of these decompositions ; and they are generally
greatly facilitated by a riso of temperature, whether that result from
tho chemical action itself, or from external sources.
    The copper-zinc couple has been practically applied to the pro
duction of certain organic compounds, and to the determination of
nitrates in potable waters.

      622                            Pro/<U+0441><U+043C><U+043E><U+0433> Gladstone                      (June 1,
      WORK DONE BY MEANS OF GLADSTONE AND TRIBE'S
                                 COPPER-ZINC COUPLE.
Dite.         Chief Result«.                         Chemistry of Operation.
      Decomposition
1872 Preparation        of Water,
                   of Pure        <U+0430><U+0448><U+041F> ¿nCu+2H,0-Cu+Zn2HO+H,
                             Hydrogen/  „ _     „ n_r        7„0*m j_ TI
1873 Direct     Formation
        Ethiodide,                      „-.    -, „
                              of Zinc}| ¿QCu+C,H1I=Cu+Zn|I'
                     and ......                                    jc,H,
      Preparation of Zinc Ethyl, Ethyl 2Zn| ^»Hi> = Zn( £'<U+0426>» + Znl,
      Hydrideand Zinc lodo-ethylate
1873 Preparation of Di-amyl.        ..  ZnCu+2
      Zinc-amyl, and Amyl hydride.      2<U+0433><U+043F><U+0421><U+0438>+2{^<U+041D>11 =Cu+Zn /<U+0441>'^'<U+0427>-<U+0433><U+043F>!,
                                        <U+0433><U+043F><U+0441><U+0438>+{^<U+043D>'°+{^<U+043D>" =cu+zn {<U+0441>^.
      Preparation of Methyl Hydride. ZnCu+C1H.O + CH1I = Cu+Zn|^tH»O+CH,
1873 Preparation of Zinc Itojiropyl, 2ZnCu+2|^>H' =Cu+Zn /c'J|' + ZnI,
1874 Isolation of l)i-allyl, and    ..
      Preparation of Pure Propylene. ZnCu+ |^«H»+ |<U+0418>'<U+041F>»° = Cu+Zn|^«H»O+CA
 •874 Preparation of Zinc I'thylobr^} ZnCu+<C,H, = Cu+ZnlC,U,
        mid«, and ........ 1                   (Br                 |l!r

      1875.]                        on lite Copper-Zinc Couple.                          623
Hete.           Chief Results.                          Chemistry of Operation.
1874 Preparation of Zinc CMoretJiy- j
         late, and direct Hydrogeniza- >
         tion of Ethylidene       .. .. |
1S75 Complete
         Chloroform,Hydrogenization
                         and               47_rs, J.PTIPI j_ <U+0447>/<U+0441><U+0410>° _
                                      oflf 3ZnCu+CHCl,+3|H'                                 , ,-,„
                                                                           n,, _i_47n/CiHjO +CH,
                                                                        =Cu+3Zn|cJ
           homologues
      Itstion  of Acetylene      .. .. Í1 3ZnCu+2CHI,
                           und prepara-    <U+0427>7<U+043F><U+0413>,„ , 9rwr _rn-L47nT
                                                           = Cu+3ZnI,+C1H, j_r <U+0442><U+0442>
      (Investigated by Prof. Thorpe.)
1873 Conversion of Nitrates into
            The new substances discovered during these invi-etigntions are in italic«.
            Cu signifies simply the melal copper, and not an atomic proportion.

524                            Professor Tyndall                        [June 4,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, June 4, 1875.
     The Duke op Devonshire, K.G. F.R.S. &c. Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
             Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
          On Whitworth's Planes, Standard Measures, and Guns.
Born on the 21st December, 1803, Sir Josoph Whitworth, to whom we
are indebted for the materials of this evening's discourse, was placed
at the age of fourteen under the care of his uncle, a millowner in
Derbyshire. He quitted the mill at eighteen ; went to Manchester,
and worked there for four years, under Crichton, Marsden and Walker,
and other employers. At the age of twenty-two he went to London,
lived there for eight years as a journeyman mechanic, working in suc
cession in the establishments of Maudslay, Holtzapfel, Wright, and
Clements.* In 1833 ho returned to Manchester, rented a room with
steam power, and wrote over his door " Joseph Whitworth, tool-
maker from London." f The ground on which his works now stand
in Manchester is worth nearly a quarter of a million sterling.
     His aim from the first was mechanical veracity, and his earliest step
towards the realization of this aim was the production of true plane
surfaces. The most accurate planes, when he began, were obtained
by first planing and then grinding the surfaces. They were never
true. He abandoned grinding for scraping. Taking two surfaces, as
accurate as the planing tool could make them, he thinly coated one of
them with colouring matter, and rubbed the other over it. Were both
surfaces true, the colouring matter would spread itself uniformly over
the upper one. It never did so, but appeared in spots and patches.
These marked the eminences, which, with an appropriate tool, he
scraped away. In this way he gradually rendered the surfaces more
and more coincident. But the coincidence of two surfaces would not
prove them to be planes. If one were concave and the other convex,
    * The extraordinary mechanical genins who was associated with Mr. Babbage
in the construction of the calculating machine.
    t Whitworth was the first to take out a patent for the making of tools.

1875. 1    on Whitworth's Planes, Standard Measures, and Guns.             525
they might still coincide. This was got over hy taking a third sur
face, and adjusting it to both the others. Were one of the latter
concave and the other convex, the third plane could not coincide with
both. By a series of interactions and adjustments all three surfaces
were at length rendered coincident ; then, and not before, were they
considered " true planes."
     When one true plane is placed upon another, the former floats
upon the latter, as if some lubricating material existed between them.
But when one of them is slidden, with pressure, over the other, they
cling firmly together. The effect is thus described and accounted for
by Sir Joseph Whitworth : " If one of them [the planes] be carefully
slided over the other to exclude the air, the two plates will adhere
together with considerable force, by the pressure of the atmosphere." *
This clinging together of flat surfaces had been noticed before the
time of Bobert Boyle, and that great experimenter, and noble
philosopher, first gave currency to the explanation adopted by Sir
Joseph Whitworth. He experimented with slabs of marble, and with                <
plates of glass, and thought he had proved that the clinging together
did not occur in vacuo.f This explanation was experimentally tested
in the discourse. Two exceedingly accurate hexagonal planes remained
adherent in the best vacuum obtainable by a good air-pump. The
vacuum was still further improved by filling the receiver with carbonic
acid, and absorbing the residue with caustic potash. In this way the
atmosphere was reduced until its total pressure on the surface of the
hexagon amounted to only half a pound. The lower plate weighed
3 lbs., and to it was attached a mass of lead weighing 12 lbs. Though
the pull of gravity was here thirty times the pressure of the atmo
sphere, the weight was supported. Indeed, it was obvious, when an
attempt was made to pull the plates asunder, that had a weight of
100 lbs., instead of 12 lbs., been attached to the lower hexagon, it
also would have been sustained by the powerful attraction of the two
surfaces.
     To show the probable character of the contact between the planes,
two very perfect surfaces of glass were squeezed together with sliding
pressure. They clung, apparently as firmly as the Whitworth planes.
Throwing by reflexion from the glass plates a strong beam of light
upon a white screen, the colours of " thin plates " were vividly revealed.
Clasping the plates of glass by callipers, and squeezing them, the
colours passed through various changes. When monochromatic light
was employed the successions of light and darkness were numerous
    * Paper read before the British Association at Glasgow, 1840.
    t Boyle's controversy with Hobbes, in relation to this subject, is highly
interesting, as revealing the characters of the two men. "I never," says Boyle,
" envied Mr. Hobbes's forwardness to triumph, and am content his conjectures
be recommended by the confidence which accompanies them, if mine be by the
success which follows them."—Boyle's 'Works,' vol. iv. p. 111.

526                             Professor Tyndall                    [June 4,
and varied, producing patterns of great beauty.* All this proves that,
though in such close mechanical contact, the plates were by no means
in optical contact, being separated by distances capable of embracing
several wave-lengths of the monochromatic light.
    Having obtained his true planes, Whitworth turned them to account
in producing standard measures. His paper on this subject is of pro
found practical interest. His aim is to spread abroad notions of
attainable mechanical accuracy, far in advance of his time. He pitted
the sense of touch against the sense of sight,—end-measurement, felt
by the fingers, against line-measurement seen by the eye,—and suc
ceeded in proving that the millionth part of an inch was capable of
accurate measurement. With instruments capable of this accuracy
he produced his standard screws and "difference gauges," urging im
pressively upon the mechanicians of his age the enormous waste
which might be avoided by the adoption of uniform dimensions,
capable, when accurately measured, of being accurately reproduced.
    The mechanical genius of Mr. Whitworth was next applied to the
improvement of the rifle. But a few preliminary words on the use of
rifling may be introduced here. When a lead bullet is cut in two, a
cavity is always found within, produced by the contraction of the
metal. This, and other causes, render coincidence between the centre
of gravity and the geometric centre of the ball the exception, and not
the rule ; and where this coincidence does not exist the bullet is almost
sure to quit the gun with a motion of rotation added to its motion of
translation. It is then found to deviate, sometimes to the right,
sometimes to the left of the true trajectory. Sometimes, moreover, it
exceeds, and sometimes falls short of the proper range. The cause
of this deviation was first assigned by a philosopher who mado the
world his debtor in two ways : firstly, by his own important original
contributions to science; and secondly, by the liberal aid and en
couragement which he was always ready to extend to the younger
scientific worker. I allude to the late Professor Magnus of Berlin.
    Magnus's explanation of the deviation of projectiles is by no means
difficult to grasp. That the deviation was produced by no shock of
the projectile against the muzzle of the gun was proved by the fact
that the deviation augmented in a quicker ratio than the distance
from .the gun. The cause of the deviation must be sought in the ex
ternal air. If we blow through a tube so as to cause a current of air to
pass close to the flame of a candle, the flame, instead of retreating,
bends towards the current. The atmospheric pressure, in fact, is less
in the current than elsewhere ; hence arises a motion of the adjacent
air towards the current. If a sheet of foolscap be held with its two
leaves enclosing an angle of 20 or 30 degrees, on blowing through
   * On warming one of the plates by the breath, the travelling of the fringes
was rendered beautifully manifest. This was the late Professor Baden Powell's
mode of illustrating the repulsive power of heat.

       1875.] on Whilworth's Planes, Standard Measures, and Guns.         527
       a tube between the leaves they close up, instead of flying asunder.
      The old experiment of Clement and Desormes is thus explained : a
      tube is fixed in the centre of a perforated disk, and a second unporfo-
      rated free disk is brought up against the first. On blowing through the
      tube the second disk is not driven away, but on the contrary held fast
      until the current ceases, when it falls. In this case we have a radial
      spreading out of the air when it strikes the free disk, and in this
     radial current the atmospheric pressure is so much diminished that
     the excess of the external pressure supports the disk.*
          We have now to apply the knowledge thus gained to the deviation
     of projectiles. Let us suppose ourselves looking down on the bullet as
    it quits the gun, that the axis of rotation is vertical and perpendicular
    to the trajectory, and that the direction of rotation is right-handed,
    like that of the hands of a watch. So circumstanced, the bullet will
    infallibly deviate to the right of the true trajectory. If, on the con
   trary, the rotation be left-handed, the deviation will be to the left. In
   one case only can the ball rotate without having this deflecting force
   acting upon it, and that is when the axis of rotation is a tangent to the
   trajectory. It is the object of rifling to impress upon the projectile, at
   the outset, this particular kind of rotation.
         But whence the deflecting force, when the axis of rotation is
   perpendicular to the trajectory? The ball cannot rotate without
   producing all round it a cyclone, by its friction against the air. On
   opposite sides of the ball the air of this cyclone moves in opposite
   directions. When such a ball passes rapidly through the air it
   encounters an opposing wind ; and it is obvious that on one side of the
   trajectory this wind coincides with that produced by tho rotation of
  the ball, while on the other side the two winds are opposed to each
  other, and more or less neutralize each other. The ball will
  move'towards the side on which the strongest current exists, the pres
  sure on that side being a minimum. When the axis of rotation is
  perpendicular to the trajectory, and horizontal, it is obvious that the
  proper range will be exceeded when the two currents are in opposition
 on the under surface of the ball, a lifting of the ball being the con
 sequence ; while the range will be too short when the currents coincide
 on the under surface, a depression of the ball being the consequence.
 Thus by the coalescence of the wind of rotation, with the wind of
 translation the deviation of the ball from its true trajectory is in all
cases completely accounted for.
       Prior to the year 1853 rifles had been made by hand labour. A
fovernment Committee was then appointed to determine whether they
  ould not be produced by machinery. The committee, after due
 ""T^riTthe discourse, one disk was suspended above the other, the lower one
i. • fixed and the upper one connected with an index. On blowing through the
*.!«? Vi*k the upper one was drawn down, the index moving through a foot or
fixed <"=*           eXPeriment was made with water instead of air.
m0rVoL.VII- (No. 63.)                                               2p

  528                        Professor Tyrtdall                          [June
  inquiry, invoked the aid of Mr. Whitworth ; but bo, lacking tho speci
  experience, and unwilling to modify his works to the required exter
  declined the offer. But the subject remained open, and, on conditio
  that a gallery should be built, where experiments as to the best fori
  of rifle might be conducted, Mr. Whitworth subsequently -proposed t
  devise and construct the machinery necessary for tho production o
  the rifle barrel. Lord Hardinge, then Commander of the forces
  obtained the assent of the Government to the proposed condition, and
 a gallery 500 yards long was erected on Mr. Whitworth *s grounds
 near Manchester.
      At the time now referred to the Enfield riflo was considered to he
 very near perfection. This Lord Hardingo pointed out to Mr. Whit
 worth, at the same time stating that any improvement which would
 induce the Government to change the Enfield for another rifle, must be
 " very decided."
      The powder then employed for small arms consisted of tho sitting's
 of cannon powder. The first step of Whitworth was to demonstrate
 its inefficiency. It was afterwards abandoned in favour of a quicker
 burning powder. A spiral groove within the barrel constituted the
 rifling of tho Enfield weapon. Tho ball was elongated, being a
 cylinder with a conoidal front. Its length was 1 - 81 diameters of the
 bore. A wooden plug was inserted into the ball behind, which, pressed
 by the gunpowder, forced tho lead into tho grooves, and secured tho
 desired rotation. The pitch of the spiral was such that to make a
 complete rotation tho ball would have to pass through a length of
78 inches. Whitworth soon abandoned the rifling by grooves, and fell
back upon polygonal rifling. Ho formed two accurately-fitting semi-
cylinders, and having made the inner surface octagonal, with a certain
amount of twist, he placed the semi-cylinders together, surrounded
 them by steel rings, and thus built up his first rifle barrel. It wan
only 10 inches long, but it boat the Enfield rifle. He lengthened the
Enfield bullet, but found that fired from the Enfield barrel it tumbled
over. Ho then passed from a twist of 1 in 78 to 1 in 30, then con
sidered excessive, and with the augmented twist ho was able to
employ a longer bullet. With a thoroughness worthy of all admira
tion he passed in succession to obliquities of 1 in 20, 1 in 10, 1
in 5, even to 1 in 1. He thus exhausted the subject, and decided
finally in favour of tho hexagonal barrel, with a twist of 1 in 20.
The length of tho bullet was three diameters of the bore.
     The performance of the new weapon astonished everybody. Tlio
School of Musketry at Hythe was then under tho direction of Colonel
Hay, who, in a report to Lord Hardinge, thus speaks of tho Whitworth
rifle : " The shooting with tho gun on Mr. Whitwortb's principle is
truly wonderful. . . . The mean absolute deviation of the shots tired
would not, if calculated, be above 0 - 65 of a foot at 500 yards; whereas,
at the same distance, the mean absolute deviation of the best target of
20 shots I can produce, exceeds 2 feet." The tabulated results show
an enormous superiority of tho Whitworth over the Enfield rifle. "In

  1875.] on Whiiumlh's Planes, Standard Measures, and Guns.                   529
 accuracy of fire," says the ' Times ' of April 23, 1857, " in penetration,
 and in range, the rival of the Enfield exceeds it to a degrco which
 hardly leaves room for comparison." The best performance previously
 noticed had been a deviation of 24 inches in 500 yards. The Whit-
  worth deviation at 800 yards was barely half this amount, while tho
 deviation of the Enfield at 800 was more than twice its deviation at
 500. At 1400 yards the Whitwortb deviation was 4 • 62 feet, while
 at this distance a target 14 feet square was not at all hit by the
 Enfield.
     The lively interest manifested by Lord Hardinge in this inquiry
 was shared by Sir John Burgoyne. In a letter dated 11th December,
 1857, he thus expresses his opinion of what has been achieved, and
 submits to Mr. Whit worth a new problem : " I am myself so fully
 satisfied with your musket as a great step in advance, and that I must
 expect to be early adopted, that I am anxious for tho time when wo
 can know more about its powers of penetration of different substances,
 say iron, steel, elm, oak, &c., or earth, with tho hard bullet." Never,
 surely, was a challenge moro thoroughly met. The Whitwortb riflo
 sent its bullets through thirty-four half-inch elm boards ; tho Enfield
penetrated twelve of the boards, and was stopped at the thirteenth.
 But a totally now capacity was here manifested. The form of tho
 Whitwortb rifling permits of the use of a steel bullet, and with such
 bullets, at the time here referred to, Mr. Whitwortb piorced plates
 of iron half an inch thick, not only point blank, but at obliquities
 varyin" from 0° to over 50°. I am not aware that up to tho present
 hour any other rifle has accomplished anything approaching to this.*
     Tho conservative principle which resists all change, and which is
 so marked a feature of official life, may be a necessary element of
greatness and strength to this country. It will, however, be admitted
that resistance may be carried too far. The application of lightning-
conductors to the fleet was officially resisted ; and despite tho fore-
coin'1 results, which might well be regarded as conclusive, a com
mittee of officers in 1859 reported to tho Government that tho bore of
the Whitworth rifle " was too small for use as a military weapon."
Augmented knowledge altered this opinion, and three years subse
quently another committee reported " that tho makers of every small-
    * Both the plates and the projectiles which pierced them were present during
the discourse. It is worth while to consider the condition of tho bullet fired from
the rifle in which tlie twist was 1 to 1. Half only of the ordinary charge of
powder could be employed : the full charge tore the bullet to pieces. But with
the half char"e the bullet penetrated 9 inches of elm. A thousand feet a second
would be ft moderate velocity to ussign to the bullet. It would travel, therefore,
through tho last foot of the barrel in ^Vnth of a second; but in this length it
would accomplish twelve rotations; hence on quitting the gun its rate of rotation
would be twelve thousand a second. The rotating mirror with which Wheat-
stone Koucault, and Cornu mad..- their memorable exPeriments on electricity
and ii"ht rotated eight hundred times in a second. It is, however, not im
probable that tho Whitworth bullet had a still more rapid rotation than that
here assumed to it; that it accomplished a million rotations per minute.
                                                                    2 P 2

  530                          Professor Tyndall                    [June 4,
  bore rifle, having any pretensions to special accuracy, have copied to
 the letter the three main elements of success adopted by Mr. Whit-
  worth, viz. diameter of bore, degree of spiral, and large proportion of
 rifling surface." Finally, a special committee of officers in 1869
 recommended the bore which had been recommended by Whitworth
 in 1857.*
      Call now to mind that Mr. Whitworth in 1854; found rifling by
 grooves tho accepted method. This he changod for polygonal rifling.
 He found tho twist 1 in 78 ; this he changed to 1 in 20. He found
 the rifle bullet 1'81 diameters in length; and this he changed to
  3 diameters. The Martini-Henry rifle, which is now the favourito
 weapon, is rifled polygonally, a heptagon being substituted for Whit-
 worth's hexagon. The twist of this rifle is 1 in 22, or almost
 identical with the twist of tho Whitworth rifle, while the length of
 the bullet is 2 - 93 diameters, which is practically Whitworth's pro
 portion. Tho Martini-Henry bullet is, however, rifled within the
 gun by the pressure behind it ; and to permit of tho employment of
 hard alloys of tin and lead, which it would be difficult to force into
 the angles of the heptagon, a sharp spiral projection accompanies the
 polygonal twist. This projection is forced into tho bullet by the pres
 sure from behind, and it gives tho bullet the required rotation. Tho
 Whitworth bullet, on the other hand, is rifled outside the gun. Its
 inventor accomplishes by his steam-engino the work which, in other
 rifles, falls upon the gunpowder ; the brunt of this work, moreover,
 being borne by tho shoulder of the marksman. The Martini-Henry
 rifle is unable to meet the condition deemed so important by Sir John
 Bargoyno, and to fulfil which steel bullets are necessary.
      To sum up, when Sir Joseph Whitworth began his experiments,
he was as ignorant of the rifle as Pasteur was of the microscope,
 when ho began his immortal researches on spontaneous generation.
But, like the illustrious Frenchman, Whitworth mastered his subject
to an extent never previously approached. He found the powder used
for rifles unfit for its purpose. In point of precision, he obtained a
" figure of merit " greatly superior to any previously obtained. He
carried his ranges far beyond all previous ranges; and in point of
Iienetration achieved the unexampled results which have been laid
before you. He did this, moreover, by a system of rifling peculiar fo
himself, which had never been thought of previously, and which is
substantially adhered to in the favourito weapon of to-day. It would
be difficult to point to an experimental investigation, conducted with
greater sagacity, thoroughness, and skill, and which led to more
important conclusions.
     It is the province of the generalizing faculty to extend to the largest
phenomena the principles discerned in the smallest. With a direct
ness of insight which he might find it difficult to define in words,
                           * 'Guns and Steel," p. 24.

1875.]    on Whitworth's Planes, Standard Measures, and Guns.          531
Whitworth saw that the mechanical principles brought to bear in the
infantry weapon were equally applicable to cannon. But here let me
say that I am not too much influenced by the phrase " mechanical
principles," so frequently employed by our great mechanician. These
principles are as enduring as the universe, or rather as the mind
which interprets the universe, when all the data have been em
braced in the conclusion.          But in practical matters mechanical
principles, like wisdom, must be justified of their children ; and these
are the tests of experiment. It is now my duty to state to you with
the necessary brevity, and with such power of illustration as I can
command, how the Whitworth cannon has borne the experimental
tests to which it has been subjected.
     Before you is a piece of armour plating 4 inches thick, manufac
tured by an eminent firm, with the knowledge that it was to be tested
with the Whitworth gun. Beside it is an elongated, flat-headed, rifled
projectile, hardly exhibiting the least mark of distortion. Yet the plate
has been perforated by that steel bolt. The gun which fired the bolt
was a 12-pounder; but owing to its elongation the actual weight of
tho projectile is 29 lbs. This assuredly was a great achievement for
so small a gun. You have seen what the Whitworth rifle accomplished
with steel bullets. Before you is a series of parallel results obtained
with the Whitworth cannon. Tho plates here preseuted to you have
been perforated, not only by direct impact, but at obliquities of 35°,
45°, and 65°. This, to an outsider like myself, appears to bo a result
of extreme importance ; and the reason I say so will be immediately
clear. The projectiles which did this work arc flat-headed. But I
have now to direct your attention to two other plates which have borne
the impact of two ogival pointed shot, the one of " chilled " metal, tho
other of steel. Instead of being penetrated, the plates are indented
merely. Fired at an angle of 45' these pointed shots glanced from
the plates, scooping out a small hollow, instead of piercing them.
In this experiment, tho chilled shot broke up into fragments, but the
steel one is intact. Taking a steel bolt in the hand, and urging the
ed»e of its flat front obliquely against an iron plate, tho bolt is
arrested because the edge cuts the plate like a chisel; urging tho
pointed shot at the same obliquity against the plate, it glances oil'.
Thus a mere hand-experimeut shows the difference between the flat-
headed and pointed shot, when tho incidence is sufficiently oblique.
And as in actual warfare oblique incidence will probably be the rule,
and perpendicular incidence the exception, this demonstrated power
of the fliit-headcd bolt to penetrate, when the pointed shot fails, seems
to me worthy of the most serious consideration.
    Almost equally instructive are the experiments executed to deter
mine the comparative power of flat-headed, round-headed, and pointed
projectiles to penetrate water at an oblique incidence. The angle of
depression was 7D 7', ani the length of water to be penetrated was 80
inches the mark aimed at being 10 inches below the water line. Tho
flat-he'adod projectiles appear to have gone almost directly to tho

532                        Professor Tyndall                     [June 4,
mark ; the round-headed ones were tilted up and struck the plate just
below the water line ; while the pointed or ogival ones were com
pletely ejected from the water, and struck the plate at 9 inches above
the water line.* Theso are points regarding which, one would think,
no uncertainty ought to exist ; they ought not to rest on the unsup
ported testimony of any inventor. They ought, one would think, to
be tested by independent men, refuted or confirmed ; at all events,
appraised at their proper value and significance.
    I stand here to-night, not as the advocate of any particular system
of ordnance, but in response to an expressed desire that you should be
made acquainted with the physical experiments executed in connection
with this subject. To others I leave the task of deciding on the
national importance of these experiments. But I claim the right, if
I deem it necessary to do so, of not only presenting the facts, but of
expressing the thoughts which have occurred to me during the pre
paration of this discourse. From all that I have read and heard, I
can come to no other conclusion than that for direct impact the
ogival, or pointed projectile, possesses a higher penetrative power
than the flat-headed one. Hence some of the statements made by the
eminent mechanician who advocates the use of the latter must, I
think, appear to a severe inquirer too unqualified in their assertion
of its superiority. It is demonstrably superior at the oblique inci
dences above referred to ; but from the comparison instituted by Sir
Joseph Whitworth himself, and recorded in ' Guns and Steel,' pp. 46
and 47, it is evident that in the case of direct impact the ogival head
exceeds the flat head in penetrative power. At an angle of 45° the
latter clearly asserts its superiority. Hence, as the pointed head is
best for penetration at an obliquity of 0°, and as the flat head is best
at an angle of 45°, the thorough experimental examination would have
to determine the obliquity at which both would be practically equal.
The knowledge thus obtained, taken in connection with the exigencies
of actual warfare, would be an important factor in the decision of the
comparative merits of the two forms of projectile.
    In the Preface to ' Guns and Steel ' Sir Joseph Whitworth gives
the following summary of his experiments on penetration :
    " In 1857 I proved, for the first time, that a ship could be pene
trated below the water-line by a flat-headed rifled projectile.
    " In 1860 I penetrated, for the first time, a 4^-inch armour plate,
with an 80 lbs. flat-headed solid steel projectile.
    " In 1862 I penetrated, for the first time, a 4-inch armour plate,
with a 70 lbs. flat-headed steel shell, which exploded in an oak box sup
porting the plate."
    (I may remark that I was present when this experiment was made,
and can testify that its result astonished those who witnessed it.)
    "In 1870 I penetrated, with a 9-inch bore gun, three 5-inch
armour plates, interlaminated with two 5-inch layers of iron concrete.
                            'Guns and Steel,' p. 41.

1875.]     on Whitworth's Planes, Standard Measures, and Guns.                 533
     " In 1872, with my new 9-pounder breech-loading gun, and a flat-
licadcd steel projectile, I penetrated a 3-inch armour plate, at an
angle of 45°.
      " All those performances," continues Sir Joseph, " were the first of
their kind, and were made, with one exception, with flat-headed pro
jectiles." This exception, however, must bo the important one, in
which 15 inches of armour plating, and 10 inches of iron con
crete, were penetrated by (I suppose) an ogival pointed shell. This,
 I take it, is the experiment described in pp. 51 and 52 of ' Guns and
 Steel.' It confirms the conclusion which I have been compelled to
 draw from the other experiments of Sir Joseph Whitworth above
 referred to. I could wish that this superiority of the ogival point,
 in the case of direct impact, had been more distinctly recognized ;
 but I also wish to remind those whom I address that this is a point
of dotail, which in no way affects the merits of the Whitworth
gun.
     The tentative skill and insight which were so conspicuous in Mr.
 Whitworth's experiments with the rifle, are not less conspicuous in his
experiments on rifled cannon. Ho takes the various elements of the
 gun in succession, and determines for each its condition of maximum
efficiency. As before, he pushes his experiments through a range of
variation so wide as to embrace both sides of this maximum. In 1856
 he demonstrated that a rifle bullet should be 3 diameters long.
 " The rule," he affirms, " holds good for a 35-ton gun, as well as for
a rifle." His experiments on the relation of the amount of twist to
the length of the projectile are in the highest degree interesting.
 Projectiles varying from 1 to 7 diameters in length, yielded the fol
 lowing results :
     " With one turn in 10 inches, all the projectiles went steadily with
the point first.
     '' With one turn in 20 inches, the projectile became unsteady when
more than 6 diameters in length.
     " With one turn in 30 inches, it fell over when more than 5
diameters in length.
     " With one turn in 45 inches, the projectiles turned over, and flew
very wild, when more than 3 diameters in length."
     The conclusion drawn from these experiments was, " that unless a
gun be rifled with a quick pitch, so as to give a high rotation to the
projectile, it would not be possible to fire long projectiles." With a
sufficient twist, Mr. Whitworth succeeded, in 1856, in firing projec
tiles 10 diameters in length, and weighing 150 lbs.* For range, the
best form of projectile has a conoidal front, a slightly tapered rear,
and is from 3 to 4 diameters long. With high elevations, the flight
    * A model of this bolt was present at the discourse. Instead of a long projec
tile a row of rifled spheres niny be employed. They fly together, says Sir J.
Whitworth, "like a covey of partridges, and would prove very formidable in
attacking an enemy's boats."—' Guns and Steel,' p. 53.

534                         Professor Tyndall                   [June 4,
of such a projectile may exceed, by a mile, tbat of one with its rear
untapered. These two forms of the projectile are shown in Figs.
1 and 2.
                     Fig 1.                       Fig. 2.
                   TAPER REAR.               PARALLEL REAR.
     The greatest range hitherto obtained was reached at Shoeburynoss
in 1868. It amounted to 11,243 yards, or nearly 6£ miles. The
angle of elevation was 33° ; weight of gun, 14 tons 8 cwt. ; bore,
hexagonal ; major diam., 9 inches ; minor diam., 8 • 2 inches ; pitch,
1 turn in 165 inches;* weight of shot, 250 lbs.; length, 24*5 inches;
powder charge, 50 lbs.
     The possibility of attaining so great a range depends on the
weight and cross-section of the shot. Were there no atmospheric
resistance, the range would depend solely on the velocity of the pro
jectile on quitting the gun. But if two projectiles, one possessing
a greater transverse section than the other, start with the same
 velocity, the thicker bolt, encountering greater resistance, is brought
 more rapidly to rest. The velocity at starting may be even greatly
 in favour of the thicker projectile, while at long ranges it is left
 behind.
     And here we are met by one of those practical reflections
 which force themselves upon the thoughtful mind, and in regard to
 which I have already claimed liberty of expression. If the object
 of the artillerist be solely to throw his shot with the fl^iximum
 precision, to the greatest distance, then, so far as the data before me
 enable me to judge, Sir Joseph Whitworth has made out a conclusive
 case. In the common rifle, where each bullet is intended to kill or
 maim a single man, these two elements of range and precision are
 paramount. But in. artillery practice another consideration comes
 into play. The use of shrapnel shell is one of the most important
                        This is uot a quick pitch.—J. T.

  1875.]   on Wldlworth's Planes, Standard Measures, and Guns.                  535
  features of such practice. In this case vastness of range is not tho
  only thing sought. At a certain point in its trajectory—a point which
  the practical artillerist might fix at two, three, or four thousand yards
 —the projectile has to burst, and spatter a rain of bullets round it.
  The effectiveness of such a projectile must obviously depend on tho
  bursting charge which it is able to carry, and the number of bullets
 which it is able to scatter. If—and bear in mind that I use the " if "
 —if the projectile be so attenuated as to diminish seriously the burst
  ing charge and the number of bullets, then it is easy to see that while
  it might assert a clear superiority as regards length of range, it
 might be less effective than a projectile of greater diameter, at the
 distances most advantageous for the use of shrapnel shell. I am far
 from saying that the Whitworth shell is unable to fulfil all the neces
 sary conditions ; but I do say that the shrapnel shell raises a question
 which was not raised in the case of the rifle. And were I on a
 committee entrusted with the decision of this question, I should
 require it to be proved that the very perfection of a gun, re
 garded from one point of view, is not an imperfection when regarded
 from another. The question is one for experiment to decide; and
 what those interested in the establishment of the truth will be most
 inclined to deprecate, is the closing of the door against .experiment.*
     Sir Joseph Whitworth has always advocated tho use of steel in the
 construction of guns ; but without some guarantee of its trustworthi
 ness, he c^kld hardly have expected to convert tho world to his views.
It would be unreasonable to expect militaiy authorities to make their
 guns of a metal which, through some defect impossible to guard
against, might at any moment convert the gun into a shell, scattering
ruin among those who trusted it. The onus therefore rested upon
 tho advocate of steel, to produce a metal which could be relied on.
With the tenacity of purpose, and fruitfulness of inventive skill which
characterized his whole previous career, Sir Josy-li Whitworth attacked
this problem. The solution of it will, perhaps, be best understood by
giving you an account of an experiment which I witnessed at Man
chester on last Saturday morning.
     Within a hollow steel cylinder, of enormous strength, were placed
a series of cast-iron bars, so as to form a kind of lining. The bars
were laid loosely side by side, so as to admit of the passage of a gas
between them. They were also grooved, with a view of facilitating
gaseous motion. The bars were coated by a porous lining of sand
and other materials, through which gases could readily be driven by
pressure. In the middle of the cylinder stood a core, also formed so
    * Length of range, in the case of elongated projectiles, being obtained through
tho diminution of atmospheric resistance ; the Jighti/uj distance at tea becomes a
point of cardinal importaneo in reference to this question. If this distance be
great, the elongated projectile triumphs : but if it be small, a short projectile
with a high initial velocity, might be preferable.

536                              Professor Tyndall                     [June 4,
as to permit of tho escapo of gas from it. A space of several inches
existed between tho inner core and outward sheath. A large ladle
was at hand, and into this was poured the molten metal from a
number of crucibles. From tho ladle again the metal was poured
into the annular space just referred to, filling it to the brim. Down
upon the molten mass descended the plunger of a hydraulic press.
On first entering it a shower of the molten metal was scattered on all
sides ; but inasmuch as the distance between the annular plunger and
tho core on the one side, and tho sheath on the other, was only about
one-tenth of an inch, the fluid metal was immediately chilled and
solidified. Thus entrapped it was subjected to pressure, which
amounted eventually to about six tons per square inch.
      Doubtless gases were here dissolved in the fluid mass, and doubt
less also they were mechanically entangled in it as bubbles. I
figure to myself the fluid metal as an assemblage of molecules, with
the intormolecular spaces in communication with the air outside.
 Through these spaces I believe the carbonic oxide and tho air to have
 been forced, finding their escape through the porous core on the one
 side, and through the porous sheath on tho other.* From both core
 and sheath issued copious streams of gas, mainly, it would seem, in
 the condition of carbonic oxide flame. A considerable shortening of
 the fluid cylinder was tho consequence of this expulsion of gases
 from its interior.         The pressure was continued long after the
 gases had ceased to be ejected ; for, otherwiso, the contraction of
 the metal, on cooling, might subject it to injurious internal strains.
 In fact, castings have been known to be rent asunder by this contrac
 tion. By the continuance of the external pressure, every internal
 strain is at once responded to and satisfied, and the metal is kept
 compact.
      The two main factors which determine the quality of any kind of
 steel are its strength and ductility. The method adopted by Sir
 Joseph Whitworth in determining these factors is, like all his
 mechanical contrivances, admirable. Both ends of a cylinder of a
 definite length and cross section are screwed firmly between two jaws,
 which are then separated by hydraulic pressure. For a time this
 stretched cylinder maintains a uniform diameter. At a certain
 pressure it passes its limit of elasticity, the passage being distinctly
 indicated by tho dial which registers the pressure. From this point
 forward the cylinder is observed to contract at its centre, and it finally
 snaps across. The " strength " is measured by the breaking force ;
 while the " ductility " is determined by bringing the fractured surfaces
 close together, measuring the length of the stretched mass, and ex
 pressing its elongation as a percentage of the original length of the
     * The Florentine experiment, aiifl the experiments of William Hopkins, show
 the power of pressure to force liquids through solids. The "core" is employed
  Ixschusc of the difficulty of removing the air and gases from the heart of tho
  ingot.

  1875.]   on Whiiteorth't Planet, Standard Measures, and Guns.             537
  cylinder. In one experiment made in my presence, forty seconds sufficed
  to stretch and break the cylinder, and there was not the slightest jar
  or jerk observed during the process. I entirely sympathize with the
 desire entertained by Sir Joseph Whitworth that these two elements
 of strength and ductility should be determined for, and registered
 upon, every ingot and bar of steel employed in the construction of our
 railway tires and axles ; and, indeed, on all portions of machinery tho
 giving way of which imperils human life.
      It may be added here that I havo seeu the fluid compressed steel
 in various stages of working, and sometimes in masses suitable for
 screw-propeller shafts, or for 35-ton guns. I have never detected a
 flaw or fault in it, its planed surfaces always disclosing a metal of the
 most closely coherent texture.
      The metal employed for guns must be of the maximum "strength,"
 compatible with a " ductility " which shall cause the gun to tear, if it
 should burst, and not fly into fragments. Sir Joseph Whitworth's
 method of testing the capacity of his metal to resist pressure is fully
 given in his work on ' Guns and Steel.' A powder charge is placed
 in a cylinder, both ends of which are stopped, the only exit for tho
 gases being through the vent-hole. The annexed figures show the
 appearance presented by such a cylinder during the process of testing.
 1, represents it before tiring ; 2, after firing a few rounds ; 3, after
 bursting.* " The excellence of tho metal was proved by the amount
 of powder used, and its tearing open in one piece."
     I wind up by a brief reference to Whitworth's breech-loading gun.
It is thus described by its constructor: "This gun is made of fluid
compressed steel, and the breech is closed by a heavy sliding block
of the same material, working between two portions of the breech
end of the gun, under and over the sliding block, which may be
    * Several examples of the bulged and torn cylinders were present in the
 discourse. Tho instruments used for determining whether any enlargement of
tho gun has taken plnce on firing were also present. An enlargement of TO^rtfth
of an inch is thus discernible.

538                         Professor Tyndall                    [June 4,
called block guides. The faces of the block guides arc grooved with
a number of parallel grooves, the upper and lower surfaces of the
block being similarly formed, and inclined at a very small angle to
a plane perpendicular to the axis of the gun, thus forming a portion
of a screw thread which would be traced upon a cylinder of extremely
large radius. These threads constitute what may be called a ' straight-
line screw,' having their sides nearest the muzzle undercut, so that
when the heavy strain resulting from firing the charge comes upon
the block, there may be no tendency to force the block guides apart ;
but, on the contrary, they are more tightly held.
                             . r^.
     END VIEW, BREECH CLOSED.     LONGITUDINAL SECTION, BREECH OPEN.
    "Iho powder chamber is enlarged in diameter and reduced in
length, being 24. diameters long, and containing a charge of 50 per
cent, more powder than the service charge of a muzzle-loader. There
is also a slightly enlarged shot-chamber to ensure ease in loading. The
enlargement of the shot-chamber permits of the reduction of tho
windage in a degree which could not otherwise be attained. In this
gun the enlargement is - 03 of an inch, the remaining part of the boro
having windago of -01 of an inch.
    " The mechanical features of tho breech-loader may be stated
briefly as follows :
     •' 1. A heavy breech-piece with a large area of bearing surface.
    " 2. An enlarged diameter of powder chamber.
    "3. A slightly enlarged shot-chamber.
    " 4. A diminished windage iu the bore of the gun."
    Throughout this discourse I have left unnamed tho celebrated man
who, subsequently to the Crimean war, gave such an extraordinary
impulse to the art and science of tho artillerist. It would have been
impossible in the limits hero imposed on me to do the least justice

1875.]    on Whitworth's Planes, Standard Measures, and Guns.       539
to his achievements, and therefore I thought it better to leave thorn
wholly untouched. This place I doubt not, and my services certainly,
are open to him, should he desire to place an account of his labours
before the members of the Royal Institution. It has been my
privilege to enjoy the friendship of both the illustrious persons whose
names have been so long before the public in connection with this
question. I am conscious of having sought in an impartial spirit to
give you the knowledge which you desired to obtain. In thus acting
I have been of necessity restricted to the labours of one eminent
inventor, who is here present. His great competitor is not present,
and it is therefore all the more incumbent on me to remind you that,
as far as I am concerned, his story of the guns remains untold ;
adding, if I might be permitted to do so, the expression of my admira
tion both of his character as a man, and of his genius as a scientific
engineer.
                                                              [J. T.J

540                         General Monthly Meeting.                     [June 7,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, Juno 7, 1875.
    William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
   Thomas Oardwell, Esq.
   Joseph Dalton Hooker, C.B. M.D. D.C.L. Pres. R.S. F.L.S. F.G.S.
       Correspond. Mem. Inst. France.
   Francis Lloyd, Esq.
   William Edwin Price, Esq. M.P.
were elected Members of the ltoyal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the tbauks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
American Academy of Natural Sciences—Proceedings for 1874. 8vo.
Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society—Journal, No. 30. 8vo. 1875.
British Architects, Hoyal Institute of— Sessional Papers, 1874-5. Nos. 10, 11. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Marine Polyzoa. Part III. 8vo. 1875.
Christiania Hi yal University—Memoirs. 4to and 8vo. 1873-4.
   Postola S<igur (Sagas des Aputres). Ed. C. R. Uuger. 8vo. Christian la,
     1874. -
   J. Lieblein : Die jEgyptischen Denkmiiler in St. Petersburg, Helsingfors,
     Upsala, und Copenhagen. 8vo. Christiania. 1873.
   Norsk Meteorologisk Aarbog for 1872 und 1873. fol. 1873-4.
Coughtrie, Professor (the Author)— Aerial Locomotion: Pcttigrew v. Marey
     (Quart. Jouru. Science, 1875).
Cox, Mr. Serjeant, M.R.I, (the Auihor)-The Province of Psychology. (K 101)
     8vo. 1875.
Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1875. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for May, 1875. 4 to.
   Chemical News for May, 1875. 4to.
   Engineer for May, 1875. fol.
   Journal for Applied Science for May, 1875. fol.
   Nature for May, 1875. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for May, 1875. 8vn.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for May, 1875. 8vo.
   Practical Magazine for May, 1*.75. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal for May, 1875. 8vo.
Fife, M. S. Esij.—S. Bent : The Thermal Gates to the Pole. 8vo. 1872.
Franldin Institute—Journal, No. 591. 8vo. 1875.
 Geographical Society, Hoyal—Proceedings, Vol. XIX. Nos. 4, 5. 8vo. 1875.
   Journal, Vol. XLIV. 8vo. 1874.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 122. 8vo. 1875.
 Linnean Society—Journal, No. 51). 8vo. 1875.
London Library Committee—Catalogue of the Loudon Librarv. 4 th edition. 8vo.
      1875.

 1875.J                     General Monthly Meeting.                       541
Mechanical Engineers' Institution —Proceedings, Oct. 1874 and Jan. 1875. 8vo.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, New Series, No. 14. 8vo. 1875.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 258, 259. 8vo. 1875.
Preussis-.he Akademie tier Wissenscha/ten— Monatsberichte : Register, 1859-73.
     Feb. 1875. 8vo.
Jloyal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 161. 8vo. 1875.
Uossetti, F. (tlte Author)—Coufronto fra le Macchine Elettriche. (K 101) 8vo.
     1875.
Sandys, It. II, Esq. M.A. (the Author)—"In the Beginning." Remarks on Certain
     Modern Views of the Creation. (K 101) 8vo. 1875.
Sutherland, H. M.D. M.H.I, (the Author)— On Sir H. Holland's Fragmentary
     Papers of Science (Journal Psychol. Med. N. S. 1). 8vo. 1875.
Symons, G. ./. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     May, 1875. 8vo.
   British Rainfall in 1874. 8vo. 1875.
Tasmania Royal Society—Monthly Notices, 1873. 8vo. 1874.
Jyndall, Professor, D.C.L. F.lt.S. (tlte Author)—La Lumitre : Traduit par Abbe
      Moigno. 8vo. Paris, 1875.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Vol. XVIII. Appendix. 8vo. 1875.
Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandelungen. Mui-
      Dec. 1874. 4to.
 Wild, Dr. H. (the Director)—Annales de l'Obseivatoire Physique Centrale de
      Russie, Aune'e 1869 and 1873. 4to. 1874.
   Repertoiium fiir Mtteorologie. Band IV. Heft 1. 4to. 1874.
 Wisconsin Academy—Transactions, Vol. II. 8vo. 1874.

542                          General Monthly Meeting.             [July 5, 1875.
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, July 5, 1875.
    The Duke of Northtjmrerland, D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
                   John Templeton Morgan, Esq.
                   John Bagot Scriven, Esq. B.A.
                   Sir Joseph Whitworth, Bart. LL.D. F.R.S.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on tho
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. .• —
     FROM
 The Lords Commissioners of Admiralty—Reports of the ' Challenger,' No. 3. fol.
      1874.
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 98. 8vo. 1875.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notifies, Vol. XXXV. No. 7. 8vo. 1875.
Bavarian Academy of Science—Sitzungsberichte, 1875. Heft 1. 8vo.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1874-5, Nos. 12. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal f^r May mid June, 1875. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1875. 8vo. '
   Athenaeum for June, 1875. 4to.
   Chemical News for June, 1875. 4to.
   Engineer for June, 1875. fol.
   Journal for Applied Science for June, 1875. fol.
   Nature for June, 1875. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for June, 1875. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1875. 8vo.
   Practical Magazine for June, 1875. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal for June, 1875. 8vo.
Hayden, F. V. Esq. (the Author)—Geological and Geographical Survey of Colorado.
     8vo. Washington. 1874.
Manchesler Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIII. Part 10. 8vo. 1875.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Part 41. 8vo. 1875.
Palestine Exploration Fund-Committee—Our Work in Palestine since 1865. 12mo
     1875.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 260. 8vo. 1875.
Physical Society—Proceedings, Part II. 8vo. 1875.
Preussisehe Akademie der Wissmschaften—Monatsberichte : Marz, 1875. 8vo
Roberts, W. C. Esq. F.R.S. M.B.I,—Fifth Annual Repo.t of the Deputy-Master
     of the Mint. 8vo. 1875.
Royal Society of Literature—Transactions. Second Series, Vol. XI. Parti. 8vo.
Symons, G. J- Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine^
     June, 1875. 8vo.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 80. 8vo. 1875.
Victoria Institute—Transactic      No. 33. 8vo. 1875.
Warren, Major J. K. (<he Author)—Physical Features of the Minnesota River
     (L 16) 8vo. 1874.
Zoological Society— Transactions. Vol. IX. Part 1^3. 4to. 1875.
   Proceedings, 1874, Part 4 ; 1875, Part 1. 8vo.

                INDEX TO VOLUME VII.
Arel, F. A., on Accidental Explosions,   Christian Belief shown in the Roman
   390.                                     Catacombs, 316.
Action at a Distance, Theories of, 44.   Clairaut's Instrument for Extracting
iEolian Harp, 488.                          Roots, 189.
Alcohols from Flint and Quartz, 107.     Clermont, Lord, presents Life and
Allium, G. J. A., on Coral Islands and      Works of Sir J. Fortescae, 330.
   their Architects, 58.                 Clifford, W. K., on Education of the
Alps, Pre-Miocene, 455.                     People, 314.
American Organ described, 489.           Clubs, Australian, &o., 513.
Ampei e on Electric Currents, 49.        Coinage of Ancient Britons, 476.
Animal Forms, Modification of, 94.       Coloured Liquids, Action of Heat on,
Annual Meetings (1873), 105 ; (1874),       458.
   299 ; (1875), 469.                    Colours of Polarized Light, 291.
 Ansell's Detector of Fire-damp, 399.    Colvin, Sidney, on Artistio Judgment,
Artistio Judgment, Limits of, 144.          144.
 Asia Minor, a Fortnight in, by Mr.      Continents, Old, 32.
   Grant Duff, 117.                      Copper-Zinc Couple, 521.
Atlantic, Temperature of, 263.           Coral Islands, 58.
Atmosphere, Transparency and Opacity     Cornu, A., on the Velocity of Light,
   of, 169.                                 472.
Autotype Process in Photography, 220.    Culture, Evolution of, 496.
                                         Cyclones, Periodicity of, 36.
Bakes, Sir S. W., on the Slave Trade
   on the White Nile, 239.               Daroll's Fog-horn, 169, 173.
Barlow, Rev. J., his Bust presented by   Dannreuther, E., on the Music of the
   Mr. Justice Grove, 339.                  Future, 22.
Beethoven's Music characterized, 24.     Davis, A., Liberality to Royal Institu
Benedict, Sir Julius, on Weber and his      tion, 9.
   Times, 199.                           Davy, Sir H., Discoveries in Royal In
 Birks, Rev. T. R., on the Analogies of     stitution, 3, 10.
   Physical and Moral Science, 12.       De la Rue, Warren, Donation to New
Boscovich's Theory, 49.                     Laboratories, 92.
Bradley's Determination of the Velocity  Derham on Intensity of Sound, 176.
   of Light, 472.                        Dewnr, J., on Physiological Action of
Britain, Early Condition and Coinage        Light, 360.
   of, 477.                              Diffusion, 155.
Browning, J., presents an Electric       Dionrea Muscipula, Leaf of, 332.
   Lamp, 237.                            Dissipation of Energy, 386.
 Buys Ballot's Law, 39.                  Doran, J., on the Opponents of Shake
                                            speare, 218.
 Carle-laying Appliances, 310.           Drift Implements, 505.
 Carpenter, Dr. W. B., on ' Challenger ' Duff, M. E. Grant, a Fortnight in Asia
   Expedition and the Temperature of        Min :• 117.
   the Atlantic, 263.
 Catacombs, Roman Art in, 316.           Education of the People, 314.
' Challenger ' Expedition, see Car       Energy, Dissipation of, 386.
   penter and Huxley.                    Evans, J., on Coinage of the Ancient
Charlerois on Niagara, 73.                  Britons, and Natural Selection, 476.
                                                                     2 <j

 5U                                       INDEX.
 Evaporation and Diffusion, 155.               Guncotton, &c., 413; Storage, 423.
 Evolution of Culture, 496.                    Guniiowder, Factories of, 415 ; Becklees
 Explosions, Accidental, 390 ; Gas or             Dealing with, 419 ; Carriage of, 424.
    Compressed Air, 391 ; Boilers, 392 ;
    Gases in Coal Mines, 396 ; Gas in          Halks, Stephen. Experiments on Eva
    Houses, 401 ; Petroleum Spirit, &c.,          poration of Plants, 159.
    402; Flour Mills, 409; Guncotton           Hamilton, J. B., on Application of
    and Nitroglycerine, 413; Gun                  Wind to String Instruments, 488.
    powder, 415 ; Firework Makers, 417;        Hancock, C. F., presents Littre's Dic-
    Carriage of Gunpowder, &c., 424.              tionnaire, 30.
                                               Hartley, W. N., on Action of Heat on
 Faraday's Discoveries in Royal Insti             Coloured Liquids, 458.
    tution, 5, 10.                             Heart and Sphygmograph, 214.
        Lines of Force, 50.                    Heat, its Action on Coloured Liquids,
 'Faraday' Steamship, 310.                       458.
 Farmer, J., applied Wind to String            Heat of the Moon, 139.
    Instruments, 488.                          Heath, V., on the Autotype Process,
 Fellows, Lady, bequeaths Drawings of            &c., 220.
    Watches, 336.                             Hennepin on Niagara, 73.
Firework Making, 417.                         Henrici's Model of Peaucellier's Appa
Fizeau's Determination of the Velocity           ratus, 190.
   of Light, 472.                             Holland, Sir H., PresMent, Decease of,
Flint and Quartz, Alcohols from, 107.            164; P.esolution, 166; his 'Frag
Flour-mill Explosions, 409.                      mentary Papers on Science,' pre
Flower, W. H., on Palaeontological               sented bv his Son, 384,
   Evidence of Gradual Modification of        Holland, Sir H. T., Letter from, 212.
   Animal Forms, 94.                          Huxley, T. H., on ' Challenger ' Ex
Fog and Fog-signals, 169.                        pedition and Geology, 354.
Fox, Col. Lane, on Evolution of Cul
   ture, 496.                                 Indian Mythology and Temples, 67.
Frankland, E., Discoveries in the Royal       Insect-catching Plants, 332.
   Institution, 6, 11 ; on Biver Pollution,   Insects and Wild Flowers, 351.
   370.                                       Iron-smelting, Chemistry of, 264.
Fuller, John, Gift of 10,000Z. to Royal       Ismail, the Khedive, Orders to Sir S.
   Institution, 9.                               Baker, 242.
                                              Jones, Dr. H. Bence, Resignation of
Galileo's Trial, Enigma in, 304.                 Secretaryship ; Testimonial to (a
Galloway's Experiments with the Safety           Bust), 57, 58; Letter from, 92;
   Lamp, 4, 400.                                 Decease of; Besolution, 116; Letter
Galton, F., on Men of Science, 227.              from Lady Millicent, 153.
Garrod, A. H., on the Heart and               Jourdan, C, Geometrical Discovery,
       appointed Fullerian
   Sphygmograph,      214.     Professor of      196.
   Physiology, 444.                           Kinematical Paradox, 192-4.
Gassiot, J. P., presents bust of Mrs.         Kitchen-boiler Explosions, 396.
   Somerville, 30.                            Kiippen on Weather Variations, 35.
Geological Results of ' Challenger '
   Expedition, 354.                           Laroratories of the Royal Institution,
Gladstone, J. H., elected Fullerian              Old and New, 1, 10.
   Professor
       on Science
              of Chemistry,
                   in Elementary
                              302. Schools,          New, Donations to, 92.
                                              Language and Implements, 498.
   449.                                       Lazy Tongs explained, 182.
       on Copper-Zinc Couple, 521.            Ley, on Laws of the Winds, 40.
" Good Shepherd " in the Catacombs,           Liebreich, R., on Portraiture, 430.
   322, 323.                                  Life at High-Pressure, 368.
Greg, W. R., on Life at High-Pressure,        Light, Physiological Action of, 360 ;
   368.                                          New Determinations of its Velocity,
Grove, Sir W. R , presents Bust of Rev.          472.
   J. Barlow, 339.                            Lines of Force, 50.

                                        INDEX.                                   545
 Lubbock, Sir J., on Wild Flowers and        Portraiture, Real and Ideal in, 430.
     Insects, 351.                           Pre-Miocene Alps, 455.
 Lyon, E. D., on Indian Mythology and
     Temples, 67.                            Ralstone, W. R. S., on Popular Tales,
                                                 378.
 McKendmck, Dr. J., Experiments on           Raiiisay, A. O, on Old Continents, 32.
     Physiological Action of Light, 360.            on Niagara, 88.
 Magneto-electric Clock presented, 30.              on Physical History of the Rhine.
 Manchester Steam Users Association :           279.
    Report, 393.                                    on Pre-Miocene Alps, 455.
 ' Maria Lee ' Explosion, 406.               Rawlinson, Sir H. O, on Livingstone's
 Maxwell, J. C, on Action at a Distance,        Explorations (no abstract), 54.
     44.                                     Rayleigh, Lord, on the Dissipation of
 Meldrum on Cyclones, 36, 43.                   Energy, 386.
 Men of Science, their Nature and Nur        Real and Ideal in Portraiture, 430.
    ture, 227.                               Reed and String, 488.
 Merrifleld, C. W.. on Sea Waves, 297.       Regent's Canal Explosion, 408.
 Miocene Epoch described, 282.               Reynolds, J. E., on Alcohols from Flint
 Moon, Heat of, 139.                            and Quartz, 107.
 Moral and Physical Science Analogies,       Rhine, Physical History of, 279.
    12.                                      River Pollution, 370.
 Motion, Mechanical Conversion of, 179.      Roomer's Determination of Velocitv of
 Mountain Chains, Origin of, 281.               Light, 472.
 Music of the Euture, 26.                    Rollestou, G., on Early Inhabitants of
                                                the North of England, 300.
 Natural Selection and Ancient British       Roman Catacombs and Early Christian
    Coinage, 482.                               Belief, 316.
 New Ireland Paddles, 516.                   Rosse, Lord, on the heat of the Moon.
 Newton on Action at a Distance, 47.            139.
 Niagara, Tyndall's Exploration of, 73.      Royal Institution Laboratories, 1.
 Nitrates, Manufactures of Dangerous,        Rumford, Count, Proposals for the
    413.                                        Eoyal Institution, 1.
 North of England, Early Inhabitants,        Rutherford, Dr. W., resigns his Fuller-
    300.                                        ian Professorship of Physiology, 339.
Northumberland, Duke of, elected
    President, 167.                         Safety Lamp Experiments, 400.
                                            Salmon, W., Donation for Scientific
Odlt-ng, W., on Evaporation and Diffu           Research, 164.
    sion, 155; Resignation of Fulleriun     Sand Erosion and the Sand-blast, 83,
    Professorship, 162.                        84.
(Ersteilt on Electric Currents, 49.         Sanderson, J. Burdon, on the Dionsea
Old Continents, 32.                            Muscipula, 332.
                                            Schliemann's Excavations on the sup
Paddles from New Ireland, 516.                 posed Site of Troy, 119; Letter from,
Peaucellier's Discovery of the Me              122.
    chanical Conversion of Motion, 179.     Scientific Men, their Nature and Nur
Penrose's Application of the Mechanical        ture, 227.
    Conversion of Motion, 182.              Scott, R. H., on Progress in Weather
Petroleum Spirit, &c., imported, 402 ;         Knowledge, 34.
    Explosions, 403; Storeage and Con-      Sculpture, on Mode of Exhibiting, 431.
   vevance, 406 ; Coal-mine Explosions,     Sea Waves, 297.
   396.                                     Shakespeare's Opponents, 218.
Photographic Processes, 220.                Siemens, C. W., on the ' Faraday '
Physical and Moral Science Analogies,          Steamship. 310.
   12.                                      Slave Trade on the White Nile, 239.
Physiological Action of Light, 360.         Somerville, Mrs., Bust of, presented,
Polarized Light, Spectra of, 134 ;             30,
   Colours of, 291.                         Sound, Velocity of, 344.
Popular Tales, on, 378.     •               Speucer's Photographic Processes, 222.

54G                                    INDFX.
Sphygmograph, Action of, 214.                 Tyndall, J., on Acoustic Reversibility,
Spontaneous Explosions. 413.
Spottiswoode, Wm., on the Laboratories           344.on Whitworth's Planes, 525 ;
   of the Royal Institution, 1.                  Standard Measures, 526 ; Guns, 527 ;
      elected Secretary, 105.                    Steel, 535.
      on Spectra of Polarized Light,
   134.                                      Velocity of Light, 472 ; Velocity of
      on Combinations of Colour by               Sound, 344.
   means of Polarized Light, 291.            *' Vine " in the Catacombs, 325.
Stiinloy, Doan, on the Roman Cata
   combs and Early Christian Belief,         Waoner, A., and the Music of the
   816.                                          Future, 26; his Eulogy of Weber,
Sticks, Clubs, &c, 513.                          211.
Storms, various, described, 41-42.           Weather Knowledge, Progress in, 34.
String Instruments and Wind, 488.            Weber and his Times, 199.
Sylvostor, J. J., on Mechanical Conver       Wheatstone, Sir C, presents Magneto-
   sion of Motion, 179.                         electric Clock, 30; his Determina
Sympathetic Inks, 458.                          tion of the Velocity of Light, 474.
Syren's action in Fog, 178.                  White Nile Slave Trade, 239.
                                             Whitworth's Planes, 525; Standard
Taylor, Sedley, on Galileo's Trial, 304.        Measures, 526; Guns, &c., 527;
Thomson, Sir W., on Tides, 447.                  Steel. 535.
Tides and Tide-gauge, 447.                   Wild Flowers and Insects, 351.
Tilghman's Sand-blast, 84, 85.               Wind applied to String Instruments,
Torpedo Explosion, 390.                          488.
Troy, Neighbourhood of, 119.                 Winds, Laws of, 40.
Tyndall, J., Resoiirchcs in the Royal        Woodward, C, presents Polarizing Ap
   Institution,
      presents Philosophical
                7, 11.        Apparatus :        paratus, 164.
                                             Wright, Dr. C. R. A., on Chemistry of
   Resolution thoreon, 55.                       Iron-smelting, 248.
          the Acoustic
—— on Niagara,     73. Transparency and
                                             Young, Dr. T., Researches in the Royal
   Opacity of the Atmosphere, 169.               Institution, 2.
                                 knd or VOL. VII.
    LOXDON: PRUiTED RI WILLIAM CLOWES A3ID SOXi, STAHTORD S.TEEH AND CHARIKG CROSS.





