This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

Discourses
Abstracts
with
Institution,
Royal
Members
Meetings
at
Proceedings
the
of
Notices
Institution
Royal
Britain
Great
of

         ib"
"<**Ilfig&



                   NOTICES
                       OP THE
           PROCEEDINGS
                       AT Til r.
       MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS
                       OF THl
fto^al institution of <§reat Britain,
                        W7TH
      ABSTRACTS OF THE DISCOURSES
                    DELIVERED AT
           THE EVENING MEETINGS.
                 VOLUME VIII.
                  1875—1878.
                  LONDON:
 PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS,
       STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS.
                        1879.

 Q
                                   patron.
                        HER HOST QBAOIOUS         HAJKSTY
                            QUEEN VICTORIA.
                 Ulceration anto Jftonorarj? iHembct.
                              HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS
              THE PEINCE OF WALES, K.G. F.R.S.
Preeident—The Duke of Nobthumrerland, D.C.L. LL.D.
                  The Lord Privy SeaL
Treasurer—George Busk, Esq. F.R.S.— KP.
Secretary—Warren De La Rue, Esq. M.A. D.C.L. F.R.S.
        Managers. 1878-79.                         Visitors. 1878-79.
George Berkley, C.E.                      John Frederic Bateman, Esq. F.R.S.
William Bowman, Esq. F.R.S.                 F.G.S.
Thomas Boyco't, M.D. F.L.S.               Cliarles Brooke, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.
Sir T. Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G.         William Henry Domville, Esq.
Edward Fraukland, Esq. D.C.L. Ph.D.       Sir Philip de Malpas Grey Egerton,
   F.R.8. &o.                                Bt. M.P. F.R.S.
Francis Gulton, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. F.G.S.   Alexander John Ellis, Esq. F.R.S.
The Hon. Sir Wm. E. Grove, M.A.             F.S-A.
  D.C.L. F.R.S.                           Edward Enfield, Esq.
Thomas Hyde Hills, Esq.                   William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D.
Lord Lindsay, M.P. Pres. R.A.S.— V.P.        F.RS.
Sir W. Fred. Pollock, Bt. M.A.— V.P.      William Watkiss Lloyd, Esq.
John Ene, M.D. LL.D.                      Vernon Lushington, Esq. Q.C.
Cliarles William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L.     Henry Pollock, Esq.
   F.R.S. -F.P.                           Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq.
Benjamin Leigh Smith, Esq.                The Rev. Arthur Rigg, M.A.
James Spedding, Esq.                      Basil Woodd Smith, Esq. F.R.A.S.
William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. D.C.L.    George Andrew Spottiswoode, Esq.
   Pres. E.S.— V.P.                       The Lord Vernon.
Professor of Natural Philosophy—John Tyndall, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R S. &o.
Fullerian Professor of Chemistry—James Dewar, Esq. F.R.S. Jaeksonian Pro
   fessor of Natural Philosophy, Univ. Cambridge.
Fullerian Professor of Physiology—Edward Albert Schafer, Esq. F.R.S.
Keeper of the Library and Assistant Secretary—Mr. Benjamin Vincent.
Assistant in the Library—Mr. Charles W. Vincent, F.B.S.E. F.C.S. F.I.C.
Clerk of Accounts and. Collector—Mr. Henry C. Hughes.
Assistant in the Physical Laboratory—Mr. John Cottrell and Mr. Frank Valtcr ;
   in the Chemical Laboratory, Mr. Gerrard Ansdell, F.C.S.

                         CONTENTS.
                                 1875.
                                                               Page
Nov.    1.— General Monthly Meeting (Death of Sir Charles
              Wheatstone)         ..     ..      ..    ..         1
Dec.    6.— General Monthly Meeting ..          ..     ..   ..    4
                                 1876.
Jan.  21.—Professor Tyndall—The Optical Condition of the
              Atmosphere in its Bearings on Putrefaction and
              Infection ..        ..     ..     ..     ..   ..    G
  „  28.— Professor Huxley—The Border Territory between
              the Animal and the Vegetable Kingdoms         ..   28
Feb.   4.— W. H. Preeoe, Esq.— The Applications of Elec
              tricity to the Protection of Life on Railways ..   35
 „     7.—General Monthly Meeting        ..            ..   ..  42
 „   11.—W. Crookes, Esq.—The Mechanical Action of Light        44
 „   18.—Dr. C. Wm. Siemens —The Action of Light on
              Selenium            ..     ..     ..     ..   ..   68
 „   25.—The Rev. Stephen J. Perry—The Transit of Venus         79
Mar.   3. —Professor Odlinq—The Paraffins and their Alcohols     86
 „     6.— General Monthly Meeting       ..     ..             101
                               407837

iv                               CONTENTS.
   1876.                                                        Pago
Mar. 10.—Peofessor W. H. Flower—The Extinct Animals
                 of North America ..       ..    ...   ..    .. 103
  „      17.—Sir Henry Sumner Maine—The State of Feudal
                 Property in England and France on the Eve of
                 the first French Revolution       ..  ..   ..   126
  „      24.—Professor McK. Hughes—Geological Measures of
                 Time                                            129
  „      81.—Professor James Dewar—The Physiological Action
                 of Light. PartII                                137
April     3.—General Monthly Meeting ..            ..  ..   ..   150
    „     7.—Edward B. Tylor, Esq.—Ordeals and Oaths        ..   152
    „    28.—G. J. Romanes, Esq.—Physiology of the Nervous
                 System of Medusas         ..      ..  ..   ..   166
May        1.—Annual Meeting        ..     ..      ..       ..   177
  „       5.—Pkofessor Gladstone—Methods of Chemical De
                 composition as illustrated by Water    ..  ..   179
  „       8.— General Monthly Meeting ..           ..  ..   ..   186
  „      12. —W. Froude, Esq.—Fundamental Principles of the
                 Resistance of Ships       ..      ..  ..   ..   188
  „      19.—C. T. Newton, Esq.—Recent Discoveries at Olympia    214
  „      26.—Mr. J. F. Moulton— Verification of Modern Scien
                 tific Theories                                  216
Juno       2. —Professor Roscoe—Recent Discoveries about Vana
                 dium         ..    ..      ..      ..  ..   ..  221
   „       5.—General Monthly Meeting ..            ..  ..   ..  231
   „       9.—Professor Tyndall—Parallel Roads of Glen Roy       233
July . 3.—General Monthly Meeting ..                ..  ..   ..  246
 Nov.       6.—General Monthly Meeting ..           ..  ..   ..  248
 Dec.       4.—General Monthly Meeting ..           ..  ..   ..  251

                                CONTENTS.
                                  1877.
                                                                    Pago
Jan.   19.—Professor Tyndall—A Combat with an Infective
                Atmosphere (see p. 467).
  „    26.—Sir John Lurrock—The Habits of Ants ..            ..      253
Feb.     2.—Professor Osrorne Reynolds —Vortex Motion        ..      272
  „      5. —General Monthly Meeting      ..      ..   ..    ..      280
  „      9.—Francis Galton, Esq.—Typical Laws of Heredity            282
   „    16.—Professor F. Guthrie—Solid Water           ..     ..     302
   „    23.—J. F. Moulton, Esq.—Matter and Ether       ..    ..      335
 Mar.     2.—Professor Huxley—The History of Birds            ..     347
  „      5.—General Monthly Meeting ..            ..   ..     ..     312
   „      9.—Frederick J. Bramwell, Esq.— The Future of
                 Steel                                               314
  -„    16.—Dr. James Bryce—Armenia and Ararat          ..    ..     349
   „    23.—Professor Gladstone—Influence of Chemical Con
                 stitution upon Refraction of Light     ..    ..     351
 April    2.—General Monthly Meeting ..            ..   ..     ..     357
     „  13.—William Spottiswoode, Esq.—Experiments with a
                 Great Induction Coil      ..      ..   ..     ..     359
   „    20.—Frederick Pollock, Esq.—Spinoza              ..    ..     363
    „   27.—John Bae, M.D.—Arctic Life                                378
 May       1.— Annual Meeting       ,.     ..      ..    ..     ..    390
    „      4. —Rev. W. H. Dallinger—Origin and Development
                  of Minute and Lowly Forms of Life      ..           391
    „      7.—General Monthly Meeting ..            ..   ..     ..    403
    „    11.—D. Mackenzie Wallace, Esq.— Intellectual Move
                  ments and Secret Societies in Russia   ..     ..    405
    „    18.—Lieut.-Gen. Richard Strachey—Physical Causes
                  of Indian Famines         ..      ..    ..     .,   407

VI                                CONTENTS.
   1877.                                                           Page
May      25.—G. J. Romanes, Esq.—Evolution of Nerves and
                 Nervo-Systems        ..    ..   ..      ..     ..  427
June       1.—Osoar Browning, Esq.—History of Education         .. 449
    „      6. —General Monthly Meeting ..        ..      ..     ..  465
    „      8.—Professor Tyndall—Putrefactive and Infective
                 Organisms from a Physical Point of View        ..  467
July      2.— General Monthly Meeting ..         ..             .. 478
Nov.      5.—General Monthly Meeting ..          ..      ..     .. 480
Dec.      8.—General Monthly Meeting ..                         .. 483
                                    1878.
Jan.     25.—Professor Huxley—William Harvey             ..     ..  485
Feb.       1.—Wm. Henry Preece, Esq.—Tho Telephone              .. 501
   „      4.—General Monthly Meeting         ..   ..      ..    ..  508
   „       8.—Matthew Arnold, Esq.— Equality (no Abstract) ..       510
   „     15.—P. L. Solater, Esq.— Zoological Distribution and
                 some of its Difficulties   ..    ..      ..    .. 511
    „    22.— Professor Odling—The New Metal Gallium (no
                 Abstract)                                         513
Mar.      1.—Richard Lierreich, M.D.— Tho Deterioration of
                 Oil Paintings       ..          ..      ..     .. 514
          4.—General Monthly Meeting        ..   ..       ..    .. 527
           8.—Professor Goldwin Smith—Tho Influence of Geo
                 graphical Circumstances on Political Character ..  529
         15.—Lord Rayleigh — The Explanation of Certiin
                 Acoustical Phenomena ..         ..      ..     .. 536
         22.—Professor Tyndall—Recent Experiments on Fog-
                 Signals                                           543
         29.—Professor Dewar—Experiments on Electro-Photo
                 metry       ..      ..     ..   ..      ..     .. 565
April     1.—General Monthly Meeting        ..   ..      ..     .. 559

                                 CONTENTS.                           Vll
  1878.                                                            Page
April 5.—William Spottiswoode, Esq.—Quartz : an Old
                 Chapter Re-written         ..          ..     .. 561
   „    12.—Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker—The Distribution of
                 the North American Flora         ..    ..     ..   568
May       1.—Annual Meeting         ..      ..    ..           ..   581
  „       3.—William Spottiswoode, Esq.— A Nocturne in Black
                 and Yellow                                         582
  „       6.— General Monthly Meeting       ..     ..   ,.     ..   589
  „      10.— Sra William Thomson— Effects of Stress on Mag
                 netization of Iron, Cobalt, and Nickel ..     ..   591
  „     17.—A. Graham Bell, Esq.—Speech (no Abstract)           ..  594
  „     24.—Professor Ramsay—The Geology of Gibraltar and
                 the Opposite Coast of Africa, and the History of
                 the Mediterranean Sea       ..     ..   ,.     .. 594
  „     31.—Professor Flower—The Native Races of the
                 Pacific Ocean       ..      ..     ..   ..     ..  602
 Juno     3.—General Monthly Meeting         ..     ..   ..     ..  653
    „     7.—Walter Herries Pollock, Esq. M.A. —Roman
                  ticism     ..      ..      ..     ..   ..     ..  655
    „   14.—Professor Dewar—The Liquefaction of Gases           ..  657
 July      1.— General Monthly Meeting       ..     ..   ..         663
 Nov.     4.—General Monthly Meeting         ..     ..   ..     ..  665
 Dec.      2.—General Monthly Meeting                               668
 Index to Volume VIII                                                671

                               (   viii  )
Map of Parallel Roads of Glen Roy                 .. to face page  233
                               ERRATUM.
Pngo 560, for James Sclly, Esq., &c, read Professor Henry Mosley, Three
                           Lectures on Addison.

           ISonal institution of <£reat Britain.
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, November 1, 1875.
 C. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                      Major-General W. S. S. Mulcaster
was elected Member of the Royal Institution.
     The following Communication was read :—
     " The Managers much regret having to announce to the Members
the unexpected death of one of the most valued Members—Sir Charles
Wheatstonr.
     "Sir Cbarles Wheatstone has been a Member of the Royal
Institution since the year 1846. Previously to that time he had made
a communication to the Evening Meetings on his researches in Acou
stics ; and from that date he has from time to time lent his valuable
aid to the objects of the Institution, as one of the Managers, and by
discoveries which have been exhibited on the Library Table, and
formed subjects for Discourses at the Evening Meetings and the
Morning Lectures.
     " His high position as an original investigator in Physical Science,
his extensive knowledge of all branches of Experimental Research,
and his readiness to impart it, and general kindly disposition, are well
known to a large body of the Members of the Royal Institution."
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
Secretary ofStatefor India—Synopsis of the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India,
     Vol. IV. 4to. 1875.
New Zealand Government—Census of New Zealand, March 1, 1874. fol. 1875.
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 99. 8vo. 1874.
American Academy of Arte and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. X. 8vo. 1874-5.
American Philosophical Society—-Vol. XV. Part 2. 4to. 1875.
  Proceedings, Nog. 93, 94. 8vo. 1874-5.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. VI. No. 4. 8vo. 1875.
Asiatic Society of Bengal- Journal, 1874, Part 1, No. 4 ; Part 2, No. 4 ; 1875,
     Part 1, No. 1. 8vo.
   Proceedings, 1874, No. 10 ; 1875, Nos. 1-5. 8vo.
Asiatic Society, BoyaL-Journal, Vol. VII. Part 2. 8vo. 1875.
   Annual Report, 1875. 8vo.
     Vol. VIII.       (No. 64.)                .                       r

2                             General Monthly Meeting.                     [Nov. 1,
Boston Society of Natural History—Memoirs, 3 Parts. 4to. 1874-5
            LadyVol.
  Proceedings,
Bourchier,         (theXVII.     8vo. 1874.of the Life of Admiral Sir Edward Cod-
                        Editor¦) —Memoir
     rington. 2 vols. 8vo. 1873.
British Architects, Royal Inttitute of—Sessional Papers, 1874-5, No. 13. 4to.
Britith Association for the Advancer/tent of Science—Report of the 43rd Meeting:
     at Belfast, 1874. 8vo. 1875.
British North American Boundary Commission—Report on Geology and Resources
     of the Region in the 49th Parallel, from the Lake of the Woods to the Rocky
     Mountains. By G. M. Dawson and Major D. R. Cameron. 8vo. 1875.
Chemical Society—Journal for July-Oct., 1875. 8vo.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vols. XL. XLI. 8vo. 1 875.
Comitato Geologico d'TMia—Bollettini, 1874. Nos. 9-12. 1875: Nos. 1-6. 8vo.
Commissioners in Lunacy—Twenty-ninth Report. 8vo. 1875.
Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal—Forty-second Annual Report. 1874. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for July-Oct., 1875. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for July-Oct., 1875. 4to.
  Chemical News for July-Oct., 1875. 4to.
   Electrical News for July-Oct., 1875.
  Engineer for July-Oct., 1875. fol.
  Journal for Applied Science for July-Oct., 1875. fol.
   Nature for July-Oct., 1875. 4to.
  Nautical Magazine for July-Oct, 1875. 8vo.
  Pharmaceutical Journal for July-Oct., 1875. 8vo.
   Practical Magazine for July-Oct., 1875. 8vo.
   Telegraph Joumnl for July-Oct, 1875. 8vo.
Elliot, the Lady—History of India by its own Historians, Vol. VI. 8vo. 1875.
Fiorentino, Sig. V. (the Editor)—Prose e Poesie Italianc della Raccolta Arborense.
     16to. Napoli, 1870.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 592-597. 8vo. 1875.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XIX. Nos. 6, 7. 8vo. 1875.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 123. 8vo. 1875.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. IX. No. 2. 8vo. 1875.
Hancock, C. F. jun. Esq. M.R.I.—D. Lloyd : State Worthies, or the Statesmen
     and Favourites of England since the Reformation. 2nd ed. 1670.
Harlem, Socie¦te"des Sciences —Archives Neerlandaises, Tome X. Liv. 1, 2. 8vo.
      1875.
Hayden, F. V. Esq. United States Geologist—Bulletins, Second Series, Nos. 2, 3.
     8vo. 1875.
   Contributions to the Fossil Flora of the Western Territories, Part 1. 4to.
      1874.
Irish Academy, Royal—Transactions, Vol. XXV. Science, Parts 5-19. 4to. 1874-5.
   Proceedings, New Series, Vol. I. Nos. 9, 10 ; Vol. II. Nos. 1-3. 8vo. 1873-5.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1875, No. 1. 8vo.
Jackson, Lowis D. A. Esq. (the Author)—Hydraulic Manual, Part 1. Working
     Tables and Text. 8vo. 1875.
Linnean Society—Transactions, Vol. XXIX. Part 3; Vol. XXX. Parts 2, 3.
      Second Series : Botany, Vol. I. Part 1 ; Zoology, Vol. I. Part 1. 4to. 1874-5.
   Journal, Nos. 80, 81. 8vo. 1875.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, 1875: April, June,
     July. Part 1. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Transactions, Vol. LVIII. 8vo. 1875.
Meteorological Office—Meteorological Committee of the Royal Society : Report for
     1874. 8vo. 1875.
  Quarterly Weather Report, 1873, Part 4; 1874, Part 1. 4to. 1875.
  R. H. Scott : Instructions for the Use of Meteorological Instruments. 8vo. 1875.
Meteorological Office, Toronto—Meteorological, Magnetic, and other Observations
     in Canada in 1874. 8vo. 1875.
Meteorological Soeiety—Quarterly Journal, New Series, No. 15. 8vo. 1875.

 1875.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                            3
Mutter, M. Albert, Esq. (the Author)—Ein Fund vorgeschichtlicher Steingerathe
      bei Basel. (M y) 4to. 1875.
Preussische AJiademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : April, Mai, Juni,
      1875. M.8vo.
Regnault,      A. (the Translator) —Chef d¦CEuvres de Lord Byron, traduits ea vers
     Francais. 2 vols. 8vo. Paris. 1874.
Soma, Accademia dei Lincei—Atti, Anni VIII. IX. & XXVI. Sess. 5-8. 4to.
     1874-5.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 162, 163. 8vo. 1875.
St. Petersburg, Academie des Sciences —7" Serie. Tome XXI. Nos. 6-12 ; Tome
     XXII. Nos. 1-3. 4to. 1874-5.
   Bulletins, Tome XIX. Nos. 4, 5 ; Tome XX. Nos. 1, 2. 4to. 1874.
Sands, Admiral B. F. {the Superintendent)—Washington Astronomical and Meteor
     ological Observations for 1872. 4to. 1874.
Smithsonian Institution—Smithsonian Eeport for 1873. 8vo. 1874.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXVIII. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1875.
Street, Mr. G.—Map of New South Wales. 1875.
Symons, O. J. Esq. {the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     July-Oct., 1875. 8vo.
Taylor, Alfred S. M.D. F.R.S. M.R.I. {the Author)—On Poisons. 3rd ed. 12mo.
     1875.
Thomas, W. Cave, Esq. (the Author)—The Eevised Theory of Light. 12mo. 1875.
Tyndatt, Professor, V.C.L. LL.D. F.RS. (the Author)—Six. Lectures on Light.
     2nd ed. 16to. 1875.
   Sound. 3rd ed. 16to. 1875.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Nos. 81, 82. 8vo. 1875.
 Vereins zur Beforderung des Geicerbfleisses in l'reussen—Verhandelungen. Jan.-
     Juni, 1875. 4to.
 Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 34. 8vo. 1875.
 Zoological Society—Transactions, VoL IX. Part 4. 4to. 1875.
   Proceedings, 1875, Parts 2, 3. 8vo.
   List of Vertebrated Animals. Supplement. 8vo. 1875.

4                            General Monthly Meeting.                   [Dec. 6,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, December 6, 1875.
 0. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
          Arthur Cates, Esq. M.R.I. B.A.
         The Very Rev. R. W. Church, M.A. Dean of St. Paul's.
         Lionel Lawson. Esq.
         Joseph Macpherson, Esq.
          W. H. Preece, Esq. M. Inst. C.E.
          Arnold George Rogers, Esq.
          John Topham, M.D.
         William Parkinson Wright, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Sir Wm. R.
Grove for his Donation of Fifteen Guineas to provide a marble
pedestal for the Bust of the Rev. John Barlow, presented by him in
November, 1874.
    The following Arrangements of the Lectures before Easter, 1876,
were announced :—
    Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.—Six Lectures, adapted to a
Juvenile Auditory, on Experimental Electricity ; on Dec. 28 (Tuesday), 30, 1875 ;
Jan. 1, 4, 6, and 8, 1876.
    Professor Alfred H. Garrod—Twelve Lectures on the Classification of
Vertebrated Animals ; on Tuesdays, Jan. 18 to April 4.
    Professor Gladstone, F.E.S.—Eight Lectures on the Chemistry of the
Non-Metallic Elements ; on Thursdays, Jan. 20 to March 9.
    William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Treas. E.S. Bee. R.I.—Four Lectures
on Polarized Light ; on Thursdays, March 16 to April 6.
    R. P. Pullan, Esq. M.R.I.B.A.—Three Lectures on his Excavations in Asia
Minor ; on Saturdays, Jan. 22, 29, and Feb. 5.
    W. T. Thiselton Dyer, M.A. B.Sc. F.L.S. Assistant Director, Royal
Gardens, Kew.—Four Lectures on the Vegetable Kingdom ; the Boundaries and
Connections of its Larger Groups ; on Saturdays, Feb. 12 to March 4.
    Professor G. Croom Robertson, M.A.—Three Lectures on the Human
Senses ; on Saturdays, March 11, 18, aud 25.
     Edward Dannreuther, Esq.—Two Lectures on Wagner and his Trilogy,
on Saturdays, April 1 and 8.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
The French Government—Documents Inodits sur l'Histoire de France: Cartu-
     laires de l'Eglise Cath<?drale de Grenoble. 4to. 1869.
Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac for 1879. 8vo. 1875.

1875.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                             5
Agricultural Society, Royal—Journal, Second Series, Vol. XII. Part 2. 8vo. 1875.
Arnold, Thomas James, Esq.—Treatise on the Law of Municipal Corporations.
      2nd ed. with Additions. By S. G. Johnston. 8vo. 1875.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1875, Part 1. No. 2. 8vo. Part 2. Extra
      Number. 8vo. 1875.
   Proceedings, 1875, Nos. 6, 7, 8. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXV. No. 9. 8vo. 1875.
Bavarian Academy, Royal—Sitzungsberichte. 1875. Heft 2. 8ro.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1875-6, No. 1. 4 to.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Oriental Coins, Vol. I. 8vo. 1875.
   Cuneiform Inscriptions of Western Asia, Vol. IV. fol. 1875.
Comitate Geologico a" Italia —Bollettini, 1875, Nos. 7, 8. 8vo.
Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Literature, Science, and Art—Report
      and Transactions, Vol. VII. 8vo. 1875.
Douglas, R. K. Esq. (the Author)—The Language and Literature of China. (Two
      Lectures at the Royal Institution.) 16to. 1875.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Nov., 1875. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for Nov., 1875. 4to.
   Chemical News for Nov., 1875. 4 to.
   Electrical News for Nov., 1875.
   Engineer for Nov., 1875. fol.
   Journal for Applied Science for Nov., 1875. fol.
   Nature for Nov., 1875. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Nov., 1875. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Nov., 1875. 8vo.
   Practical Magazine for Nov., 1875. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal for Nov., 1875. 8vo.
Franklin    Institute—Journal,
Geneve, Socie"te                 No. 598. 8vo.
                   de Physique—Me¦moires,        1875. Partio 1. 4to. 1874-5.
                                            Vol. XXIV.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 124. 8vo. 1875.
Geological Society of Ireland, Royal—Journal, Vol. IV. Part 2. 8vo. 1875. ¦
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. IX. No. 1. 8vo. 1874.
Harrison, Mr. W. H. 'the Author)—Spirit People. 12mo. 1875.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, 1874-5. 8vo.
Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 29. 8vo. 1875.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, New Series, No. 16. 8vo. 1875.
Plante, M. G. (the Author)—Recherches (from Comptes Rendus, 1875).
Preumische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Juli, Aug., 1875. 8vo.
Rigg, Rev. Arthur, M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—Cantor Lectures. On Mechanism;
      on the Energies of Gravity, Vitality, Heat, &c. ; and on Tools, &c. 8vo.
      1872-3-5.
   Report on Stove Competition. 8vo. 1874.
 Royal Society o/Ziondon—Philosophical Transactions for 1875. Vol. CLX V, Part 1.
      4to. 1875.
Smee, A. H. Esq. (the Author)—Milk in Health and Disease.. 12mo. 1875.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (tlie Author) —Symoris' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
       Nov., 1875. 8vo.
 Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 35. 8vo. 1875.
 Volpi,elii, Professor P. (the Author)—Sull' Epoca della Completa Cecita del Galilei.
       8vo. 1868.
    Various Memoirs (from " Atti dei Nuovi Lincei di Roma," &c). 1844-75. 4to.
    Soluzione del Problema relative alle Corse del Cavallo. 4to. Roma. 1872.
 Watford Natural History Society—Transactions, Vol. I. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1875.

            Professor TyndaU on the Optical Condition of the           [Jan. 21,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, January 21, 1876.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
           Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.R.I.
 The Optical Condition of the Atmosphere, in its Bearings on Putrefaction
                                 and Infection.*
Six years ago I ventured to place before the Members of the Royal
Institution a sketch of the Germ Theory of Epidemics, which, under
the title of " Dust and Disease," was published in the Proceedings of
the Institution.')' I at that time found that London air, which is
always thick with motes, and also with matter too fine to be described
as motes, after it had been filtered by passing it through densely
packed cotton-wool, or calcined by passing it through a red-hot
platinum -tube containing a bundle of red-hot platinum wires, or
by carefully leading it over the top of a spirit-lamp flame, showed,
when examined by a concentrated luminous beam, no trace of
mechanically suspended matter. The particular portion of spaco
occupied by such a beam was not to be distinguished from adjacent
space.
    The purely gaseous portion of our atmosphere was thus shown to
be incompetent to scatter light.
    I subsequently found that, to render the air thus optically pure,
it was only necessary to leave it to itself for a sufficient time in a
closed chamber, or in a suitably closed vessel. The floating matter
gradually attached itself to the surrounding surfaces, leaving behind
it air possessing no scattering power. Sent through such air, the
most concentrated beam failed to render its track visible.
    The parallelism of these results with those obtained in the excel
lent researches of Schwann, Schroeder and Dusch, Schroeder himself,
and of the illustrious Pasteur, in regard to the question of " sponta
neous generation," caused me to conclude that the power of scattering
light and the power of producing life by the air would be found to go
hand-in-hand.
    This conclusion was strengthened by an experiment easily made
and of high significance in relation to this question. It had been
   * Since tho delivery of the discourse some new matter, dealing with questions
subsequently discussed, has been added to this abstract.
   t Vol. vi. p. 1.

1876.]     Atmosphere, in Us Bearings on Putrefaction and Infection.                 7
pointed out by Professor Lister, of Edinburgh, that air which has
passed through the lungs is known to have lost its power of causing
putrefaction. Such air may mix freely with the blood without risk of
mischief ; and that truly great scientific surgeon had the penetration
to ascribe this immunity from danger to the filtering powor of the
lungs. Prior to my becoming acquainted with this hypothesis in
1869, I had virtually demonstrated its accuracy in the following
way:
      Condensing in a dark room, and in dusty air, a powerful beam of
light, and breathing through a glass tube (the tube actually employed
was a lamp-glass, rendered warm in a flame to prevent precipitation)
across the focus, a diminution of the scattered light was first observed.
But towards the end of the expiration the white track of the beam
was broken by a porfectly black gap, the blackness being due to the
total absence from the expired air of any matter competent to scatter
light. The deeper portions of the lungs were thus proved to be filled
with optically pure air, which, as such, had no power to generate the
organisms essential to the process of putrefaction.* The experimental
arrangement is given in Fig. 1, where g represents the heated lamp-
glass, and 6 the gap cut out of the beam issuing from the lamp at L.
                                        Fig. 1.
      I thought this simple method of examination could not fail to be
 of use to workers in this entangled field. They had hitherto pro-
     * " No putrefaction," says Colin, " can occur in a nitrogenous substance if it
 be kept free from the entrance of new Bacteria after those which it may contain
 have been destroyed. Putrefaction begins as soon as Bacteria, even in the smallest
 numbers, are accidentally or purposely introduced. It progresses in direct pro
 portion to the multiplication of the Bacteria ; it is retarded when the Bacteria (for
 example, by a low temperature) devolop a small amount of vitality, and is brought
 to an end by all influences which either stop the development of the Bacteria or
 kill them. All bactericidal media are therefore antiseptic and disinfecting."—
 Beitrage zur Biologie der Pflanzen. Zweites Heft, 1872, p. 203.

 8          Professor Tyndall on the Optical Condition of the  [Jan. 21,
 cceded less by sight than by insight, being in general unable to see
 the physical character of the medium in which their experiments were
 conducted. But the method has not been much turned to account,
 and this year I was so impressed by its possible importance, that I
 resolved to devote some time myself to the more complete demonstra
 tion of its utility.
     My principal stimulus, however, was the desire to free my mind,
 and if possible the minds of others, from the uncertainty and con
 fusion which now beset the doctrine of "spontaneous generation."
 Pasteur has pronounced it " a chimera," and expressed the undoubt-
 ing conviction that, this being so, it is possible to remove parasitic
 diseases from the earth. To the medical profession, therefore, and
 through them to humanity at large, this question, if the illustrious
 French philosopher be correct, is one of the last importance. But
 the state of medical opinion regarding it is not satisfactory. In
 a recent number of the ' British Medical Journal,' and in answer
 to the question, " In what way is contagium generated and com
 municated?" Messrs. Braidwood and Vacher reply that, notwith
 standing " an almost incalculable amount of patient labour, the actual
 results obtained, especially as regards the manner of generation of
 contagium, have been most disappointing. Observers are even yet
 at variance whether these minute particles, whose discovery we have
just noticed, and other disease germs, are always produced from
 like bodies previously existing, or whether they do not, under certain
 favourable conditions, spring into existence de novo."
     With a view to the possible diminution of the uncertainty thus
 described, I have recently submitted to the Royal Society, and more
especially to those who study the astiology of disease, the following
description of the mode of procedure followed in this inquiry, and of
the results to which it has led.
     A number of chambers, or cases, were constructed, each with a
glass front, its top, bottom, back and sides being of wood. At the
back is a little door which opens and closes on hinges, while into the
sides are inserted two panes of glass, facing each other. The top is
perforated in the middle by a hole 2 inches in diameter, closed air
tight by a sheet of indiarubber. This sheet is pierced in the middle
by a pin, and through the pin-hole is passed the shank of a long
pipette ending above in a small funnel. A circular tin collar 2 inches
in diameter and 1^ inch deep, surrounds the pipette, the space between
both being packed with cotton-wool moistened by glycerine. Thus
the pipette, in moving up and down, is not only firmly clasped by the
indiarubber, but it also passes through a stuffing box of sticky cotton
wool. The width of the aperture closed by the indiarubber secures
the free lateral play of the lower end of the pipette. Into two other
smaller apertures in tho top of the chamber are inserted, air-tight, the
open ends of two narrow tubes, intended to connect the interior space
with the atmosphere. The tubes are bent several times up and down,

1876.]     Atmosphere, in its Bearings on Putrefaction and Infection.   9
so as to intercept and retain the particles, carried by such feeble
currents as changes of temperature might cause to set in between the
outer and the inner air.
     The bottom of the box is pierced sometimes with two rows, some
times with a single row of apertures, in which are fixed, air-tight large
test-tubes, intended to contain the liquid to be exposed to the action
of the moteless air. The cases have varied in capacity from 1666 to
451 cubic inches. In the largest case twelve test-tubes were fixed,
in the smallest three.
     The arrangement for a case of six tubes is represented in Fig. 2,
where w, w, are the windows through which the searching beam passes
from the lamp outside ; p is the
pipette, and a b are the bent tubes                  Fig. 2.
connecting the inner with the
outer air. The test-tubes pass
ing through the bottom of the
case are seen below.
     On September 10th, 1875, the
first case of this kind was closed.
The passage of a concentrated
beam across it through its two
side windows then showed the air
within it to be laden with floating
matter.     On the 13th it was
again examined. Before the beam
entered, and after it quitted the
case, its track was vivid in the air,
but within the case it vanished.
Thjee days of quiet sufficed to
cause all the floating matter to be
deposited on the top, sides, and
bottom, where it was retained by
a coating of glycerine, with which
the interior surface of the case
had been purposely varnished.
The test-tubes were then filled
through the pipette, boiled for five
minutes in a bath of brine or oil,
and abandoned to the action of
the moteless air. During dilu
tion aqueous vapour rose from the
liquid into the chamber, where it
was for the most part condensed,
the uncondensed portion escaping,
at a low temperature, through the bent tubes at the top. Before tho
brine was removed, little stoppers of cotton-wool were inserted in the
bent tubes, lest the entrance of the air into the cooling chamber
should at first be forcible enough to carry motes along with it. As

10          Professor Tyndall on the Optical Condition of the        [Jan. 21,
soon, however, as the ambient temperature was assumed by the air
within the case, the cotton-wool stoppers were removed.
    We have here the oxygen, nitrogen, carbonic acid, ammonia, aque
ous vapour, and all the other gaseous matters which mingle more or
less with the air of a great city. We have them, moreover, " untor
tured " by calcination, and unchanged even by nitration or manipula
tion of any kind. The question now before us is, can air thus retaining
all its gaseous mixtures, but self-cleanscd from mechanically suspended
matter, produce putrefaction in organic infusions freely exposed to
its action ? To this question both the animal and vegetable worlds
return a decided negative.
    Among vegetables experiments have been made with hay, turnips,
tea, coffee, hops, repeated in various ways with both acid and alkaline
infusions. Among animal substances are to be mentioned beef, mutton,
pork, hare, rabbit, kidney, liver, fowl, pheasant, grouse, haddock, sole,
salmon, cod, turbot, mullet, herring, whiting, eel, oyster, urine, which
have been all subjected to repeated experiments.
    The result is that infusions of these substances exposed to the
common air of the Royal Institution laboratory, maintained at a
temperature of from 60° to 70° Fahr., all fell into putrefaction in the
course of from two to four days. No matter where the infusions were
placed, they were infallibly smitten in the end. The number of the
tubes containing infusions was multiplied till it reached 600, but not
one of them escaped infection.
    In no single instance, on the other hand, did the air, which had
been proved moteless by the searching beam, even when raised to
over 90°, manifest the least power of producing Bacterial life or the
associated phenomena of putrefaction.* The power of developing
such life in atmospheric air, and the power of scattering light,, are
thus proved to be indissolubly united.
    The sole condition necessary to cause these long-dormant infusions
to swarm with active life is the access of the floating matter of the
air. Aftor having remained for four months as pellucid as distilled
water, the opening of the back door of the protecting case, and the
consequent admission of the mote-laden air, sufficed in three days to
render the infusions putrid and full of life.
    In his published works, Dr. Bastian has frequently dwelt upon the
necessity of employing strong infusions when investigating the pheno
mena of spontaneous generation. I would therefore refer to the fact,
that in most of the experiments here described the infusion at starting
was strong, and that it was permitted to evaporate with extreme slow
ness through the bent tubes at the top of the case, until its con
centration became three or four fold what it had been at starting.
Every experiment was thus converted into an indefinite number of
experiments on infusions of different strengths.               Never, in my
             * The temperatures, in some cases, reached 105° Fahr.

1876.]       Atmosphere, in its Bearings on Putrefaction and Infection. 11
opinion, was tho requirement as to concentration more completely
fulfilled, and never was the reply of Nature to experiment more
definite and satisfactory. The temperatures, moreover, to which tho
infusions have been subjected, embrace thoso hitherto found effectual,
extending indeed beyond them in both directions.* They reached
from a lower limit of 50° to a higher limit of more than 100° Fahr.
Still higher temperatures were applied in other experiments to be
described subsequently. With regard to tho number of the infusions,
more than fifty moteless chambers, each with its system of tubes, have
been tested. There is no shade of uncertainty in any of the results.
In every instance we have, within the chamber, perfect limpidity and
sweetness — without tho chamber, putridity and its characteristic
smells. In no instance is tho least countenance lent to the notion
that an infusion deprived by heat of its inherent life, and placed in
contact with air cleansed of its visibly susponded matter, has any
power whatever to generate life anow.
      If it should be asked how I have assured myself that the protected
liquids do not contain Bacteria, I would, in the first place, reply that
with tho most careful microscopic search I have been unable to find
 them. But much more than this may bo affirmed. The electric or
 the solar beam is a far more powerful and searching tost in this
 matter than the microscope. In the foregoing pages I have more
 than once described the clearness of my protected infusions, after
 months of exposure, as equal to that of distilled water. So far is this
 from being an exaggeration, that it falls short of the truth ; for I
 have never seen distilled water so free from suspended particles as
 the protected infusions prove themselves to be. When for months a
 transparent liquid thus defies the scrutiny of the searching beam,
 maintaining itself free from every speck which could scatter light as
 a Bacterium scatters it—when, moreover, an adjacent infusion, pre
 pared in precisely the same way, but exposed to the ordinary air,
 becomes first hazy, then turbid, and ends by wholly shattering the
  concentrated beam into irregularly scattered light, I think we are
  entitled to conclude that Bacteria are as certainly absent from the one
  as they are present in the other.
       For the right interpretation of scientific evidence something more
 than mere sharpness of observation is requisite, very keen sight being
 perfectly compatible with very weak insight. I was therefore careful
 to have my infusions inspected by biologists, not only trained in the
 niceties of tho microscope, but versed in all tho processes of scientific
  reasoning. Their conclusion is that it would simply weaken the de
 monstrative forco of the experiments to appeal to tho microscope at all.
       That Bacterial life arises from mechanically suspended particles is
 thus reduced to ocular demonstration. Let us inquire a little more
      * See ' Proc. Roy. Soc.' vol. xxt. p. 130, where a temperature of 70" is described
  as effectual.

12         Professor Tyndall on the Optical Condition of the        [Jan. 21,
closely into the character of- the particles which produce the life. Pour
Eau de Cologne into water, a white precipitate renders the liquid milky.
Or, imitating Briicke, dissolve clean gum mastic in alcohol, and drop
it into water, the mastic is precipitated, and milkiness produced. If
the solution be very strong, the mastic separates in curds ; but by
gradually diluting the alcoholic solution we finally reach a point
where the milkiness disappears, the liquid assuming, by reflected
light, a bright cerulean hue. It is then, in point of fact, the colour
of the sky, being due to a similar cause, namely, the scattering of
light by particles, small in comparison to the size of the waves of
light.
     When this liquid is examined by the highest microscopic power, it
seems as uniform as distilled water. The mastic particles, though
innumerable, entirely elude the microscope.* At right angles to a
luminous beam passing among the particles they discharge perfectly
polarized light. The optical deportment of the floating matter of the
air proves it to be composed, in part, of particles of this excessively
minute character. When the track of a parallel beam in dusty air is
looked at horizontally through a Nicol's prism, in a direction per
 pendicular to the beam, the longer diagonal of the prism being
 vertical, a considerable portion of the light from the finer matter
 is extinguished. The coarser motes, on the other hand, flash out with
 greater force, because of tho increased darkness of the space around
 them. It is among the finest ultra-microscopic particles that the
 matter potential as regards the development of Bacterial life is to
 be sought.
     The existence of these particles, foreign to the atmosphere, but
floating in it, is as certain as if they could be felt between the fingers, or
seen by the naked eye. Supposing them to augment in magnitude until
they come, not only within range of the microscope, but within range
of the unaided senses. Let it be assumed that our knowledge of them
 under these circumstances remains as defective as it is now—that we
do not know whether they are germs, particles of dead organic dust,
 or particles of mineral matter. Suppose a vessel (say a flower-pot)
to be at hand filled with nutritious earth, with which we mix our
 unknown particles ; and that in three days buds and blades of well-
 defined cresses and grasses appear above the soil. Suppose the ex
 periment when repeated a hundred times to yield the same unvarying
 result. What would be our conclusion? Should we regard those
living plants as the products of dead dust or mineral particles ? or
 should we regard them as the offspring of living seeds ? The reply
is unavoidable. We should undoubtedly consider tho experiment
 with the flower-pot as clearing up our pre-existing ignorance ; we
should regard the fact of their producing cresses and grasses as
proof positive that tho particles sown in the earth of the pot were the
    * Mr. Dallinger has failed to detect them with a magnifying power of fifteen
thousand diameters.—' Pop. Sci. Rev.,' April 1876.

1876.]     Atmosphere, in its Bearings on Putrefaction and Infection. 13
seeds of the plants which have grown from them. It would be simply
monstrous to conclude that they had been "spontaneously generated."
     This reasoning applies word for word to the development of
Bacteria from that floating matter which the electric beam reveals
in the air, and in the absence of which no life has been generated.
There seems no flaw in this reasoning ; and it is so simple as to
render it unlikely that the notion of Bacterial life developed from
dead dust can ever gain currency among the members of the medical
profession.
     The uniform sterility of the boiled infusions thus far described,
when protected from the floating matter of the air, proves that they
do not contain germs capable of generating life. Dr. Bastian indeed
affirms that a temperature of 140° Fahr. reduces, in all cases, such
germs to a state of actual or potential death. But even in flasks
which have been raised to a temperature of 212°, and hermetically
sealed, putrefaction, and its associated Bacterial life, do, he alleges,
most certainly arise ; from which he infers that Bacteria are spon
taneously generated. " We know," he says, " that boiled turnip or
hay-infusions, exposed to ordinary air, exposed to filtered air, to
calcined air, or shut off altogether from contact with air, are more
or less prone to swarm with Bacteria and vibriones in the course of
from two to six days."
     We are here met by a difficulty at the outset. Dr. Bastian's proof
of Bacterial death at 140° Fahr. consists in the observed fact, that
 when a certain liquid is heated to that temperature no life appears in
 it afterwards. In another liquid, however, he finds that life appears
 two days after it has been heated to 212°. Instead of concluding that
 in the one liquid the germs are killed and in the other not, he chooses
 to assume that 140° Fahr. is the death-temperature for both, and this
 being so, the life observed in the second liquid figures, in his in
 ference, as a case of spontaneous generation. A great deal of Dr.
 Bastian's most cogent reasoning rests upon this foundation. Assump
 tions of this kind guide him in his most serious experiments. He
 finds, for example, that a mineral solution does not develop Bacteria
 when exposed to the air ; and he concludes from this that an organic
 infusion also may be thus exposed without danger of infection. He
 exposes turnip-juice accordingly, obtains a crop of Bacteria, which, in
 the light of his assumption, are spontaneously generated. Such are
 the warp and woof of some of the weightiest arguments on this ques
 tion which have been addressed to the Royal Society.
     Granting, then, all that Dr. Bastian alleges regarding his experi
 ments to be correct, the logical inference would be very different from
 his inference. But are his statements correct ? This is the really
 important point, and to its examination I now address myself.
      And first, with regard to filtered air. A group of twelve large
 test-tubes were caused to pass air-tight through a slab of wood.
  The wood was coated with cement, in which, while hot, a heated

11        Professor Tyndall on the Optical Condition of the          [Jan. 21,
" propagating glass " resembling a large bell-jar was imbedded. The
air within the jar was pumped out several times, air filtered through
a plug of cotton-wool being permitted to supply its place. The test-
tubes contained infusions of hay, turnip, beef, and mutton—three of
each—twelve in all. After months of exposure they remained as clear
and cloudless as they were upon the day of their introduction ; while
twelve similar tubes, prepared at the same time in precisely the
same way and exposed to tho ordinary air, were, in a few days,
clogged with mycelium, mould, and Bacteria.
    With regard to the calcined air, a similar propagating glass was
caused to cover twelve other tubes filled with tho same infusions.
                                           The " glass " was exhausted and
               Fig. 3.
                                          carefully filled with air which had
                                          been slowly passed through a red-
                                          hot platinum tube, containing a
                                          roll of red-hot platinum gauze.
                                           Tested by the searching beam, the
                                          calcined air was found quite free
                                          from floating matter. Not a speck
                                          has invaded the limpidity of the
                                          infusions exposed to it, whilo
                                          twelve similar tubes placed out
                                          side have fallen into rottenness.
                                               The experiments with calcined
                                          air took another form. Six years
                                          ago * I found that to render the
                                          laboratory air free from floating
                                          matter, it was only necessary to
                                          permit a platinum wire heated to
                                          whiteness to act upon it for a suf
                                          ficient time. I availed myself of
                                          this mode of calcining the air on
                                           the present occasion. The appa
                                           ratus employed is shown in Fig. 3.
                                           A glass shade S is placed upon a
                                           slab of wood mounted on a tripod,
                                           and through which passes three
                                           large test-tubes nearly filled with
                                           the infusion to be examined. A
                                           platinum spiral p unites the ends
                                           of two upright copper wires, which
                                          pass through the stand, and are
marked + and — outside it. Tho shade is surrounded by a tin
collar, with a space of about half an inch all round between it and
the shade. This space is filled with cotton-wool firmly packed.
Connecting the wires with a battery of fifteen cells, tho spiral p was
                  * ' Proc. Roy. Inst.' vol. vi. pp. 4 und 5.

1876.J    Atmosphere, in its Bearings on Putrefaction and Infection.   15
raised to whiteness, and was permitted to continue so for five minutes.
Experiments previously executed had shown that this sufficed for the
entire removal of the floating matter. When the spiral was heated
a portion of the expanded air was driven through the cotton-wool
packing below ; and when the current was interrupted this air,
returning into the shade, was prevented by the cotton-wool from
carrying any floating matter with it.
     The first three substances brought into contact with air calcined
in this way were damson-juice, pear-juice, and infusion of yeast.
They were boiled for five minutes, and for five months they have
remained without speck or turbidity. Other tubes similarly boiled,
and placed underneath shades containing the floating matter of the
air, have long since fallen into mould and rottenness.
     Turnip and hay-infusions rendered slightly alkaline, have been
mentioned as particularly prone to spontaneous generation. I wished
 to test this. On the 26th of November, therefore, four shades were
prepared, two containing strong turnip-infusion and hay-infusion
 unneutralized, two containing infusions which had been rendered
 slightly superneutralized by caustic potash. The alleged spontaneous
 development of life was not observed. The tubes exhibit to this hour
 the clearness and colour which they showed on the day they were
 boiled. Hermetically sealed tubes, containing the same infusions,
 prepared on the same day, remain equally clear ; while specimens
 exposed to the laboratory air have fallen into rottenness.
     Finally, with regard to infusions wholly withdrawn from air, a
 group of test-tubes, containing different infusions, was boiled under
 a bell-jar first filled with filtered air, which was subsequently re
 moved as far as possible by a good air-pump. They are now as
 pellucid as they were at the time of their preparation, more than
 three months ago, while a group of corresponding tubes exposed to
 the laboratory air have all fallen into rottenness.
     On another form of experiment just adverted to, great weight has
 been laid—that of hermetically sealed tubes. On April 6th, 1875, a
 discussion on the " Germ Theory of Diseaso" was opened before the
 Pathological Society of London. The meeting was attended by many
 distinguished medical men, some of whom were profoundly influenced
 by the arguments, and none of whom disputed the facts brought
 forward against the theory on that occasion. The following im
 portant summary of these was then given by Dr. Bastian :—" With the
 view of settling these questions, therefore, we may carefully prepare
 an infusion from some animal tissue, be it muscle, kidney, or liver ; we
 may place it in a flask whose neck is drawn out and narrowed in the
 blowpipe-flame, we may boil the fluid, seal the vessel during ebulli
 tion, and keeping it in a warm place, may await the result, as I have
 often done. After a variable time the previously heated fluid within
 the hermetically sealed flask swarms more or less plentifully with
 Bacteria and allied organisms."

 16          Professor Tyndall on the Optical Condition of the            [Jan. 21,
     Previous to reading this statement I had operated upon sixteen
tubes of hay and turnip-infusions, and upon twenty-one tubes of beef,
mackerel, eel, oyster, oatmeal, malt, and potato, hermetically sealed
while boiling, not by the blowpipe, but by the far more handy spirit-
lamp flame. In no case was any appearance whatever of Bacteria or
allied organisms observed. The perusal of the discussion just re
ferred to caused me to turn again to muscle, liver, and kidney, with a
view of varying and multiplying the evidence. Fowl, pheasant, snipe,
partridge, plover, wild duck, beef, mutton, heart, tongue, lungs, brains,
sweethread, tripe, the crystalline lens, vitreous humour, herring,
haddock, mullet, codfish, sole, were all embraced in the experiments.
There was neither mistake nor ambiguity about the result. On
January 13th one hundred and thirty-nine of the flasks operated on
were submitted to the Fellows of the Royal Society, and not one of
this cloud of witnesses offered the least countenance to the assertion
that liquids within flasks, boiled and hermetically sealed, swarm, sub
sequently, moro or less plentifully with Bacteria and allied organisms.
     In connection with these experiments, I have sought, to the best
of my ability, to meet every condition and requirement laid down by
others as essential to success. With regard to the question of
temperature, 90° were generally attainable in our laboratory, while on
certain days of mild weather without, and in favourable positions
within, the temperature to which the infusions were subjected reached
over 100° Fahr. As Dr. Bastian, however, has recently laid con
siderable stress on temperature, though most of his results were
obtained with temperatures from 15° to 30° lower than mine,* I
thought it desirable to meet this new requirement also. The sealed
tubes, which had proved barren in the Koyal Institution, were sus
pended in boxes copiously perforated, so as to permit of the free
circulation of warm air, and placed under the supervision of an
intelligent assistant in the Turkish Bath in Jermyn Street. The
washing room of the establishment was found to be particularly
suitable for our purpose ; and here, accordingly, the boxes wero
suspended. From two to six days are allowed by Dr. Bastian for the
generation of organisms in hermetically sealed tubes. Mine remained
in the washing room for nine days. Thermometers placed in the
boxes, and read off twice or three times a day, showed the temperature
to vary from a minimum of 101° to a maximum of 112° Fahr. At
the end of nine days the infusions were as clear as at the be
ginning.                      *
     They were then removed to another position where the tempe
rature was a few degrees higher. Dr. Bastian mentions 115° as
favourable to spontaneous generation. For fourteen days the
temperature hovered about this point, falling once as low as 106°,
reaching 116° on three occasions, 118° on one, and 119° on two.
  * ' Proc. Roy. Soc.' vol. xxi. p. 130. Also ' Beginnings of Life,' vol. i. p. 354.

 1876.]     Atmosphere, in its Bearings on Putrefaction and Infection.         17
The result was quite the same as that recorded a moment ago. The
higher temperatures proved perfectly incompetent to develop life.*
      Fifty-six observations, including both the maximum and minimum
thermometers, were taken while the tubes occupied their first position
in the washing room, and seventy-four while they occupied the second
position. The whole record, carefully drawn out, is before me, but
I trust the statement of the major and minor limits of temperature
will sulliri.'.
     Dr. Bastian's demand for these high temperatures is, as already
remarked, quite recent. Prior to my communication to the Koyal
Society on January 13, he had successfully worked with temperatures
lower than those within my reach in Albemarle Street. There I
followed his directions, adhered strictly to his prescriptions, but,
taking care to boil and seal my liquids aright, his results refused to
appear in my experiments. On learning this, he raised an objection
as to temperature, and made a new demand. With this I have
complied, but his position is unimproved.
     With regard to the question of concentration, which was always
brought into prominence, I have already referred to the great diver
sity in this particular presented by all my infusions, through their
slow evaporation. But more than a general conformity to pre
scribed conditions was observed here also. The strength of an
infusion is regarded as fixed by its specific gravity, and I have
worked with infusions of precisely the same specific gravity as those
employed by Dr. Bastian. This I was specially careful to do in
relation to the experiments described and vouched for, I fear incau
tiously, by Dr. Burdon Sanderson in vol. vii. p. 180 of ' Nature.' It
will there be seen that though failure attended some of his efforts,
Dr. Bastian did satisfy Dr. Sanderson that in boiled and hermetically
sealed flasks Bacteria sometimes appear in swarms. With purely
liquid infusions I have vainly sought to reproduce the evidence which
convinced Dr. Sanderson. Hay and turnip-infusions, of accurately
the same character and strength as thoso employed on the occasion
referred to, were prepared, boiled in an oil bath, carefully sealed up,
and subjected to the proper temperatures. In multiplied experiments
they remained uniformly sterile. I am therefore compelled to infer
that the instances in which Dr. Bastian failed to obtain Bacteria in
his hermetically sealed tubes wore illustrations of correct experi
menting, the appearance of life in other cases being the result of
errors of manipulation.
     The evidence furnished by this mass of experiments, that Dr.
Bastian must have permitted errors either of preparation or observa
tion to invade his work is, I submit, very strong. But to err is human ;
and in an inquiry so difficult and fraught with such momentous issues,
    * My thanks are due to the manage: s of the bath for their obliging kindness
in this matter.
     Vol. VIII. (No. 61.)                                              o

 18        Professor Tyndall on the Optical Condition of the     [Jan. 21,
 it is not error, but the persistence in error by any of us, for dialectic
 ends, that is to be deprecated. Let mo here show, by one or two
 illustrations, the risks of error to which I have been exposed. On
 October 21st I opened the back door of a case containing six test-
 tubes filled with an infusion of turnip which had remained per
 fectly clear for three weeks, while three days sufficed to crowd six
 similar tubes exposed to mote-laden air with Bacteria. With a small
 pipette I took specimens from the pellucid tubes, and placed them
 under the microscope. The first tube examined showed no signs of
 life. This was the result expected ; but I was by no means prepared
 for the deportment of the second tube. Here the exhibition of life
 was monstrously copious. There were numerous globular organ
 isms, which revolved, rotated, and quivered in the most extraordinary
 manner. There were also numbers of lively Bacteria darting to
 and fro. An experimenter who ponders his work and reaches his
 conclusions slowly cannot immediately relinquish them ; and in the
 present instance some time was required to convince me that I had
 made no mistake. I could find none, and was prepared to accept the
 conclusion that in the boiled infusion, despite its clearness, life had
 appeared.
      But in a protected turnip-infusion, which had been examined
on October 13th, no trace of life could be found. Perfect trans
parency was then accompanied by an utter absence of life. Indeed,
the selfsame action upon light that enabled the Bacteria to show
themselves in the microscope must, one would think, infallibly
produce turbidity. Why, moreover, should life be absent from the
first member of the present group of tubes ? I searched this again,
and found in it scanty but certain signs of life. This augmented my
perplexity. A third tube also showed scanty traces of life. Reverting
to the second tube, where life had been so copious, I found that in it
the organisms had become as scanty as in the others. I confined
myself for a time to the three tubes of the first row of the six, going
over them again and again ; sometimes finding an organism here and
there, but sometimes finding nothing. The first extraordinary ex
hibition of life it was found impossible to restore. In my difficulty I
took specimens from the three tubes, and sent them to Professor Huxley,
 with a request that he would be good enough to examine them.
     On the 22nd my search was extended to the whole of the tubes.
Early in the day lively Bacteria were found in one of them ; later on,
not one of the six yielded to my closest scrutiny any trace of life.
On the evening of the 22nd I received a note from Mr. Huxley,
stating that a careful examination of the specimens sent to him
revealed no living thing.
     Pipettes had been employed to remove the solution from the test-
tubes. They were short pieces of narrow glass tubing, drawn out to
a point, with a few inches of indiarubbcr tubing attached to them.
This was found convenient for bending, so as to reach the bottom of
the test-tubes. Suspicion fell upon this indiarubber. I washed it,

1876.]    Atmosphere, in its Bearings »n Putrefaction and Infection.    19
and examined the washing water, but found no life. Distilled water
had been used to cleanse the pipettes, and on the morning of the 23rd
I entered the laboratory intending to examine it. Before dipping
the pipette into the water I looked at its point. The tiniest drop
had remained in it by capillary attraction from the preceding day.
This I blew on to a slide, covered it, and placed it under the micro
scope. An astonishing exhibition of life was my reward. Thus on
the scent, I looked through my pipettes, and found two more with
the smallest residual drops at the ends ; both of them yielded a field
rampant with life. The Bacteria darted in straight lines to and fro,
bending right and left along the line of motion, wriggling, rotating
longitudinally, and spinning round a vertical transverse axis. Monads
also galloped and quivered through the field. From one of these
tiny specks of liquid I obtained an exhibition of life not to be dis
tinguished from that which had astonished me on the 21st.
     Obviously the phenomenon then observed was due to the em
ployment of an unclean pipette. Equally obvious is it that in
inquiries of this nature the experimenter is beset with danger, the
grossest errors being possible when there is the least lack of care.
     Three tubes containing infusions of turnip, hay, and mutton,
were boiled on November 2nd under a jar-bell containing air so care
fully filtered that the most searching examination by a concentrated
beam failed to reveal a particle of floating matter. At the present
time every one of the tubes is thick with mycelium and covered with
mould. Here surely we have a case of spontaneous generation. Let
us look to its history.
     After the air has been expelled from a boiling liquid it is difficult
to continue the ebullition without " bumping." The liquid remains
still for intervals, and then rises with sudden energy. It did so in
the case now under consideration, and one of the tubes boiled over, the
liquid overspreading the resinous surface in which the bell-jar was
imbedded. For three weeks the infusions had remained perfectly
clear. At the end of this time, with a view of renewing the air of
the jar, it was exhausted, and refilled by fresh air which had passed
through a plug of cotton-wool. As the air entered, two small spots
of penicilllum resting on the fluid which had boiled over attracted
attention. I at once remarked that the experiment was a dangerous
one, as the entering air would probably detach some of the spores of
the penicillium and diffuse them in the bell-jar. This was, therefore,
filled very slowly, so as to render the disturbance a minimum. Next
day, however, a tuft of mycelium was observed at the bottom of one
of the three tubes, namely, that containing the hay-infusion. It has
by this time grown so as to fill a large portion of the tube. For
nearly a month longer the two tubes containing the turnip and
mutton-infusions maintained their transparency unimpaired. Late
in December the mutton-infusion, which was in dangerous proximity
to the outer mould, showed a tuft upon its surface. The turnip
                                                             c 2

 20          Professor Tyndall on the Optical Condition of the   [Jan. 21,
 infusion continued bright and clear for nearly a fortnight longer.
 The recent cold weather caused me to add a third gas-stove to the
 two which had previously warmed the room in which the experiments
 are conducted. The warmth played upon one side of the bell-jar,
.causing currents within it ; and the day after the lighting of the stove
 the turnip-infusion gave birth to a tuft of mycelium. In this case
 the small spots of penicillium might have readily escaped attention ;
 and had they done so we should have had three cases of " spontaneous
 generation " far more striking than many that have been adduced.
      In further illustration of the danger incurred in this field of
 inquiry, I may refer to the excellent paper of Dr. Roberts on Bio
 genesis, in the 'Philosophical Transactions' for 1874. Dr. Roberts fills
 the bulb of an ordinary pipette up to about two-thirds of its capacity
 with the infusion to be examined. In the neck of the pipette he places
 a plug of dry cotton-wool. He then hermetically seals the neck and
 dips the bulb into boiling water or hot oil, where he permits it to
 remain for the requisite time. Here we have no disturbance from
 ebullition, and no loss by evaporation. The bulb is removed from the
 hot water and permitted to cool. The sealed end of the neck is then
 filed off, the cotton-wool alone interposing between the infusion and
 the atmosphere.
      Tho arrangement is beautiful, but it has one weak point. Cotton
 wool free from germs is not to be found, and tho plug employed by
 Dr. Roberts infallibly contained them. In the gentle movement of
 tho air to and fro as the temperaturo changed, or by any shock, jar, or
 motion to which the pipette might be subjected, we have certainly a
 cause sufficient to detach a germ now and then from the cotton-wool
 which, falling into the infusion, would produce its effect. Probably,
 also, condensation occurred at times in the neck of the pipette, tho
 water of condensation carrying back from the cotton-wool the seeds of
 life. The fact of fertilization being so rare as Dr. Roberts found it
 to be is a proof of the caro with which his experiments were con
 ducted. But he did find cases of fertilization after prolonged exposure
 to tho boiling temperature ; and this caused him to come to the con
 clusion that under certain rare conditions spontaneous generation may
 occur. He also found that an alkalized hay-infusion was so difficult
 to sterilize that it was capable of withstanding the boiling tempera
 ture for hours without losing its power of generating life. Careful
 experiments have been made with this infusion. Dr. Roberts is cer
 tainly correct in assigning to it superior nutritive power. But in tho
 present inquiry five minutes' boiling sufficed to completely sterilize the
 liquid.
      I shall hardly be charged with any desire to limit the power and
 potency of matter in regard to life. But holding the opinions I do
 hold on this question, it is all the more incumbent on me to affirm
 that, as far as experimental inquiry has hitherto penetrated, life has
 never been proved to appear independently of antecedent life.

l876.]    Atmosphere, in its Bearings on Putrefaction and Infection. 21
    With regard to the general diffusion of germs in the atmosphere,
the notions entertained by distinguished writers rendered it desirable
to place the point beyond question. At Down, Mr. Darwin, and Mr.
Francis Darwin; at High Elms, Sir John Lubbock; at Sherwood,
near Tunbridge Wells, Mr. Siemens ; at Pembroke Lodge, Bichmond
Park, Mr. Rollo Bnssell; at Heathfield Park, Miss Hamilton,; at
Greenwich Hospital, Mr. Hirst ; at Kew, Dr. Hooker ; and at the
Crystal Palace, Mr. Price, kindly took charge of infusions, every one
of which was invaded, many of them by astounding swarms of
organisms.
    To obtain more definite insight regarding the diffusion of atmo
spheric germs, a square wooden tray was pierced with one hundred
holes, into each of which was dropped a short test-tube. On October
23rd, thirty of these tubes were filled with an infusion of hay, thirty-
five with an infusion of turnip, and thirty-five with an infusion of
beef. The tubes, with their infusions, had been previously boiled,
ten at a time, in an oil-bath. One hundred circles were marked on
paper so as to form a map of the tray, and every day the state of each
tube was registered upon the corresponding circle. In the following
description the term "cloudy" is used to denote the first stage of
turbidity ; distinct, but not strong. The term " muddy " is used to
denote thick turbidity.
    One tube of the hundred was first singled out and rendered muddy.
It belonged to the beef group, and it was a whole day in advance of
all the other tubes. The progress of putrefaction was first registered
on October 26th ; the " map " then taken may be thus described :
    Hay.—Of the thirty specimens exposed, one had become " muddy "
—the seventh in the middle row reckening from the side of the tray
nearest the stove. Six tubes remained perfectly clear between this
muddy one and the stove, proving that differences of warmth may be
overridden by other causes. Every one of the other tubes containing
the hay-infusion showed spots of mould upon the clear liquid.
     Turnip.—Four of the thirty-five tubes were very muddy, two of
them being in the row next the stove, one four rows distant, and the
remaining one seven rows away. Besides these, six tubes had become
clouded. There was no mould on any of the tubes.
    Beef. — One tube of the thirty-five was quite muddy, in the seventh
row from the stove. There were three cloudy tubes, while seven of
them bore spots of mould.
    As a general rule, organic infusions exposed to the air during tho
autumn remained for two days or more perfectly clear. Doubtless from
the first germs fell into them, but they required time to be hatched.
This period of clearness may be called the " period of latency," and
indeed it exactly corresponds with what is understood by this term
in medicine. Towards the end of the period of latency, the fall into
a state of disease is comparatively sudden ; the infusion passing from
perfect clearness to cloudiness more or less dense in a few hours.
    Thus the tube placed in Mr. Darwin's possession was clear at

22         Professor Tyndall on the Optical Condition of the    [Jan. 21,
8.30 a.m. on October 19th, and cloudy at 4.30 p.m. Seven hours,
moreover, after the first record of our tray of tubes, a marked change
had occurred. Instead of one, eight of the tubes containing hay-
infusion had fallen into uniform muddiness. Twenty others had
produced Bacterial slime, which had sunk to the bottom, every tube
containing the slime being covered by mould. Three tubes only
remained clear, but with mould upon their surfaces. The muddy
turnip-tubes had increased from four to ten ; seven tubes were
clouded, while eighteen of them remained clear, with here and there a
speck of mould on the surface. Of the beef, six were cloudy and one
thickly muddy, while spots of mould had formed in the majority of the
 remaining tubes. Fifteen hours subsequent to this observation, viz.
 on the morning of October 27th, all the tubes containing hay-infusion
were smitten, though in different degrees, some of them being much
 more turbid than others. Of the turnip-tubes, three only remained
nnsmitten, and two of theso had mould upon their surfaces. Only one
 of the thirty-five beef-infusion remained intact. A change of occu
pancy, moreover, had occurred in tho tube which first gave way. Its
muddiness remained grey for a day and a half, then it changed to
 bright yellow green, and it maintained this colour to the end. On
tho 27th every tube of the hundred was smitten, the majority with
uniform turbidity ; some, however, with mould above and slime below,
 the intermediate liquid being tolerably clear. The whole process
bore a striking resemblance to the propagation of a plague among
a population, the attacks being successive and of different degrees of
virulence.
     From the irregular manner in which the tubes are infected, we
may infer that, as regards quantity, the distribution of the germs in
tho air is not uniform. The singling out, moreover, of one tube of
the hundred by the particular Bacteria that develop a green pigment,
shows that, as regards quality, the distribution is not uniform. The
same absence of uniformity was manifested in the struggle for existence
between the Bacteria and the penicillium. In some tubes the former
was triumphant ; in other tubes of the same infusion the latter was
triumphant. It would seem also as if a want of uniformity as regards
vital vigour prevailed. With the self-same infusion the motions of the
Bacteria in some tubes were exceedingly languid, while in other tubes
they resembled a rain of projectiles, being so rapid and violent as to
be followed with difficulty by the eye. Beflecting on the whole of
this, I conclude that the germs float through the atmosphere in
groups or clouds, with spaces more sparsely filled between them.
The touching of a nutritive fluid by a Bacterial cloud would naturally
have a different effect from the touching of it by the interspace
between two clouds. But as in the case of a mottled sky, the
various portions of the landscape are successively visited by shade,
so, in the long run, were the various tubes of the tray touched by the
Bacterial clouds, the final fertilization or infection of them all being
the consequence. These results connect themselves with the experi

1876.]     Atmosphere, in its Bearings on Putrefaction and Infection.          23
ments of Pasteur on the non-continuity of the cause of so-called spon
taneous generation, and with other experiments of my own.*
      On the 9th of November a second tray containing one hundred
tubes filled with an infusion of mutton was exposed to the air.
On the morning of the 11th six of the ten nearest the stove had given
way to putrefaction. Three, of the row most distant from the stove,
had yielded, while here and there over the tray particular tubes were
singled out and smitten by the infection. Of the whole tray of one
hundred tubes, twenty-seven were either muddy or cloudy on the
11th. Thus, doubtless, in a contagious atmosphere, are individuals
successively struck down. On the 12th all the tubes had given way,
but the differences in their contents were extraordinary. All of them
contained Bacteria, some few, others in swarms. In some tubes they
were slow and sickly in their motions, in some apparently dead, while
in others they darted about with rampant vigour. These differences
are to be referred to differences in the germinal matter, for the same
infusion was presented everywhere to the air. Here also we have a
picture of what occurs during an epidemic, the difference in number
and energy of the Bacterial swarms resembling the varying intensity
of the disease. It becomes obvious from these experiments that of two
individuals of the same population, exposed to a contagious atmosphere,
the one may be severely, the other lightly attacked, though the two
individuals may be as identical as regards susceptibility as two samples
of one and the same mutton-infusion. Experiments with other trays
are described in the full account of this investigation, and calculations
are made which prove the error of the assertion that the germs are
but scantily distributed through the air. There are billions of them
in every ordinary London room.
      The parallelism of these actions with the progress of infectious
disease may be traced still further. The ' Times ' of January 17th
contained a letter on typhoid fever, signed " M.D.," in which
occurred the following remarkable statement :— " In one part of
it (Edinburgh), congregated together and inhabited by the lowest
of the population, there are, according to the Corporation return for
1874, no less than 14,319 houses or dwellings—many under one roof,
on the ' flat ' system—in which there are no house connections what
ever with the street sewers, and, consequently, no water-closets. To
this day, therefore, all the excrementitious and other refuse of the
     * In hospital practice the opening of a wound during the passage of a
Bacterial cloud would have an effect very different from the opening of it in the
interspace between two clouds. Certain caprices in the behaviour of dressed
wounds may possibly be accounted for in this way. Under the heading, " Nothing
new under the Sun," Professor Huxley has just sent me the following remarkable
extract :—" Uebrigens kann man sich die in der Atmosphare schwimmenden
Thierchen wie Wolken denken, mit denen ganz leere Luftmassen, ja ganze Tage
vollig reinen Luftverhaltnisse wechseln." (Ehrenberg, 'Infusions Thierchen,'
1838, p. 525.) The coincidence of phraseology is surprising, for I knew nothing
of Ehrenberg's conception. My " clouds," however, are but small miniatures of
his.

  24        Professor Tyndall on the Optical Condition of the        [Jan. 21
 inhabitants is collected in pails or pans, and remains in their midst,
 generally in a partitioned-off corner of the living room, until the next
 day, when it is taken down to the streets and emptied into the Corpo
 ration carts. Drunken and vicious though the population be, herded
 together like sheep, and with the filth collected and kept for twenty-
 four hours in their very midst, it is a remarkable fact that typhoid
 fever and diphtheria are simply unknown in these wretched hovels."
     This case has its analogue in the following experiment, which is
 representative of a class. On November 30th a quantity of animal
 refuse, embracing beef, fish, rabbit, hare, was placed in two large test-
 tubes opening into a protecting chamber containing six tubes. On
 December 13th, when the refuse was in a state of noisome putrefac
 tion, infusions of whiting, turnip, beef, and mutton were placed in the
 other four tubes. They were boiled and abandoned to the action of
 the foul " sewer gas " emitted by their two putrid companions. On
 Christmas Day the four infusions were limpid. The end of the pipette
 was then dipped into one of the putrid tubes, and a quantity of matter,
 comparable in smallness to the pock-lymph held on the point of a
 lancet, was transferred to the turnip. Its clearness was not sensibly
 affected at the time ; but on the following day it was turbid throughout.
 On the 27th a speck from the infected turnip was transferred to the
 whiting; on the 28th disease had taken entire possession of the
 whiting. To the present hour the beef and mutton tubes remain as
limpid as distilled water. Just as in the case of the living men and
women in Edinburgh, no amount of fetid gas had the power of propa
gating the plague, as long as the organisms which constitute the true
contagium did not gain access to the infusions.
     The rapidity of development in an infusion infected by either
 a speck of liquid containing Bacteria or a drop of water is extra
ordinary. On January 4th a thread of glass almost as fine as a hair
was dipped into a cloudy turnip-infusion, and the tip only of the glass
fibre was introduced into a largo test-tube containing an infusion of
red mullet. Twelve hours subsequently the perfectly pellucid liquid
was cloudy throughout. Precisely the same experiments were made
with herring, with the same result. At this season of the year several
days' exposure to the air are needed to produce the same effect. On
December 31st a strong turnip-infusion was prepared by digesting in
distilled water at a temperature of 120° Fahr. The infusion was divided
between four large test-tubes, in one of which it was left unboiled,
in another boiled for five minutes, and in the two remaining ones
boiled, and after cooling infected with one drop of beef-infusion con
taining Bacteria. In twenty-four hours the unboiled tube and the two
infected ones were cloudy, the unboiled tube being the most turbid
of the three. The infusion here was peculiarly limpid after digestion ;
for turnip it was quite exceptional, and no amount of searching with
the microscope sufficed to reveal in it at first the trace of a living Bacte
rium ; still germs were there which, suitably nourished, passed in a
single day into Bacterial swarms without number. Five days did not

 1876.]    Atmosphere, in its Bearings on Putrefaction and Infection. 25
 suffice to produce an effect approximately equal to this in the boiled
 tube, which was uninfected but exposed to the common laboratory air.
     We are here brought face to face with a question of extreme im
 portance, which it will bo useful to clear up. " Potential germs " and
 " hypothetical germs " have been spoken of with scorn, because tho
 evidence of the microscope as to their existence was not forthcoming.
 Sagacious writers had drawn from their experiments the perfectly
 legitimate inference that in many cases the germs exist, though the
 microscope fails to reveal them. Such inferences, however, have been
 treated as tho pure work of the imagination, resting, it was alleged, on
 no real basis of fact. But in the concentrated beam we possess what
 is virtually a new instrument, exceeding the microscope indefinitely
 in power. Directing it upon media which refuse to give the coarser
instrument any information as to what they hold in suspension, these
media declare themselves to be crowded with particles —not hypo
thetical, not potential, but actual, and myriadfold in number—showing
the microscopist that thore is a world beyond even his range.
     The infection of clear infusions by others containing visible
Bacteria has been just referred to. But for the infection to be sure
it is not necessary that the Bacteria should be visible. Over and over
again I have repeated the experiments of Dr. Burdon Sanderson on the
infective power of ordinary distilled water, in which the microscope
fails to reveal a Bacterium. The water, for example, furnished to
the Royal Institution laboratory by Messrs. Hopkin and Williams is
sensibly as infectious as an infusion swarming with Bacteria.
     Perhaps the severest experiment' of this kind ever made was one
executed by Dr. Sanderson with water prepared by myself. In 1871
I sought anxiously and assiduously for water free from suspended
particles. The liquid was obtained in various degrees of purity, but
never entirely pure. Knowing the wonderful power of extrusion, as
regards foreign matter, brought into play by water in crystallizing,
the thought occurred to me of examining the liquid derived from the
fusion of the most transparent ice. Mr. Cottrell, at my request,
arranged the following apparatus for me:— Through the plate of an
air-pump (Fig. 4) passed air-tight the shank of a large funnel. A
small glass bulb, B, furnished with a glass stopcock, was attached to
the shank of the funnel below. Prior to being put together all parts
of the apparatus had been scrupulously cleansed. In tho funnel was
placed a block of ice, I, selected for its transparency, having a volume
of 1000 cubic inches or thereabouts, and over the ice was placed an
air-tight receiver. Several times in succession tho air was removed
from this receiver, its place on each occasion being taken by other air
carefully filtered through cotton-wool. The transparent ice was thus
surrounded by moteless air.
     The ice was now permitted to melt; its water trickled into tho
small glass bulb below, which was filled and emptied a great number
of times. From the very heart of the block of ice the water was

 26          Professor Tyndall on the Optical Condition of the         [Jan. 21,
 finally taken and subjected to the scrutiny of tho concentrated beam.
 It proved to be the purest liquid I had ever seen—probably the purest
 human eye had ever seen; but still it contained myriads of ultra-
 microscopic particles. The track of the beam through it was of the
                                       Fio. 4.
most delicate blue, the blue light being perfectly polarized. It could
be wholly quenched by a Nicol's prism, tho beam then passing through
the liquid as through a vacuum. A comparison of the light with that
scattered by such mastic particles as those above referred to, proved
the suspended particles of the ice-water to be far smaller than those
of the mastic. No microscope, therefore, could come near them.*
Such water, however, was proved by Dr. Sanderson to be as infectious
as the water from any ordinary tap.
    * I have endeavoured to convey some notion of the smallness of these scatter
ing particles in ' Fragments of Science,' 1876, pp. 441, 442, 443.

1876.]    Atmosphere, in its Bearings on Putrefaction and Infection.    27
     Infinitesimal as thoso particles are, however, they may be separated
by mechanical means from the liquid in which they are held in
suspension. Filters of porous earthenware, such as the porous cells
of Bunsen's battery, have been turned to important account in the
researches of Dr. Zahn, Professor Klcbs, and Dr. Burden Sanderson.
In various instances it has been proved that, as regards the infection
of living animals, the porous earthenware intercepts the contagium.
For the living animal, organic infusions, or Pasteur's solution, may be
substituted. Not only are ice-water, distilled water, and tap water
thus deprived of their powers of infection, but, by plunging the porous
cell into an infusion swarming with Bacterial life, exhausting the cell,
and permitting the liquid to be slowly driven through it by atmo
spheric pressure, the filtrate is not only deprived of its Bacteria, but
also of those ultra-microscopic particles which appear to be as potent
for infection as the Bacteria themselves. The precipitated mastic
particles before described, which pass unimpeded through an indefinite
number of paper filters, are wholly intercepted by the porous cell.
     These gorminal particles abound in every pool, stream, and river.
All parts of the moist earth are crowded with them. Every wetted
surface which has been dried by the sun or air contains upon it tho
particles which tho unevaporated liquid held in suspension. From
such surfaces they aro detached and wafted away, their universal pre
valence in tho atmosphere being thus accounted for. Doubtless they
sometimes attach themselves to the coarser particles, organic and in
organic, which are left behind along with them ; but they need no
such rafts to carry them through the air, being themselves endowed
 with a power of flotation commensurate with their extreme smallness,
and the specific lightness of the matter of which they are composed.
     There cannot, moreover, be a doubt that the germs in the air differ
widely among themselves as regards preparedness for development.
Some are fresh, others old ; some are dry, others moist. Infocted by
 such germs, the same infusion would require different lengths of time to
develop Bacterial life. This remark applies to and probably explains
 the different degrees of rapidity with which epidemic disease acts upon
 different people. In some the hatching period, if it may be called
such, is long, in some short, the differences depending upon the dif
 ferent degrees of preparedness of the contagium.
     Such is an outline of the present inquiry, as far as it is now com
plete. It gives me pleasure to refer to the untiring patience, the
 admirable mechanical skill, the veracity in thought, word, and deed
displayed throughout by my assistant, Mr. John Cottrell, who was
 zealously aided by his junior colleague, Mr. Frank Valter.
                                                                [J. T.]

 28               Professor Huxley on the Border Territory               [Jan. 28,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, January 28, 1876.
      The Hon. Sir William Rorert Geove, M.A. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                      Just. C. P., Manager, in the Chair.
                     Professor Huxley, LL.D. F.R.S.
  The Border Territory between the Animal and the Vegetable Kingdoms*
 The discourse began with an examination of the distinctions between
 the animal and the vegetable kingdoms set forth by Cuvier in the
 second edition of the 'Regno Animal,' published in 1828. He charac
 terizes animals by their possession of (1) Mobility and an alimentary
 cavity or reservoir of food ; (2) A circulatory system ; (3) A body of
more complex chemical composition than plants, with an additional
element, nitrogen ; and (4) Respiration—that is, the absorption of
oxygen and the exhalation of carbonic acid.
     The progress of biological science and the application of the
 microscope have abolished all these distinctions.
     1. Innumerable plants and free plant cells are now known to pass
 the whole or part of their lives in an actively locomotive condition ;
and their movements are, to all appearance, as spontaneous as those
of animals. Many animals of even complex structure, which live
parasitically within others, are wholly devoid of an alimentary cavity.
The males of most rotifers have no digestive apparatus ; and amidst
the lowest forms of animal life the speck of gelatinous protoplasm,
which constitutes the whole body, has no permanent digestive cavity
or mouth, but takes in its food anywhere, and digests, so to speak,
all over its body.
     2. Cuvier himself practically gives up his second distinctive mark
when ho admits that it is wanting in the simpler animals.
     3. It is now established that nitrogen is as essential a constituent
of vegetable as of animal living matter ; and that the latter is, chemi
cally speaking, just as complicated as tbe former.
     4. The green plant decomposes carbonic acid and exhales oxygen,
while the animal absorbs oxygen and exhales carbonic acid ; yet the
difference vanishes with the sunshine, even in the case of the green
plant, which, in the dark, absorbs oxygen and gives out carbonic
acid like any animal. While those plants, such as the fungi, which
contain no chlorophyll and are not green, absorb oxygen and give out
carbonic acid.
    * The full discourse is given in ' Mficmillan's Magazine,' February, 1876.

1876.]       between the Animal and the Vegetable Kingdoms.             29
     The researches of Schwann and Schleiden in 1837 and the follow
ing years, founded the modern science of histology, or that branch of
anatomy which deals with the ultimate visible structure of organisms,
as revealed by the microscope ; and the rapid improvement of methods
of investigation, and the energy of a host of accurate observers, have
given greater and greater breadth and firmness to Schwann's great
generalization, that a fundamental unity of structure obtains in
animals and plants ; and that however diverse may be the fabrics, or
tissues, of which their bodies are composed, all these varied structures
result from the metamorphoses of morphological units (termed cells,
in a more general sense than that in which the word " cells " was at
first employed), which are not only similar in animals and in plants
respectively, but present a close fundamental resemblance when those
of animals and those of plants are compared together.
     The contractility which is the fundamental condition of loco
motion, has not only been discovered to exist far more widely among
plants than was formerly imagined, but, in plants, the act of con
traction has been found to be accompanied, as Dr. Burdon Sanderson's
interesting investigations have shown, by a disturbance of the elec
trical state of the contractile substance comparable to that which was
found by Du Bois Reymond to be a concomitant of the activity of
 ordinary muscle in animals.*
     The speaker then said that he knew not where we can hope to
find any absolute distinction between animals and plants, unless we
 return to their mode of nutrition, and inquire whether certain differ
 ences of a more occult character than those imagined to exist by
 Cuvier, and which certainly hold good for the vast majority of animals
 and plants, are of universal application.
     A bean may be supplied with water in which salts of ammonia
 and certain other mineral salts are dissolved in due proportion ; with
 atmospheric air containing its ordinary minute dose of carbonic acid ;
 and with nothing else but sunlight and heat. Under these circum
 stances, with proper management, the bean will thrust forth its
 radicle and its plumule ; the former will grow down into roots, the
 latter grow up into the stem and leaves of a vigorous bean plant ;
 and this plant will, in due time, flower and produce its crop of beans,
 just as if it were grown in the garden or in the field. The bean
 has taken in the raw materials of its fabric and has manufactured
 them into bean stuffs by the help of its green colouring matter, or
 chlorophyll, which, under the influence of sunlight, has the power
 of decomposing carbonic acid, setting free the oxygen and laying
 hold of the carbon which it contains. It obtained two of the abso
 lutely indispensable elements of its substance from two distinct
 sources ;—the watery solution, in which its roots are plunged, contains
  nitrogen but no carbon ; the air, to which the leaves are exposed,
  contains carbon, but its nitrogen is in the state of a free gas, in
              * ' Proceedings of Royal Institution,' vol. vii., p. 332.

30                 Professor Huxley on the Border Territory            [Jan. 28,
which condition the bean can make no use of it : * and the chloro
phyll is the apparatus by which the carbon is extracted from the
atmospheric carbonic acid—the leaves being the chief laboratories
in which this operation is effected.
     But it by no means follows that the manufacturing power of plants
depends on their chlorophyll, and its interaction with the rays of the
 sun. Pasteur has proved that the lowest fungi, devoid of chloro
phyll, possess high manufacturing powers if supplied with a different
kind of raw material. A single spore of the common mould, Peni-
 cillium, sown in a saucer full of water, in which tartrate of ammonia,
with a small percentage of phosphates and sulphates is contained, and
kept warm, whether in the dark or exposed to light, will, in a short
time, give rise to a thick crust of mould, which contains many million
times the weight of tho original spore. Thus we have a very wide
basis of fact for the generalization that plants are essentially charac
terized by their manufacturing capacity—by. their power of working
up mere mineral matters into complex organic compounds.
     Contrariwise, there is a no less wide foundation for the generaliza
 tion that animals, as Cuvier puts it, depend directly or indirectly upon
plants for the materials of their bodies ; that is, cither they are herbi
vorous, or they cat other animals which are herbivorous. But for
what constituents of their bodies are animals thus dependent upon
plants ? Certainly not for their horny matter ; nor for chondrin, the
proximate chemical element of cartilage ; nor for gelatine ; nor for
syntonin, the constituent of muscle ; nor for their nervous or biliary
substances ; nor for their amyloid matters ; nor, necessarily, for their
fats. It can be experimentally demonstrated that animals can make
these for themselves. But that which they cannot make, but must,
in all known cases, obtain directly or indirectly from plants, is the
peculiar nitrogenous matter protein.
     Here is the last hope of finding a sharp line of demarcation be
tween plants and animals ; for there is a border territory between
the two kingdoms, a sort of no-man's land, the inhabitants of which
certainly cannot be discriminated and brought to their proper alle
giance in any other way.
     The speaker then stated, that while examining under the micro
scope a drop of infusion of hay, at the request of Dr. Tyndall, he
observed, in the first place, multitudes of bacteria moving about with
their ordinary intermittent spasmodic wriggles ; as to the vegetable
nature of which there is no doubt. But other active organisms, very
much larger, attaining in fact the comparatively gigantic dimensions
of ji^hiti of an inch or more, incessantly crossed tho field of view.
Each of these had a body shaped like a pear, the small end being
slightly incurved and produced into a long curved filament, or cilium,
of extreme tenuity. Behind this, from the concave side of the incurva-
    * It is purposely assumed that tho air with which the bean is supplied in the
case stated contains no ammoniacul salts.

1876.]        between the Animal and the Vegetable Kingdoms.                   31
tion, proceeded another long cilium, so delicate as to be discernible
only by the use of the highest powers and careful management of
the light. In the centre of the pear-shaped body a clear round space
could occasionally be discerned, but not always ; and careful watching
showed that this clear vacuity appeared gradually, and then shut up
and disappeared suddenly, at regular intervals. Such a structure is of
common occurrence among the lowest plants and animals, and is known
as a contractile vacuole. The little creature sometimes propelled itself
with great activity, with a curious rolling motion, by the lashing of
the front cilium, while tho second cilium trailed behind ; sometimes it
anchored itself by the hinder cilium and was spun round by the work
ing of the other, its motions resembling those of an anchor buoy in a
heavy sea. Sometimes, when two were in full career towards one
another, each would appear dexterously to get out of the other's way ;
sometimes a crowd would assemble and jostle one another. These
organisms tho speaker stated were what are commonly called
" monads " ; they are curiously like a much larger form of monad
named by Dujardin Heteromita. The speaker, therefore, called them
Heteromita lens. As he was unable to devote to his Heteromita tho
attention required to make out its whole history, he referred to
some remarkable observations published by Messrs. Dallinger and
Drysdale * on certain Monads. Of the four monads found by them in
an infusion of cod's-head, one very closely resombles Heteromita lens
in every particular, except that it has a separately distinguishable
central particle or " nucleus," which is not certainly to be made out
in Heteromita lens ; and that nothing is said by them of the existence
of a contractile vacuole in this monad, though they describe it in
another. Their Heteromita, however, multiplied rapidly by fission.
A single Heteromita would give rise to a thousand like itself in
the course of an hour, to about a million in two hours, and to a
number greater than the generally assumed number of human beings
now living in the world in three hours ; or, if we give each Hetero
mita an hour's enjoyment of individual existence, the same result
will be obtained in about a day.
     Sometimes another mode of fission occurs. The body becomes
rounded and quiescent, or nearly so ; and while in this resting state,
divides into two portions, each of which is rapidly converted into an
active Heteromita. Another very remarkable kind of multiplication
is termed conjugation, and the setting free of thousands of excessively
minute granules or germs.
     But these observations throw no light on the problem we are trying
to solve —Is it an animal or is it a plant ?
     In order to show that it is possible to bring forward very strong
arguments in favour of regarding Heteromita as a plant, the speaker
    * " Kescarches in tho Life-history of a Cercomonad : a Lesson in Biogenesis ; "
and " Further Researches in the Life-history of the Monads."—' Monthly Micro
scopical Journal,' 1873.

 32               Professor Huxley on the Border Territory       [Jan. 28,
 gave details of the development of the obscure and almost microscopic
 mould termed Peronospora infestans—the fungus which is the cause
 of the potato disease—the whole movement of whose zoospores has
 a deceptive likeness to the voluntary changes of place which are
observed in microscopic animals, and which affords an example of an
organism, which, in one stage of its existence, is truly a " Monad,"
indistinguishable by any important character from the Heteromita,
and extraordinarily like it in some respects, and yet which can bo
 traced, step by step, through a series of metamorphoses until it
assumes the features of an organism, which is as much a plant as an
 oak or an elm is. A green plant (Coleochaste) was shown to pass
 through a monad stage ; while Chlamydomonas, and the common
 Volvox, or so-called " Globe animalcule," were described as running
through a cycle of forms of just the same simple character as those of
Heteromita.
      The resemblance between Chlamydomonas and Heteromita is of
the closest description; and on the face of the matter there is
no ground for refusing to admit that Heteromita may be related
to Chlamydomonas, as tho colourless fungus is to the green alga.
Volvox may be compared to a hollow sphere, the wall of which is
made up of coherent Chlamydomonads, and which progresses with
a rotating motion effected by the paddling of the multitudinous pairs
of cilia which project from its surface. Each Volvox-monad has a
contractile vacuole like that of Heteromita lens ; and moreover possesses
a red pigment spot like the simplest form of eye known among
animals. The methods of fissive multiplication and of conjugation
observed in the monads of this locomotive globe are essentially similar
to those observed in Chlamydomonas ; and though a hard battle has
been fought over it, Volvox is now finally surrendered to the Botanists.
       Thus there is really no reason why Heteromita may not be a
 plant ; and this conclusion would be very satisfactory, if it were not
 equally easy to show that there is really no reason why it should not
 bo an animal. For there are numerous organisms presenting the
 closest resemblance to Heteromita, and, like it, grouped under the
 general name of " Monads," which, nevertheless, can be observed to
 take in solid nutriment, and which therefore have a virtual, if not an
 actual, mouth and digestive cavity, and thus come under Cuvier's
 definition of an animal. Numerous forms of such animals have
 been described by Ehrenberg, Dujardin, H. James Clark, and other
writers on tho Infusoria. In another infusion of hay in which the
Heteromita lens occurred, there were innumerable infusorial animal
cules belonging to tho well-known species Colpoda cucullus. Full-
sized specimens of this animalcule attain a length of between ,^or
^-J-ff of an inch, so that it may have ten times the length and a thou
sand times the mass of a Heteromita. In shape it is not altogether
unlike Heteromita. The small end, however, is not produced into
one long cilium, but the general surface of the body is covered with
small actively vibrating ciliary organs, which are only longest at the

1876.]       between the Animal and the Vegetable Kingdom.           33
small end. At the point which answers to that from which the two
cilia arise in Heteromita, there is a conical depression, the mouth ;
and in young specimens a tapering filament, which reminds one of the
posterior cilium of Heteromita, projects from this region. The body
consists of a soft granular protoplasmic substance, the middle of which
is occupied by a large oval mass called the " nucleus" ; while, at its
hinder end, is a " contractile vacuole," conspicuous by its regular
rhythmic appearances and disappearances. Obviously, although the
Colpoda is not a monad, it diners from one only in subordinate details.
Moreover, under certain conditions, it becomes quiescent, encloses
itself in a delicate case or cyst, and then divides into two, four, or
more portions, which are eventually set free and swim about as active
Colpodas.
    But this creature is an unmistakable animal, and full-sized
Colpodas may be fed as easily as one feeds chickens. It is only needful
to diffuse very finely ground carmine through the water in which they
live, and, in a very short time, the bodies of .the Colpoda are stuffed
with the deeply coloured granules of the pigment. And if this were
not sufficient evidence of the animality of Colpoda, there comes the
fact that it is oven more similar to another well-known animalcule,
Paramecium, than it is to a monad. But Paramecium is so huge
a creature compared with those hitherto discussed— it reaches -,-J^ of
an inch or more in length—that there is no difficulty in making out
its organization in detail ; and in proving that it is not only an
animal, but that it is an animal which possesses a somewhat compli
cated organization. For example, the surface layer of its body is
different in structure from the deeper parts. There are two contrac
tile vacuoles, from each of which radiates a system of vessel-like
canals ; and not only is there a conical depression continuous with a
tube, which serve as mouth and gullet, but the food ingested takes a
definite course and refuse is rejected from a definite region. Nothing
is easier than to feed these animals, and to watch the particles of
indigo or carmine accumulate at the lower end of the gullet. From
this they gradually project, surrounded by a ball of water, which at
length passes with a jerk, oddly simulating a gulp, into the pulpy
central substance of the body, there to circulate up one side and down
the other, until its contents are digested and assimilated. Neverthe
less this complex animal multiplies by division, as the monad does,
and, like the monad, undergoes conjugation. It stands in the same
relation to Heteromita on the animal side, as Coleochaste does on tho
plant side. Start from either, and such an insensible series of grada
tions leads to the monad that it is impossible to say at any stage of
the progress—here the line between the animal and the plant must bo
drawn.
    There is reason to think that certain organisms which pass
through a monad stage of existence, such as the Myxomycetes, are, at
one time of their lives, dependent upon external sources for their
protein-matter, or are animals ; and at another period manufacture it,
    Vol. VIII. (No. 64.)                                       d

34     Prof. Huxley on the Animal and Vegetable Kingdoms. [Jan. 28,
or are plants. And seeing that the whole progress of modern investi
gation is in favour of the doctrine of continuity, it is a fair and probable
speculation—though only a speculation— that, as there are some
plants which can manufacture protein out of such apparently intrac
table mineral matters as carbonic acid, water, nitrate of ammonia, and
metallic salts; while others need to be supplied with their carbon
and nitrogen in the somewhat less raw form of tartrate of ammonia
and allied compounds ; so there may be yet others, as is possibly the
case with the true parasitic plants, which can only manage to put
together materials still better prepared— still more nearly approxi
mated to protein—until we arrive at such organisms as the Psoro-
spermias and the Panhistophyton, which are as much animal as vegetable
in structure, but are animal in their dependence on other organisms
for their food.
    The singular circumstance observed by Meyer, that the Torula of
yeast, though an indubitable plant, still flourishes most vigorously
when supplied with the. complex nitrogenous substance, pepsin; tho
probability that the Peronospora is nourished directly by the proto
plasm of the potato plant ; and the wonderful facts which have re
cently been brought to light respecting insectivorous plants, all favour
this view ; and tend to the conclusion that the difference between
animal and plant is one of degree rather than of kind ; and that the
problem whether, in a given case, an organism is an animal or a plant,
may be essentially insoluble.
                                                               [T. H. H.]

1876.]     Mr. W. H. Preece on the Applications of Electricity.        35
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 4, 1876.
C. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
        William Heney Preece, Esq. M.B.I. M. Inst. O.E. &c.
  The Applications of Electricity to the Protection of Life on Railways.
It is proposed in the following discourse to establish three proposi
tions, viz. :
     1st. That railway travelling is dangerous.
     2nd. That railway travelling is safe.
     3rd. That the danger is potential, and the safety actual ; and that
              the one has been converted into the other by the operations
              of scientific thought, and by the applications of scientific
              skill.
     1. The first proposition is self-evident, and scarcely needs proof.
No one has stood upon a station platform when an express train has
rushed madly by without feeling that there was but a rivet, a bolt, or
a rod between life and death. A broken tyre or rail would hurl dozens
into eternity ; a disordered permanent way would maim hundreds ;
the mistaken motion of a handle, the failure of a signal, or the trans
mission of erroneous instructions, would spread terror throughout the
 land. There is no sensation so great as that of a dreadful railway
 accident. It affects everyone. All are travellers by railway, and
 natural selfishness makes us read with horror and dismay of the death
 of units in a railway train, while we pursue our breakfast with com
 parative calmness during the recital of hundreds smothered to death
 in a colliery explosion, or sent to eternity in a watery grave.
     2. But is not the fact that, though we have just read the harrowing
 accounts of a dreadful collision in the north, we instantly entrust our
 precious bodies in a railway carriage to the south, a proof that there
 is also safety in railway travelling ? Have we not faith in our railway
 managers, and is not this faith evidence of safety? How many of
 those present have been in an accident ? But, after all, ideas of
 safety are but relative. Compare accidents on railways with accidents
 in the old coaching days. Take the loss of life at sea, the accidents
 in the hunting field, in boating, in bathing, by lightning, &c, and
 compare them with those on railways.
                                                               d 2

3G               Mr. W. H. Preece on the Applications of       LFeb. 4,
    In 1873, 17,246 persons met with violent deaths in England and
Wales, which is an average of 750 per million, or 1 in 1354. The
causes of these deaths are thus analyzed :
   Table I.—Violent Deaths in England and Wales for the Year 1873.
                          Cause of Death.                 No.
      Injuries in mines                                    990
      Mechanical injuries (not on railways or in mines)  6070
      Chemical injuries                                  2784
      Asphyxia                                           5193
      Violence (unclassified)                              919
      Railways                                           1290
    Some of these may be further analyzed as follows :
                       Table II.—Analysis of Table I.
                           Cause of Death.                No.
      Mechanical Injuries—
        Fall from scaffold (ladder)                       165
          „     „ window                                    70
          „ downstairs                                    450
          „ in ships and boats                             131
          „ from height                                   500
          „ in walking                                      93
          „ (not stated how)                              530
          „ of heavy substances on                        509
        Horse or other animals                            269
           „ conveyance                                  1250
        Machinery                                        1132
        Fight                                                5
        Blow, &c                                          124
        Gunshot wounds . .                                185
      Chemical Injuries—
        Burns                                            1064
        Scalds                                            701
           „    (drinking hot water)                        50
        Lightning                                           21
        Sunstroke                                           90
        Exposure to cold                                  138
      Asphyxia—
        Drowned                                          3232
        Suffocated by food                                  94
              „        bedclothes                         611
        Hanged, strangled, and executed .                 581
        Murder, manslaughter, and suicide                 228

1876.]        Electricity to the Protection of Life on Railways.      37
     Let us take accidents to railway passongers from causos within,
and beyond, their own control :
   Tasle HI.—Accidents to Railway Passengers, from Causes within and
                             beyond their own Control.
                  Date.                Within       Beyond     Total.
                                     own control. own control.
        1871    .. .                      45          12         57
        1872    .. *.                    127          24        151
        1873   .. .                      120          40        100
         1874   .. .                     125          86        211
           Average                       104          41        145
     This is an average of forty-one persons killed annually from causes
beyond their own control, and it shows, in fact, that the railway com
panies are in reality more mindful of the lives of their passengers
than the passengers are of their own lives.
     These latter accidents can be classified as follows :
Tasle IV.—Accidents to Railway Passengers in 1874, from Causes within
                                 their own Control.
                            Cause of Accident.
       From falling between carriages and platforms . .
       Getting out of or into trains in motion
       Crossing the line at stations
       Falling down stairs at stations
       Falling out of carriages during travelling of trains
       Other accidents
                    Total
    This, however, is not the death-roll from all causes on all railways
of the United Kingdom during the year 1874. The total number of
persons recorded at the Board of Trade as having been killed was
1424. Of these 211 were passengers, and, of the remainder, 788 were
officers or servants of the railway companies, or of contractors, and
425 were -trespassers, or suicides, or others who met with accidents at
level crossings or from miscellaneous causes.
     1874 was, however, a very exceptional year, for no less than 71
passengers were killed in the three fearful accidents on the Great
Westorn at Shipton, on the Great Eastern at Thorpe, and on the
North British at Bowness Junction. Taking the following periods,

38                    Mr. W. H. Freece on the Applications of                   [Feb. 4,
tho proportion of passengers killed from causes beyond their own
control to passenger journeys made was :
         Tarle V.—Proportion of Passengers Killed to Journeys Made.
           3 years ending 1849 .. .. 1 in 4,782,188 journeys made.
           4         „        1859 .. .. 1 „ 8,708,411                   „
           4         „       1869 .. .. 1 „ 12,941,170                   „
           3         „        1873 .. .. 1 „ 20,089,660                  „
Taking the average length of each journey at 10 miles, one passenger
is killed, from causes beyond his own control, for every 200,896,000
miles travelled. If a person travelled 10 hours a day at the rate of
80 miles an hour for each of the 365 days of tho year he would
probably be killed in 1835 years. Hence, in a relative sense, we may
consider that railway travelling is safe.
      3. How is this potentiality of danger convorted into comparative
actuality of safety ? Freedom from accident depends upon the per
fection of the road, of the rolling stock, of the signals, and, above all,
of the men. But none of these elements are perfect. Accidents have
been analyzed into—
            Tasle VI.—Percentage Analysis of Railway Accidents.
                 Defective permanent way                      18 per cent.
                      „     rolling stock                     13       „
                      „     signals                           28       „
                      „     human machinery                   41       „
They have also been classified as follows :
        Table VII.—Classificatign of Railway Accidents, 1870-1-2-3-4.
   1870.   1871. 1872. 1873. 1874.                   Nature of Accident.
      9     19    21    24    18   From engines or vehicles meeting with, or leaving
                                      the rails in consequence of, obstructions, or from
                                     defects in connection with the permanent way or
                                      works.
     10     22    17    23    13   From boiler explosions, failures of axles, wheels,
                                      tyres, or from other defects in the rolling stock.
             2     7      S        From trains entering stations at too great speed.
     61      9    22    18     9   From collisions between engines and trains follow
                                     ing one another on the same line of rails, except
                                      ing at junctions, stations, or sidings.
     18     19    32    20    22   From collisions at junctions.
 lucluded 63      91    98    75   From collisions within fixed signals at stations or
  in the                              sidings, &o.
 above 61.
      3       2     5     3    6   From collisions between trains, &c, meeting in
                                     opposite directions.
       1                  3    1   From collisions at level crossings of two railways.
     14     12    34    36    17   From passenger trains being wrongly run or turned
                                     into sidings, or otherwise through facing points.
       6    11      9    11    7   On inclines.
       9    12      8   . 6        Miscellaneous.
   131     171 246 247 168

1876.]       Electricity to the Protection of Life on Railways.        39
    Zeal and anxiety, the necessary evils of a state of tension due to
increasing traffic ; want of punctuality ; late arrivals of the public ;
and variable weather, become an absolute source of danger. Every
accident is traceable to its cause. Purely inexplicable accidents are
unknown. Hence, though considerable improvements in the mode of
working have been made—as aro indicated in the continued progres
sive increase shown in ratio of killed to journeys mado in Table V.
— further improvements are certain. But all improvements bring
their own evils, and the greatest of these is human fallibility. The
body will tire, and the brain will get out of gear. Pure wilfulness,
carelessness, or mischief, are extremely rare. Who does not make
a mistake? In the year 1874, 4,400,000 letters out of 967,000,000,
or one in 220, found their way to the Returned Letter Office. 89,540
undelivered letters contained valuables, and bank-notes, bills, &c, the
value of which alone amounted to 565,000Z. ; 337 of these had no
addresses; 61,000 postage stamps were found loose in the different
post-offices, and 20,000 letters were posted without any address at all.
    How then is the comparative safety of railway travelling pro
duced? By taking advantage of the lessons taught by experience,
and by applying the means suggested by scientific thought and
inventive skill to remedy defects. Failure has thus led to improve
ment. Every accident has been a lesson learnt, and bitterly have
those suffered who have not profited by such writings on the wall.
The particulars evidenced by each accident have been carefully and
systematically recorded in the reports of the inspecting officers of
the Board of Trade, and thus by recording past experience, the
materials are collected for carefully generalizing the laws of railway
working and for establishing a true science of steam locomotion.
    Telegraphy, or the art of conveying information by certain pre-con
certed signals to the ear and to the eye, is the chief aid of the railway
engineer. Thus, at every railway station, level crossing, or junction,
signal posts are erected which convey to the approaching engine-
driver by exposing discs, bars, or semaphore arms in different posi
tions by day, or lamps displaying different colours by night, the fact
that the line is" clear for him to proceed or obstructed so that he must
stop. The favourite signal by day—the survival of the fittest—is the
arm, which, when at right angles, implies danger, and when at an
angle of 45°, safely, and
                   " White means right : rod means wrong :
                     Green means slowly go along,"
teaches the young railway lad the rule of the road by night. The
character of every train is indicated by its head lights and its presence
to an approaching train by its tail lamps. Should thick weather
prevent the sight of the signals, detonating fog signals announce tho
contiguity of danger. The marshalling of trains in station yards
and platforms is produced by whistles and flags by day and lamps

40               Mr. W. H. Preece on the Applications of           [Feb. 4,
by night, all forming a species of telegraphic language between the
fixed station and the moving train.
     Where telegraphy is required to reach distances beyond the
sphere of the ear or the eye, electricity is employed, and the electric
telegraph becomes of prime and essential use, not only in regulating
the traffic on double and single lines, but in securing safety. Special
trains are moved about by its means, dolays are remedied, breaksdown
rendered harmless, runaway engines have been overtaken by its aid,
passengers' luggage recovered, but, above all, irregularities are by its
means rapidly announced, and the evils of unpunctuality rendered
innocuous.
     The greatest element of safety on railways is, however, the Block
System.
     The block system arose out of the multiplication of trains, and the
necessity for increased speed. Necessity, the mother of invention,
brought it into existence.
     By it trains travelling upon the same line of rails are kept apart
 by a certain and invariable interval of space, instead of by an un
 certain and variable interval of time.
     The practice under the time system is to exhibit the danger signal
for five minutes, and the caution signal for five minutes more, after a
 train or engine has been despatched from or past any station, junction,
 level crossing, or siding. Trains are thus said to be kept apart by
fixed periods of five minutes, and if the caution signals were properly
 regarded, by an interval of time even longer than that. The safety
 of the train is entirely the responsibility of the driver. Immunity
 from accident is dependent upon his keeping a clear look-out. If
 engines ran at regular and fixed speeds, if time tables could be
 adhered to, if the line were not crowded with traffic, if the driver could
 always ensure a good view before him, if signals were near together
 and they were properly regarded, then a rigid interval of time might
 be maintained between following trains ; but none of these elements
 of safety are constant. Fast expresses follow slow goods trains, now
 through a thick fog, now up a wet incline, at one moment in bright
 sunshine, at the next in a thick snowstorm ; creeping mineral trains
 break down in a long interval between two stations ; passengers rush
 in at the very last minute, detain the train, and prevent the time
 tables from being adhered to ; trains are so frequent at some places
 that the five minutes' interval cannot be adhered to ; obstructions to
 view arise from curves or cuttings, or from atmospheric causes ; long
 lengths of line are unprotected by any signal at all, and signals them
 selves are too frequently neglected. Hence, the system is brimful of
 elements of danger, and the inexorable logic of facts has shown that
 the time interval is illusory and the system unsafe.
      But when trains, however rapidly or slowly they may be running,
 however much punctuality has been infringed, however crowded with
 traffic the line may be, aro invariably kept apart by an interval of one
 or two miles, collision betwoen them becomes impossible. This is

1876.]       Electricity to the Protection of Life on Railways.       41
the Block system, which has, very improperly, been divided into two
classes, the absolute and the permissive. The former is the block
system proper, the latter is not a " block" system at all, but a system
introduced, not to secure the safety of trains, but to increase the
capacity of tho line for the transmission of increasing traffic. It is,
ilmibtloss, an improvement on the time system, but it bears little
affinity to the block, and should certainly not be included in the same
category.
     The block system is effectually carried out by means of electricity.
Communication is maintained between station and station by means of
bells rung by currents sent to announce the approach and departure
of the trains. Permanent signals are raised and lowered, indices are
moved to one position or another to indicate the presence or absence
of danger, or the fact of the line being obstructed or clear. Indi
cators are moved to repeat back the signals made to check accuracy in
working, and to render futile the errors or carelessness of the hasty or
thoughtless. Safety is secured and accuracy in working is maintained
by checks and by counterchecks.
     The block system on single lines is additionally used to protect
trains from advancing as well as from succeeding trains. Before a
train is allowed to leave A the line at B is blocked in advance, and
when it leaves it is blocked behind at A, so that it is thoroughly pro
 tected in both directions during the period it is running from A to B.
     But apart from the protection which electricity imparts to railway
travelling, and the facility it offers for adjusting and regulating tho
traffic, there are innumerable purposes for which the telegraph is
employed to facilitate business and to secure efficiency. The distribu
 tion of correct time, the collection of spare trucks and coaches, tho
 relief of staff, the supply of assistance in cases of accident and
danger, and—not least— the reparation of the error and thoughtless
ness of passengers.
     It is used on some lines to establish an effective means of com
munication between passenger and guard ; and perhaps one of its most
useful applications is to record in the signal-box, before the signal
man's eyes, the position of the signal arm by day and the condition
of the light by night, which is hidden from his sight by the formation of
 the line, buildings, darkness, fog, or steam. Electric repeaters are
 one of the greatest elements of safety in working railways.
     The operation of scientific thought has introduced many mecha
nical elements of safety into railway working, which are as ingenious
 as they are effective.
     Improved permanent way, the interlocking of signals and points ;
 the concentration of levers in well-constructed cabins ; effective
 brake power ; perfect tyre fastenings ; better coupling arrangements,
 and superior engine and rolling stock, have all aided to secure that
 simplicity in working and safety in travelling which undoubtedly
 exist.
     But, as the principal clement of danger in railway travelling con

 42                         General Monthly Meeting.                       [Feb. 7,
 sists in the fallibility of the human machine, it must not be forgotten
 that we owe our immunity from accident as much to the careful
 selection, education, and supervision of the staff and the maintenance
 of good discipline, as to the appliances of scientific skill. Science
 cannot be devoted to a nobler purpose than to the protection of
 human life, and the records of experience show that it has earned
 well-deserved laurels in rendering the dangers of railway travelling
 potential and its safety actual.
                                                                     [W. H. P.]
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, February 7, 1876.
    The Duke of Nobthumberland, D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
             John Robertson Adams, Esq.
             Arthur Brewin, Esq. F.R.A.S.
             Ernest De la Rue, Esq.
             Charles Fletcher, Esq.
             Thomas Matthew Gisborne, Esq.
             Mrs. Mitchell,
             Martin Archer-Shee, jun. Esq.
             Francis Lys Smith, Esq.
             Mrs. Theodore Williams,
             Alexander Brown Thorburn, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Samuel
Soott, Esq. M.R.I, for his Donation of Five Guineas to aid the
General Objects of the Institution.
   ¦ The Peesents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
Lords Commissioners of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac for 1879. 8vo. 1875.
TheGreenwich                               1875.sur l'Histoire de France :
               Observations, 1873. 4to.Ine¦dits
      French Government—Documents
   Cartulaircs de 1 Eglise Cathedrale de Grenoble. 4to. 1869.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, New Series, Vol. VIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1875.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVI. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
      1875-6.
   Memoirs, Vol. XLI. 4to. 1875.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Birds, Vol. II. 8vo. 1875.
   Catalogue of Additional MSS. 1854-60. 8vo. 1875.
   Catalogue of Spanish MSS. Vol. I. 8vo. 1875.
Alcock, Lieut-Col. M.R.I.—The Militia, &c. 8vo. 1867-75.
Attfield, Professor J. Ph.V. F.C.S.—Chemistry, General, Medical, and Pharma
     ceutical. 6th Ed. 12mo. 1876.
Basel Naturforschende Gesellscliaft—Verhandlungen. Sechster Theil, 2tes Heft.
     8vo. 1875.

 1876.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                                 43
 British Architects, Royal Itutitu'e of—Sessional Papers, 1875-6. Nos. 1-4. 4to.
 Calcutta Meteorological Office—Bengal Meteorological Reports, &o. fol. 1867-74.
 Chemical Society—Journal for Nov. Dec. 1875. 8vo.
 Civil Engineers' Institution—Minntes of Proceedings, Vol. XLII. 8vo. 1875.
 Clockmakers' Company—Catalogue of Books, MSS., Clocks, &c, of the Worshipful
       Company of Clockmakers, deposited in the Free Library of the City of
       London. 8vo. 1875.
 Comitalo Geologico a"Italia—Bollettini, 1875: Nos. 11, 12. 8vo.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for Deo. 1875, Jan. 1876. 8vo.
    Athenaeum for Dec. 1875, Jan. 1876. 4to.
    Chemical News for Dec. 1875, Jan. 1876. 4to.
    Electrical News for Dec. 1875, Jan. 1876.
    Engineer for Dec. 1875, Jan. 1876. fol.
    Journal for Applied Science for Dec 1875, Jan. 1876. fol.
    Nature for Dec. 1875, Jan. 1876. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Dec. 1875, Jan. 1876. Svo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Dec. 1875, Jan. 1876. Svo.
    Practical Magazine for Dec. 1875, Jan. 1876. 8vo.
    Quarterly Journal of Science, Jan. 1 876. 8vo.
    Telegraph Journal for Dec. 1875, Jan. 1876. 8vo.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 599, 600. 8vo. 18T5-6.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XX. No. 1. 8vo. 1876.
 Geological Society of Ireland, Royal—Journal, Vol. II. Part 3 ; Vol. III. Parts 1 , 2, 3.
      8vo. 1871-3.
 Gladstone, Professor, F.RJS. M.R.I.—The Argonaut, 1875. Jan. 1876. 8vo.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. X. No. 1. 8vo. 1875.
 Hull Literary and Philosophical Society—Annual Report, 1874-5. 8vo. 1875.
 Lane Fox,Col. A. M.R.I, (the Author)—Excavations in Cissbury Camp. (Journal
      Anthrop. Soc 1875.) 8vo.
Linnean Society—Transactions, Second Series : Botany, Vol. I. Part 2 ; Zoology,
       Vol. I. Part 2. 4to. 1875.
 Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Part 1. 8vo. 1876.
 McCosh, John, M.D. (the Author¦)—Nuova Italia : or Tours and Re-tours in France,
      Switzerland, and Italy. Vol. II. 16to. 1875.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution, Birmingham—Proceedings, 1875 : July. Part 2,
      Nov. 8vo.
Mivart, Professor St. George, Ph.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—Lessons from Nature as
      manifested
Montpellier,             desand
                   in Mind
               Acadtfmie         Matter. 8vo. 1876.
                             Sciences—Me¦moires de la Section des Sciences, Tome VI.
      Ease. 2, 3; Tome VII.; Tome VIII. Fasc. 1. 4to. 1865-72.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 262, 263. 8vo. 1875-6.
Physical Society of London—J. D. Everett : Illustrations of the Centimetre-
      Gramm-Second. 8vo. 1875.
Preussische Akademie der Wissemchaften—Monatsberichte : Sept. Oct. 1875. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 164, 165. 8vo. 1875-6.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Reports, Vol. XI. 8vo. 1875.
Scottish Society of Arte—Transactions, Vol. VIII. Part 5 ; Vol. IX. Parts 1, 2.
      8vo. 1875.
Spiller, Professor Philipp (the Author)—Die Urkraft des Wcltalls nach ihrem
      Wesen und Wirken auf alien Naturgebieten. 8vo. Berlin, 1876.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXVIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1875.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      Dec. 1875, Jan. 1876. 8vo.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 83. 8vo. 1875.
Upsala, Sodete" Royale des Sciences—Nova Acta, Series IH. Vol. IX. Fasc. 2. 4to.
      1875. Mc¦teorologique, Vol. VI. Anne¦e 1874. 4to. 1875.
   Bulletin
Warden of the Standards—Ninth Annual Report. 8vo. 1875.
Yorkshire Philosophical Society—Annual Report for 1874. 8vo.           1875.

44                            Mr. W. Crookes                   [Feb. 11,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 11, 1876.
    The Hon. Sir William Rorert Grove, M.A. PLD. F.R.S.
                    Just. C. P., Manager, in the Chair.
                         W. Crookes, Esq. F.R.S.
                      The Mechanical Action of Light.
To generate motion has been found a characteristic common, with one
exception, to all tho phases of physical force. We hold the bulb of
a thermometer in our hands, and the mercury expands in bulk, and,
rising along the scale, indicates the increase of heat it has received.
We heat water, and it is converted into steam, and. moves our ma
chinery, our carriages, and our ironclads. We bring a loadstone
near a number of iron filings, and they move towards it, arranging
themselves in peculiar and intricate lines ; or we bring a piece of iron
near a magnetic needle, and we find it turned away from its ordinary
position. " We rub a piece of glass with silk, thus throwing it into a
state of electrical excitement, and we find that bits of paper or thread
fly towards it, and are, in a few moments, repelled again. If we
remove tho supports from a mass of matter it falls, the influence of
gravitation being here most plainly expressed in motion, as shown in
clocks and water-mills. If we fix pieces of paper upon a stretched
string, and then sound a musical note near it, we find certain of the
papers projected from their places. Latterly, tho so-called " sensitive
flames," which are violently agitated by certain musical notes, have
become well known as instances of the conversion of sound into
motion. How readily chemical force undergoes the same transforma
tion is manifested in such catastrophes as those of Bremerhaven, in
the recent deplorable coal-mine explosions, and indeed in every dis
charge of a gun.
    But light, in some respects the highest of the powers of nature,
has not been hitherto found capable of direct conversion into motion,
and such an exception cannot but be regarded as a singular anomaly.
    This anomaly tho researches which I am about to bring before
you have now removed ; and, like the other forms of force, light is
found to be capable of direct conversion into motion, and of being—
like heat, electricity, magnetism, sound, gravitation, and chemical

   1876.]             on the Mechanical Action of Light.              -15
  action—most delicately and accurately measured by the amount of
  motion thus produced.
       My research arose from the study of an anomaly.
       It is well known to scientific men that bodies appear to weigh
  less when they are hot than when they are cold ; the explanation
  given being, that the ascending currents of hot air buoy up the body,
  so to speak. Wishing to get rid of this and other interfering actions
  of the air during a research on the atomic weight of thallium, I had
  a balance constructed in which I could weigh in a vacuum. I still,
  indeed, found my apparatus less heavy when hot than when cold.
 The obvious explanations were evidently not the true ones : obvious
 explanations seldom are true ones,
 for simplicity is not a character                      P IC
 istic of nature.
      An unknown disturbing cause
 was interfering, and the endea
 vour to find the clue to the appa
 rent anomaly has led to the dis
 covery of the mechanical action
 of light.
      I was long troubled by the ap
 parent lawlessness of the actions
 I obtained. By gradually increas
 ing the delicacy of my apparatiiH
 I could easily get certain results
 of motion when hot bodies were
brought near them, but sometimes
 it was one of attraction, at others
of repulsion, whilst occasionally
no movement whatever was pro
duced.
      I will try to reproduce these
phenomena in this apparatus
(Pig. 1). Here are two glass
bulbs, each containing a bar of
pith about 3 inches long and half
an inch thick, suspended horizon
tally by a long fibre of cocoon
silk. I bring a hot glass rod, or
a candle, towards one of them, and yon see that the pith is gradually
attracted, following the candle as I move it round the bulb. That
seems a very definite fact ; but look at the action in the other bulb.
I bring the candle, or a hot glass rod, near the other bar of pith,
and it is strongly repelled by it—much more strongly than it was
attracted in the first instance.
     Hero, again, is a third fact. I bring a piece of ice near the pith
bar which has just been repelled by the hot rod, and it is attracted,
and follows the rod round as a magnetic needle follows a piece of iron.

4G                          Mr. W. Ch-ooke*                        [Feb. 11,
    The repulsion by radiation is the key-note of these researches.
The movement of a small bar of pith is not very distinct, except to
those near, and I wish to make this repulsion evident to all. I have
therefore arranged a piece of apparatus by which it can be seen by
all present. I will, by means of the electric light, project an image
of a pendulum suspended in vacuo on the screen. You see that the
approach of a candle gives the bob a veritable push, and, by alter
nately obscuring and uncovering the light, I can make the pendulum
beat time to my movements.
    What then is the cause of the contradictory action in these two
bulbs—attraction in one, and repulsion in the other? It can be
explained in a few words. Attraction takes place when air is present,
and repulsion when air is absent.
    Neutrality, or no movement, is produced when the vacuum is
insufficient. A minute trace of air in the apparatus interferes most
materially with the repulsion, and for a long time I was unaware
                                   of the powerful action produced by
                                  radiation in a " perfect " vacuum.
                                       It is not at first sight obvious hdw
                                   ice or a cold body can produce tho
                                   opposite effect to heat. The law of
                                   exchanges, howovor, explains this per
                                   fectly. The pith bar and tho whole
                                   of the surrounding bodies are inces
                                   santly exchanging heat-rays ; and
                                   under ordinary circumstances the
                                   income and expenditure of heat are
                                   in equilibrium. Let me draw your
                                  'attention to the diagram (Fig. 2)
                                   illustrating what takes place when I
                                   bring a piece of ice near the appa
                                   ratus. Tho centre circle represents
my piece of pith ; the arrows show the influx and efflux of heat. A
piece of ice brought near cuts off the influx of heat from one side, and
therefore allows an excess of heat to fall on the pith from the opposite
sido. Attraction by a cold body is therefore seen to be only re
pulsion by the radiation from the opposite side of the room.
    The later developments of this research have demanded the utmost
refinement of apparatus. Everything has to be conducted in glass
vessels, and these must be blown together till they make one piece,
for none but fused joints are admissible. In an investigation de
pending for its successful prosecution on manipulative dexterity, I
have been fortunate in having the assistance of my friend Mr. Charles
Gimingham. All the apparatus you see before you are the fruits of
his skilful manipulation, and I now want to draw your attention to
what I think is a masterpiece of glass-working— the pump which
enables me so readily to produce a vacuum unattainable by ordinary
means.

1876.]              on the Mechanical Action of Light.                47
    The pump here at work is a modification of the Sprengel pump,
bat it contains two or three valuable improvements. I cannot
attempt to describe the whole of the arrangements, but I will rapidly
run over them as illuminated by the electric light. It has a triple
fall tube in which the mercury is carried down, thus exhausting with
threefold rapidity; it has Dr. McLeod's beautiful arrangement for
measuring the residual gas ; it has gauges in all directions, and a
small radiometer attached to it to tell the amount of exhaustion that
I get in any experiments; it has a contrivance for admitting oil of
vitriol into the tubes without interfering with the progress of the ex
haustion, and it is provided with a whole series of most ingenious
vacuum-taps devised by Mr. Gimingham. The exhaustion produced
in this pump is such that a current of electricity from an induction-
coil will not pass across the vacuum. This pump is now exhausting
a torsion balance, which will be described presently. Another pump,
of a similar kind but less complicated, is exhausting an appa
ratus which has enabled me to pass from the mere exhibition of the
phenomena to the obtaining of quantitative measurements.
    A certain amount of force is exerted when a ray of light or heat
falls on the suspended pith, and I wished to ascertain—
    First. What were the actual rays—invisible heat, luminous, or
       ultra-violet—which caused this action ?
    Secondly. What influence had the colour of the surface on tho
       action ?
    Thirdly. Was the amount of action in direct proportion to the
       amount of radiation ?
    Fourthly. What was the amount of force exerted by radiation ?
    I required an apparatus which would be easily moved by the
impact of light on it, but which would readily return to zero, so that
measurements might be obtained of the force exerted when different
amounts of light acted on it. At first I made an apparatus on the
Zollner's horizontal pendulum. For a reason that will be explained
presently, I am unable to show you the apparatus at work, but the
principle of it is shown in the diagram (Fig. 3). The pendulum
represented by this horizontal line has a weight at the end. It is
supported on two fibres of glass, one stretched upwards and the other
stretched downwards, both firmly fastened at the ends, and also
attached to the horizontal rod (as shown in the figure) at points near
together, but not quite opposite to one another.
    It is evident that if there is a certain amount of pull upon each of
these fibres, and that the pull can be so adjusted as to counteract the
weight at the end and keep it horizontal, the nearer the beam
approaches the horizontal line the slower its rate of oscillation. If I
relax the tension, by throwing the horizontal beam downwards, I get
a more rapid oscillation sideways. If I turn the levelling screw so as
to raise the beam and weight, the nearer it approaches the horizontal
position the slower the oscillation becomes, and the more delicate is

48                            Mr. W. Crodkes                   [Feb. 11,
the instrument. Here is the actual apparatus that I tried to work
with. The weight at the end is a piece of pith ; in the centre is a
glass mirror, on which to throw a ray of light, so as to enable me to
see the movements by a luminous index. The instrument, enclosed
in glass and exhausted of air, was mounted on a stand with levelling
screws, and with it I tried the action of a ray of light falling on the
pith. I found that I could get any amount of sensitiveness that I
liked ; but it was not only sensitive to the impact of a ray of light, it
was immeasurably more so to a change of horizontality. It was, in
fact, too delicate for me to work with. The slightest elevation of one
end of the instrument altered the sensitiveness, or the position of the
             Fvg3.                                Fig. 4.
               -o
                               cs                          _T>
Bero-point, to such a degree that it was impossible to try any experi
ments with it in such a place as London. A person stepping from
one room to another altered the position of the centre of gravity of
the house. If I walked from one side of my own laboratory to the
other, I tilted the house over sufficiently to upset the equilibrium of
the apparatus. Children playing in the streets disturbed it. Professor
Rood, who has worked with an apparatus of this kind in America,
finds that an elevation of its side equal to swBTrjnros Part of an incu
is sufficient to be shown on the instrument. It was therefore out of
the question to use an instrument of this construction, so I tried
another form (shown in Fig. 4), in which a fine glass beam, having
discs of pith at each end, is suspended horizontally by a fine glass
fibre, the whole being sealed up in glass and perfectly exhausted.
To the centre of oscillation a glass mirror is attached.
    Now a glass fibre has the property of always coming back to zero
when it is twisted out of its position. It is almost, if not quite, a
perfectly elastic body. I will show this by a simple experiment.
This is a long glass fibre hanging vertically, and having a horizontal
bar suspended on it. I hold the bar, and turn it half round ; it swings
backwards and forwards for a few times, but it quickly comes back to

1876.]               on the Mechanical Action of Light.                  49
its original position. However much twist, however much torsion,
may be put on this, it always returns ultimately to the same position.
I have twisted glass fibres round, and kept them in a permanent state
of twist more than a hundred complete revolutions, and they always
came back accurately to zero. The principle of an instrument that I
shall describe farther on depends entirely on this property of glass.
     Instead of using silk to suspend the torsion beam with, I employ
a fibre of glass, drawn out very fine before the blowpipe. A thread
of glass of less than the thousandth of an inch in thickness is wonder
fully strong, of great stiffness, and of perfect elasticity, so that how
ever much it is twisted round short of the breaking point, it untwists
itself perfectly when liberated. The advantage of using glass fibres
for suspending my beam is, therefore, that it always returns accurately
 to zero, after having tried an experiment, whilst I can get any desired
 amount of sensitiveness by drawing out the glass fibre sufficiently
 fine.
     Here, then, is the torsion apparatus sealed on to a Sprengel pump.
You will easily understand the construction by reference to the
diagram (Fig. 4). It consists of a horizontal beam suspended by a
 glass fibre, and having discs of pith at each end coated with lamp
 black. The whole is enclosed in a glass case, made of tubes blown
 together, and by means of the pump the air is entirely removed. In
 the centre of the horizontal beam is a silvered mirror, and a ray from
 the electric light is reflected from it on to a scale in front, where it is
visible as a small circular spot of light. It is evident that an angular
movement of the torsion beam will cause the spot of light to move to
 the right or to the left along the scale. I will first show you the
 wonderful sensitiveness of the apparatus. I simply place my finger
 near the pith disc at one end, and the warmth is quite sufficient to
 drive the spot of light several inches along the scale. It has now
returned to zero, and I place a candle near it. The spot of light flies
 off the scale. I now bring the candle near it alternately from one side
 to the other, and you see how perfectly it obeys the force of the candle.
I think the movement is almost better seen without the screen than with
it. The fog, which has been so great a detriment to everyone else, is
rather in my favour, for it shows the luminous index like a solid bar of
light swaying to and fro across the room. The warmth of my finger, or
the radiation from a candle, is therefore seen to drive the pith disc
away. Here is a lump of ice, and on bringing it near one of the discs
the luminous index promptly shows a movement of apparent attraction.
     With this apparatus I have tried many experiments, and amongst
others I have endeavoured to answer the question, " Is it light, or is
it heat, that produces the movement?" for that is a question that is
asked me by almost everyone ; and a good many appear to think that
if the motion can be explained by an action of heat, all the novelty
and the importance of the discovery vanish. Now this question
of light or heat is one I cannot answer, and I think that when I have
explained the reason you will agree with me that it is unanswerable.
     Vol. VIII. (No. 64.)                                         u

50                             Mr. W. Crooke8                    [Feb. 11,
There is no physical difference between light and heat. Hero is a
diagram of the visible spectrum (Fig. 5). The spectrum, as scientific
men understand it, extends from an indefinite distance beyond the red
                                       FIG 5,
to an indefinite distance beyond the violet. We do not know how far
 it would extend one way or the other if no absorbing media were
 present ; but, by what we may call a physiological accident, the
 human eye is sensitive to a portion of the spectrum situated between
 the line A in the red to about the line H in the violet. But this is
 not a physical difference between the luminous and non-luminous parts
 of the spectrum ; it is only a physiological difference. Now, the part
 at the red end of the spectrum possesses, in the greatest degree, the
 property of causing the sensation of warmth, and of dilating the
 mercury in a thermometer, and of doing other things which are con
 veniently classed among the effects of heat ; the centre part affects the
 eye, and is therefore called light ; whilst the part at the other end of
 the spectrum has the greatest energy in producing chemical action.
 But it must not be forgotten that any ray of the spectrum, from what
 ever part it is selected, will produce all these physical actions in more
 or less degree. A ray here, at the letter C for instance in the orange,
 if concentrated on the bulb of a thermometer, will cause the mercury
 to dilate, and thus show the presence of heat ; if concentrated on my
 hand I feel warmth ; if I throw it on the face of a thermo-pile it
 will produce a current of electricity ; if I throw it upon a sensitive
 photographic plate it will produce chemical action ; and if I throw it
 upon the instrument I have just described, it will produce motion.
 What, then, am I to call that ray? Is it light, heat, electricity,
 chemical action, or motion ? It is neither. All these actions are in
 separable attributes of the ray of that particular wave-length, and
 are not evidences of separate identities. I can no more split that
 ray up into five or six different rays each having different properties,
 than I can split up the element iron, for instance, into other elements,
 one possessing the specific gravity of iron, another its magnetic

1876.]               on tlie Mechanical Action of Light.              51
properties, a third its chemical properties, a fourth its conducting
power for heat, and so on. A ray of light of a definite refrangibility
is one and indivisible, just as an element is, and these different pro
perties of the ray are mere functions of that refrangibility, and
inseparable from it. Therefore when I tell you that a ray in the
ultra-red pushes the instrument with a force of 100, and a ray in the
most luminous part has a dynamic value of about half that, it must be
understood that the latter action is not due to heat-rays which
accompany the luminous rays, but that the action is one purely due to
the wave-length and the refrangibility of the ray employed. You
now understand why it is that I cannot give a definite answer to the
question, " Is it heat or is it light that produces these movements ? "
There is no physical difference between heat and light ; so, to avoid
confusion, I call the total bundle of rays which come from a candle
or the sun, radiation.
    I found, by throwing the pure rays of the spectrum one after the
other upon this apparatus, that I could obtain a very definite answer
to my first question, "What are the actual rays which cause this
action?"
    The apparatus was fitted up in a room specially devoted to it,
and was protected on all sides, except where the rays of light had to
pass, with cotton-wool and large bottles of water. A heliostat
reflected a beam of sunlight in a constant direction, and it was re
ceived on an appropriate arrangement of slit, lenses, prisms, &c, for
projecting a pure spectrum. Results were obtained in the months of
July, August, and September ; and they are given in the figure
(Fig. 5) graphically as a curve, the maximum being in the ultra-red
and the minimum in the ultra-violet. Taking the maximum at 100,
the following are the mechanical values of the different colours of the
spectrum :
                 Ultra-red                            100
                 Extreme red                           85
                 Bed                                   73
                 Orange                                66
                 Yellow                                57
                 Green                           - ..  41
                 Blue                                  22
                 Indigo                                  8}
                 Violet                                  6
                 Ultra-violet                            5
A comparison of these figures is a sufficient proof that the mechanical
action of radiation is as much a function of the luminous rays as it is
of the dark heat-rays.
    The second question, namely, " What influence has the colour of
the surface on the action ? " has also been solved by this apparatus.
    In order to obtain comparative results between discs of pith coated
with lampblack and with other substances, another torsion apparatus
was constructed, in which six discs in vacuo could be exposed one after
                                                             e 2

52                              Mr. W. Crookea                      [Feb. 11,
the other to a standard light.         One disc always being lampblaeked
pith, the other discs could be        changed so as to get comparisons of
action. Calling the action of         radiation from a candle on the lamp-
blacked disc 100, the following       are the proportions obtained :
                  Lampblaeked pith                       100
                  Iodide of palladium                     87 '3
                  Precipitated silver                     56
                  Amorphous phosphorus                    40
                  Sulphate of baryta                      37
                  Milk of sulphur                         31
                  Red oxide of iron                       28
                  Scarlet iodide of mercury and copper    22
                   Lampblaeked silver                     18
                  White pith                              18
                  Carbonate of lead                       13
                  Bock-salt                                6-5
                  Glass                                    6-5
     This table gives important information on many points : one more
especially—the action of radiation on lampblaeked pith is 5i times
what it is on plain pith. A bar like those used in my first experi
ment, having one half black and one half white, exposed to a broad
beam of radiation, will be pushed with 5£ times more strength on the
 black than on the white half, and if freely suspended will set at
 an angle greater or less according to the intensity of the radiation
falling on it.
      This suggests the employment of snch a bar as a photometer, and
 I have accordingly made an instrument on this principle : its con
 struction is shown in the diagram (Fig. 6). It consists of a flat bar
 of pith, A, half black and half white, suspended horizontally in a bulb
 by means of a long silk fibre. A reflecting mirror, B, and small
 magnet, G, are fastened to the pith, and a controlling magnet, D, is
 fastened outside, so that it can slip up and down the tube, and thus
 increase or diminish sensitiveness. The whole is completely ex
 hausted and then enclosed in a box lined with black velvet, with
 apertures for the rays of light to pass in and out. A ray of light from
 a lamp, F, reflected from the mirror, B, to a graduated scale, G, shows
 the movements of the pith bar.
      The instrument fitted up for a photometric experiment is in front
 of me on the table. A beam from the electric light falls on the little
 mirror, and is thence reflected back to the screen, where it forms a
 spot of light, the displacement of which to the right or the left shows
 the movement of the pith bar. One end of the bar is blacked on each
  side, the other end being left plain. I have two candles, £ £, each 12
 inches off the pith bar, one on each side of it. When I remove the
 screens, H H, the candle on one side will give the pith a push in one
 direction, and the candle on the other side will give the pith a push
 in the opposite direction, and as they are the same distance off they
 will neutralize each other, and the spot of light will not move. I now
  take the two screens away ; each candle is pushing the pith equally

1876.]  on the Mechanical Action of Light. 53
fig. e.
                      "*&"

54                            Mr. W. Crookes                      [Feb. 11,
in opposite directions, and the luminous index remains at zero. When,
however, I cut one candle off, the candle on the opposite side exerts
its full influence, and the index flies to one end of the scale. I cut
the other one off and obscure the first, and the spot of light flies to
the other side. I obscure them both, and the index comes quickly to
zero. I remove the screens simultaneously, and the index does not
move.
      I will retain one candle 12 inches off, and put two candles on the
other side 17 inches off. On removing the screens you see the index
does not move from zero. Now the square of 12 is 144, and the
square of 17 is 289. Twice 144 is 288. The light of these candles,
therefore, is as 288 to 289. They therefore balance each other as
nearly as possible. Similarly I can balance a gas-light against a
candle. I have a small gas-burner here, which I place 28 inches off
on one side, and you see it balances the candle 12 inches off. These
experiments show how conveniently and accurately this instrument
can be used as a photometer. By balancing a standard candle on one
side against any source of light on the other, the value of the latter
in terms of a candle is readily shown ; thus in the last experiment the
standard candle 12 inches off is balanced by a gas-flame 28 inches off.
The lights are therefore in the proportion of 122 to 283, or as 1 to
5 " 4. The gas-burner is therefore equal to about 5\ candles.
      In practical work on photometry it is often required to ascertain
the value of gas. Gas is spoken of commercially as of so many
candle-power. There is a certain "standard" candle which is sup
posed to be made invariable by Act of Parliament. I have worked a
great deal with these standard candles, and I find them to be among
the most variable things in the world. They never burn with the
same luminosity from one hour to the other, and no two candles are
alike. I «an now, however, easily get over this difficulty. I place a
" standard " candle at such a distance from the apparatus that it gives
a deflection of 100 degrees on the scale. If it is poorer than the
standard, I bring it nearer ; if better, I put it farther off. Indeed, any
candle may be taken ; and if it be placed at such a distance from the
apparatus that it will give a uniform deflection, say of 100 divisions,
the standard can be reproduced at any subsequent time; and the
burning of the candle may bo tested during the photometric experi
ments by taking the deflection it causes from time to time, and
altering its distance, if needed, to keep the deflection at 100 divisions.
The gas-light to be tested is placed at such a distance on the opposite
side of the pith bar that it exactly balances the candle. Then, by
squaring the distances, I get the exact proportion between the gas and
the candle.
      Before this instrument can be used as a photometer or light
measurer, means must be taken to cut off from it all those rays coming
from the candle or gas which are not actually luminous. A reference
to the spectrum diagram (Fig. 5) will show that at each end of the
coloured rays there is a large space inactive, as far as the eye is con

1876.]              on the Mechanical Action of Light.                 56
cerned, but active in respect to the production of motion —strongly so
at the red end, less strong at the violet end. Before the instrument
can bo used to measure luminosity, these rays must be cut off. We
buy gas for the light that it gives, not for the heat it evolves on
burning, and it would therefore never do to measure the heat and pay
for it as light.
    It has been found that a clear plate of alum, whilst letting all the
light through, is almost, if not quite, opaque to the heating rays below
the red. A solution of alum in water is almost as effective as a
crystal of alum ; if, therefore, I place in front of the instrument glass
cells containing an aqueous solution of alum, the dark heat-rays are
filtered off.
    But the ultra-violet rays still pass through, and to cut these off I
dissolve in the alum solution a quantity of sulphate of quinine. This
body has the property of cutting off the ultra-violet rays from a point
between the lines G and H. A combination of alum and sulphate of
quinine, therefore, limits the action to those rays which affect the
human eye, and the instrument, such as you see it before you, becomes
a true photometer.
    This instrument, when its sensitiveness is not deadened by the
powerful control magnet I am obliged to keep near it for these
experiments, is wonderfully sensible to light. In my own laboratory
a candle 36 feet off produces a decided movement, and the motion of
the index increases inversely with the square of the distance, thus
answering the third question, " Is the amount of action in direct pro
portion to the amount of radiation ? "
    The experimental observations and the numbers which are re
quired by the theoretical diminution of light with the square of the
distance, are sufficiently close, as the following figures show :
                 Candle 6 feet off gives a deflection of 218-0°
                   „    12       „             „          540°
                   •i   18       »             i,         24"5
                   „   24        „            „           130°
                   „   10        „            „           77-0°
                   „   20        „            „           19-0°
                   „   30        „            „            8-5
    The effect of two candles side by side is practically double, and of
three candles three times that of one candle.
    In the instrument just described the candle acts on a pith bar,
one end of which is blacked on each side. But suppose I black the
bar on alternate halves and place a light near it sufficiently strong
to drive the bar half round. The light will now have presented to
it another black surface in the same position as the first, and the bar
will be again driven in the same direction half round. This action
will be again repeated, the differential action of the light on the
black and white surfaces keeps the bar moving, and tho result will be
rotation.

66                           Mr. W. Crookea                        [Feb. 11,
    Here is such a pith bar, blacked on alternate sides, and suspended
in an exhausted glass bulb (Fig. 7). I project its image on the
screen, and the strong light which shines on it sets it rotating with
considerable velocity. Now it is slackening speed, and now it has
                stopped altogether. The bar is supported on a fibre of
  . .. j        silk, which has twisted round till the rotation is stopped
                by the accumulated torsion. I put a water screen be
                tween the bar and the electric light to cut off some of
                the active rays, and the silk untwists, turning the bar
                in the opposite direction. I now remove the water,
                and the bar revolves rapidly as at first.
                     From suspending the pith on a silk fibre to balan
                cing it on a point the transition is slight; the interfering
                action of torsion is thereby removed, and the instru
                ment rotates continuously under the influence of radia
                tion. Many of these little pieces of apparatus, to
                which I have given the name of radiometers, are on
                the table, revolving with more or less speed. The
                diagram (Fig. 8) shows their construction, which is
                very simple. They are formed of four arms of very
                fine glass, supported in the centre by a needle-point,
                and having at the extremities thin discs of pith lamp-
                blacked on one side, the black surfaces all facing the
                same way. The needle stands in a glass cup, and the
                arm8 and discs are delicately balanced so as to revolve
                with the slightest impetus.
 8                   Here are some rotating by the light of a candle.
           -    This one is now rather an historical instrument, being
           \    the first one in which I saw rotation. It goes very
           /    slowly in comparison with the others, but it is not bad
                for the first instrument of the sort that was ever made.
                     I will now, by means of a vertical lantern, throw
                on the screen the projection of one of these instru
                ments, so as to show the movement rather better than
        (       you could see it on the table. The electric light
                falling vertically downwards on it, and much of the
       J        power being cut off by water and alum screens, the ro-
      W         tation is slow. I bring a candle near and the speed
     .*          increases. I now lift the radiometer up, and place it
                 full in the electric light, projecting its image direct
on the screen, and it goes so rapidly that if I had not cut out the
four pieces of pith of different shapes you would have been unable to
follow the movement.
     The speed with which a sensitive radiometer will revolve in the
 sun is almost incredible ; and the electric light such as I have in this
 lantern cannot be far short of fidl sunshine. Here is the most
 sensitive instrument I have yet made, and I project its image on the
 screen, letting the full blaze of the electric light shine upon it.

1876.]             on the Mechanical Action of Light.                57
Nothing is seen but an undefined nebulous ring, which becomes at
times almost invisible. The number of revolutions per second cannot
be counted, but they must be several hundreds, for one candle has
made it spin round forty times a second.
    I have called the instrument the radiometer, because it will enablo
me to measure the intensity of radiation falling on it by counting the
revolutions in a given time ; the law being
that the rapidity of revolution is inversely          Pig 8
as the square of the distance between the
light and the instrument.
     When exposed to different numbers of
candles at the same distance off, the speed
of revolution in a given time is in propor
tion to the number of candles ; two candles
giving twice the rapidity of one candle,
and three, three times, &c.
     The position of the light in the hori
zontal plane of the instrument is of no
consequence, provided the distance is not
altered ; thus two candles, 1 foot off, give
the same number of revolutions per second,
whether they are side by side or opposite
to each other. From this it follows that
 if the radiometer is brought into a uni
 formly lighted space it will continue to
 revolve.
     It is easy to get rotation in a radio
meter without having the surfaces of the
discs differently coloured. Here is one
having the pith discs blacked on both
sides. I project its image on the screen, and there is no movement.
 I bring a candle near it, and shade the light from one side, when
 rapid rotation is produced, which is at once altered in direction by
moving the shade to the other side.
     I have arranged here a radiometer so that it can be made to move
by a very faint light, and at the same time its rotation is easily
followed by all present. In this bulb is a largo six-armed radiometer
carrying a mirror in its centre. The mirror is almost horizontal, but
not quite so, and therefore when I throw a beam of electric light
vertically downwards on to the central mirror, the light is reflected
off at a slight angle, and as the instrument rotates its movement is
 shown by the spot of light travelling round the ceiling in a circle.
 Here again the fog helps us, for it gives us an imponderable beam of
 light moving round the room like a solid body, and saving you the
 trouble of looking up to the ceiling. I now set the radiometer
 moving round by the light of a candle, and I want to show you that
 coloured light does not very much interfere with the movement. I
place yellow glass in front, and the movement is scarcely diminished

58                             Mr. W. Grookes                   [Feb. 11,
at all. Very deep coloured glass, you see, diminishes it a little more.
Blue and green glass make it go a little slower, but still do not
diminish the speed one-half. I now place a screen of water in front :
the instrument moves with diminished velocity, rotating with about
one-fourth its original speed.
            Taking the action produced by a candle flame as 100
                Yellow glass reduces it to                   89
                Red      .,     >,    ,                      71
                Blue     „      „    „                       56
                Green „         „     „                      56
                Water „         „    ,                       26
                Alum „          „     „                      15
    I now move the candle a little distance off, so as to make the
instrument move slower, and bring a flask of boiling water close to it.
See what happens. The luminous index no longer moves steadily,
but in jerks. Each disc appears to come up to the boiling water with
difficulty, and to hurry past it. More and more sluggishly do they
move past, until now ono has failed to get by, and the luminous
beam, after oscillating to and fro a few times, comes to rest. I now
gradually bring the candle near. The index shows no movement.
Nearer still. There is now a commencement of motion, as if the
radiometer was trying to push past the resistance offered by the hot
water ; but it is not until I have brought the candle to within a few
inches of the glass globe that rotation is recommenced. On these
pith radiometers the action of dark heat is to repel the black and
white surfaces almost equally, and this repulsion is so energetic as
to overcome the rotation caused by the candle, and to stop the in
strument.
    With a radiometer constructed of a good conductor of heat, such
as metal, the action of dark heat is different. Here is one made of
silvered copper, polished on one side and lampblacked on the other.
I have set it moving with a candle slightly the normal way. Here
is a glass shade heated so that it feels decidedly warm to the hand.
I cover the radiometer with it, and the rotation first stops, and then
recommences the reverse way. On removing the hot shade the
reverse movement ceases, and normal rotation recommences.
    If, however, I place a hot glass shade over a pith radiometer the
arms at once revolve the normal way, as if I had exposed the instru
ment to light. The diametrically opposite behaviour of a pith and a
metal instrument when exposed to the dark heat radiated from a hot
glass shade is very striking. The explanation of the action is not
easy, but it depends on the fact that the metal is one of the best con
ductors of heat, whilst pith is one of the worst.
    One more experiment with this metallic radiometer. I heat it
strongly with a spirit lamp, and the arms spin round rapidly. Now
the whole bulb is hot, and I remove the lamp : see what happens.
The rotation quickly diminishes. Now it is at rest ; and now it is

1876.]              on the Mechanical Action of Light.               59
spinning round just as fast the reverse way. I can procure this
reverse movement only with difficulty with a pith instrument. The
action is due to the metal being a good conductor of heat. As it
absorbs heat it moves one way; as it radiates heat it moves the
opposite way.
    At first I made these instruments of the very lightest material
possible, some of them not weighing more than half a grain ; and
where extreme sensitiveness is required lightness is essential. But
the force which carries them round is quite strong enough to move a
much greater weight. Thus the metallic instrument I have just
experimented with weighs over 13 grains, and here is one still heavier,
made of four pieces of looking-glass blacked on the silvered side,
which are quickly sent round by the impact of this imponderable
agent, and flash the rays of light all round the room when the electric
lamp is turned on the instrument.
    Before dismissing this instrument, let me show one more experi
ment. 1 place the looking-glass and the metal radiometer side by
side, and, screening the light from them, they come almost to rest.
Their temperature is the same as that of the room. What will
happen if I suddenly chill them ? I pour a few drops of ether on each
of the bulbs. Both instruments begin to revolve. But notice the
difference. Whilst the movement in the case of the metal radiometer
is direct, that of the looking-glass instrument is reverse. And yet to
a candle they both rotate the same way, the black being repelled.
    Now, having found that this force would carry round a com
paratively heavy weight, another useful application suggested itself.
If I can carry round heavy mirrors or plates of copper, I can carry
round a magnet. Here, then (Fig. 9), is an instrument carrying a
magnet, and outside is a smaller magnet, delicately balanced in a
vertical position, having the south pole at the top and the north pole
at the bottom. As the inside magnet comes round, the outside
magnet, being delicately suspended on its centre, bows backwards and
forwards, and, making contact at the bottom, carries an electric
current from a battery to a Morse instrument. A ribbon of paper is
drawn through the " Morse " by clockwork, and at each contact—at
each revolution of the radiometer—a record is printed on the strip of
paper by dots ; close together if the radiometer revolves quickly,
farther apart if it goes slower.
    Here the inner magnet is too strong to allow the radiometer to
start with a faint light without some initial impetus. Imagine the
instrument to be on the top of a mountain away from everybody, and
I wish to start it in the morning. Outside the bulb are a few coils of
insulated copper wire, and by depressing the key for an instant I pass
an electric current from the battery through them. The interior
magnet is immediately deflected from its north-south position, and the
impetus thus gained enables the light to keep up the rotation. In a
proper meteorological instrument I should have an astatic combination
inside the bulb, so that a very faint light would be sufficient to start

  G0                          Mr. W. Crookea                      [Feb. 11,
  it, but in this case I am obliged to set it going by an electric current.
  I have placed a candle near the magnetic radiometer. I now touch
  the key; the instrument immediately responds; the paper unwinds
MAGNET
                                  flC.9.
                                                       MORSE
                                                    INSTRUMENT
                                      KEY
  from the   Morse instrument, and on it you will see dots in regular
  order. I    put the candle 8 inches off, and the dots come wide apart.
  I place it 5f inches off, and two dots come where one did before. I
  bring the  candle 4 inches from the instrument, and the dots become
                                     FIG.IO.
 four times as numerous (Fig. 10), thus recording automatically the
 intensity of the light falling on the instrument, and proving that in
  this caso also the radiometer obeys the law of inverse squares.

1876.]               on the Mechanical Action of Light.                  61
     This instrument, the principle of which I have illustrated to-night,
is not a mere toy or scientific curiosity, but is capable of giving
much useful information in climatology. You are well aware that
the temperature, the rainfall, the atmospheric pressure, the direction
and force of the wind, are now carefully studied in most countries, in
order to elucidate their sanitary condition, their animal and vegetable
productions, and their agricultural capabilities. But one most im
portant element, the amount of light received at any given place, has
been hitherto but very crudely and approximately estimated, or rather
guessed at. Yet it cannot be denied that sunlight has its effect upon
life and health, vegetable, animal, and human, and that its relative
amount at any place is hence a point of no small moment. The diffi
culty is now overcome by such an instrument as this. The radio
meter may be permanently placed on some tall building, or high
mountain, and, by connecting it by telegraphic wires to a central
observatory, an exact account can be kept of the proportion of sunlight
received in different latitudes, and at various heights above the sea
level. Furthermore, our records of the comparative temperature of
different places have been hitherto deficient. The temperature of a
country depends partly on the amount of rays which it receives direct
from the sun, and partly on the atmospheric and oceanic currents,
warm or cold, which sweep over or near it. The thermometer does
not discriminate between these influences; but the radiometer will
enable us now to distinguish how much of the annual temperature of
a place is due to the direct influence of the sun alone, and how much
to the other factors above referred to.
     I now come to the last question which I stated at the beginning of
 this discourse, " What is tho. amount of force exerted by radiation ? "
 Well, I can calculate out the force in a certain way, from data supplied
 by this torsion apparatus (Fig. 4). Knowing the weight of the beam,
 the power of the torsion fibre of glass, its time of oscillation, and the ,
 size of the surface acted on, it is not difficult to calculate the amount
 of force required to deflect the beam through a given angle ; but I
 want to get a more direct measure of the force. I throw a ray of
 light upon one of these instruments, and it gives a push ; surely it is
 possible to measure the amount of this push in parts of a grain. This
 I have succeeded in doing in the instrument behind me ; but before
 showing the experiment I want to illustrate the principle upon which
 it depends. Here is a very fine glass fibre suspended from a hori
 zontal bar, and I wish to show you the strength of it. The fibre is
 only a few thousandths of an inch thick ; it is about 3 feet long, and
 at the lower end is hanging a scale-pan, weighing 100 grains. So I
 start with a pull of 100 grains on it. I now add little lead weights,
 50 grains each, till it breaks. It bears a pull of 750 grains, but gives
 way when additional weight is added. You see then the great strength
 of a fibre of glass, so fine as to be invisible to all who are not close to
 it, to resist a tensile strain.
      Now I will illustrate another equally important property of a glass

 62                          Mr. W. Crookea                     [Feb. 11,
thread, viz. its power to resist torsion. Here is a still finer glass
 thread, stretched horizontally between two supports : and in order to
 show its position I have put little jockeys of paper on it. One end is
cemented firmly to a wooden block, and the other end is attached to a
little instrument called a counter—a little machine for registering the
number of revolutions. I now turn this handle till the fibre breaks,
and the counter will tell me how many twists I have given this fibre
of glass. You see it breaks at twenty revolutions. This is rather a
thicker fibre than usual. I have had them bear more than 200 turns
without breaking, and some that I have worked with are so fine that
if I hold one of them by the end it curls itself up and floats about
the' room like a piece of spider's thread.
     Having now illustrated these properties of glass fibres, I will try
to show a very delicate experiment. I want to ascertain the amount
of pressure which radiation exerts on a blackened surface. I will put
a ray of light on the pan of a balance, and give you its weight in
grains ; for I think in this Institution and before this audience I may
be allowed a scientific use of the imagination, and may speak of
weighing that which is not affected by gravitation.
     The principle of the instrument is that of W. Ritchie's torsion
balance, described by him in the 'Philosophical Transactions' for
 1830. The construction is somewhat complicated, but it can be made
out on reference to the diagram (Fig. 11). A light beam, A B, having
2 square inches of pith, C, at one end, is balanced on a very fine fibre
of glass, D D', stretched horizontally in a tube ; one end of the fibre
being connected with a torsion handle, E, passing through the tube,
and indicating angular movements on a graduated circle. The beam
is cemented to the torsion fibre, and the whole is enclosed in glass
and connected with the mercury pump by a spiral tube, F, and ex
hausted as perfectly as possible. G is a spiral spring, to keep the
fibre in a uniform state of tension. H is a piece of cocoon silk. I is
a glass stopper, which is ground into the tube as perfectly as possible,
and then highly polished and lubricated with melted indiarubber,
which is the only substanco I know that allows perfect lubrication
and will still hold a vacuum. The pith, C, represents the scale-pan
of the balance. The cross-beam, A B, which carries it, is cemented
firmly to the thin glass fibre, D, and in the centre is a piece of
mirror, K. Now the cross-beam A B and the fibre D being rigidly
connected together, any twist which I give to the torsion handle E
will throw the beam out of adjustment. If, on the other hand, I
place a weight on the piece of pith C, that end of the beam will fall
down, and I shall have to turn the handle, E, round and round a
certain number of times, until I have put sufficient torsion on the fibre
D to lift up the beam. Now, according to the law of torsion, the force
with which a perfectly elastic body like glass tends to untwist itself
is directly proportional to the number of degrees through which it
has been twisted ; therefore, knowing how many degrees of torsion I
must put on the fibre to lift up the yj^ of a grain weight, I can tell

1876. on the Mechanical Action of Light. G3
                 IT

 64                             Mr. W. Crodkes                      [Feb. 11,
 how many degrees of torsion are required to lift up any other weight ;
 and conversely, putting an unknown weight or pressure on the pith,
 I can find its equivalent in grains by seeing how much torsion it is
 equal to. Thus, if -i-^iof a grain requires 10,000 degrees of torsion,
 ^ofa grain would require 20,000 degrees ; and conversely, a weight
 which required 5000 degrees torsion would weigh ^^ of a grain.
 Once knowing the torsion equivalent of -i^ of a grain, the ratio of
 the known to the unknown weights is given by the degrees of torsion.
     Having thus explained the working of the torsion balance I will
 proceed to the actual experiment. On the central mirror I throw a
 ray from the electric light, and the beam reflected on a particular spot
 of the" ceiling will represent zero. The graduated circle J of the
"instrument also stands at zero, and the counter which I fasten on at
 the end L stands at O. The position of the spot of light reflected
 from the little concave mirror being noted, the torsion balance enables
 me to estimate the pressure or weight of a beam of light to a surprising
 degree of exactness. I lift up my little iron weight by means of a
 magnet (for working in a vacuum I am restricted in the means of
 manipulating), and drop it in the centre of the pith : it knocks the
 scale-pan down, as if I had placed a pound weight upon an ordi
 nary balance, and the index-ray of light has flown far from the zero-
 point on the ceiling. I now put torsion on the fibre to bring the beam
 again into equilibrium. The index-ray is moving slowly back again.
 At last it is at zero, and on looking at tho circle and counter I see
 that I have had to make 27 complete revolutions ancl 301 degrees, or
 27 x 360° + 301° = 10,021°, before the force of torsion would balanco
the -jjfTf of a grain.
     I now remove the weight from the pith-pan of my balance, and
 liberate the glass thread from, torsion by twisting it back again. Now
 the spot of light on the ceiling is at zero, and the counter and index
are again at O.
     Having thus obtained the value of the -i-J^ of a grain in torsion
 degrees, I will get the same for the radiation from a candle. I place
 a lighted candle exactly 6 inches from the blackened surface, and on
 removing the screen the pith scale-pan falls down, and the index-ray
again flies across tho ceiling. I now turn the torsion handle, and in
much less timo than in the former case tho ray is brought back to zero.
 On looking at tho counter I find it registers four revolutions, and the
index points to 188 degrees, making altogether 360° x 4 + 188 = 1628°,
 through which the torsion fibre has to be twisted to balance the light
of the candle.
     It is an easy calculation to convert this into parts of a grain weight ;
 10,021 torsion degrees representing 0-01 grain, 1628 torsion degrees
represent 0-001624 grain.
                 10,021° : 0-01 grain : : 1628° : 0 -.001624 grain.
The radiation of a candle 6 inches off, therefore, weighs or presses tho
2 square inches of blackened pith with a weight of 0"001624 grain.

1876.]               on the Mechanical Action of Light.                  65
In my own laboratory, working with this torsion balance, I- fonnd that
a candle 6 inches off gave a pressure of 0"001772 grain. The differ
ence is only 0" 000148 grain, and is fairly within the allowable limits
of a discourse experiment. But this balance is capable of weighing to
far greater accuracy than that. You have seen that a torsion of 10,021°
balanced the hundredth of a grain. If I give the fibre X degree more
twist the weight is over-balanced, as shown by the movement of the
index-ray on the ceiling. Now 1 degree of torsion is about the mono
part of the whole torsion required by the -^g- grain. It represents
therefore the -nisTns' Part of **ie nhr" or the millionth part of a grain.
    Divide a grain weight into a million parts, place one of them on
the pan of the balance, and the beam will be instantly depressed.
    Weighed in this balance the mechanical force of a candle 12
inches off was found to be 0 - 000444 grain ; of a candle 6 inches off,
0-001772 grain. At half the distance the weight of radiation should
be four times, or 0-001776 grain; the difference between theory and
experiment being only four-millionths of a grain is a sufficient proof
that the indications of this instrument, like those of tho apparatus
previously described, follow the law of inverse squares.' An examina
tion of the differences between the separate observations and the mean
shows that my estimate of the sensitiveness of this balance is not
excessive, and that in practice it will safely indicate the millionth of
a grain.
    I have only had one opportunity of getting an observation of the
weight of sunlight : ' it was taken on December 13th, but the sun was
so obscured by thin clouds and haze that it was only equal to 10"2
candles 6 inches off. -Calculating from this datum, it is seen that the
pressure of sunshine is 2"3 tons per square mile.
     But however fair an equivalent ten candles may be for a London
 sun in December, a midsummer sun in a cloudless sky has a very dif
ferent value. Authorities differ as to its exact equivalent, but I under
estimate it at 1000 candles 12 inches off.
     Let us see what pressure this will give : —A candle 12 inches off,
 acting on 2 square inches of surface, "Was found equal to 0 - 000444
grain ; the sun, equalling 1000 candles, therefore gives a pressure of
 0"444000 grain ; that is, equal to about 32 grains per square foot, to
2 cwt. per aero, 57 tons per square mile, or nearly three thousand
million tons on the exposed surface of tho globe—sufficient to knock
the earth out of its orbit if it came upon it suddenly.
     It may be said that a force like this must alter our ordinary ideas
 of gravitation ; but it must be remembered that we only know the
force of gravity as between bodies such as they actually exist, and we
do not know what this force would be if the temperatures of the
 gravitating masses were to undergo a change. If the sun is gradually
cooling, possibly its attractive force is increasing, but the rate will
be so slow that it will probably not be detected by our present means
of research.
     Whilst showing this experiment I wish to have it distinctly under-
     Vol. VIII. (No. 64.)                                          f

66                             Mr. W. Croolces                 [Feb. 11,
stood that I do not attach the least importance to the actual numerical
results. I simply wish to show you the marvellous sensitiveness of
the apparatus with which I am accustomed to work. I may, indeed,
say that I know these rough estimates to be incorrect. It must be
remembered that our earth is not a lampblacked body enclosed in a
glass case, nor is its shape such as to give the maximum of surface
with the minimum of weight. The solar forces which perpetually
pour on it are not simply absorbed and degraded into radiant heat,
but are transformed into the various forms of motion we seo around us,
and into the countless forms of vegetable, animal, and human activity.
The earth, it is true, is poised in vacuous space, but it is surrounded
by a cushion of air ; and, knowing how strongly a little air stops the
movement of repulsion, it is easy to conceive that the sun's radiation
through this atmospheric layer may not produce any important amount
of repulsion. It is true the upper surface of our atmosphere must
present a very cold front, and this might suffer repulsion by the
sun ; but I have said enough to show how utterly in the dark we are
as to the cosmical bearings of this action of radiation, and further
speculation would be but waste of time.
    It may be of interest to compare these experimental results with a
calculation made in 1873, before any knowledge of these facts had
been made public.
    Professor Clerk Maxwell, in his 'Electricity and Magnetism,'
vol. ii. p. 391, writes as follows : " The mean energy in one cubic
foot of sunlight is about 0 - 0000000882 of a foot-pound, and the mean
pressure on a square foot is 0 - 0000000882 of a pound weight. A flat
body exposed to sunlight would experience this pressure on its
illuminated side only, and would therefore be repelled from the side
on which the light falls."
    Calculated out, this gives the pressure of sunlight equal to about
2^ lb. per square mile. Between the 2J- lb. deduced from calculation
and the 57 tons obtained from experiment the difference is great ; but
not greater than is often the case between theory and experiment.
    In conclusion, I beg to call especial attention to one not unim
portant lesson which may be gathered from this discovery. It will
be at once seen that the whole springs from the investigation of an
anomaly. Such a result is by no means singular. Anomalies may
be regarded as the finger-posts along the high road of research, point
ing to the bye-ways which lead to further discoveries. As scientific
men are well aware, our way of accounting for any given phenomenon
is not always perfect. Some point is perhaps taken for granted, some
peculiar circumstance is overlooked. Or else our explanation agrees
with the facts not perfectly, but merely in an approximate manner,
leaving a something still to be accounted for. Now these residual
phenomena, these very anomalies, may become the guides to new and
important revelations.
    In the course of my research anomalies have sprung up in every
direction. I have felt like a traveller navigating some mighty river

1876.]             on the Mechanical Action of Light.               67
in an unexplored continent. I have seen to the right and the left
other channels opening ont, all claiming investigation, and promising
rich rewards of discovery for the explorer who shall trace them to
their source. Time has not allowed me to undertake the whole of a
task so vast and so manifold. I have felt compelled to follow out, as
far as lay in my power, my original idea, passing over reluctantly the
collateral questions springing up on either hand. To these I must
now invite the attention of my fellow-workers in Science. There is
ample room for many inquirers.
    Nor must we forget that the more rigidly we scrutinize our
received theories, our routine explanations and interpretations of
nature, and the more frankly we admit their shortcomings, the greater
will be our ultimate reward. In the practical world, fortunes have
been realized from the careful examination of what has been ignorantly
thrown aside as refuse ; no less, in the sphere of Science, are repu
tations to be made by the patient investigation of anomalies.
                                                            [W. C]

 68                       Dr. 0. William Siemena                 [Feb. 18,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 18, 1876.
        George Busk, Esq. F.R.8. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
            C. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                     The Action of Light on Selenium.
 When, upon former occasions, I have ventured upon this arena, it has
 been for the purpose of placing before you the results of inquiries of
 my own into special subjects, which circumstance gave me some title
 to your indulgence.
     This evening I cannot claim the same advantage, because the
 subject matter which I am about to bring before you is almost entirely
 the result of the investigations of others, and especially of my brother,
 Dr. Werner Siemens, who has not the opportunity of addressing you
 himself.
     It is, however, a matter of undoubted interest, and in mention
ing some time ago the result of my brother's investigations to my
friend Dr. Tyndall, I did so in the hope that he might feel disposed
to deal with this subject in his own masterly fashion, and that I
should thus procure for the members of the Royal Institution an
evening both pleasant and instructive. I did not succeed, however, in
obtaining for them such a treat, and it has become my duty to grapple
personally with this subject, for which I possess no other qualifica
tion than a somewhat intimate acquaintance with a kindred subject,
that of the influence of heat upon metallic conductors, on which I had
the honour of addressing you a few years ago.
     Amongst the powers of nature, light seems to be the one which
enters least into the composition of matter. The beam of light falling
upon the landscape, or upon a work of art, reveals instantly its form
to our minds, but with the disappearance of the light its effects seem
to vanish entirely : the landscape and the work of art still remain
the same, and may be brought back again to our ocular perception,
accompanied by all the beautifying effects of light and shade and
colour, and yet there seems to be no permanent effect produced in the
material condition of the objects before us. Shall we wonder, then,
that the true nature of light has remained a mystery more pro
found than that of the other forces in nature, and that Newton himself
exclaimed, in desponding mood, tbe memorable words, "Nil luce
obscurius."
    How well does this modest exclamation sit upon the brow of

1876.]              on the Action of Light on Selenium.               69
him who has done more to explain the mysteries of light than all
other philosophers both before and after his time ; and how strangely
does it contrast with the self-assurance of his antagonists and critics,
amongst whom I cannot refrain from citing Goethe, who, himself a
moral philosopher, poet, and reader of the human soul of prodigious
power, had taken up a branch of science as a pastime, and was evi
dently prouder of his misconceptions regarding the nature of light
than he was of his ' Faust ' or ' Wilhelm Meister.' In his ' Farben-
lehre ' occurs the following allusion to Newton's exclamation before
quoted:
                       " Es sprach ein grosser Physicus
                            Mit seinen Schulverwandten,
                         ' Nil luce obscurius ! '
                            Ja wohl fur Obsouranten."
     While Newton laid down incontrovertible principles regarding
the nature of light, it has been reserved for physicists of recent times
to prove the effects of light upon solids. One of the most beautiful
illustrations of the permanent effects of light upon matter is furnished
us through photography ; here the ray of light causes the decom
position of compounds of silver in a degree beautifully varying with
its intensity.
     Aiigther effect of light upon solids is rendered visible by phos
phorescent salts, which when acted upon by light continue to glow in
various colours for a length of time when taken into a dark room, and
I am enabled by the kindness of Mr. Warren De la Rue to show a
beautiful series of tubes illustrating this effect.
     If anyone required proof that light was a moving force, I would
refer him to the discourse delivered in this very place a week ago,
when Mr. Crookes gave motion to his radiometer by means of rays of
light. But I would go a step farther, and say that light is perhaps
the most potential force in nature, because it covers the earth with
trees and vegetation of all kinds. It is true that the mushroom
thrives in what appears to us utter darkness ; and within the last few
days Dr. Higgs has called my attention to a fungus which grows in
the deep recesses of the Derbyshire caves, where it lives without the
help of light ; but an analysis of this fungus shows that it contains
no woody fibre or solid carbon, and so helps to favour the hypo
 thesis that it it not heat but the ray of ligM which breaks up carbonic
acid in the leaves of plants in order to separate the carbon. Carbonic
acid can indeed be broken up by heat; but it has been shown by
 Bunsen and De Ville that a temperature of 2500° C. is necessary for
its accomplishment —a degree of heat which would at once destroy
all vegetable organization.
     Different from these effects of light upon solids is that which
forms the subject matter of my discourse, viz. the effect of light upon
 selenium.
     Selenium is an elementary body, which was discovered by Berzelius
 in 1817 in the residues resulting from the distillation of iron pyrites.

   70                         Dr. C. William Siemens                      [Feb. 18,
   It is fusible, combustible, and similar in many other respects to
  sulphur, phosphorus, and tellurium. It is in fact one of those
  substances which are placed by chemists upon the border between
  metals and metalloids, and, like a true borderer, selenium refuses to
  be amenable to the laws governing either of these natural groups.
  If melted (at 217°) and cooled rapidly, it presents a brown amorphous
  mass of conchoidal fracture, which like sulphur and phosphorus is
  a non-conductor of electricity. But if a stick of this amorphous
  selenium is exposed for some time to the heat of boiling water, a
  structural change becomes observable : it assumes a crystalline frac
  ture, and when again inserted in the galvanic circuit it is found to be
  a conductor of electricity. Professor Adams has shown recently that
  its conductivity is different when tho current passes through in one
  direction or the other, and it may here also be observed that its
  conductivity in this form is still very slight, so that a powerful
  battery and a delicate galvanometer are necessary to show the effect.
  The same observer has also found, that, contrary to what takes place
 in metallic conductors, the conductivity of this substance increases
 with tho power of the battery employed, a circumstance which makes
 it inapplicable as a substitute for resistance coils in the Wheatstone
 bridgo arrangement.
      On the 12th February, 1873, the Society of Telegraph Engineers
 received a communication from one of its members (Mr. Willoughby
 Smith *) to the effect that a stick of crystalline selenium, such as had
 been used for some time in telegraphy where high electrical resist
 ances were required, offered considerably less resistance to a battery
 current when exposed to light than when kept in the dark. The
statement of this observation, which had first been made by Mr. May,
 Mr. Willoughby Smith's assistant, stationed at Valentia, was received
naturally with some incredulity. Could it be possible that the mere
superficial action of light upon a solid substance could so change
instantaneously its internal condition as to open among its particles
flood-gates for the passage of the electric current, to closo again upon
the removal of the light ? Yet the fact announced by Mr. Willoughby
Smith was soon corroborated, first, by the Earl of Bosse, who proved
clearly that the action was due solely to light, and afterwards by
Lieut. Sale, B.N., whose further researches on this subject are described
in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society,' vol. xxi. p. 283, and in
Poggendorff's 'Annalen,' bd. 150, s. 333.
     Here the matter rested, when within the last twelve months, it
was taken up by two independent inquirers ; one in this country and
the other in Germany ; the one being my friend Professor Adams, of
King's College, who has recently communicated the result of his
researches to the Boyal Society, and the other my brother Dr. Werner
Siemens, who has made communications of his results to the Academy
of Sciences of Berlin. It is interesting to observe the difference of
          * ' Journal of Society of Telegraph Engineers,' vol. ii. p. 81.

1876.]            on the Action of Light on Selenium.                71
methods by which each of these two inquirers arrived at results
agreeing on many points of fact, while they differ in the deductions
drawn from them, and in their application upon other branches of
inquiry. I may here mention that when I expressed my willingness
to bring this subject before the Koyal Institution, I was not aware
that Professor Adams was engaged upon it, and under these circum
stances I may be excused if I dwell principally upon my brother's
experimental researches, with which I am best acquainted, and re
garding which he desires me to acknowledge the valuable assistance
rendered him by Dr. Obach.
    One of my brother's achievements in his recent researches con
sisted in giving to the selenium under observation such a form that
the surface action produced by the light attains its maximum effect,
and that instead of large galvanic batteries and delicate galvanometers
being required to obtain indications, one single Daniell cell and a
galvanometer of ordinary construction suffice to produce decided
results. His sensitive element is composed in the following manner :
Two spirals of thin iron or platinum wire are laid upon a small plate
of mica in such a manner that the two wires run parallel without
touching each other. While in this position a drop of fluid selenium
is made to fall upon the plate, filling the interstices between the
wires, and before the selenium has had time to harden, another thin
plate of mica is pressed down upon it so as to give firmness to the
whole. Instead of spirals of wire, a double grating of wire so
arranged that the zigzags of the one wire do not touch the interlacing
zigzags of the other is sometimes used, and it will be observed that
the size of the whole spirals or gratings hardly exceeds the size of
a threepenny piece. These are shown in Diagram No. 1.
                                 Fig. 1.
    The two protruding ends of the two spirals or gratings serve to
insert this selenium element in a galvanic circuit. I here hold an
element so prepared of amorphous selenium, which I place in a dark
box, and insert in a galvanic circuit comprising a Darnell's cell and

72                       Dr. C. William Siemens                 [Feb. 18,
a delicate galvanometer, the face of which will be thrown upon the
screen through a mirror by means of the electric lamp. In closing
the circuit it will be seen that no deflection of the needle ensues.
We will now admit light upon the selenium disc, and close the cir
cuit, when again no deflection will be observed, showing that the
selenium in its present condition is a non-conductor both in the dark
and under the influence of light. I will now submit a similar disc
of selenium, which has been kept in boiling water for an hour and
gradually cooled, to the same tests as before. In closing the circuit
while the plate is in the dark, a certain deflection of the galvano
meter will be discernible, but I will now open the lid of the box so
as to admit light upon the disc, when on again closing the circuit a
slight deflection of the galvanometer needle will be observed. In
closing the box against the light, this deflection will subside, but
will again be visible the moment the light is readmitted to the box.
Here we have then the extraordinary effect of light upon selenium
clearly illustrated.
    I will now insert into the same circuit another selenium plate
which has been heated up to 210° C, and after having been kept at
that temperature for several hours has been gradually cooled ; it will be
observed that this plate is affected to a greater extent than the former
by the action of light, and other conditions to which I shall presontly
allude prove the selenium heated to a higher temperature to be in
other respects dissimilar to the other two modifications of the same.
                                   Fig, 2.
                                          200 MPS  2AO      280     320*C
    These differences will be best revealed in describing my brother's
experiment. He placed one of his amorphous preparations of selenium
in an air bath heated above the melting point of selenium (to 260° C),
while the connecting wires were inserted in a galvanic circuit con

1876.]            on the Action of Light on Selenium.                     73
siatiug of only one Daniell's element and a delicate reflecting galvano
meter, and every five minutes the temperature and conductivity of the
selenium were noted. The results obtained are shown on the Diagram
No. 2, in which the abscissas represent temperatures, and the ordinates
the conductivity of the selenium while in the dark. It will be observed
that up to the temperature of 80° C. no current passed, that from this
point onward the conductivity of the material rapidly increased until
it attained its maximum at the temperature of 210° C, being nearly
its melting point, after which an equally rapid diminution of con
ductivity commenced, reaching a minimum at the temperature of about
240° C, when the conductivity was only such as could be detected
by a most delicate galvanometer. In continuing to increase the tem
perature of the fluid selenium very gradually but steadily, its conduc
tivity increased again. The dotted line shows the conductivity on
cooling.
                                 Fig. 3.
70C
6O0-
                                         150  100  ISO   iOQ " «50    300°C
                                                            <***- TEMP 5?
                      TEMPERATURE      ___              ^
                                                       60      90
     The curves on Diagram No. 3 give a comparison between
 the effects which actually take place in heating the selenium, and
 what would take place if the selenium did not melt nor undergo
chemical change during heating. In this case the abscissae represent

7-1                         Dr. C. William Siemens                          [Feb. 18,
periods in minutes from the commencement of the plunging of the
selenium into the hot bath, while the ordinates represent conductivity
and temperature respectively, on the curves, as marked. Up to the
temperature of 88° C, the actual and theoretical curve accord exactly,
but from this point onward the temperature of the selenium took the
lead of that shown on the theoretical curve, firstly proving a sponta
neous liberation of heat within the mass, and secondly an absorption
of heat during melting, as indicated by the relative positions of the
curves at the melting point 217° C. The beginning and end of the
two curves correspond exactly.            The theoretical curve is marked
     The interpretation of these experiments, which are of too delicate
and elaborate a nature to be repeated hero, is as follows : Amorphous
selenium retains a very large amount of specific heat, which renders it
a non-conductor of electricity : when heated to 80°, this amorphous
solid mass begins to change its amorphous condition for the crystalline
form, in which form it possesses a greatly reduced amount of specific
heat, giving rise to the increase of temperature beyond that of sur
rounding objects when the change of condition has once set in. If
care is taken to limit the rise of temperature of the selenium to
100° C, and if it is very gradually cooled after having been maintained
for an hour or two at that temperature, a mass is obtained which
conducts electricity to some extent, and which shows increased con
ductivity under the influence of light. But in examining the
conductivity of selenium so prepared at various temperatures below
80°, and without accession of light, it was found that its conductivity
increases with rise of temperature, in which respect it resembles
carbon, sulphide of metals, and generally the electrolytes. This
my brother terms his first modification of selenium. But in extend
ing the heating influence up to 210°, and in maintaining that tempe
rature by means of a bath of paraffin for some hours before gradually
reducing the same, he obtained a second modification of selenium in
which its conductivity increases with fall of temperature, and in which
modification it is thereforo analogous to the metals. This second
modification of selenium is a better conductor of electricity than the
first, and its sensitiveness to light is so great that its conductivity in
sunlight is fifteen times greater than it is in the dark, as will be seen
from the following table, and in Diagram No. 4, in which is given the
effects of different intensities of light on selenium (Modification II.)
obtained at Woolwich on the 14.th February, 1876 :
                                     Relative Conductivities.
                Selenium in                                   Resistance in Ohms.
                                    Deflections.     Ratio.
                                         32            1-        10,070,000
        2. Diffused daylight..   ..     110            34         2,930,000
                                        180            5-6        1,790,000
        4. Sunlight                     470          147             680,000

1876.]            on the Action of Light on Selenium.                  75
Unfortunately, however, this second modification is not so stable as
the first ; when lowered in temperature parts of it change back into
the first or metalloid modification by taking up specific heat, and in
watching this effect a point is discovered at which ratio of increase
of conductivity with fall of temperature changes sign, or where the
electrolyte substance begins to predominate over the metallic selenium.
If cooled down to — 15° ft, the whole of the metallic selenium is
gradually being converted back into the first variety.
                                  Fio. I.
    The physical conclusions here arrived at may be said to be an
extension of Helmholz's theory that the conductivity of metals varies
inversely as the total heat contained in them. Helmholz had only
the sensible heat or temperature (counting from the absolute zero
point) in view, but it has already been shown by Hittorff and Werner
Siemens that it applies in tho case of tin and some other metals also to
specific heat and to the latent heat of fusion. In selenium the specific
heat is an extremely variable quantity, changing in the solid mass at
certain temperatures, and, as is contended, under the influence of light.
    Aided by these experimental researches, my brother arrives at
the conclusion that the influence of light upon selenium may be ex

 76                       Dr. 0. William Siemens                  [Feb. 18,
 plained by a change of its molecular condition near the surface from the
first or electrolyte into the second or metallic modification, or in other
 words by a liberation of specific heat upon the illuminated surface of
 crystalline selenium, which liberated heat is reabsorbed when the
 liberating cause has ceased to act.
     Although further proofs will be required before these views can
 be accepted as being more than a working hypothesis, yet it seems to
 be favoured by several collateral circumstances.
     Foremost among these is the time necessary for the complete dis
 persion of the effects of light, as will be observed by the very gradual
 return of the needle to its zero position ; and another is found in the
 circumstance that the effect of light is greatly diminished by long
 exposure to light, causing a readjustment of specific heat throughout
 the mass, notwithstanding a continuance of the disturbing cause.
 The fatigue of the sensitive plate will also be observed by the gradual
 return of the galvanometer needle toward its zero position when the
 influence of light is allowed to continue.
     This fatigue wears off if the sensitive plate is allowed to rest in
 darkness for several hours, but oven days of such rest is necessary to
restore its full previous degree of sensibility.
     These conclusions differ, however, from those given by Professor
 Adams, and which are as follows :
     1. That the light falling on the selenium causes an electromotive
force in it, in the same direction as the battery current passing
through it, the effect being similar to the effect due to polarization in
an electrolyte, but in the opposite direction.
     2. That the light falling on the selenium causes a change on its
 surface akin to the change which it produces on the surface of a
 phosphorescent body, and that in consequence of this change the
 electric current is enabled to pass more readily over the surface of
 the selenium.
     Time alone can tell which of these conclusions comes nearest to an
 absolute theory.
     To these general results have to be added those regarding the
 rolative influence upon sensitive selenium of different parts of the
 spectrum, and the experiment which I am about to make will show,
 if successful, that the actinic ray exercises no sensible effect, that the
 effect increases as we gradually approach the dark red, and that
 beyond that point the effect again decreases, reaching almost the zero
 in the heat rays.
     The following table shows the influence of the different coloured
 rays of the spectrum of a paraffin lamp produced on selenium of the
 second modification by a prism of bisulphuret of carbon. The fol
lowing are the different deflections of the galvanometer (conduc
tivities) :
                 Dark.     Ultra-violet.    Violet.      Blue.
                 139           139           148         158
               Yellow.         Red.       Ultra-red.
                 178           188           180

1876.]             on the Action of Light on Selenium.                77
    In approaching the sensitive selenium plate with a dark hot
poker, no sensible effect is produced, whereas the same hot poker
when brought near a Crookes' radiometer causes it to revolve with
great energy, showing that latter instrument is much more dependent
upon heat rays than selenium.
     Whenever a new discovery in science has been made, men, who
delight in calling themselves practical, ask immediately, " and what
will be the use of it?" They seem to be insensible to the fact that
all increase of our stock of knowledge is of the greatest practical use,
and that useful application will follow as a matter of course. The
first application of the discovery under consideration which readily
 suggests itself to every mind is that of constructing a selenium
 photometer.
     If the sensitive selenium was constant in its action under the
effect of light, and if temperature did not exercise its influence upon
it, the construction of a selenium photometer would present little
difficulty. Two equal pieces of sensitive selenium would only have
to be exposed, the one to a normal candle and the other to the source
of light to be measured, and the distance of the one light or the other
be so regulated that the two electrical resistances balanced each other
in a Wheatstone bridge arrangement, when the relative distance of
the two lights would signify their relative light intensity.
     All observers agree that the effect of light upon the conductivity
 of selenium varies with the square root of the light intensity. Since
 light itself diminishes in the ratio of the square of the distance, it
follows that the square of the respective distances determines (effects
being equal) the relative intensity of the two lights.
     My brother has constructed a selenium photometer which is not
affected by the changes to which that substance is liable, and which
consists of a single sensitive plate mounted upon a vertical axis, upon
which it can be turned rapidly through a certain angular distance,
limited by stops. When touching the one stop the selenium stands
opposite the normal candle, and when touching the other opposite the
light to be measured, the distance of the former being changed upon
a scale until no effect upon the needle of a galvanometer is produced
in turning the sensitive plate in rapid succession from the one stop to
the other.
    The result of this method is absolute for white light, but for
coloured lights some allowance must bo made for the fact that the
dark-red rays exercise relatively a more powerful influence upon
selenium than upon our retina ; but the difference is not great, and
might be compensated by the introduction of a transparent screen
absorbing a portion of the red rays (a sheet of glass with a green
tinge).
    Before concluding, I wish to introduce to your notice a little
apparatus which I have prepared to illustrate the extraordinary sensi
tiveness of my brother's selenium preparations, and an analogy be
tween its action and that of the retina of our eyo. It consists of a

78    Dr. C. W. Siemens on the Action of Light on Selenium.       [Feb. 18,
hollow ball with two openings opposite to each other, the one opening
being furnished with a lens of 1£ inch diameter, and the other with an
adjustable stopper carrying a sensitive selenium plate, which is con
nected by wires to a galvanometer and one Daniell cell. The lens
is covered by two slides representing eyelids, the ball itself being
the body of the eye, and the sensitive plate occupying the place of the
retina, which it resembles also in size (see Fig. 5). I will now put a
white screen in front of the artificial eye, and throw electric light upon
                                  Fig. 5.
it by means of a reflector. On opening the eyelids, a strong deflection
of the galvanometer will be observed. I will now replace the white
screen by black, when on opening the lids again hardly any movement
of the galvanometer needle will be observed. A blue screen will cause
some deflection, a yellow screen a greater one, whereas the greatest
deflection, short of that produced by the white screen, will be effected
by the red.
    Here we have then an artificial eye which is sensible to light and to

1876.]       The Rev. S. J. Perry on the Transit of Venus.            79
differences of colour, which shows the phenomenon of fatigue if intense
light is allowed to act for a length of time, and from which it recovers
again by repose in keeping the eyelids closed. It would not be diffi
cult to arrange a contact and electromagnet in connection with the
galvanometer in such a manner that a powerful action of light would
cause the automatic closing of the eyelids, and thus imitate the sponta
neous brain action of blinking the eyelids in consequence of a flash of
light. To physiologists this analogy may be suggestive regarding the
important natural functions of the human frame.
                                                           [C. W. S.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 25, 1876.
         Warren De la Bue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Manager,
                               in the Chair.
              The Rev. Stephen Joseph Perry, F.R.S.
                          The Transit of Venus.
The history of the transit of Venus leads us back only a few centuries.
Whilst engaged in the study of planetary laws, Kepler discovered
that both Mercury and Venus might be seen as black spots on the
bright background of the sun in the year 1631, the former in Novem
ber, and the latter in December. Gassondi witnessed this transit of
Mercury, but that of Venus was not seen, as the sun rose in the west
of Europe just after the egress of tbo planet.
    For the transit of a planet it is only necessary that its latitude
should be less than the sun's semidiameter when the planet is in
inferior conjunction, or that the earth and planet should have the
same longitude near a node of the planet's orbit. Now Venus and
the earth perform their sidereal revolution in 224" 701 and 865- 256
days respectively ; hence in 243 years Venus would go round the sun
almost exactly 395 times, the two bodies returning to the same
relative positions. A transit in 1631 must therefore be followed by
another in 1631 -(- 243 = 1874, &c. But the time of thirteen revolu
tions of Venus amounts very nearly to eight years, and Jeremiah
Horrocks found that Venus would only change her latitude by 22'
between the conjunctions eight years apart, and that, as the sun's
diameter is more than 30', Venus might be visible eight years after
1631. Horrocks and Crabtree were the only observers of this transit
of 1639.

80                    The Rev. Stephen Joseph Perry          [Feb. 25,
    Both the above transits occurred near the ascending node, and
243 years later a similar pair must follow at the same node ; but the
orbits of the larger planets being almost circular, half that period
should bring Venus and the earth into similar relative positions at
the opposite, or descending node, and therefore 121 A years after
December, 1639, viz. in June, 1761, another transit might bo expected.
    In 1677 Halley observed a transit of Mercury at St. Helena, and
this observation suggested to his mind the possibility of employing
the transit of Venus as a most accurate means for determining the
exact distance of the sun. A few years later, in a paper read before
the Royal Society, he proposed a method of observation, which still
bears his name. This consists in recording the exact local time of
the ingress and the egress of the planet at two stations, whoso differ
ence of latitude, and position with regard to the earth's axis of
rotation, render the total durations of the transit as unequal as
possible.
    The inapplicability of Halley's method to transits that are too
centrical, caused Delisle to propose another method, which is equally
suited to all transits. His two observers are placed rather east and
west, than north and south, and, as far as rotation and obliquity of
orbit will permit, almost opposite the extremities of that solar
diameter, which passes through the point of contact either at ingress
or egress. The observations required at each station are a single
contact, and a very accurate longitude determination, so as to obtain
the absolute difference of time of contact at the two stations. This
difference should of course be made 'as great as possible, so that any
small error in observed time of contact, or in longitude, may bear the
smallest possible proportion to the whole.
    In June, 1761, the conditions were not favourable for Halley's
method, and Delisle's failed from want of accurate longitudes.
    The transit which followed eight years later was well observed,
and the solar parallax and distance deduced. The observers were
numerous, and the computed values differed considerably. Encke, in
1837, combined the results of various nations, and obtained 8"" 55
as the solar parallax, which makes the sun's distance more than
95,000,000 miles.
    This value was accepted universally as a fair approximation, until
other methods of determining the solar parallax raised a most serious
doubt as to the accuracy of Encke's result. Foucault's determination
of the velocity of light by a revolving mirror, and that of Fizeau by
a rotating wheel, combined with the observed difference in time of
the phenomena of Jupiter's satellites, or with Bradley's constant of
aberration, gave severally 8" "86 and 8" -88 as the solar parallax.
Hansen, from tho lunar inequalities found 8" - 92, and Stone 8" - 85.
Le Vcrrier, from 106 years of meridional transits of Venus, from her
observed latitude in 1761 and 1769, and from an occultation of a star
by Mars, deduced respectively 8" -86, 8" -85, and 8" -87. And finally,
tho discussion of the parallactic displacements of Mars led Sir

  1876.]                  on the Transit of Venus.                     81
 Thomas Maclear, Mr. Stone, and Dr. Winnecke to the values 8" - 90,
 8" - 94, and 8" - 96. The close agreement of these numbers induced
 Mr. Stone to undertake the laborious task of a re-examination of
 Encke's value. The result of his labours, in which great attention
 was paid to the description given by each astronomer of what he
 observed as true contact, changed the solar parallax given by the
 transit of 1769 from 8" "55 to 8"- 91, which is nearly the mean of
 the values found previously by methods differing so completely in
 their nature.
      The sun's distance enters into the computation of the lunar tables,
 and this fact alone makes it a matter of the highest moment for a
 great naval power and a commercial people. Hence early attention
 was drawn to the preparations necessary for the accurate observation
 of the transit of 1874 by the astronomical representative of the
 Admiralty. There were two principal reasons that made it advisable
 to secure stations well suited for Delisle's method. 1. Only two
 observations of contact are required, and therefore, supposing the
 chances of good and of bad weather to be equal, the odds in favour of
 a complete Delislean observation would be as four to one, compared
 with Halley's method. 2. Our transit instruments and altazimuths
 are now so perfectly made that much greater reliance can be placed
 on the accuracy of our longitudes, even where the telegraph is
 wanting, than on our contact observations.
     For ingress the British stations were the Sandwich Islands and
Kerguelen, strengthened by Rodriguez ; and for egress, New Zealand
and Egypt. For Halley's method, Professor Struve combined with
Sir G. Airy ; the Russians occupying the north, and the British the
south at the three Halleyan stations of Kerguelen, New Zealand, and
Rodriguez.
     Besides the indirect methods of observed contacts used in former
transits, the solar parallax can now be found more directly by actual
measures whilst Venus is on the sun, or photographs can be taken
during the transit and measured afterwards. The heliometer, for
actual measurement of greatest and least distance of limbs, seems to
have been used only by the Germans and Russians, and by Lord
Lindsay. The British expeditions were provided with double-image
micrometers for measuring cusps, and diameters, and least distance of
limbs near contact.
     Our photographic preparations owe much to Dr. De la Rue and
to Captain Abney. We adopted the equatorial mounting, with an
image enlarged to four inches, and dry-plate photography, whilst the
Americans preferred a fixed telescope and heliostat, without enlarge
ment by eye-piece ; and the French chose daguerreotype in preference
to photography. An excellent arrangement was devised by Mr.
Christie, for carrying out tho idea of Dr. Janssen, of taking on the
same sensitized plate a succession of photographs, with only second
intervals, of the position of Venus near contact.
     The only spectroscopes taken out for the observation of external
    Vol. VIII. (No. 64.)                                       a

82                  The Bev. Stephen Joseph Perry             [Feb. 25,
contact at ingress were, as far as is known at present, those of Dr.
Janssen, Tacchini, Lord Lindsay, and Captain Tupman, and an
instrument constructed specially for our Kerguelen station by Mr.
Browning.
    The most advantageous moment for taking direct measures with
the heliometer, or for obtaining photographs of Venus on the sun, is
when tho two stations to be compared together are situated on the
same radius of the circular section, at the earth's distance, of the
right cone enveloping the sun and Venus. Mr. Proctor has clearly
pointed out the advantages of this in multiplying the good stations of
observation, though many of the best mid-transit stations are equally
good for Halley's method.
    The activo preparations for the transit of 1874 occupied several
years. Large telescopes had to be collected, and new instruments
devised, before the observatories were constructed, and the observers
trained ; but thanks to the untiring zeal and energy of Sir G. Airy,
Captain Tupman, and the whole Greenwich staff, all was in readiness
by the time appointed for departure. The observers for distant
stations left England in the May and June that preceded the transit.
    The Kerguolen expedition, to which I will now direct special
attention for a short time, left in two detachments, which met at the
Cape, where Commodore Hewett, V.C., and the Admiralty astronomer,
Mr. Stone, did all in their power to assist us. H.M.S. ' Encounter '
and ' Supply ' had been appointed by the Admiralty to take the
astronomers from the Cape to Kerguelen, but an accident had hap
pened to the lifting piece of the screw of the ' Encounter ' during
the Ashantee war, and when this was known in England, H.M.S.
' Volage ' was at once put into commission to replace the ' Encounter.'
We left the Cape of Good Hope in the ' Volage ' and ' Supply ' on
September 18th, passed the Crozets on October 2nd, and came almost
within sight of Kerguelen on tho 6th, when a fearful storm, that
carried away a cutter, and drowned many of our live stock, made it
impossible to advance for nine-and-forty hours. When the wind
abated and the sky cleared, the maps of H.M.S. ' Challenger ' enabled
us to steer straight into Royal Sound without any difficulty. It was
the end of spring, and yet the country was completely covered with
snow. We found two sealing schooners in Royal Sound, waiting for
a favourable wind to take them to Heard Island. Captain Bailey
kindly offered to be our guide, and we soon found a site, which served
excellently for our primary station. The anchorage for our vessels
was perfect, the landing safe, the foundations for our instruments the
solid rock, tho supply of water good, all our huts could be placed
on the same level, and the spot was protected from the N. and W.
gales, without interfering with the horizon. When the heavy work of
draining, landing stores, erecting huts, building piers, and fixing the
instruments, was well advanced at our principal station, we selected
a site for a second observatory, six or seven miles south of the first.
Two observers were placed there with a transit and small altazimuth

 1876.]                   on the Transit of Yenws.                       83
for finding local time and latitude, and with two four-inch telescopes
for observing contacts.
     The Germans and Americans, who at first intended to occupy
Heard Island, were now stationed at Kerguelen ; the latter in Koyal
Sound near the Prince of Wales' Foreland, some 8 miles N.E. of
our first station, and the former at Betsy Cove, 10 miles N. of the
Americans. The Crozets had been also abandoned, and thus a large
cloud over the east end of Kerguelen might destroy at once all the
best Delislean stations for retarded ingress, and the south stations for
Halley's method. I determined therefore, if it was at all advisable, to
attempt the occupation of Heard Island. Lieutenant Coke generously
volunteered to take the observations, and Captain Fairfax prepared the
' Volage ' for the trip, which was likely to be a stormy one. We had
already made every possible inquiry from the sealers, and their reports
were discouraging. Captain Fuller, who is best acquainted with
those seas, we had not as yet met, but we expected to see him about
two weeks before the transit. His account of the island left us finally
no hope of a successful trip, as he told us we should probably have to
wait many days before it would be possible to land at all, and even
then our instruments, chronometers, &c, would have to be conveyed
on shore in the sealing boats through a heavy surf. We were forced,
therefore, however reluctant we might be, to give up Heard Island,
and to occupy instead a third position on Kerguelen. This proved in
the end to be particularly fortunato, as the whole of the transit was
observed at the third station, and we learned afterwards from the
sealers that the sun was not visible on December 8th at Whisky
Bay, the only landing place on Heard Island.
    The early morning of the day of the transit was fine at Kerguelen,
but the sky gradually clouded, which interfered considerably with the
observations. At Station I. Venus was observed until after bisection
at ingress ; a small cloud then covered the sun completely until after
internal contact. Some thirteen photographs, and a few measures of
least distance of limbs, and of diameters, were obtained, and internal
and external contact, as well as bisection, were fairly observed at
egress with the 6- and 4-inch equatorials. At Station II. the sun was
well seen at ingress by both observers, but it was cloudy at egress.
These results, with the success at Station III., were very satisfactory,
considering the reputation for cloud, mist, and high wind enjoyed by
this Land of Desolation.
    The excellent state of the sky, the good definition of the telescope,
and the care taken in the observation, make the time of internal con
tact at ingress, obtained by Lieutenant Corbet, especially reliable.
    Our orders about longitude determinations were very stringent,
and our stay on the island was consequently extended to five months,
although this necessitated an arrangement about half rations. We
obtained for our fundamental longitude nineteen transits of the moon,
ninety double altitudes or azimuths, and one occultation. In the
meantime the different stations in Kerguelen were connected together
      -*                                                     o 2       .

84                    The Rev. Stephen Joseph Perry             [Feb. 25,
by aid of eight special chronometers, and satisfactory gunpowder
signals were made for longitude connections on a central island in
Royal Sound. These, with a run from the Cape to Kerguelen with all
our chronometers, complete the work done to secure satisfactory
longitudes.
     During our stay the naturalist, the Rev. A. E. Eaton, was inde
fatigable in collecting the natural products of the island, and at our
principal station we carried on, simultaneously with the astronomical
work, a very complete series of observations of the elements of the
earth's magnetic force, and readings were taken at all the even hours,
day and night, of the chief meteorological instruments. The men of the
Royal Engineers deserve great credit for the zeal they showed in
willingly undertaking this laborious portion of our routine duties. On
the advice of Captain Nares a number of rabbits and goats were taken
from the Cape and left on the island to propagate. They were doing
well when we left. .
     Two hours after the last observed passage of the moon across the
meridian, our two vessels were already under steam ; H.M.S. ' Supply '
bound for the Cape of Good Hope, and H.M.S. ' Volage' for Ceylon
and Aden, en route for England. Five months on the Island of Deso
lation was a sore trial to many, but the kindness and assistance we
invariably met with from both Captain Fairfax and Captain Inglis,
and from the officers and men, lightened our task very much. Before
reaching tho equator wo passed within 22 miles of the centre of a
cyclone. The ' Volage ' rolled frequently more than 45°, and the sea
poured freely over her hammock nettings, but fortunately we escaped
after two days without loss of life. On our homeward journey we
availed ourselves of the opportunities afforded of collecting data for
the formation of magnetic charts of the declination, dip, and intensity.
     With the sole exception of New Zealand, where fine weather was
 almost a certainty at that season of the year, the observers at the
 remaining British stations were favoured with excellent weather, and
the harvest is proportionately abundant. India was equally successful ;
and the official astronomers at Melbourne and Sydney can show much
 that will lessen our disappointment at the failure in New Zealand.
 But England did not depend solely on her Government expeditions, or
on those of her colonies for her share in the work of the late transit.
 Many private observers, as Mr. Tebbutt and Mr. Hennessy in Aus
 tralia and India, Admiral Ommanney and Colonel Campbell in
 Egypt, and others, added their valuable results to those accumulated
 by official astronomers ; but no expedition was more perfectly equipped,
 or more ably manned, than that which rounded the Cape in the yacht
 ' Venus,' and we have very great reason to regret that sickness, caused
 by this journey to Mauritius, has prevented Lord Lindsay from giving
 us himself a full account of the noble part he took in the transit of
 1874.
     Unfortunately the very limited time at our disposal will only
 allow us to do scanty justico to the triumphs of other nations, but we

1876.]                    on the Transit of Venus.                       85
must at least cast a rapid glance at their successes. Russia, with her
thirty-two stations, succeeded perfectly at five, partially at eight, and
most unfortunately failed wholly at nineteen. Trance had admirable
good fortune at S. Paul's, Nangasaki, and Pekin, but envious clouds
interfered wholly at Campbell Island, and partially at Caledonia
Island. America was less fortunate in the south than in the north ;
her best results are chiefly photographic. Germany obtained excellent
observations with heliometer and photoheliograph ; and Italy, Hol
land, and Austria added their quota to the total results.
    Preparations conducted by such men as Airy and Struve, Puiseux,
Auwers, and Newcombe, could not fail of securing the happiest
results, when favoured by the fine weather which has fortunately pre
vailed. But it will be only when the longitudes have been computed,
the photographs measured, and the contacts discussed, that we can
with any confidence compare the results obtained by Halley and
Delisle, by photograph and daguerreotype, by fixed and by movable
telescope, by spectroscope and telescope, by indirect and by direct
methods ; or be able to 6ay to what degree of approximation we have
now attained.
    But there are many things that we have already learnt from the
late observations that are both interesting in themselves, and that
will lead to more accurate results in the approaching transit of
1882. The aqueous vapour in the ring round Venus, discovered
by Tacchini ; the difference between photographic and eye contact,
proved by Janssen ; the possibility of seeing Venus on the chromo
sphere, before external contact, without the aid of the spectroscope, also
verified by the same astronomer; the absence of ellipticity in the
planet ; are all useful and instructive additions to our previous
knowledge. The difficulty about the ligament and the deformation
of Venus, which so much troubled observers of the last century, has
almost vanished, and we now find this messenger of darkness
replaced by a messenger of light, a bright ring, which threatens to be
nearly as troublesome as its predecessor. But difficulties are rarely
invincible when we see clearly what wo have to meet, and we may
confidently expect that the observations of 1874 will not only furnish
a close approximation to the solar parallax, but will also, by the
lessons it affords, lead to a still closer approximation in 1882.
    In this necessarily rapid sketch of what is already known of the
observations made on the 8th of December, 1874, many names have
doubtless been omitted which might have been mentioned, and full
weight could scarcely have been given to many important results
touched upon so cursorily. It is hoped, however, that no one will be
led to conclude that this arises from any want of a due appreciation
of the value of his labours in this field of science.
                                                              [8. J. P.]

86                      Professor Odling on the              [March 3,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 3, 1876.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.8. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
               Professor Odling, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I.
                    The Paraffins and their Alcohols.
                    I. Hydrocarrons in General.
Olefiant gas, turpentine spirit, and the beautiful crystalline body
naphthalene are familiar examples occurring in tho gaseous, liquid,
and solid states respectively, of a particular class of combustible
substances ; and although usually burning imperfectly, that is with
a smoky flume, they arc alike capable of complete combustion, that is
of complete oxidation, by the oxygen of the air.
    Instead, however, of burning these substances directly in the air,
metallic copper may first be burnt or oxidized in the air, and the
combustible substance be then heated with the resulting oxide of
copper. In this way, the previously burnt copper becomes unburnt,
and the combustible substance completely burnt by the oxygen which
it acquires from the oxidized copper,—this oxygen having been origi
nally acquired by the copper from the air in the process of its own
oxidation or burning.
     Pure hydrogen by being burnt in the air or with oxide of copper
furnishes only water, and pure carbon by being completely burnt in
the air or with oxide of copper furnishes only carbonic acid,— wator
and carbonic acid being tho burnt or fully oxidized forms of hydrogen
 and of carbon respectively.
     Now olefiant gas, turpentine spirit, and solid naphthalene aro
 alike shown to be constituted of hydrogen and carbon by the circum
 stance of their alike yielding as products of their burning, water or
 burnt hydrogen and carbonic acid or burnt carbon.
     That they have no other constituents than hydrogen and carbon
 is shown negatively, by the impossibility of recognizing in them the
 presence of any other constituent ; and positively, by weighing the
 amounts of water and carbonic acid produced by their burning,—a
 process of great ease and exactitude when their burning is effected
 by means of oxide of copper.
     For instanco, from a gramme of any one of these substances, burnt
 with oxide of copper, there are produced a weight of water correspond
 ing to a certain quantity of hydrogen and a weight of carbonic acid
 corresponding to a certain quantity of carbon,—these quantities of

1876.]                 Paraffins and their Alcohols.                    87
hydrogen and carbon taken together amounting to exactly one
gramme.
    Accordingly, olefiant gas, turpentine, and naphthalene, belong
alike to the class of hydrocarbons,—that is, of compounds constituted
solely of carbon and hydrogen.
    Now while chemists are acquainted with only two compounds of
hydrogen and oxygen with each other—namely, water and peroxide
of hydrogen ; and with only two compounds of carbon and oxygen
with each other, namely, half burnt carbon or carbonous oxide, and
fully burnt carbon or carbonic acid gas,—the known compounds of
carbon and hydrogen with each other may be counted by hundreds.
    These hundreds of hydrocarbons differ much from one another in
many ways; and especially in their behaviour when submitted to
active chemical agents. With the majority of hydrocarbons, exposed
under suitable conditions to the action of chlorine for instance, chlorine
is absorbed and a compound of the original hydrocarbon with
chlorine obtained.
    Thus in the special case of olefiant gas, the compound so obtained
is an oily liquid, which may not only be shown by analysis to have
the composition of olefiant gas plus chlorine, but which, when heated
with metallic magnesium for instance, breaks up into its constituent
olefiant gas and chlorine—the latter appearing in this case as chloride
of magnesium, a compound producible directly by heating the metal
in chlorine gas.
    And the majority of known hydrocarbons agree with olefiant gas
in this respect, namely, that they have the property of uniting
directly with chlorine and its analogues ; with the compounds formed
by the union of chlorine and its analogues with hydrogen ; and even,
in many cases, under suitable conditions, with hydrogen itself.
    The combination of these hydrocarbons with hydrogen is, however,
usually effected indirectly. Olefiant gas, for instance, is first combined
with chlorine Cl2, or hydriodic acid HI, and the halogen of the
resulting compound then simultaneously withdrawn and replaced by
hydrogen, acting in the nascent state.
                       II. Paraffins in Grneral.
    But certain hydrocarbons are distinguished from the generality
by being altogether devoid of this property of entering into combina
tion ; and inasmuch as they are further very difficultly attackable in
any way by chemical agents, they are called paraffins, or bodies
deficient in chemical activity.
    Hydrocarbons of this inactive chemical habit are some of them
solid, some of them liquid, whether spirituous or oily, and some of
them gaseous. The best known of the gaseous paraffins is marsh-gas,
—the inflammable gas of coal-mines, and most abundant constituent of
ordinary coal-gas. Of the liquid paraffins, the most dense varieties
are used as lubricating oils ; the intermediate varieties as burning oils,

 88                       Professor Odling on the               [March 3,
their use in this way being nnattended with danger or even offensive
 smell ; while the lightest and most volatile varieties constitute benzo-
 line, a liquid of many uses in the arts, but exceedingly dangerous
 as a fuel for lamps. The solid paraffins including the curious min
 eral ozokerite are, as is well known, used largely in the manufacture
 of candles.
     Now it is found by analysis that the proportion by weight of con
 stituent hydrogen in the paraffins, solid, liquid, and gaseous, is larger
 than the proportion by weight of hydrogen met with in hydrocarbons
 of any other class ; and that it varies from 14 '5 per cent, in the most
dense solid to 25-0 per cent, in the lightest gas, the proportion
increasing regularly with the volatility of the paraffin.
     Moreover hydrocarbons, not belonging to the paraffin class, become
 converted into paraffins by their direct or indirect fixation of addi
 tional hydrogen. Thus the compound formed by adding hydrogen to
 defiant gas, in exchange for the iodine of the hydriodido of olefiant
 gas, constitutes the paraffin known as ethane.
     The paraffins being then the most highly hydrogenized of hydro
carbons, and the halogens and halogen acids when got to combine
with certain other hydrocarbons, occupying but the place of the exces
sive hydrogen of corresponding paraffins, the inability of the paraffins
to enter into combination with hydrogen or its representatives would
appear to dopend upon their being already saturated with hydrogen ;
and accordingly they are often spoken of as saturated hydrocarbons.
     A very simple relationship, in respect of composition, is found to
subsist between the different paraffins one with another. In each and
all of them, gaseous, liquid, or solid, the number of their proportions
of hydrogen is found to exceed by two proportions, twice the number
of their proportions of carbon ; or they are each and all of them expres
sible by the general formula CnHm+2 •
     Two liquid paraffins, for instance, met with in benzoline or
paraffin-spirit, boiling the one at 99°, the other at 124°, have received
the names of hoptane and octane, and are expressed by the formulae
C7H16, and C8H18 respectively; not, however, as a mere result of
analysis, which indeed shows very little difference between them—
the one consisting of 84 per cent, carbon and 16 per cent, hydrogen,
the other of 84 - 2 per cent, carbon and 15 "8 per cent, hydrogen.
     The mode, however, in which the above and similar formulas are
arrived at is very simple. If chloroform or prussic acid, for example,
be converted into vapour, it is found that the volume of vapour
(reduced to standard temperature and pressure) which contains one
gramme by weight of hydrogen, is 22-4 litres ; and, further, that this
same volume contains also twelve grammes by weight of carbon.
     And taking the vapours of a variety of hydrogen compounds,
whether or not carbonous also, it is found that 22 - 4 litres of such a
vapour always contain, within the limits of experimental error, either
one gramme or two, three, four, five, or six, &c, &c., grammes of
hydrogen. Similarly, taking the vapours of a variety of carbon com

1876.]                   Paraffins and their Alcohols.                   89
pounds, whether or not hydrogenous also, it is found, even more
exactly, that 22 - 4 litres of such a vapour contain either twelve grammes,
or twenty-four, thirty-six, forty-eight, &c, &c, grammes of carbon.
    In the case of heptane C,H16, for instance, it is found that 22-4
litres of its vapour contain sixteen grammes of hydrogen, and eighty-
four grammes of carbon ; or 16 times as much hydrogen and 7 times as
much carbon as are contained in 22"4 litres of the vapour of chloro
form CHC13, or of prussic acid CHN. Whereas in the case of octane
C8H18, 22" 4 litres of its vapour are found to contain eighteen grammes
of hydrogen and ninety-six grammes of carbon, or 18 times as much
hydrogen and 8 times as much carbon as are found in 22 '4 litres of
the vapour of chloroform or prussic acid.
    Moreover, in heptane, it is found possible to form definite new
compounds by replacing its hydrogen in the proportion of one or more
sixteenths of the whole, but not in the proportion of one or more
eighteenths ; whereas, in octane, it is found possible to replace its
hydrogen in the proportion of one or more eighteenths of the whole,
but not in the proportion of one or more sixteenths.
    Again from certain similar derivatives of heptane and octane
respectively, it is possible to remove by one and tho samo process
exactly one-seventh of the entire carbon in the case of heptane
C,H16 , and exactly one-eighth of tho entire carbon in the case of
octane C8H18 ; showing tho carbon of tho two paraffins to be divisible
into sevenths and into eighths respectively.
    Other evidence leading to the same conclusion may be adduced ;
s0 that altogether the synoptic formula, as they are called, of the
different paraffins, are the expressions of well-ascertained facts with
regard to them.
                          III. Isomerio Paraffins.
    But there is something of yet further interest to be mado out with
respect to the paraffins. Thus while the formulas CH4, C2H6, and
C3H8, apply each of them, so far as is known, to a single paraffin
only, the formula C4H10 applies to two distinct compounds, the
formula C6Hi2 to three distinct compounds, the formula C6HU to
five distinct compounds, the formula C,H16 to eight distinct com
pounds, and so on.
     Considering the case of the fourth paraffin more particularly,
there are two perfectly distinct gases, or highly volatile liquids
known, of composition expressible by the formula C4H10 ; the least
volatile of them, or normal butane, boiling at 1° above the freezing
point, and the most volatile, known as isobutane, boiling at 15° below
the freezing point. Yet not only do equal weights of the two bodies
contain oxactly the same weights of hydrogen and of carbon respec
tively, but equal volumes of the vapours of the two bodies also
contain the samo weights of hydrogen and of carbon respectively.
Moreover, the hydrogen of both of them is replaceable in tenths, and
the carbon of both of them in fourths.

90                        Professor Odling on the               [March 8,
     And the similar derivatives, obtainable from the two butanes by
similar processes, present corresponding differences in their proper
ties. Thus the butyric acid obtainable from normal butane is of
sp. gr. 981, boils at 163°, and yields a calcium salt which, crystallizing
with but one proportion of water, is singular in being more soluble in
cold than in hot water; while the butyric acid obtainable from
isobutane by exactly the same process, having the same composition
and expressed by the same formula C4H8O2 , has a sp. gr. 959, boils at
154°, is more readily oxidizable than, though into the same products
as the other acid, and yields a calcium salt crystallizing with five pro
portions of water, less soluble than the other salt and observing the
usual rule of solubility.
     Similarly with regard to pentane, or rather to the pentanes, alike
represented by the formula C6H12. One pentane boils at 38°, another,
known as isopentane, at 30°, and the third, which may be called neo-
pentano, as low as 9 - 5°. The one yields an oily acid boiling at 185°,
the other a like acid boiling at 175°, and the third a like acid boiling
at 161°, all three acids of composition expressible by the same formula
CsH10O2 -
     Two or more bodies, having in this way the same composition and
unit weight, are said to be isomeric ; and this property of isomerism,
manifested to such a degree by bodies of such a simple constitution
as the paraffins, is certainly one of the most noteworthy phenomena
as it is indeed one of the most suggestive problems of modern organic
chemistry. And, passing from the paraffins to hydrocarbons in general,
the numbor of bodies of this class with which the chemist has to deal
is increased probably fourfold by the number of instances of isomerism
met with among them.
                      IV. Paraffins and Alcohols.
     Before considering further the nature of the paraffins, and of the
isomerism manifested by the greater number of them, it is advisable
to examine the relationship subsisting between the paraffins and a
better known and far more active class of bodies, namely, the
alcohols ; and this relationship may well be considered first in the
case of common or ethylic alcohol and its associated paraffin, ethane,
—the paraffin producible by the hydrogenation of olefiant gas, and
one of the few paraffins of which no isomers are known.
     It has been said that the paraffins are not readily acted on by
chemical agents ; still they are attackable by chlorine, and with a
proportionately less degree of difficulty in the case of the simpler
members of the series. Accordingly when ethane C3H6, and chlorine
Cl2, are mixed together, although the paraffin does not combine
directly with the chlorine, it nevertheless reacts with it, and so as to
produce two new bodies, one of which is hydrochlorio acid C1H, and
the other chlorethane C2H6C1,—a kind of ethane in which one pro
portion of hydrogen is replaced by one proportion of chlorine. Or

1876.]                  Paraffins and their Alcohols.                91
the chlorine manifests its great tendency to unite with hydrogen, by
taking some hydrogen away from tho paraffin, subject to the condition
of an equivalent quantity of chlorine filling the place of the hydrogen
so taken away.
     But while chlorine has the property, as illustrated above in the
case of a paraffin, of replacing hydrogen directly, proportion for pro
portion, it can only replace oxygen by an exchange of two proportions
of chlorine for one proportion of oxygen, this exchange being usually
brought about by means of the very active chemical agent known as
perchloride of phosphorus, —an agent which, by acting on a large
number of oxidized organic compounds, takes away their oxygen,
giving up to them an equivalent quantity of its own chlorine in
exchange. Common camphor, for instance, G10H16O", when acted on
by perchloride of phosphorus, exchanges its one proportion of oxygen
for two proportions of chlorine to form the compound C10H16C1, .
     In the case of alcohol, however, C2H6O", the action is somewhat
different. Its one proportion of oxygen is indeed replaced by two
proportions of chlorine, but with formation not of one di-chlorinated
product, but instead, of two mono-chlorinated products, namely,
chlorethane or chlorido of ethyl C2H6C1, and hydrochloric acid C1H, the
 identical products producible from ethane by the action of chlorine.
     Now the substance known as chloride of ethyl or chlorethane,
whether got from ethane or got from alcohol, is one and the same
 body, and convertible alike into either of the above two bodies from
 which it is obtainable. For its reconversion into the paraffin, it
 suffices to treat it with nascent hydrogen ; for its reconversion into
 the alcohol, to heat it under pressure with dilute alkali. The paraffin
 and alcohol then, are mutually transformable through the intervention
 of the chloride producible from either of them.
     The relationships of composition and mutual metamorphosis
 subsisting between the paraffin, chloro-paraffin, and alcohol, are
 precisely the relationships subsisting between hydrogen, hydrochloric
 acid, and water,—the action of chlorine on a unit of hydrogen H2, lead
 ing to the production of two units of hydrogen chloride HC1 . . . C1H,
 and its action on a unit of ethane G2H6 , leading to the production of
 two units of ethyl chloride and hydrogen chloride C2HBC1 . . . C1H,
 jointly. Again, the exchange of chlorine for oxygen in a unit of
 water, H2O or HOH, leading to the production of two units of hydrogen
 chloride, HC1 . . . C1H, its exchange for oxygen in a unit of alcohol,
 C2H6O or C2H6O H leads to the production of two units of ethyl-
 chloride and hydrogen chloride, C2H6C1 . . . C1H, jointly.
      The above kind of relationship subsisting between ethane and
 common alcohol is found to prevail generally,— every paraffin being
 similarly associated with its corresponding alcohol. Thus with
 propane C3H9 , is associated propylic alcohol C3H8O, boiling at 97° ;
 with butane C4H10, butylic alcohol C4H10O, boiling at 116° ; and with
 isobutane C4Hf0, isobutylic alcohol C4H,0O'r, boiling at 109°. With
 pentane C6H13, is associated pentyl alcohol CsH12O, boiling at 137°,

 92                       Professor Odling on the               [March 3,
and with isopentane C6H^3 , isopentyl or amyl alcohol C^H^O^, boiling
at 129°. The alcohol corresponding to neopentane CjHj'., has not
been examined.
                        V. Alcohols in General.
    As regards the sources of the different alcohols, although the chief
product of the alcoholic fermentation is common alcohol, there is
always formed in addition a considerable proportion of isopentyl or
amyl alcohol C6H12O°, which constitutes the chief constituent of
what in English distilleries is called "faints," and in foreign dis
tilleries " fousel oil." The propylic, isobutylic, and even isohexylic
alcohols, C3H8O, C^H^O^, and CaHi^O* respectively, are also met
with, as minor products of fermentation, and are capable of extrac
tion from crude spirit of different kinds. But the greater number of
the alcohols are derived by various processes from other and various
sources, and are procured especially by the metamorphosis of their
corresponding paraffins.
    From the relationship subsisting between the alcohols and
paraffins, it follows that the alcohols are as varied in their obvious
properties as are the paraffins themselves. The simpler alcohols,
typified by common alcohol and wood-spirit, are volatile or spirituous
liquids, freely miscible with water and burning with a non-luminous
flame ; the higher alcohols are oily in appearance, immiscible with
water, have high boiling points, and burn with a luminous and even
smoky flame ; while the yet higher alcohols, as those procurable from
spermaceti, Chinese wax, and beeswax, are fusible, crystallizable, com
bustible solids.
    Unlike the paraffins, however, the alcohols, whether spirituous,
oily, or solid, are readily oxidizable; and in the case of certain
alcohols, which constitute the class of alcohols proper or primary
alcohols, the oxidation takes place in this fashion. The first stage
of the oxidation results in the formation of an aldehyd— a body of
very characteristic properties, differing in composition from the
alcohol yielding it by a loss of two proportions of hydrogen. The
next stage of the oxidation consists in the conversion of the aldehyd
into a volatile acid, by the gain of one proportion of oxygen ; while
any further oxidation results in the breaking up of the substance into
two or more carbon compounds.
    Now it is the relationship of the paraffins to this particular variety
of alcohols which has been already illustrated. And so far at least
as the study of this relationship has gone, there would appear to be as
many isomeric primary alcohols as there are isomeric paraffins; and
the nature of the difference between the several isomeric members of
the one class, whatever that may be, would appear to be also tho
nature of the difference between the several isomeric members of
the other class,—the mutual convertibility of the paraffin and its
alcohol not throwing any light upon the question.

1876.]                 Paraffins and their Alcohola.                  93
               VI. Secondary and Tertiary Alcohols.
    But the majority of the paraffins are found to bo associated each
one of them not only with an alcohol of the above-d escribed
character, that is to say a primary alcohol, but also, and by a very
similar mode of metamorphosis, with an isomeric alcohol of a different
character, either of the class known as secondary or of the class
known as tertiary alcohols; while in many instances, the paraf
fins are associated similarly not only with either a secondary or
a tertiary alcohol, but with both a secondary and a tertiary alcohol,
in addition to a primary alcohol. In other words, some paraffins are
associated each with a primary alcohol only, others with a primary
and secondary, others with a primary and tertiary, others with a
primary, secondary, and tertiary alcohol.
    Now the secondary and tertiary alcohols are distinguished from
the primary alcohols, or alcohols proper, with which they are respec
tively isomeric, by a difference in boiling point, and more especially
by a difference in the manner of their oxidation. The first stage of
the oxidation of secondary alcohols, also called pseudo-alcohols or
pseudols, as of the primary alcohols, consists in their deprivation of
two proportions of hydrogen ; but the products have no longer the
characters of bodies belonging to the class of aldehyds, but of bodies
belonging to a differently characterized class, that of the ketones.
These ketones differ especially from the aldehyds in that they do not
undergo any stage of oxidation corresponding to that by which the
aldehyds are converted into acids, but undergo a further disruptive
oxidation only. The tertiary alcohols, or carbinols proper, do not
undergo even the stage of oxidation corresponding to that by which
the primary and secondary alcohols are converted into aldehyds and
ketones respectively, but suffer a disruptive oxidation only.
    Now when ethane is acted upon by chlorine it yields only one
monochlor-ethane of boiling point 12 '5°, and corresponding to pri
mary ethylic alcohol of boiling point 78 - 4°, which is indeed the only
2-carbon alcohol known. But propane, under different modes of treat
ment, is capable of yielding two distinct monochlorides C3H,C1, the
one boiling at 46 - 5°, and corresponding to primary propylic alcohol
boiling at 98°, and the other boiling at 37°, and corresponding to
pseudo-propylic alcohol boiling at 83°. Similarly butane and pentane
each yield two monochlorides,—each a monochloride corresponding to
primary butyl and primary pentyl alcohol, boiling at 116° and 137°
respectively, and each a monochloride corresponding to pseudo-butyl
alcohol and pseudo-pentyl alcohol, boiling at 99° and 119° respectively.
    Corresponding, moreover, to isobutane, there is a primary alcohol
—isobutyl alcohol, boiling at 109°, and yielding by oxidation
isobutyraldehyd and isobutyric acid successively. There is not
known, however, any isobutyl pseudo-alcohol yielding by oxidation a
ketone, but instead a tertiary alcohol boiling at 82°, and susceptible

 91                        Professor Odling on the              [March 3,
of a disruptive oxidation only. While corresponding to isopentane
is a primary alcohol, isopentyl or amyl alcohol, boiling at 129°, and
yielding by oxidation yaleraldehyd and valeric acid successively ;
also isopentyl pseudo-alcohol boiling at 107°, and yielding by oxida
tion isopentyl ketone ; and lastly, isopentyl tertiary alcohol, boiling at
98°, and inoxidizable save into simpler carbon products. This series
of relationships is illustrated in the following table.
                                  TABLE L
      H,           Hydrogen.               Water.               H,0.
    CH4            Methane                Metliylic           CH.O
    C.H.           Ethane                 Ethylio             C,H,0
                                          Propylic            C.H.0
    C.H.
                                          Paeudo-propylic
                                          Butylic             C.H..0
                                          Pseudo-butylic
    C,H„
                                          Isobutylio
                                          Katabutylic
                                          Pentylio            C,H„0
                                          Pscudo-pentylic
    C,H„                                  Amylic
                   Isopentane             Pseud-amylic
                                          Kat-amylic
                 , Neopcntane                  ?
    C.H..          Hoxanes                Hcxylic             c.huo
    C,H„           Heptanes               Heptylic            C,H,.0
    C.H„           Octanes                Octylic             0,H„0
                   Cetnne                 Cetylio             C„HmO
    C,7HM          Cerone                 Cerylio             C„HmO
    CMH„           Melane                 Melylic             C*H„0
    CftHfct + a    Paraffin               Alcohol             CH».+rf)
     Of associated 2-carbon compounds then, there is only one
paraffin and one alcohol known. Of tho 3-carbon compounds, there
is only one paraffin, but there aro two alcohols ; while of 4-carbon
compound* there are two paraffins and four alcohols. Of 5-carbon
oompounds there aro three paraffins known, corresponding alike to

1876.]                  Paraffins and their Alcohols.                  95
the formula C6H12 ; and there exist probably eight alcohols, four
primary, three secondary, and one tertiary, corresponding alike to the
formula C6H12O ; but of these last, two primary, two secondary, and
one tertiary alcohol are alone satisfactorily made out. While of
6-carbon compounds, there are probably five paraffins corresponding
to the formula C, II , 4 , and no fewer than sixteen alcohols correspond
ing alike to the formula C6H14O.
                         VII. Paraffin Oxidatign.
     What then is the nature of the difference between primary,
secondary, and tertiary paraffin alcohols? How comes it that, being
three, there should be no more than three classes of these alcohols ?
How comes it that while every paraffin yields a primary alcohol, and
some paraffins more than one, certain paraffins should yield a primary
alcohol only, other paraffins should yield each a secondary alcohol in
addition, yet others a tertiary alcohol, and yet others both secondary
and tertiary alcohols ? And what bearing, if any, has this property of
yielding alcohols of different kinds upon the nature and origin of the
isomerism manifested by the paraffins furnishing them respectively ?
     Some light may be thrown on these associated questions, by con
sidering the course of oxidation in the case of the simplest paraffin,
namely, marsh-gas. Methane, or marsh-gas, CH4, like the other
paraffins, is not readily susceptible of direct oxidation ; but by acting
on it with chlorine under suitable conditions, there is produced the
 chloro-derivative CH3C1, which, decomposed by caustic alkali KHO,
 yields wood-spirit or methyl alcohol CH4O, together with potassium
 chloride KC1. The first stage of the oxidation being thus effected,
 the remaining stages are easy. By exposure of the alcohol to a current
 of heated air it is converted into formic aldehyd CH2O ; this aldehyd,
 by further absorption of oxygen, yields formic acid CH2O2 ; and
 this last is converted by even the feeblest oxygenants into carbon
 dioxide CO2 .
     In the successive formation then of these several products, the first
 stage consists in an addition of oxygen O, the second in an abstraction
 of hydrogen H2 , the third in a further addition of oxygen O, and the
fourth in a further abstraction of hydrogen H2 . There is not a con
 tinuously successive addition of oxygen, or removal of hydrogen, but
a succession of one and the other action alternately. Now among
paraffins in general the stages of oxidation, so far as they extend,
 are the same as in marsh-gas. Thus in the case of primary com
 pounds there occur the three stages of plus oxygen, minus hydrogen,
 and then plus oxygen again ; in the case of secondary compounds
 there occur the two stages of plus oxygen and then minus hydrogen ;
 while in the case of tertiary compounds there is the one stage of plus
 oxygen only, as set forth in the upper part of the following table.

96                       Professor Odling on the               [March 3,
                                 TABLE II.
                          Methyl.       Ethyl.     Propyl."'     Butyl*
   Chloride             CH.C1       C,H,C1       C,H;C1       C.H.C1
  Paraffin              CH,          C2He        C.H,         C4H10
  Alcohol      +0       CH,0         C,H8O       C.H.0        C4H10O
                                                                CarbiDol.
  Aldehyd      - H,     CH,0        C.H^O        C.H.O
                                                    Ketone.
  Acid         +0       CH.O,        C,H,0,
                                      Acid.
  Carboxide    — H,     CO,
  Paraffin              CH4         XCH,         YCH,        ZCH
  Alcohol      +0       CH,(HO)'    XCH,(HO)' YCH(HO)'       ZC(HO)'
  Aldehyd      - H,     CH,0"       XCHO"        YCO"
  Acid         +0       CH(HO)'0" XC(HO)'0"
  Carboxide    — H,     CO,"
     It is observable that in the case of marsh-gas, there arc four
proportions of hydrogen and four stages of oxidation to be dealt with ;
and this association of four stages of oxidation with four proportions
of hydrogen becomes more suggestive when it is found, on further
study, that the four stages of oxidation, though on tho face of thom
alternate, are in reality successive, and consist, not indeed in four
successive additions of oxygen, but in four successive substitutions
of oxygen for the four proportions of hydrogen in marsh-gas,—in a
replacement, that is to say, of the first proportion of hydrogen by
a proportion of oxygen half saturated with hydrogen (HO)', then in
a replacement of two proportions of hydrogen by one proportion of
unsaturated or diad oxygen O", then in a replacement of three pro
portions of hydrogen by one proportion of half-saturated oxygen
(HO)' and one proportion of diad oxygen O", jointly—and lastly in
a replacement of four proportions of hydrogen by two proportions of
diad oxygen O" + O", jointly.
     Now what has been established with regard to the nature of the
successive stages of marsh-gas oxidation has also beon established
with regard to the successive stages, so far as they proceed, of paraffin
oxidation in general. In the indirect oxidation then of a paraffin
into its alcohol, whether primary, secondary, or tertiary, there is an
actual substitution effected for one proportion of hydrogen in the
paraffin. In the further direct oxidation of the primary and secondary
alcohol into aldehyd and ketone respectively, there is an actual
substitution effected for two proportions of hydrogen in the paraffin ;

1876.]                 Paraffins and their Alcohols.                   97
and in the farther direct oxidation of the aldehyd into its acid, there
is an actual substitution effected for three proportions of hydrogen
in the paraffin. But why, in the case of marsh-gas, there should be
four successive substitutions of its four proportions of hydrogen,
while in the case of other paraffins with six, eight, ten, twelve, and
more proportions of hydrogen, the series of substitutions should be
limited to three, two, and even one proportion of hydrogen, still
remains to be accounted for.
    Let it be imagined, however, that in some particular paraffin there
exists the grouping CH as a distinct constituent of the paraffin, and
farther that, by the action of chlorine, it is the hydrogen of this par
ticular grouping that is replaced so as to form the derived grouping
CC1. Let it be imagined that, in another case, there exists the group
ing CH2 , and that, by the action of chlorine, it is the hydrogen of this
grouping that is replaced, so as to form the derived grouping CHC1 ;
and lastly, let it be imagined that, in another case, there exists the
grouping CH3 , and that, in the action of chlorine, it is the hydrogen
of this grouping that is replaced, so as to form the derived grouping
CH2C1,—on the substitution, in these several derived groupings, of their
chlorine by half-saturated oxygen, there will result the oxidized group
ings C (HO), CH(HO), and CH2 (HO) ; and since, in the paraffins, direct
oxidation does not occur save where indirect oxidation has initiated,
it is intelligible that in the case of the grouping CH, the oxidation
or substitution should cease at the indirect or alcoholic stage C(IIO) ;
while in the case of the group CH2 , there should be first the indirect
or alcoholic stage CH (HO), and then the direct or ketonic stage CO" ;
while in the case of the group CH3, there should be first the indirect
or alcoholic stage CH2 (HO)', and then the direct aldehydic and acid
stages, CHO" and C(HO)'O", in succession—as set forth in the lower
part of the preceding table.
                    VIII. Synthesis of Paraffins.
    It remains to be considered whether or not the several dif
ferently oxidizable paraffins are actually constituted of the group
ings CHi, CH2, and CH3. This is a question to be decided more
particularly by a study of their modes of formation—not indeed as
conducted on a large scale in the process of destructive distillation,
but as effected by definite synthetic reactions taken part in, as will
appear, by certain halogen derivatives of the paraffins. Now it is
well known that hydrogen, though in most of its chemical rela
tions a somewhat inactive element, is not inactive in respect to
chlorine and the halogens. Accordingly, when a paraffin such as
ethane C2H6, is acted upon by chlorine, the chlorine takes away
hydrogen from the paraffin to produce hydrochloric acid ; and con
versely, when nascent hydrogen acts on a chloro-paraffin such as
chlorethane C2H6C1, the hydrogen takes away chlorine from the
chloro-paraffin to form hydrochloric acid — the two abstractions of
    Vol. VIII. (No. 64    T

98                         Professor Odling on the           [March 3,
hydrogen and chlorine respectively being alike attended by a sub
stitution of the other element for the one taken away, as already
illustrated.
    Unlike hydrogen, however, chlorine and the halogens are pos
sessed of a very general activity j and accordingly, when substituted
directly or indirectly for the hydrogen of a paraffin, are capable of
being removed, not only by hydrogen but by many of the metals.
But while under certain conditions, so far at least as the final result
is concerned, the metal behaves like hydrogen, abstracting the
halogen and taking its place, under other conditions it effects a
mere removal of the halogen, this removal being attended however
by a phenomenon of a very remarkable kind—namely, the formation
of a new and more complex paraffin, by the combination of two
hydrocarbon residues with each other. Thus when iodethane C2H6I
is acted on by mercury under the influence of sunlight, there is pro
duced not the residue or radical C>H6 , but instead the paraffin,
butane, C4H10. Similarly when iodomethane CH3I is acted on by
sodium, there is produced not the radical CH.t, but instead the
paraffin, ethane, C2H6 ; while when a mixture of iodethane C2H6I,
and iodomethane CH3I, is acted upon by sodium, there is produced
not a mixture of the two radicals C2HB and CH3 , but instead the
paraffin, propane, C, 1 18 , and so in other cases.
    Arguing then from its above mode of formation, ethane is
H3C.CH3 ; iodethane is consequently IH2C.CH3 , or H3C.CH2I ; and
propane, resulting as it does from the reaction between iodethane
IH2C.CH3 and iodomethane CH3I, is H2C,CH3,CH3 . Or, so far as
regards their above mode of formation, both ethane and propane are
really constituted in part by a grouping CH3 ; and, through the inter
vention of a chloro-derivativo of this grouping, CH2C1, should yield
each of them the three successive oxidation products, namely, alcohol,
aldehyd, and acid,— with the formation of which last product the stages
of oxidation should (save by an initiatory substitution of some further
hydrogen by halogen) come to an end, in each instance, as is actually
the fact.
    But while ethane is constituted solely of the group CH3 or H3C,
twice repeated, propane is constituted in part of a grouping H2C or
CH2 ; and through the intervention of a chloro-derivative of this
grouping, C1HC, should yield the series of only two successive oxida-i
tion products, namely, pseudo-alcohol and ketone. What the fact is,
has been already stated, namely, that while ethane furnishes only
one monochloro-derivativo—this monochloride, howsoever produced,
corresponding to an alcohol, oxidizable into an aldehyd and acid
successively—propane is capable of furnishing two distinct monor
chlorides, C4H,C1 and C4H,1tCl, distinguishable from one another by
the difference in their boiling points ; and of these two chloropro-
pancs, the one of highest boiling corresponds to an alcohol oxidizable
into an aldehyd and acid successively, while the one of lowest boiling
point corresponds to a pseudo-alcohol oxidizable into a ketone only.

1876.]                  Paraffins and their Alcohols.                        99
    But not from the above considerations only may the chloride of
higher boiling point be inferred to contain the grouping CH2C1, and
that of lower boiling point, the grouping CHC1 or C1HC ; for the
chloride of higher boiling point is actually producible by the intro
duction and subsequent metamorphosis of the group CN'", while the
chlorido of lower boiling point is similarly producible by the intro
duction and metamorphosis of the group CO", the single proportion
of nitrogen being representative of three, and the single proportion
of oxygen being representative of two proportions of halogen or
hydrogen, as is well known. These relationships are illustrated in
the following formulas :
     H,C.CH„CH,       Propane.           H^).CH„OH,             Propane.
    C1HC.CH„CH,       Chloropropane."'   H,C.CH,C1,CH,          Ohloropropane.
 (HO)HC.CH,,CH,       Propyl-pseudoL     HjC.CH^OHy.CH,        PropyUlcohol.
     0"C.CH„CH,       Acetone.           H,C.CN'",CH,           Propionitrile.
    The reaction between iodomethane and iodethane, with abstrac
tion of their iodine by metal, resulting in the formation of propane
H2C.CH3,CH3, the similar reaction between iodomethane CH3I and
each of the two iodopropanes, H2C.CH2I,CH3 and IHC.CH3,CH3 ,
should furnish the two butanes H?C.CH,.CH3,CH3 and HC.CH3,
CII ,.CII , ; each of them constituted in part by a grouping CH3 , and
capable of furnishing a distinct primary alcohol further oxidizable
into aldehyd and acid ; the former of them also constituted in part
of the grouping H2C, and capable of furnishing also a pseudo-alcohol
oxidizable into a ketone only ; the latter of them not constituted at
all of the grouping H2C, or capable of furnishing a pseudo-alcohol
oxidizable into a ketone, but constituted in part of the grouping HC,
and capable of furnishing a tertiary alcohol oxidizable only into
simpler carbon products,—results which have in each caso been
satisfactorily established by experiment.
   As with propane, so with butane, save that not merely two but
even four isomeric iodobutanes are known, expressible by the follow
ing formulas :
                                                        Butane.
                                                      IsobnUofl.
              3° HC.CH,I,CH„CH,
                                          from   HC.CH„CH„CH,.
              4° IC.CH„CH.CH,
    Accordingly, from the reaction between the first of these and iodo
methane GH3I, there should result normal pentano H2C.CH2.CH2,
CH3,CH3 ; from the reaction between either the second or third iodo-
butane and iodomethane should result one and the same isopentane
 HC.CBL,.OH3,CH3,CH3 ; while from the reaction between the fourth
 iodobutane and iodomethane should result neopeatane C.( 'I I .( ' II ,
                                                                   b 2

100       Professor Odling on the Paraffins and their Alcohols. [March 3,
CH3,CH3 ; all these, or equivalent reactions having been actually
realized with the above results. And isopentane being thus con
stituted in part of the group HC, in part of the group H2C, and in
part of the group H3C or CH3, is accordingly found to yield a
tertiary alcohol inoxidizable save with disruption, a pseudo-alcohol
oxidizable into a ketone, and a primary alcohol oxidizable into an
aldehyd and acid successively. The scheme of the synthetic forma
tion of ethane, propane, the two butanes, and three pentanes, is shown
on the concluding table ; wherein the combinations with one another
of the different groupings taking part in the successive reactions are
indicated by the lateral contiguity of their respective symbols.
                                      TABLE in.
   Iodomethane.              Ethane.
 IH.C + CH.I - I, = H.C.CH,
      Iodethane.            Propane.
    ih,o.Ch,
         + CH.I~I'=H3C{CH,
                                                               Butane,
            lodopropcme H.C/C,^1           + CH.I - I, = H,C/^f«-CH»
                                                                 Pen tan e.
            Todobutane    H,C{C**trOH,I + ^ _ ^ = HiC|CH,.CH,.CH,
    Ipdopropane.*          Isobutane.
     mc{™l -i,=                (CH,
                         HC Ch!
         + CH.I                (oh,
                                                           Jtopentane.
                               ICHJ                          (CH..CH,
            lodisobutane  HC CHt,          + CH.I - I, = HC {CH,
                               |CH.                          (CH,
       Iodisobntane."      Ncopentane
           (CH.                rCH,
        IC|CH,        T  = C Ch.
           (CH. ~ *'            OH,
         + CH.I                ICH,
                                                                  [W. O.]

 1876.]                     General Month!, Meeting.                      101
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, March 6, 1876.
        William Polk, Esq. F.E.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
               Sir Thomas Neville Abdy, Bart.
                Andrew Clark, M.D.
                Miss Annie Frances Cole,
               Theodore Daks, M.D.
               Mrs. Frankland,
               8ir John Hawkshaw, F.B.8. F.G.8.
               William Hugging, Esq. D.CX. F.BJ3.
               Edward Ind, Esq.
                Francis Henry Laking, M.D.
                Henry Mandsley, MD.
               Charles Packe, Esq. F.LJ3.
               Miss Sarah Catherine Prothero,
               Evan Morgan Protheroe, Esq.
               George Thomas Robinson, Esq.
               Miss Sarah Frances Spedding,
               Henry Yates Thompson, Esq.
               Samuel King Wilson, Esq.
               Arthur Bethune Woodd, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Pbesbnts received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members were returned for the same, viz.:
American Academy of Aril and Science*—Complete Works of Count Rumford,
     Vol. IV. 8vo. 1875.
Arnold. That. J. Etq. (the Editor)—The Conspiracy and Protection of Property
     Act, 1875 ; and the Employers and Workmen Act, 1875 ; with the Rules, &c.
     8vo. 1876.
Bishop, P. J. Esq. (the Author)—The Channel Railway : Tube or Tunnel. (K 101)
     8vo. 187ft
Bombay Branch of Royal Asiatic Society—Journal, Vol. XI. 8vo. 1875.
Cernuechi, 11. Etq. (the Author)— Mecanique de l'Echange. 8vo. Paris, 1865.
  Mounaie Bi-mct«llique. 8vo. Paris, 1876.
  Bimetallic Money. 8vo. 1876.
  L'Extreme Orient [M. Cernuschi's Collection of Japanese Art.] 8ro. 1874.
Clinical Society—Transactions. Vols. VII. and VIII. 8vo. 1874-5.
Comitate Geologico d Italia—Bollettini, 1875, Nos. 9, 10. 8vo.
Dublin Society, Royal—Journal, No. 44. 8vo. 1875.
Duret, M. Theodore (the Author)—Voyage en Asie. 12mo. Paris, 1874.

 102                        General Monthly Meeting.                   [March 6,
 Editors—American Journal of Science for Feb., 1876. 8vo.
    Athenaeum for Feb., 1876. 4to.
   Chemical News for Feb., 1876. 4to.
   Electrical News for Feb., 1876.
   Engineer for Feb., 1876. fol.
    Journal for Applied Science for Feb., 1876. fol.
    Nature for Feb., 1876. 4to.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb., 1876. 8vo.
    Telegraph Journal for Feb., 1876. 8vo.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 601, 602. 8vo. 1875-6.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XX. No. 2. 8vo. 1876.
             Edward, Esq. M.D.Journal,
 Geological Society—Quarterly
 Hamilton,                        F.L.S. No. 125.(the8vo.
                                         M.R.I,            1871-3.
                                                       Author)—Catalogue Raisonne¦
      of the Engraved Works of Sir Joshua Reynolds, 1755-1820. 8vo. 1874.
 Eayden, F. V. Esq. V. S. Geologist in Charge — Report of the United States
      Geological Survey of the Territories, Vol. II. Cretaceous Vertebrate : by
      E. D. Cope. 4to. 1875.
 Jablonowski'sche Gesellschaft, Leipzig—Preisschrift, XVIII. 4to. 1875.
Kempe, H. R. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Handbook of Electrical Testing. 16to.
      1876.
Linnean Society—Journal : Zoology, Nos. 60-62. 8vo. 1876.
Macmillan, Messrs.—J. J. Monteiro ; Angola and the River Congo, 2 vols. 12mo.
      1875.
Maitty,  M. E. (the Author)—FnSde¦rio Argelander. (O 16) 16to. 1875.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, New Series, No. 17. 8vo. 1876.
Ferry, The Rev. 8. J. F.R.S. (the Author)—Notes of a Voyage to Kerguelen
      Island to observe the Transit of Venus. (L 16) 8vo. 1876.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 264. 8vo. 1876.
Preussische Ahademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Nov., 1875. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 166. 8vo. 1875-6.
Sandys, R. H. Esq. M.A. (the Author)—In the Beginning. Part 2. 8vo. 1876.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      Feb., 1876. 8vo.

   1876.J    Professor Flower on Extinct Animals of North America.              103
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, March 10, 1876.
          George Both, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                 Profrssor William Henry Flower, F.R.S.
                    The Extinct Animals of North America.
  Few branches of knowledge have received greater accessions daring
  the last few years than that of the past history of the living creatures
  which have peopled the earth.
       I propose this evening to call your attention to some of the results
  that have been achieved, mostly within tho last four or five years, by
  a small but energetic band of explorors upon a limited part of the
  earth's surface ; results the greatness of which already is only
  equalled by the promise they give of future still more important
  extensions of knowledge.
       It is mainly through the agency of the admirably conducted
  geological and geographical surveys of the Western Territories, made
  by the United States Government, under the direction of Dr. F. V.
  Hayden, that the subjects to which I shall refer have been brought
' to light ; surveys which are giving to the world, in an excellent
  series of publications, rich funds of information upon the physical
  geography, mineralogy, geology, palceontology, zoology, and botany of
  that hitherto little known but most remarkable region of the earth
  embracing and bordering the great range of the Rocky Mountains.
  For the special knowledge which we in England possess of the verte
  brate fossils which have been discovered by these surveys, we are
  freatly indebted to the excellent descriptions of Professor Joseph
    ieidy of Philadelphia, who in two large and beautifully illustrated
  volumes * has given the results of his investigations upon them.
  More recently two other naturalists, Professor E. D. Cope of Phila
  delphia, and Professor O. C. Marsh of Yale College, have taken the
  subject in hand, both as explorers and describers.f
      * " Extinct Mammalian Fauna of Daketa and Nebraska, with a Synopsis of
  the Mammalian Remains of North America," ' Journ. Acad. Nat. Science,' Phila
  delphia, 1869 ; and " Contributions to the Extinct Vertebrate Fauna of the
  Western Territories," ' Report of the U. S. Geological Survey of the Territories,'
  Washington, 1873.
     t I am glad to take the opportunity of thanking Professors Hayden, Leidy,
 Marsh, and Cope, for their kindness in sending me copies of all their numerous
  memoirs bearing upon the subject of this discourse.

 104                            Professor Flower                    [March 10,
       It must be premised that the material has come to hand so rapidly
  daring the last three or four years that most of the information which
  has hitherto been given to the world, especially by the two last-named
 palasontologists, is in a very provisional and fragmentary state, and
  that until the flood of new discovery begins to ebb, and the few
  labourers in this plentiful harvest-field have leisure to prepare careful,
  elaborate, and, above all, well-illustrated descriptions of the speci
  mens, we shall remain in much uncertainty about the real nature and
  relations of many of the animals of that strange old fauna, which at
  present are to us little more than names.
       I must presume that you are all familiar with the main epochs
  of timo into which geologists have divided the earth's history.
  For the present purpose we shall only have to refer to the latest of
  these, the Tertiary, representing how many millions of years we
  cannot say, and which, for convenience, is generally subdivided into
  four sub-epochs, the Eocene, the Miocene, the Pliocene, and the Pleis
  tocene, the end of which brings us to the period in which wo now
  dwell. Of course it is not implied by this division that there was
  any sudden break or interruption of the steady course of the .world's
  progress between these periods. They are merely artificial and arbi
  trary, though convenient stages, and pass insensibly one into the
  other ; but without the use of some such terms wo could not fix the
  epoch of any particular event or set of events. In geology we know
  nothing of centuries. We have no kings' reigns, as in political
  history, to mark the course of time, so we speak of " Miocene " much
  in the same vague kind of sense in which we speak of the " Middle
   Ages " in our chronology of the historical events in Europe.
       The first evidence of mammalian remains in strata of Miocene
  age in Western America was that made known in 1846 by Dr. Hiram
  A. Prout, of teeth then supposed to belong to a gigantic species of
  Polceoiherium* and subsequently described by Leidy under the name
  of Titanotkerium. This was the commencement of that interesting
  series of discoveries, which have now made the " Mauvaises Terres,"
  or " Bad Lands " of the White River of Dacota, classical ground to
- the palasontologist. But it was not until 1869 that the older beds on
  the western side of the Rocky Mountains were explored, and the more
  ancient Eocene land fauna of North America brought to light. In
  that year commenced the explorations in the vicinity of Fort Bridger,
  a military post situated in the south-west corner of Wyoming
  Territory, which have yielded such an abundant harvest, and the
  locality of which is thus graphically described by Professor Leidy.t
       " Fort Bridger occupies a situation in the midst of a wide plain,
  at the base of the Uintah Mountains, and at an altitude of nearly
  seven thousand feet above the ocean level. The neighbouring country,
  extending from the Uintah and Wahsatch Mountains on the south
      * ' Am. Journ. of Science and Arts,' 1847, p. 248.
      t ' Extinct Vertebrate Fauna of the Bridger Tertiary Formation of Wyoming
  Territory,' 1873.

1876.]          on the Extinct Animals of North America.             105
and west to tie Wind River Eango on the north-east, at the close of the
Cretaceous epoch, appears to have been occupied by a vast fresh-water
lake. Abundance of evidence is found to prove that the region was
then inhabited by animals as numerous and varied as those of any
other fauna, recent or extinct, in other parts of the world. Then,
too, a rich tropical vegetation covered the country, in strange contrast
to its present almost lifeless and desert condition.
     " The country appears to have undergone slow and gradual eleva
tion ; and the great Uintah bike, as we may designate it, was emptied,
apparently in successive portions, and after long intervals, until
finally it was drained to the bottom. The ancient lake-deposits now
form the basis of the country, and appear as extensive plains, which
have been subjected to a great amount of erosion, resulting in the
production of deep valleys and wide basins, traversed by Green
River and its tributaries, which have their sources in the mountain
boundaries. From the valley of the Green River the flat-topped hills
rise in succession, as a series of broad table-lands or terraces,
extending to the flanks of the surrounding mountains."
     " The fossils which form the subjects of our communication for
the most part were derived from the more superficial deposits of tho
great Uintah basin, which Professor Hayden has distinguished as the
Bridger group of beds. These compose the terraces or table-lands in
the neighbourhood of Fort Bridger, and consist of nearly horizontal
strata of variously coloured indurated clays and sandstones. As the
beds wear, through atmospheric agencies, on the naked declivities of
the flat-topped hills, the fossils become exposed to view, and tumble
down to the base of the hills among the crumbling debris of the
beds."
     The immense length of time that this ancient lake existed may be
inferred from the fact that the mud or sand deposited in it has
accumulated to more than a mile of vertical thickness.
     It is from this and from neighbouring localities systematically
explored only during the last four or five years, both by the Govern
ment surveys and by expeditions organized for the purpose from
Yale College, that most of the remarkable animals attributed to the
Eocene epoch have been obtained ; although still more recently fos-
siliferous beds of the same age have been discovered both in Colorado
and New Mexico, so rich as to give hopes that we are still only on
the threshold of our knowledge of the wonderful fauna of the ancient
American continent. Besides the extensive and older known Miocene
and Pliocene beds between the Rocky Mountains and the Missouri,
others of corresponding age have been discovered west of the Blue
Mountains in Eastern Oregon.
     I must now pass in successive review some of the principal groups
 into which animals have been divided by naturalists, and show what
 is known of their past history on the great North American continent.
 I am aware that the summary I am about to give will bo exceedingly
 imperfect, partly on account of the limited time allowed in one

106                           Professor Flower                     [March 10,
discourse, and partly on account of the difficulty of extracting a
connected account of these discoveries from the exceedingly numerous
notices in which they are described —often fragmentary and dis
connected, and even contradictory, and scattered through a variety
of periodicals and reports. As most of these descriptions are put
forth by their authors as " preliminary," to be superseded by more
elaborate and detailed work hereafter, so must this notice of them be
regarded. It will at least serve the purpose of calling attention to
the importance and interest of this comparatively new field of re
search.
     The first group to which I will direct your attention, as it is that
of the ancient history of which we have more complete knowledge
than of any other, is the large order of Ungulaia, or hoofed animals ;
and first among them I will consider those characterized, among many
other distinctive peculiarities, by the uneven or perissodactyle structure
of the foot,* represented in the actual fauna of the world only by
the three families of Horses, Tapirs, and Rhinoceroses—animals
differing very considerably from each other in general outward
appearance, and yet having many important common characteristics.
     It is well known that in the Old World, species of this group, very
intermediate in characters to those now existing, flourished in the
Eocene age. Cuvier's grand researches in the Paris gypsum beds,
which laid the foundation of the study of mammalian palasontology, re
constructed the form, now almost as well known as that of the existing
tapir, of the Palaxtherium, and numerous allied species have since
been found, not only in France, Switzerland, and Germany, but in
the corresponding beds in our own country. But in America, before
1869, not a single Eocene Perissodactyle had been discovered. In
fact, as just mentioned, no Eocene beds containing the remains of
terrestrial animals had been explored. Since that date, however, it
has been ascertained that the region in which the stupendous moun
tain ranges of western North America have since been elevated were
tenanted by animals of similar form and characters, and quite as
varied in species and as numerous in individuals as those which at a
corresponding period of time ranged through the marshes and forests
of the Paris and London basins.
     None of these appear to be identical specifically with the European
forms, and even the generic indications, being often founded on very
limited portions of tho organization only, as a few teeth, must be
regarded as provisional. Many were undoubtedly quite distinct from
any which we know from the Eastern world. It would be useless here
to give a catalogue of the generic and specific names which have been
given to the animals of this group already discovered. A brief mention
of the most important and interesting will suffice. The two best
known genera aro those named by Leidy Hyrachyus and Palceosyops ;
    * The parts of the foot arranged symmetrically on each side of a line drawn
through the centre of the middle or third toe.

1876.]           on the Extinct Animals of North America.                    107
the former is allied to the Lophiodons and Tapirs,* the latter to the
Palaeotheriums. They both embrace animals in size varying from that
of a small rhinoceros, down to a peccary. The numerous modifica
tions and combinations of characters found in forms apparently allied
to them, which are little known to us at present except by the names
given to them by their discoverers, will doubtless afford for a long time
to come materials for the minutest scrutiny. Some appear to be allied
to the European Lophiodon and Hyracotherium, one of which, Orohippus,
Marsh, seems to connect these forms through Miohippus and Mesohippus
with the horse-like Anchitherium, and thus fill a link wanting in
European formations in the pedigree of the Equine family. This
animal, like so many other of the Eocene Perissodactyles, resembles the
modern tapirs in retaining tho fifth digit on the fore foot, though, as
in all known members of the group, the first was wanting, and both first
and fifth were wanting to the hind foot. Several species are described,
but none larger than a common fox. One form only, Diceratherium,
Marsh, is rhinocerotic. It is found in the uppermost Eocene strata of
Utah, and gives the earliest indication of this group yet known. It
seems, according to Marsh, to be connected with the lower Eocene
Hyrachyus on the one hand, and the Miocene Hyracodon on the other.
     In the Miocene period in North America the Perissodactyles
attained a great development of form, variety, and size, the groups
became more distinctly separated from each other, and some of them
possessed remarkably specialized characters. True Tapirs have not
yet been met with in this period, which is rather remarkable, taken
in conjunction with the present geographical distribution of that
group. The Palasotheroid and Lophiodont forms had nearly, if not
quite, died out, but the moro horse-like Mesohippus, Miohippus, and
Anchitherium were abundant, and appear to continue the line from the
Eocene Orohippus to the true horses of the Pliocene period.
     Rhinocerotic forms now became ascendent, being represented by
Diceratherium, Marsh, differing from all existing animals of the group,
by having a pair of horns placed side by side on the nasal bones ; "f
and a very interesting genus, Hyracodon, Leidy, an animal with molar
teeth and many other of the characters of rhinoceros, but having
no nasal horn, and having a complete set of incisor and canine teeth,
as in all the older Perissodactyles, which are lost in the more modern
Rhinoceros. It is therefore quite a connecting link between the
Pabeotheroid animals of the Eocene, and the true rhinoceros of the
Pliocene, and occupies exactly the right geological horizon that such
    * The teeth resemble those of Lophiodon and Hyracotherium, but the last lower
molar has a bilobate crown, as in Tapirs. The skeleton is very like that of the
Tapirs. See Cope, "On the Osteology of the Extinct Tapiroid Hyrachyus,"
' Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc.,' April 18, 1873.
    t A small European Miocene Rhinoceros (R. minvtus, Cuv., S. pleuroceros,
Duverooy) has a pair, of prominences placed laterally on the nasal bones, which
may have supported horns.

 108                              Professor Flower                        [March 10,
 a form ought to do if the one has been genetically derived from the
 other.
     Hyracodon therefore has a high place of interest among many
 of similar nature which have been revealed by our newly acquired
 knowledge of the ancient American fauna. If, however, as is stated,
 the fifth digit of the fore foot is only rudimentary, it could scarcely
 have been, as remarked by Marsh, on the direct line of descent from
 the four-toed Eocene to the equally four-toed Miocene rhinoceros,
though certainly in such a case we know not what ought to be
allowed for reversion.
     The same period (generally speaking) also produced several
species of a more perfect rhinoceros, still hornless however, and re
sembling the contemporaneous European Aceratherium.
     But the most remarkable of the Miocene Ferissodactyles, and in
some respects the most remarkable of all the animals which the
recent explorations have brought to light, are a number of species of
gigantic size, to the first known of which Leidy gave the name of
 Titanotherium, and of which other forms have been named by Marsh
Brontotherium, and by Cope Bymborodon.*
     They must, by their great size and strength, grotesque appearance,
and general mode of life, have taken the place in the Miocene times
of the then extinct Vintatherium of the Eocene, and were in their
turn replaced by the Mastodons and Elephants of later ages. The
rhinoceros of the present day will servo to give the best general idea
    * The first indication of the existence of these animals is that mentioned
above of tlie supposed Palwotherium teeth from the Mauvaises Terres of Daketa,-
described by Dr. Prout in the ' American Journal of Science and Arts ' for 1847,
p. 248, and afterwards by Leidy, as Titanotherium Prouti (' Ancient Fauna of
Nebraska,' 1853). More complete remains, including the whole upper series of
molars, were described by the same zoologist in ' The Extinct Mammalian Fauna
of Daketa and Nebraska,' 1869. Cope's genus, Symborodon (1873), is differentiated
from Titanotherium by the absence of lower incisors, a character which Marsh
says is "evidently due either to age or imperfect specimens." Marsh, in hia
description of Brontotherium, says, " The only other genus of the group known
with certainty is Titanotherium of Leidy (Menodus, Pomel), which, according to
the descriptions of that author, differed essentially, in having four lower premolars,
and in the absence of a third trochanter on the femur. Less important differences
are seen in the composition of the teeth and in the diastema between the upper
canine and first premolar.'* The last-mentioned character is certainly not one upon
which it is necessary to found a generic distinction (and a generic distinction,
unless necessary, is in my opinion something always to be avoided), and as to those
considered essential, it seems very doubtful if they really exist, as the four inferior
premolars of Leidy's specimen were not present but only " indicated" in an imper
fect fragment (' Extinct Mammalia of Dakota and Nebraska,' p. 212), and there is
no evidence that the portion of femur described without a third trochanter belonged
to the same animal. It is surely safest to assume identity in such cases until the
contrary can be proved, although the opposite rule seems to prevail with the
eminent and industrious American palasontologists to whose labours we are
indebted for all our knowledge of the subjects of this communication. Fomel's
name, Mcnodus ('Bib. Univ. de Geneve,' t. x., 1849), has the priority of Titano
therium, but it has never been adopted, being too closely identical with the still
earlier Mmodon, v. Meyer, to be admissible.

1876.]            on the Extinct Animals of North America.                     109
of the appearance of these creatures, but some of them (for they
seem to have been numerous both in species and individuals)
approached nearer to the elephant in size and length of limb. The
                                                                    2      .1
numbers of their teeth are thus expressed : incisors, - ; canines, - ;
                                                                    Z            1
               4-             3
premolars, - ; molars, 5 ; total, 38. The incisors were very small,
and sometimes deciduous in the lower jaw; the canines of mode
rate size, the premolars and molars more like those of Palceotherium
than rhinoceros. The skull in its general characters was quite
rhinocerotic, but the nasal bones supported a pair of large, laterally
divergent, rugged prominences, apparently for the attachment of
horns. The limbs were intermediate in proportions between those
of the elephant and rhinoceros, but, as in the latter, the femur has a
third trochanter, and a deep pit for the round ligament. The feet
were short and stout, but in essential characters agree with the true
Perissodactyles, and have four toes in front and three behind.
     Numerous species have been described, both by Cope and Marsh,
founded chiefly upon the form and direction of the horn cores on the
nasal bones : they are all from the Miocene beds east of the Bocky
Mountains, in Daketa, Nebraska, Wyoming, and Colorado ; and there
is no evidence of any of the Titanotheridce, as the family should be
called, after the first-characterized genus of the group, having survived
to a later geological epoch.*
     When we pass to the Pliocene and Pleistocene times, the Perisso
 dactyles met with can all be referred to one or other of the three
 existing families ; all the intermediate forms, and all those which
 have attained a different type of specialization, as those last named,
have completely disappeared.
      Remains of several species of Shinocerotidce were very abundant
 during the Pliocene period in western North America ; they all appear
 to belong to the hornless typo, and from causes unknown became
 entirely extinct before the Pleistocene age. No rhinoceros now
 exists on the American continent, nor is there evidence that it ever
 supported animals belonging to the minor groups of the family to
 which the existing Indian, Sumatran or African rhinoceros pertain.
      During this period an immense development took place in the
 various fonns of three-toed horses, Anchippus, Protohippus, Parahippus,
 Hipparion, &c, which replaced the Anchitherium of the Miocene. These
 in their turn, through many well-marked gradational forms (a full
 knowledge of which is among the many interesting results of these
     * See O. C. Marsh, " On the Structure and Affinities of the Brontotherida,"
 ' American Journal of Science and Arts," vol. vii., January 1874 ; E. D. Cope, in
 " Annual Report of the United States Geological and Geographical Survey of the
 Territories, embracing Colorado, for the year 1873," p. 480 et seq. Megacerops
 coloradensis (Leidy, ' Pr. Ac. Nat. Sc.,' Phil., Jan. 1870) was founded oa detached
 nasal bones of a member of this family.

110                               Professor Flower                     [March 10,
explorations), gave way to the true horses, of which remains of several
species have been found in Pleistocene deposits, scattered throughout
almost every region of the continent from Escholtz Bay in the north
to Patagonia in the south. These also became entirely extinct before
Diagram of several stages of modification of tbe feet of extinct forms of American
    horse-like animals (chiefly from Marsh), showing gradual reduction of tho
    outer, and enlargement of the middle toe (III).
      a, Orohippus (Eocene) ; b, Mcsohippus (Miocene) ; c, Miohippus (Miocene) ;
           d, Hippartim or Protohippus (Pliocene) ; e, Equus (Pleistocene).
the discovery of America by the Spaniards—a most remarkable circum
stance, considering tho fitness of the country for their maintenance,
as proved by the facility with which the descendants of horses intro
duced by the European invaders have multiplied in a feral state.*
      On the other hand, of tapirs, fossil remains have been found most
sparingly, though sufficient to show that they had a much wider
geographical range northwards in the Pleistocene period than now,
and yet several species of this genus still linger in the highlands of
Central and South America, the sole direct representatives of the
vast and varied Perissodactyle fauna of the continent in ages long
gone by.
      We may now pass to the remaining great group of hoofed animals,
the even-toed or Artiodactyles,f represented at present by the Pigs,
     * For an outline of the history of the Horse family in America, see O. C.
Marsh, " Notice of New Equine Mammals from the Tertiary Formation," ' Am.
Journ. of Science and Arts,' vol. vii., March 1874; and "Fossil Horses in
America," 'American Naturalist,' vol. viii.. May 1874. Also, E. D, Cope,
" Osteology of Protohippus," in " Beport on the Stratigraphy and Pliocone Ver.
tebrate Palasontology of Northern Colorado," ' Bull. V. 8. Geol. Surv. of the Ter
ritories,' No. 1, 1874 ; and Leidy's memoirs quoted above.
    t Tho parts of the feet are arranged symmetrically on each side of a line
drawn between the third and fourth toes.

1876.]          on the Extinct Animals of North America.            Ill
Hippopotami, Camels, Chevrotains, Deer, Antelopes, Sheep, and
Oxen.
     The remains of this group in the hitherto explored American
Eocenes are verj scanty and unsatisfactory as affording indications of
its early history and development. Not a single specimen has yet been
described which was found in a sufficiently perfect state of preserva
tion to give a tolerably correct idea of its structure and affinities,
and no forms corresponding to the well-established European Ano-
plotherium, Dichodon, Xiphodon, or Ccenotherium, have been found.
Towards the close of the period only (if the age of the Tertiary beds of
Utah are rightly determined) do we find indications of well-defined
crescentic-toothed or Selenodont species (Agriochcerus, Leidy), and
also of tubercular-toothed or Bunodont (Elotherium and Plalygonus)
forms. During the Miocene period, however, Artiodactyles of both
these two main divisions abounded. It will be as well to take each
group separately, and follow its history throughout, from the Miocene
to the present day.
     1. The Bunodonts, or those which inclined most to the pigs in
dental structure. These were in North America, as in Europe, chiefly
represented by animals of the genus Elotherium, huge swine -like
creatures, some of which approached the hippopotamus in size, and also
by an allied four-toed form, Pelonax, Cope, remarkable for its horn
like bony tubercles projecting out on each side from near the front end
of the lower jaw. These became extinct, as in the Old World, before
the close of the Miocene epoch.
     Animals more like true pigs also existed, but all of the peccary
type, the only one which now survives on the American continent. If
the evidence of teeth alone can be trusted, this form, like the tapir
(and the African Hyomoschus), is an unmodified remnant of the old
Miocene fauna. But both at that period and in the Pleistocene,
peccary-like animals existed in greater variety (as in the genus Platy
gonus), and in wider geographical distribution than at present. It is
interesting to note that no remains of true Sus or any of its Old World
modifications, as the wart hog (Phacochcerus), and babirussa, or of any
species of hippopotamus, have hitherto been met with on the American
 continent. And thus the American bunodont Artiodactyles, instead
of undergoing great and diverse modifications, as did the corresponding
animals of the Old World, have been gradually dwindling and contract
ing to the two closely allied species of peccary (Dicotyles tajacu and
 D. labiatus), among the smallest and most insignificant of the whole
 group.
     2. Of the Selenodont or crescentic-toothed Artiodactyles, the
former existence in America of tho long-extinct Old World genus
 Hyopotamus has been recognized by the discovery of a fow teeth in
the lowest Miocene of Daketa, and this is remarkable as the only
recorded instance of an American form with three cusps on one of
the lobes of the upper molars, a very common character among the.
 European Miocene Artiodactyles.

 112                             Professor Flower                [March 10,
     Remains have also been found recently of various small ruminant-
like animals, some not larger than a squirrel in size, to which the
names Leptomeryx, Hypisodus, Hypertragulus, &c, have been applied.
"Whether these belonged to the family of Chevrotains or Tragulidce
(improperly called pigmy musk-deer), or whether, as appears more
probable, they were not rather generalized or ancestral forms of the
true Fecora or Ruminants, is difficult to determine from the present
 evidence.
     Perhaps the most interesting of the American Miocene Artio-
dactyles, on account of their great abundanco both in species and
individuals, the full information which has been collected as to their
structure, and their distinctness from any known forms from any other
part of the world, is a family to which Prof. Leidy applied the term
 Oreodontidce. They played the part in the North American Miocene
fauna which the deer do now in the same country, the antelopes in
Africa, and the sheep in Contral Asia. They were in nearly all points
 of structure intermediate between the ruminants and pigs, and (with
many other Old World forms, however) completely break down the line
of demarcation which our knowledge when limited only to the existing
fauna of the world caused zoologists to draw between those two groups.
     They appear to have survived throughout the whole of the
Miocene period, commencing in the genus called Agriochcerus in the
uppermost Eocene, and ending in the Merychyus of the early Pliocene ;
and it is of great interest to know that a gradual modification can be
traced in the characters of the animals of the group, corresponding
with their chronological position, from the earlier more generalized
to the latest comparatively specialized forms, thus affording one of
the most complete pieces of evidence that is known in favour of a
progressive alteration of form, not only specific, but even of generic
importance, through advancing ages.
    Another group of great interest made its appearance in the
Miocene of North America, and which, if the evidence of fragments
can bo trusted, did not become extinct, like the last, but continuing
to exist through the Pliocene and Pleistocene ages, is still represented
on two distant parts of the earth by the three or four species of llama
of South America, and the two species of camel of the Old World,
The discovery of the early Miocene Poebrotherium and of the Pliocene
Procamelus and Pliauchenia, remains of which, and of Pleistocene
Auchenice of great size, though not generically distinguishable from
the modern llamas, are abundantly distributed over the North
American continent, seem to show that that country was the original
home of the singular family of Camelidce, which was probably intro
 duced by emigration in its perfect condition into the Old World,
where none of the transitional forms from the more generalized
ruminants, like those above mentioned, have been met with.*
   * See Cope " On the Phylogeny of the Camels," * Proc. Acad. Nat. Sciences,
Philadelphia,' Part II., 1875, p. 261.

1876.]          on the Extinct Animals of North America.             113
    On the other hand, of the gigantic four-homed Sivatherium of the
Himalayas, the equally large but hornless Helladotherium of the
Grecian Miocene, or of the giraffes, no representatives have hitherto
been found in America. And very little light has been shed upon
the origin and distribution of the true ruminants by these researches,
except in a negative manner. No deer have been found in the
Miocene (at which epoch they were abundant in Europe) ; in the
Pliocene but a single and poorly developed species; while in the
Pleistocene, with the exception of one large species, called Cervus
Americanos, they scarcely differ from those of the actual fauna. Of the
hollow-horned ruminants, several species of bison, of Ovibos or musk
ox, and a single Ovis, have been described, all from the Pleistocene,
but not a single species of antelope. From these facts it may safely
be inferred that the few existing and Pleistocene hollow-horned rumi
nants are immigrants of recent date from other lands ; and it is even
possible that the deer have been similarly derived, though at a some
what older period, which will account for their being more varied
and wider spread in surface distribution, extending down almost to the
southern extremity of the continent, while the hollow-horned rumi
nants are entirely confined to the north.
    Scarcely any group to which the term " Order " is applied is so
limited in the number of its existing species as that called, from one
of the most striking external characteristics of the animals composing
it, " Proboscidea."     The two species of elephant, that of Asia
and Africa, the largest and in some respects the strangest of all
land animals, are its solo representatives. Between these two animals
and all others now existing, there is a wide gap in numerous essential
structural characters, so that really, in the world as we now see it,
they have no near relatives.
     But this was not always so. Leaving the existing condition of the
earth's surface, and passing back to the last well-marked stage before
our own, the Pleistocene period, we find abundant remains of elephants,
imbedded in alluvial gravels, or secreted in the recesses of caves, into
which they have been washed by streams or floods, or where, in many
cases, they have been dragged in as food by hyasnas or other preda-
 ceous inhabitants of these subterranean dens.
     We find these remains of elephantine animals extensively dis
 tributed over regions of tho earth where no such creatures have
 existed within the memory of man. We find, moreover, that the
 elephants of the Pleistocene period, judging from their bones, and
 especially their teeth, do not in most cases exactly correspond in form
 or size to either of the existing kinds. We certainly find remains un-
 distinguishable from those of the existing African elephant, in the
 north of Africa and southern parts of Europe ; but the majority of
 these remains not only differ among themselves, but differ more or less
from either the African or Indian species, and hence have had many
different appellations bestowed upon them, as belonging to what aro
considered to be different species.
     Vol. VIII. (No. 64.)                                       i

114                          Professor Flower                   [March 10,
    But not only in the Pleistocene period did elephants abound.
Animals which must come within any definition which will include
both Elephas Indicus and Elephas Africanus are also found in the
European Pliocenes ; and even earlier in Asia, the deposits of the
Sivalik Hills, belonging to a transition between the Pliocene and
Miocene age, are rich with the remains of elephants of varied form, in
some cases presenting a considerable departure from our better-known
types. Further back in time, however, we search in vain for true
elephants. In the Miocene period, it is true, many kinds of huge
Proboscideans roamed over the surface of the earth, but these differ
so much from what we now call " elephants," that it becomes neces
sary to distinguish them by another name; and that of Mastodon, first
applied by Cuvier, is generally adopted.
     Mastodons however were, after all, very like elephants, only
being distinguished by some peculiarities of the teeth ; and by means
of intermediate species the two forms pass so gradually into one
another, that it is difficult to say, in the case of some species, with
which group they ought most properly to be classed. One other
form of animal, which can be referred to the order Proboscidea, is
known in the Old World—the Dinotherium, a huge beast, the nature
of which for a long time was very doubtful, having been grouped by
some naturalists with the Manatees, by others even with the Marsu
pials. Its remains have been found, though comparatively rarely, in
Miocene deposits in Germany, France, Greece, Asia Minor, and India.
     Here our knowledge of the history of the order Proboscidea, as
derived from palasontological researches in the Old World, ends. The
Dinotherium being in its teeth and some other respects slightly less
specialized than the other forms, constitutes some kind of an approxi
mation to the Ungulate animals, especially the tapirs ; but the gap to
be bridged over is still very wide; and no remains referable to
animals of the order, or any intermediate forms between this and other
orders, have been found in Old World Eocene deposits.
     Lot us now turn to America. Neither at the present time nor within
the memory of man have any Proboscidean animals existed within the
length or breadth of the whole continent. But at one time, and that, geo
logically speaking, a very recent one, both true elephants and true mas
 todons abounded in North America, and the last-named genus extended
 far into the southern portion of the continent. The elephant, the re
mains of which are most abundant throughout what are now the United
 States, differed but very slightly, if at all, from that which at the same
 period ranged throughout the northern portion of the Old World from
 the British Isles to Alaska. The commonest species of mastodon
 (M. Americanus, or Ohioticus, or giganteus) seems to have survived to a
much later period than any of its European congeners, and even to
have been the last extinct of all the American Proboscideans.
 Remains of other elephants and mastodons, though not differing in
any remarkable degree from well-known European forms, have bee a

 1876.J           on the Extinct Animals of North America.                  115
 found in Pleistocene (and at all events with respect to the last-named
genus) in Pliocene deposits ; but, as far as the evidence is at present
before us, nowhere earlier.
     So far, then, we find that elephants and mastodons, of types quite
resembling those found in the Old World, but in less specific variety,
appeared on the American continent at a later period than in the Old
World (none having been found of undoubted Miocene age), and ulti
mately became completely extinct before the historic period. No
animal corresponding to the Dinotherium has been found. We shall
hardly, then, be prepared to look for primitive types of the race in
earlier American formations.
     Among the most remarkable discoveries of the Eocene formations
of Wyoming, has been that of a group of animals of huge size,
approaching, if not equalling, that of the largest existing elephants,
and presenting a combination of characters quite unlike those known
among either recent or extinct creatures, and of which there were
evidently several species living contemporaneously.* Bones of some
 of these animals were discovered by Professor Marsh and Lieutenant
 Wann of the Tale College exploring party near Sage Creek, Western
 Wyoming, in September 1870, and described by the former in the
 following year,f though provisionally referred to the genus Titano-
 therium. Other remains were discovered and described by Leidy in
 1872 J under the generic name of Vintatherium (from the Uintah
 Mountains, near which they were found). Very shortly afterwards
 other portions of bones and teeth of either the same or closely allied
 forms were described by Marsh as IHnoceras, and by Cope as Loxo-
 lophodon and Eobasileus. Whether these names will ultimately be
 retained for separate generic modifications, or whether they will have
 to be merged into the first, it would be premature to attempt to
 decide upon the evidence before us. Until satisfactory grounds have
 been shown for considering them to be distinct, it will be best to
 speak of them all under the name which has the priority.
     To form some idea of the general appearance of one of these animals,
we must imagine a creature very elephant-like in its general propor
tions, elevated on massive pillar-like limbs, not quite so long certainly
as those of elephants, but with the femur vertically placed, without
third trochanter, and without pit for the round ligament as in those
animals, the radius and ulna complete, and crossing, and the feet
    * See Leidy, ' Extinct Vertebrate Fauna of the Western Territories,' 1873 :
0. C. Marsh, " Principal Characters of the Dinocerata," ' American Journal of
Science and Arts,' vol. xi. February 1876 : E. D. Cope, ' Sixth Annual Report of
the United States Geological Survey of the Territories,' 1873, p. 563 : Idem,
' Systematic Catalogue of the Vertebrata of the Eocene of New Mexico, collected
in 1874 ' ; Washington, April 17, 1873.
    t ' Am. Journ. Science and Art,' July 1871, p. 351.
    t ' Proc. Acad. Nut. Sciences,' Philadelphia, July 30, 1872. In the same
communication the great canine tooth, which was found apart from the skull,
was described as that of a carnivore, under the name of Uintamastix atrox.
                                                                     i 2

116                          Professor Flower                    [March 10,
short, broad, massive, and with five toes on each. At first sight
the skeletons of these feet (as figured by Marsh) show an extraordinary
resemblance to' those of the elephant, and to no other animal,
especially in the form of the astragalus ; but on closer inspection it is
seen that in the mode of articulation between the different bones of the
carpus and tarsus, they really come nearer to the rhinoceros and other
Perissodactyles. For example, tho upper end of the third metacarpal,
instead of joining almost alone to the magnum, as in elephants, is
united by two nearly equal facets to the magnum and unciform, and
the astragalus articulates largely with the cuboid, which it does not in
the elephants. The presence, however, of five complete and distinct
toes to the fore foot, and probably also to the hind foot, is a definite
distinguishing character from any known Perissodactyle.
    The vertebra, in their main characters, resemble those of the
Proboscideans ; though tho neck was somewhat longer in proportion.
The tail was long and slender.
                                    Fig. 2.
              Restored skull of Uintatherium (Dinoceras, Margh).
    The head was long and narrow, and in its essential features
more resembling that of the rhinoceros than the elephant. It was
elevated behind into a great occipital crest, as in the former, but,
unlike that of any other known animal, it had developed from its
upper surface three pairs of conspicuous laterally diverging pro
tuberances, one pair (the largest) from the parietal region, one on the

 1876.]          on the Extinct Animals of North America.            117
 maxillaries in front of the orbit, and one, much smaller than the
 others, near the fore part of the elongated nasal bones. Whether
 these were merely covered by bosses of callous skin, as the rounded
 form and ruggedness of their extremities would seem to indicate, or
 whether they formed the basis of attachment for horns of still greater
 extent, either like those of the rhinoceros or the buffalo, must still
 be a matter of conjecture. Whichever may have been the case, they
 would have given a very strange aspect to the creature which possessed
 them, and have been formidable weapons in encounters either with
animals of its own kind, or with the carnivorous beasts whose remains
 have been found associated with it.
     The teeth were no less remarkable than the general formation of
 the skull.   The dental formula was i 5, c -, p 5, m 5 = 34. The front
                                         o 1 o        o
teeth, or incisors were, as in modern ruminants, absent above, and in
 the lower jaw rather small, directed forwards, and forming a con
tinuous series with the still smaller canine. A large, trenchant,
enamel-covered tusk, not unlike that of the musk-deer, or Chinese
water-deer (Hydopotes), descended from each side of the upper jaw,
 and lay against a singular flattened expansion of the lower border of
the ramus of the lower jaw, which has been conjectured to be for the
purpose of protecting them from injury, though no such processes are
found necessary in the animals above mentioned with similar tusks ;
and they recall a similar conformation of the jaw of the Megatherium,
which can have no such function. They must have effectually pre
vented any stabbing or penetrating action of these weapons. There
is some evidence that the tusks were smaller in the females. The
molar teeth were six on each side, above and below, placed in con
tinuous series, and separated from the canines by a considerable
interval. They were small for the size of the animal, and of simple
structure, each having two more or less transverse crests, though
those of the upper jaw diverge externally, and meet at the inner
border of the tooth in a V-shaped manner.
     The brain (as indicated by the size and form of the cerebral
cavity, of which a cast has been made and figured by Professor Marsh)
was proportionately smaller than in any other known mammal, recent
or fossil, and was almost reptilian in its character. It was actually so
diminutive (in Marsh's Dinoceras mirabile) that the entire brain could
apparently have been drawn through the neural canal of all the
presacral vertebrse, certainly through the cervicals and lumbars. It
was therefore exceedingly unlike that of modern Proboscideans.
    These animals, taking the totality of their organization into con
sideration, appear to belong to the great Ungulated group, and to hold
a position somewhat intermediate to the Perissodactyles and the
Proboscidea, though nearer to the former than was at first supposed.
This affinity is still further shown by the discovery of other forms,
constituting the genera Bathmodon and Metalophodon of Oope, from an

 118                            Professor Flower                   [March 10,
earlier geological horizon, which with the general structure of the
 Vintatheridce, retain, in an extremely interesting manner, many primi
tive characters, common to all early Ungulates, especially the com
plete number of incisor and premolar teeth. These are forms for
fuller information upon which we anxiously wait.*
     It should be mentioned that Professor Marsh has made of Vinla-
therium and its immediate allies, a peculiar order of mammals, to
which he has given the name of Dinocerata, while Cope, who formerly
included them in the Proboscidea, and placed Bathmodon with the
Perissodactyla, has now (' Syst. Cat. of Vertcbrata of the Eocene of
New Mexico,' 1875) formed an order called Amblypoda, of which the
Dinocerata, containing the genera Uintatherium and Loxolophodon, is one
suborder, and the Pantodonta, containing Bathmodon and Metalopho-
lodon, the other. Both, however, admit that they hold a position
somewhat intermediate between the modern orders of Proboscidea
and Perissodactyle Ungulates, and so stand out, as it were, as broken
piers of the bridge, by which the gulf which now so completely
divides these orders might have been passed over.
     The negative evidence (which of course must be received with the
greatest caution in palasontology) of the absence of the remains of
any of these animals in the Miocene or Pliocene deposits of North
America, indicates that the race became extinct, at least in that land,
though it possibly may have migrated elsewhere, and perhaps in Asia
may have laid the foundation of that family, which first appears in
the Old World under the more familiar form of the typical Pro
boscideans.
     While, however, it would be the rashest possible assertion to say
that these were derived directly from the Eocene Bathmodons and
Uintatheriums, it is not too much to look upon the latter as affording
us some indications of the steps by which the process might have
taken place, and as such their discovery is one of the most interesting
that has been revealod by modern palaxmtological research.
     The history of the North American Carnivora may next engage our
attention. In the actual condition of affairs, this order is tolerably
well represented on that continent. The Proq/onidce, or raccoon-like
animals, are almost peculiar to it ; the bears, and their allies the otters,
martens and skunks, are numerous. The dogs also are widely dis
tributed and variously modified. The Felidas, though tolerably
abundant, do not attain the same size and strength as in the Old
World, and the Hyamidce, Protelidce, Cryptoproctidw, and the great
family of Viverridce, the civets and genettes, are entirely wanting.
     As the modern tapirs and peccaries which pursue their peaceful
    * A figure of the skull of Bnthmodon elephantopus, and much additional infor
mation upon the geology and palaeontology of New Mexico, has been published
by Professor Cope, in Lieutenant Wheeler's ' Annual Report upon the Geo
graphical Explorations and Surveys Went of the One Hundredth Meridian,' &c,
Washington, 1875, which reached the writer since the above was in type.

1876.]           on the Extinct Animals of North America.                 119
existence in the deep shades of the tropical American forests, frequently
become the victims of the ferocious jaguars and pumas, which prowl
in search of prey through the rank vegetation of the river banks, or
lie in wait concealed amid the luxuriant foliage of the branches over
head, it is only natural to suppose that the countless herds of tapir and
swine-like herbivorous animals which lived in a similar manner amid
the ancient Eocene swamps and forests of Wyoming and Colorado,
were also destined to furnish subsistence to a tribe of rapacious beasts
of form and fashion long passed away. Palasontological research
amply shows that this was the case. Side by side with the remains
of Hyrachyus, Palososyops, and the rest, are found bones and teeth of
animals of varied size and structure, but of undoubted carnivorous
habits. Unfortunately at present most of these are known only by
fragments, and not a few of the numerous genera recently described
are founded on the evidence of a single tooth !
    There are some, however, about which our knowledge has, within
the last two or three years, been greatly extended, and which have
proved to be of very special interest.*
    Among these are two genera, called by their describer, Professor
Cope, Synophtherium and Mesonyx, each represented by a single species,
S. lanius and M. dbtusidens ; the latter the size of a large wolf, the
former somewhat larger, both from the Eocene of Wyoming. These,
like so many of the animals of the same period of the world's history,
present such a combination of characters, that it is impossible to
place them in either of the existing families of the order to which
they belong, being in some respects bear-like, in others dog-like, and
in some being more generalized than are any existing members of the
order. For instance, their claws had not that narrow, compressed,
curved, and sharp-pointed form seen more or less in all modern
carnivores, and in the highest degree in the most typical or specialized
members of the group, the cats ; but they were nearly flat, straight,
and blunt (from whence it has been conjectured that they were adapted
for an aquatic life), and two bones of the carpus, the scaphoid and
lunar, which in all existing carnivora (even including the seals), are
united to form a single bone, were distinct from each other, as in the
majority of mammalia.f The lower canine teeth were placed very
close to the fore part of the jaw, which appears to Professor Cope " a
special modification for peculiar habits, which," he says, " I suspect to
have been the devouring of the turtles, which so abounded on the land
and in the waters of the same period. The slender symphysis could
most readily be introduced into the shell, while the lateral pressure of
the upper canines with the lower would be well adapted for breaking
the bony covering of those reptiles."
   * Cope, " On the Flat-clawed Carnivora of the Eocene of Wyoming," ' Proc.
Am. Phil. Soc.,' vol. xiii. No. 90, 1873 : Idem, ' Systematic Catalogue of the
Vertebrata of the Eocene of New Mexico,' Washington, 1875.
   t "The scaphoid and lunar bones have not yet been found united in any
Eocene mammal."—Marsh, 'Am. Journ. of Science and Arts,' March 1876.

120                            Professor Flower                     [March 10,
     In the character of the molar teeth, of which there were a
considerable number resembling one another in form, these animals,
and many others less perfectly known, resemble the well-known
Hycemdon of Europe, a lost type of carnivorous animal first found
in the Upper Eocenes of Europe, but abundant also in America at
an apparently later age. The members of this group of carnivores
are all characterized by long and somewhat slender jaws, containing
a series of teeth one behind the other, each being in its form a
repetition of the one before it, as in many of the existing predaceous
marsupial animals. The greater differentiation of the characters
of the teeth and the shortening of the jaws, with corresponding
increase of the force with which they can be closed, seen in the
highest forms of modern carnivores, is one among many examples
of progressive adaptations conducing to more complete efficiency
in performing the functions of life. These Eocene carnivores also
(according to Cope) showed a primitivo character in the tibio-
astragalar articulation, or " ankle-joint." " The astragalus is flat,
and the applied surfaces are nearly a plane, and without the pulley-
shaped character seen in existing carnivora, as dogs, cats, and, in a
less degree in the bears and in other mammalia with specialized
extremities, as Perissodactyla, Artiodactyla, &c. The simplicity of
structure resembles, on the other hand, that found in the opossum
and various Insectivora, Rodentia, and Quadrumana, and in the
Proboscidia, most of which have the generalized type of feet. The
structure indicates that the carnivorous genera named were planti
grade—a conclusion which is in conformity with the belief already
expressed, that the mammalia of the Eocene exhibit much less marked
ordinal distinction than do those of the Miocene or the recent periods.
It is, indeed, questionable whether some of the genera here included
in the carnivora are not gigantic Insectivora, since the tibio-tarsal
articulation in many, the separation of the scaphoid and lunar bones
in Synoplotherium, the form of the molars, and the absence of incisor
teeth in some, are all characteristic of the latter rather than the
former order." *
     The Miocene carnivorous animals found associated with the her
 bivorous Oreodons of Daketa, are more perfectly known, many of
 them having been well worked out and figured some years ago by
Leidy. The most remarkable are several species of Hycenodon, a
 genus already mentioned as found in the Upper Eocenes and Lower
Miocenes of France, and also of the south of England ; but one of
the American species (H. horridus, Leidy) is larger than any of its
European congeners, its skull (which, as Leidy remarks, is not like
that of any existing carnivores, but something intermediate between
    * This idea has been more fully developed in a paper by Professor Cope, " On
the supposed Carnivora of the Jkwene of the Bocky Mountains " (' Proo. Acad.
Nat. Science,' Philadelphia, Nov. 30, 1875) ; and the group Creodonta as a sub
order of Insectivora, proposed for the reception of several genera previously
referred to the Carnkora.

1876.]          on the Extinct Animals of North America.             121
that of a wolf and an opossum) folly equalling that of the largest
individual of the black bear {Ursus Americanus) ; other species were
not larger than a fox. These were the last survivors of a group
notably different from any now existing.
     The remaining American carnivores of the Miocene and more
recent ages, can be, as far as they are known, referred to one or other
of the groups into which the order is now divided. The dog-like
forms were abundant throughout the Miocene and Pliocene ages.
But in the earliest period more generalized types were met with,
assigned to the well-known European genus Amphicyon, which diners
from the true dogs in the more tuberculated character of its molars,
and the presence of the last upper tooth of this class, which is missing
in the modern Canidce, and also in the more bear-like structure of its
limbs. Various modifications of Felidce were also abundant, the most
remarkable in the Miocene period belonging to that group (Machcerodus
or Depranodon), with immensely developed sabre-like upper canine
teeth, which flourished throughout such an extensive period of time and
in so many parts of the world : in the sub-Himalayan region ; in Mio
cene and Pliocene epochs in various parts of Europe, and almost down
to recent times in England, as we know by the teeth found in Kent's
 Hole ; in South America, where remains of its largest and most
 powerful form (M. neogceus) have been found in the caves of Brazil
and in the alluvial plains of Buenos Ayres ; and again in the Miocene
 of the North American territories. Why this form, so highly
 specialized for its mode of life, once apparently the dominating type
 of the whole order throughout the world, should have entirely dis
 appeared, and given way to the more modestly armed modern tigers
 and leopards, is not very easy to explain. We may, however, be
 allowed to conjecture that it may have been a case of over-specializa
 tion, in which the development of the carnivorous type of dentition,
 gradually accumulating in intensity, being, up to a certain degree at
 least, advantageous to its possessors, became at last by successive
 inheritance so exaggerated that its growth outran its usefulness of
 purpose, and the enormous teeth thus acquired became ultimately less
 manageable and less efficient than those of more moderate dimensions,
 and hence the animals possessing them were in the contest for
 existence gradually driven out and superseded by those which at
 present people the earth. Such appears to be constantly the fate of
 forms which become over-specialized, or in which the development
 of one part has run on in one particular direction out of due propor
 tion to the rest of the organization. We know that it is quite possible,
 by artificial selection, to produce animals with one particular part
 developed even detrimentally to the entire economy of the creature,
 and it really seems as if something of the same kind not unfrequently
 occurs in nature.
     From the time of the extinction of the sabre-toothed cats in North
 America, to the present period, other forms moro like those now
 existing continued to prevail, none, however, equalling in size those of

122                          Professor Flower                [March 10,
the Old World lion or tiger ; but of the other families of the carnivora
hitherto little has been found. Ursidce and Mustelidce, except in Pleis
tocene deposits, are very rare ; and, what is more remarkable, remains
that can with certainty be referred to the Procyonidce, a group whose
head-quarters are in America, have not been met with. The families
which were previously mentioned as not now existent in that conti
nent are equally unknown in its extinct fauna.
    Perhaps the most conspicuous, both on account of their colossal
size and their singular conformation and habits, of the animals in
habiting the American continent in the period immediately preceding
the one in which we now live, were the great ground sloths, known to
us familiarly by the names of Megatherium, Mylodon, Megalonyx, &c.
As these animals aro peculiarly American, it might have been ex
pected that when tho earlier formations of the continent on which
they flourished were explored, the remains of similar or at least allied
forms would have been brought to light. But hitherto this has not
been the case.
    Two species of a genus (Morotherium, Marsh) allied to Megalonyx
and Mylodon, from Pliocene strata in Central California and Idaho,
havo been described ; but it is a most remarkable fact that not a frag
ment attributed with certainty to an Edentate animal has been found
in any Miocene or Eocene deposit on the North American continent,
and therefore (if this negative evidence can be trusted) we shall have
to look elsewhere (probably to the Southern American continent), for
the region which gave birth to these mighty creatures, and to look
upon them as but temporary excursionists into the Northern portion
of the continent during the Pleistocene epoch.
    On the other hand, numerous species of the orders Rodentia, In-
sectivora, and even GMropUra, and some attributed to the Marsupialia,
have been found in almost all the hitherto explored fossiliferous de
posits down to the Eocenes. Of these, time will not suffice to give
an account, and this is less important as it is difficult to draw any
general conclusions from the fragmentary descriptions of them which
we possess at present. I must, however, not omit to call attention to
two recently announced discoveries, which, when fully worked out,
promise results of considerable interest.
    Professor Loidy, in 1868, described a single lower molar tooth
from a Tertiary formation, supposed to be Miocene, of Shark Kiver,
Monmouth County, New Jersey, apparently of Ungulate affinities, and
to which he gave the name of Anchippodus riparius. Subsequently
a lower jaw of very anomalous character, from the Bridger Eocene,
with large rodent-like perpetually growing incisors, no canines, and
bilobed molars, something like those of Palasotherium, was described
by the same author under the name of Trogosus castoridens ; but com
parison with the single molar from New Jersey showed so close a
resemblance, that the latter name was withdrawn, and both specimens
referred to the first described, or Anchippodus.
    Other similar forms found in a more perfect condition have been

1876.]            on the Extinct Animals of North America.                    123
described by Professor Marsh, who at a meeting of the Connecticut
Academy, Feb. 17, 1875, suggested that as they could be included in
no known order of mammals, they should be placed in a new one, for
which he proposed the name Tillodontia*
                                       Fig.
        Skull of Anchippodus (Tillotherium fodiens, Marsh), $, from Marsh,
                    • Am. Journ. Sci. and Art,' 1876, Plate VIII.
     " These animals," Professor Marsh observes, " are among the most
remarkable yet discovered in American strata, and seem to combine
characters of several distinct groups, viz. Carnivores, Ungulates, and
Rodents. In Tillotherium, Marsh, the type of the order, the skull has
the same general form as in the bears ; but in its structure resembles
that of the Ungulates. The molar teeth are of the Ungulate type, the
canines are small, and in each jaw there is a pair of large scalpriform
incisors faced with enamel, and growing from persistent pulps, as in
                                                                    2
the Bodents. The adult dentition is as follows : Incisors, - ; canines,
                                                                    A
1                 3             3
= ; premolars, ^ ; molars, - . The articulation of the lower jaw with
J.                —             o
the skull corresponds to that in Ungulates. The posterior nares open
behind tho last upper molars. The brain was small, and somewhat
convoluted. The skeleton most resembles that of carnivores, especially
    * 'Am. Journal of Science aud Arts,' vol. ix. March 1875; Ibid. March 1876,
with figures. Professor Cope has since suggested that the Tillodontia should form
a sub-order of Inscctivora.

124                            Profestor Flower                    [March 10,
the Ursidce; but the scaphoid and lunar bones are not united, and
there is a third trochanter on the femur. The radius and ulna, and
the tibia and fibula are distinct. The feet are plantigrade, and each
had five digits, all terminated with long, compressed, and pointed
ungual phalanges, somewhat similar to those of the bears. The other
genera of this order are less known, but all apparently had the same
general characters. There are two distinct families, TMotheridce
(perhaps identical with Anchippodentidce), in which the largo incisors
grew from persistent pulps, while the molars have roots; and the
Stylinodontidce, in which all the teeth are rootless. Some of the
animals of this group were as large as a tapir. With Hyrax or
the Toxodontia they appear to have no near affinities."
    The second recently announced discovery to which I alluded is,
that a considerable number of fragments of teeth, jaws, and bones
from the American Eocenes, the nature of which for some time was an
exceedingly difficult problem, really belong to a low form of the great
and important order Primates, an order embracing the lemurs, various
species of monkeys, and culminating in man himself, and which
hitherto has not been known with any certainty (except at least by
some equally recent discoveries in France) to have existed in the
Eocene period. The evidence, however, on which this announcement,
made almost simultaneously by Professors Marsh* and Cope,f rests,
is not very fully before the world. Already more than fifteen genera
have been named and described, which are assigned to this group, and
their characters are said to be those of a low or generalized form of
lemur ; while some are compared with the true monkeys. Far more
rigid comparisons and carefully balanced deductions are required
before we can assign thoir various species to their correct position,
and appreciate their bearings upon the genetic history of the Primates.
In some of the descriptions at present before us lemur and monkey
are used as convertible terms, and yet those who have studied these
groups most closely are far from being able to pronounce upon the true
relationship even of the existing species, and some even doubt whether
they ought properly to be associated in the same order. But this is
far too large a subject to discuss in all its bearings at the close of a
discourse. I can only indicate it as one which may have much light
thrown upon it by the researches of American palasontologists.
     I can say nothing now of what is being done by the same persons,
in the same regions of the world, with regard to other classes of ani
mals than the one I have hitherto been speaking of. But the great
and important discoveries of new forms and new links between old
forms have not been confined to the mammalia alone. The know
ledge of the past history of birds, reptiles, and of fishes has likewise
    * ' Am. Journ. Soi. and Arts,' vol. v. p. 405, Nov. 1872.
   t ' Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc.' 1872, p. 554. See also Cope, " On the Primitive
Types of the Orders of the Mammalia Educabilia," ' Am. Philos. Soc.' April 18,
1873; and Marsh, ' Am. Journ. Sci. and Arts,' vol. ix. March 1875.

1876.]          on the Extinct Animals of North America.            125
been greatly enlarged. The very remarkable discovery of Odon-
tornithes, or birds with true teeth and other reptilian characters, has
been made. Numbers of new invertebrates, and a whole world of new
fossil plants, have been brought to light.
    Apart from the special interest of the individual results, some few
only of which I have been able to bring before your notice this
evening, the contemplation of what has been done in American
palasontology in the last few years teaches us,—First, that the living
world around us at the present moment bears but an exceedingly
small proportion to the whole series of animal and vegetable forms
which have existed in past ages. Secondly, that, notwithstanding all
that has been said, and most justly said, of the necessary imperfection
of the geological record, we may hope that there is still so much pre
served that the study of the course of events which have led up to
the present condition of life on the globe, may have a great future
before it.
                                                         [W. H. F.]

126                Sir Henry Maine on Feudal Property                 [March 17,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 17, 1876.
          Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. in the Chair.
                   Sir Henky Sumner Maine, K.C.S.I.
   The State of Feudal Property in England and France on the Eve of
                         the first French Revolution.*
The speaker began with remarks on the neglect of the provincial
" cahiers," or memorials, by French historical writers on the first revo
lution, adding that the examination of some of them by MM. Chassin,
Douiol, and Taine, and the publication of some by M. Prudhomme,
had already led to considerable results, especially by throwing more
light on the causes of the hostility of the cultivating peasantry to the
territorial nobility in all France, except in the western provinces,
such as Brittany and Anjou. The complicity of the peasants with
the reign of terror was shown to be connected with a wish to preserve
great advantages obtained at the very period when France becamo
a republic ; and their object in setting fire to a chateau was to destroy
the title-deeds of tho seigneur of the fief.
    The French nobles and gentry were everywhere engaged in un
ceasing litigation with the peasantry ; and they had little or no analogy
to a landed aristocracy. Few had great estates, and the largest part
of them had little or no land let for rent to tenants at will, or lessees,
but lived on the money produce of the small incidental services
due from owners of land held, as we should say, on copyhold to the lord
of the manor. They received fines, and had monopolies and various
nondescript sources of income ; and concerning the legal foundation
of these privileges a strong controversy was proceeding during the half-
century preceding the Revolution. The first or constituent assembly
swept away the greatest part of the feudal dues, with compensation for
part ; the second, or legislative assembly, abolished the residue and
withdrew the compensation ; the third, the convention, was zealously
supported by the peasantry, through a desire to retain what had been
gained.
    The speaker, before considering the question, whether the Revolu
tion took place because a great part of the soil of France was held on
copyhold tenure, demonstrated the fallacy of the popular notion that
       * This discourse will be eventually published in full by the author.

1876.]                    in England and France.                     127
at the Norman conquest the land of England was divided among a
number of feudal lords, who parcelled it among their followers ; to
some for homage and military service, the rest being cultivated by
their serfs or villeins, a slavish Class, from whose holdings our copy
hold tenure has descended.
    After reference to the Teutonic irruption and its results, and to
the dissolution of the Carlovingian empire, when the feudal world was
at last constituted, it was shown that all feudal society was a repro
duction of a single typical form. This unit consisted of a group of
men settled on a definite space of land, forming in England a manor,
in France a fief, having at its head respectively a lord with his court
baron, or a seigneur with his seignorial court. Under these, first, were
the free tenants, doing military service and giving their opinion on
judicial and other matters when required ; but the greatest part of the
land was in the hands of the villeins, who owed to the lord all sorts
of taxes, dues, and personal labour, but were never precisely slaves,
but always in a sense landed proprietors. Their condition was a
close counterpart to that of the Russian serfs, who were permitted by
the present emperor, some years ago, to commute their personal ser
vices for money, and became owners of the largest part of the village
lands. The king of France was, as it were, lord of an exalted
manor, and his free tenants were the dukes of Normandy, Burgundy,
and similar dignitaries. This system was reproduced in England,
with a difference. The more powerful Anglo-Norman kings allowed
no one to be absolutely interposed between themselves and their
 subjects ; they exacted fealty and military service from all English
 men.
     Why, then, did the transformation of the fief in one country end
 in a revolution, in the other end in a somewhat inconvenient form
 of landed property ? In regard to this question the speaker compared
 the state of feudal tenures in France just before the Revolution,
 described by Arthur Young, with the evidence laid before the Copy
 hold Committee of the House of Commons in 1851, commenting on
 their surprisingly close analogy. He showed, on the evidence of
 Roger North, that the grievances of copyholders were considerable in
 the seventeenth century ; but he expressed his opinion that if all
 copyholds were nowadays enfranchised it would be principally because
 they are an obstacle to agricultural improvement. He then showed
 that one powerful cause of the different issue in the two countries
 was the distinction in their judicial organization. In both a con
 siderable part of the popular law was administered by local courts,
 controlled by higher tribunals. Those in France were the " parlia
 ments," having much independence of spirit, while the justice ad
 ministered in English courts was, from very early times, more
 emphatically than in other countries, the "king's justice." The
 English bench was nominated by the king, and might be filled with
 his creatures, but the seats in a French parliament were either
  purchased or inherited. The parliaments were never the sovereign's

128              Sir Henry Maine on Feudal Properly.          [March 17,
servile instruments or pliant nominees. The principal difference
appears to have been this, that the French superior courts always
inclined towards extending, the English superior courts to restricting,
the area of the land held on tenures directly traceable to ancient
villeinage. By the middle of the seventeenth century, as Roger
North says, " most manors in England were more than half lost."
Just the contrary occurred in Franco. Again, in England the land
owners became richer through the acquisition of waste lands as
pasture, and the production of wool ; while in France the noblesso,
impoverished through a court life, seem never to have been able to
buy up the holdings of their former villeins. It is a most vulgar error
to suppose that small properties in France date from the Revolution ;
since Arthur Young immediately before it expresses himself as amazed
at their multitude, which was still increasing. As an illustration of
the exasperating system to which the holders were subject, reference
was made to Caleb Balderstone's raids, described in ' The Bride of
Lammermoor.' In England, on the other hand, the bulk of the class
corresponding to the French peasantry consisted of agricultural
labourers or tenant farmers, never politically dangerous. The English
copyholders and French peasants, it was said, were not hirers, but
owners of land ; and in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
English copyholders frequently impaired their legal condition by
accepting lcasos. Another cause of difference was the transfer of land
by purchase and sale through the unusual facilities more frequent
in England than elsewhere. The sacredness of contract was one of
the fundamental ideas of the French philosophical creed, and it
strongly influenced the proceedings by which the manorial rights of
the French nobles were taken away. At first it was intended that
thoy should receive compensation for the loss of such of their rights
as originated in agreement ; but it was as much as they could do to
save their lives. Though there is no reason for supposing that
manorial rights originated in violence, yet there is equally little for
 supposing that they originated in agreement. In England, on the
contrary, the titles of the lord of the manor and of the copyholder
 were more deeply rooted in agreement than in any other deeply
 feudalized country. The lord had often purchased his rights, the
copyholder had constantly obtained his land, subject to manorial
rights, by purchase from somebody else.
     In concluding, the speaker said that he did not wish it to be
 understood that the contrast between the sum of feudal obligations
 and rights taken in England and France is wholly to be explained
 by the causes analyzed in his discourse, but this set of causes appeared
 to him to have been kept too much in the background.

1876.]      Professor Hughes on Geological Measures of Time.        129
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 24, 1876.
        William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. M.A. Treas. R.S.
               Secretary and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                       T. MoK. Hughes, Esq. M.A.
                  WOODWARDIAM PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY, CAUBRIDGE.
                       Geological Measures of Time.
The speaker, in considering the methods which havo been employed
in attempting to estimate the absolute age of geological phenomena,
grouped them under two principal heads,—I. Astronomical, and II.
Geological.
    I. Those in which an appeal was made to astronomical causes,
such as,—A. Limitations (a) of the period during which, assuming
many things unchanged, the sun can have continued to give its heat
and light to the earth; (/i) of the time it would take the earth to
cool down to its present state.
    With regard to the first (a), he remarked that, as astronomers
allowed from three to five hundred millions of years, he had no reason
to say that geology required more : at any rate, it did not seem to
be called for by anything that would come under consideration that
evening.
    With regard to the second (/?), he pointed out that it belonged to
what might be called the pre-historic period of geology ; for we
cannot say that we have any record of a molten earth. Lakes of
molten matter at no great depth, or zones of heated matter ready to
become molten when some of the pressure is removed, will do for us.
    Why and how heated also we have no evidence to show—chemical
reactions, or the irregular cooling from original high temperature of
a mass of unequal conductivity will equally well explain all we see—
and the difference in this respect between a loose volcanic ash and tho
same ash consolidated and metamorphosed into a hard clinking felstone
may well teach us caution in receiving speculations foundod upon the
rate of passage of heat through large and necessarily unexplored masses
of the earth's crust.
    Vet he felt that it is to tho physicist we must look for the next
great advance in geology. Only the physicist must leave us an earth
that within the whole period of which we have any record in the
rocks has been under conditions which, though locally changing, havo
    Vol. VIII. (No. G4.)                                       k

130                     Professor McK. Hughes               [March 24,
been on the whole similar to those which now obtain—whose crust has
been always capable of an outside crumpling sufficient to cause at least
twenty miles continuous vertical displacement in one area.
    B. The other method of measuring geological time by an appeal
to astronomy, is by correlating the periods of known astronomical com
binations with episodes in our earth's history. This seems a fair and
promising field of inquiry, but it has been pushed too far beyond the
region of facts into that of hypothesis to be of much value at present.
For these speculations practically depend (a) upon the establishment
as a fact that astronomical combinations, such as the coincidence of
the extreme of excentricity of the earth's orbit with the extreme of
obliquity of the earth's axis, would produce excessive cold or heat in
the northern or southern hemisphere as the case might require, or
would produce such extremes in the seasons as would result in glacial
conditions owing to the summer's sun being unable to undo the
winter's frost, or would produce much effect worth mentioning if un
aided by favourable geographical arrangements of land and water, or
would produce any effect at all that might not be neglected in such
inquiries owing to the certainty that it might be entirely counteracted
by such small geographical changes as we know are continually
going on.
    But astronomers and physicists tell us, with regard to the effect of
such combinations, that the difference of mean temperature under any
circumstances that we have to do with would be trifling compared
with the difference of climate produced to-day by geographical causes,
such as give us, in the southern hemisphere, the land of the humming
bird in South Georgia on the same latitude as the ice-bitten hills of
Tierra del Fuego, and, in the northern hemisphere, the coasts of
Norway and North Britain on the same latitude as Greenland and
Labrador.
    It is, however, allowed that such combinations might produce an
appreciable effect in intensifying or mitigating extremes of tempera
ture in the winter and summer.
    So that now they leave us in this position, that if we can show
any periodicity in the recurrence of certain geographical arrange
ments of land and water, then if the astronomical combinations which
tended to produce the same effect coincided with this we should have
a greater result. That is obvious. But there is no known law as to
the proportion of land to water in any successive periods ; and if, for
instance, the astronomical causes which tended most to intensify
winter's cold coincided with a period when we had half land within
the Arctic circle, how could that period be distinguished simply by
effects produced from a previous period, during which perhaps three-
fourths of the regions within the Arctic circle was land, and the
astronomical causes tended to produce quite an opposite result ?
    /5. But there is a still more serious objection to this method of
measuring time—one founded more exclusively upon geology. It
of course assumes that we have fixed the exact position in the earth's

1876.]              on Geological Measures of Time.                131
history of the episode which we are trying to make fit in with
astronomical cycles.
     To give some examples of the kind of evidence upon which this
depends. Wo know of, at any rate, two periods—the Carboniferous and
Miocene—represented in the rocks of the Arctic regions, during
which, if we may assume that the habits and requirements of plants
and animals were the same as those of their nearest living allies
appear to be, there must have been a warmer climate there than now
prevails. Previous to late experience we should have said the same
on finding the bones of the mammoth and woolly rhinoceros in far
northern regions. It might have appeared difficult to explain the
occurrence of evergreen plants where there is four months' night, did
wo not know that the Alpine roses, a small kind of rhododendron,
were buried for at least four months a year under snow so deep that
they must be in total darkness, and yet they come out green.
Were the fauna and flora of Australia of to-day found only fossil,
we should bracket the beds in which they occurred as closoly with
the Jurassic as with our own deposits of recent age. We must not
push that kind of evidence, depending upon analogy of form, too far,
or infer that southern forms could not, with very slight modification
of structure, be adapted for a more northern clime, especially if it
also is tempered by such geographical changes as we have a right
to assume possible and probable from an examination of the earth's
surface at the present day.
     On the other hand, it is easy to prove that over a given area in
southern latitudes a severe Arctic climate once prevailed. The
grinding ice leaves much clearer evidence of its former presence than
 does the genial warmth of the summer's sun.
     We are therefore quite justified in taking as proved that in
 England, and indeed over the whole of Northern Europe,—in fact,
 over the whole of the northern hemisphere,—there was in late geo
 logical times a climate like that of Greenland.
     But even if astronomers and physicists allowed us to speculate on
astronomical combinations, which would account for such changes of
temperature at the same time over the whole of one hemisphere, we
 have no right whatever to assume that all the various phenomena of
extreme glaciation which we observe here and there and everywhere
over the northern hemisphere, were produced at the same time, or
 anything near the same time. As soon as there was land lifted
above the waters anywhere, rain and rivers began to cut out valleys
 and form alluvium. In like manner, as soon as anywhere thoro was
 land raised above the snow line (no matter what may have determined
 the snow line for that particular area), snow fields and soon glacier
 ice must have been formed.
     Of course, those examples which we can examine are generally the
 more recent, or, in the case of ice scratches, those that have been
 covered up ; yet there is no more reason for speaking of a Glacial
 Period than there is for speaking of an Alluvial Period, the agency of
                                                            k 2

 132                      Professor McK Hughes                [March 24,
glaciers or of rivers having come into operation wherever and when
ever suitable conditions for either appeared.
     Palseontology by itself does not furnish any exact measure of time,
but we must refer to it for the interpretation of some other phenomena
that are appealed to in such speculations.
    Local divisions of the post-pliocene, and especially the glacial
deposits, were founded chiefly upon the differences in the life of the
period known to depend upon climate ; but no classification of the
whole has been made out, such as would enable us to say whether
the fauna of a cold period here was or was not synchronous with that
of a warm period elsewhere.
    Not only through the later periods, among which that known as
the glacial period occurs, but also through all the periods we have
recorded in the rocks, we have no evidence of an entire extinction of
old forms at any one time, but there is always an overlap, many
forms, if not identical with those in the older rocks, at any rate ana
logous to them, appearing in the newer. Now this is hardly possible
if the extreme view that the ice from north and south almost met in
equatorial regions be true. The supposition that the northern fauna
and flora retreated up to the tops of the hills, or lingered along the
margin of the ice sheets, and that the space between tie two was still
warm enough to keep alive tropical forms, does not commend itself
to our judgment. The occurrence of Alpine flora on the high moun
tains in southern regions can be explained just as easily by reference
to local and limited ice sheets as by the hypothesis of a great ice
sheet proceeding from the poles.
    The great glacial ice, of which we have evidence remaining in the
northern hemisphere, has probably been now hero, now there, through
all the periods from the Crag to our own time, when it is strongly de
veloped in Greenland. And the reason why we are not so likely to
find traces of it going back to remote ages is, that denudation must in
a long period remove such thin local deposits where they have not
been submerged and covered up, and of course what we see is more
likely to belong to the period of later emergence than of subsidence.
    As for any difficulty arising from the rapidity of movements of
elevation and depression of the earth's surface involved in this view,
we need only refer to the almost recent shell-beds of Uddevalla and
other places in Scandinavia, and in our own country to the evidence
afforded by the shells of Macclesfield and Moel Tryfaen for proofs of
upheavals up to at least a quarter of a mile vertical since the glacial
period of those places—and surely since the deposition of the Crag
we may have had time enough for ten times that amount of dis
placement.
    In the early days of science, when recent sea shells were found far
inland, and fossil shells imbedded in the rooks of the mountain tops, the
whole was often referred to one great deluge. The extreme glacialists
are doing much the same now. Not having yet sufficient knowledge to
discriminate between the periods when in each locality glacial condi

  1876.]                on Geological Measure* of Time.                   133
  tions prevailed, they refer the whole to one great glacial epoch ; while
  the fact that it was not continuous is so clear that they are obliged to
 invent interglacial periods to explain the phenomena.
       II. The more exclusively terrestrial phenomena, which have been
  appealed to as evidence of the age of deposits, may be divided into,—
 A. Palasontological, and B. Geographical.
      A. The belief in the greater or shorter lapse of time that has
 taken place between two periods of the world's history, which is
 founded on the amount of change that has taken place in the life of
 the period, is only a vague impression, of different weight in different
 minds, according as they have had brought more constantly before
 them the facility with which, by artificial selection, varieties may be
 fixed, or, on the other hand, how constant nature is to the old types
 when conditions remain the same; and no exact measure has beon
 attempted from such data.
      B. There are measures of time founded on observation of geo
 graphical changes. Such as those duo
                       a. To accumulation of deposits,
                      p. To removal of matter.
      a. Deposits are either (i) chemical, (ii) organic, or (iii) mechanical.
 Under (i) we have what is known as calcareous tuff, travertine,
 stalactite, or stalagmite. In the case of caves and petrifying springs,
 the acidulated water is always either enlarging or stopping up its
 channels, and so the deposition of travertine in the same cave and on
 the same part of the cave must, from the nature of the case, vary
 continually ; and the conditions upon which the variation depends
 must, as far as we can see at present, remain undetermined and inde
terminable.
     There are cases in which a period of time may with greater
approximation to accuracy be measured by the deposition of traver
tine, when, for instance, the water from a drainage area of known
extent is all carried through one channel. There, as the quantity of
water falling over the whole area is probably nearly constant within
recent times, and a new opening here makes up for a choked channel
there, the average is pretty well kept up.
     For example, the grand Roman aqueduct seen at the Pont du Gard
near Avignon is lined to a thickness of about 14 inches with travertine.
This was probably done in about eight hundred years ; but even in
this case, as the lining of travertine increased, either less water must
have flowed along the aqueduct, or it must have run with greater
velocity—both circumstances affecting the rate of deposit. But when
we are dealing with antiquity so vast as that to which we are pro
bably carried back by the record of the caves, we have no right to
assume even the constancy of climatal conditions or of land level.
     (ii) Next considering the rate of accumulation of organic deposits,
the speaker confined himself, as in all the other cases, to such as have

 134                      Professor McK. Hughes                [March 24,
 been employed as an exact measure of time, of which use he gave
 examples in each case.
      He explained the growth of peat, pointing out that there are two
 kinds of peat, that which is formed in water, as in mountain tarns or
 old river-courses, and the peat that grows all over the slopes of moor
 lands high and low. The first is partly formed from drifted vegetable
 matter in the deeper parts, and from the decay of plants that grow on
 the spot all round the margin, which therefore encroaches rapidly.
Here at the outset we meet with a source of error. Tho rate is very
different in these two cases, the quantity of vegetable matter that
 drifts far in being generally very small. On the hillsides the growth
is to be referred almost entirely to two or three species of moss, and
in a smaller degree to the heather and other plants. As the lower
part of the mosses sphagnum and hypnum decay away and add
to the layer of peat below, tho upper part grows on, and so a
thick layer of vegetable matter is at length accumulated. Work
men tell us that when they have dug a trench into a peat moss, if they
leave it alone it fills up again, or as they would say, the peat grows
again. This happens when the peat is apt during some seasons to be
full of water, so as to become a kind of slush or ooze. It is perfectly
clear that the apparent rate of accumulation where such filling in
occurs must often be deceptive. A good example of a similar thing
happening on a large scale in nature is the case of the Solway moss,
and many other instances as recorded by Lyell.
     So we see that while the peat is being formed it is subject to all
kinds of variations, and when it has been formed it is liable to be
soaked with water and run, destroying the value of all evidence
to be derived from any observation on its rate of growth elsewhere.
     (iii) It is not often that we can in the study of geology get the
advantages of experiment to test theories by, and our observations of
nature are often extended over too wide a range of time and space ; but
in the case of the accumulation of ordinary sediment, as in the case of the
peat, we have artificial operations to appeal to, where results produced
rapidly help us to understand the larger and slower operations of nature.
In the north of England, principally along the Humber and its tribu
taries, there is a system of improving and restoring the land near the
rivers by a process known as " warping," i. o. laying on the silt sus
pended in the tidal waters over largo tracts of low-lying lands, which
thus become raised in a few years many feet above their natural level.
     He explained the great variations in thickness and character of
doposit produced by these artificial means, and also by natural
operations in that same district, and pointed out as a result of such
observations how unsafe it is to measure time by the accumulation of
sediment on the low lands near the month of a great river.
     Similarly from examples quoted of the effects of thunderstorms
and sudden floods observed by himself in various places, he pointed
out the great irregularity of the accumulation of torrent debris and
river gravels.

1876.]                on Geological Measures of Time.                135
     /3. Another method of estimating the lapse of time is founded
upon the supposed rate at which rivers scoop out their channels.
Although no very exact estimates have been attempted, still the
immense quantity of work that has been done as compared with
the slow rate at which a river is now excavating that same part of
the valley is often appealed to as a proof of a very great lapse of
time.
     The fact of such an enormous lapse of time is not questioned,
but this part of the evidence is challenged.
     The previous considerations of the rate of accumulation of silt on
the low lands prepares us to inquire whether there is any waste at all
along the alluvial plains. Several examples were given to show that
the lowering of valleys was brought about by receding rapids and
waterfalls ; for instance, following up the Rhine, its terraces could
often be traced back to where the waterfall was seen to produce at
once almost all tho difference of level between the river reaches above
and below it. At Schaffhausen the river terrace below the hotel could
be traced back and found to be continuous with the river margin
above the fall. The wide plains occurring here and there, such as
the Mayence basin, were due to the river being arrested by the hard
rocks of the gorges below Bingen so long that it had time to wind
from side to side through tho soft rocks above the gorges. When
 waterfalls cut back to such basins or to lakes they would recede
 rapidly, tapping the waters of the lake, eating back the soft beds of
 the alluvial plains, and probably in both cases leaving terraces as
 evidence not of upheavals or of convulsions, but of the arrival of a
 waterfall which had been gradually travelling up tho valley. So
 when the Rhone cuts back from the falls at Belgardo we shall have
 terraces where now is the shore of Geneva ; so also when the falls of
 Schaffhausen and ages afterwards when the falls of Laufenburg have
 tapped the lake of Constance, there will be terraces marking its
 previous levels. And so we may explain the former greater extent of
 the lake of Zurich, which stood higher and spread wider by Utznach
 and Wetziken before it was tapped by the arrival of waterfalls which
 cut back into it and let its waters run off until they fell to their
 present level.
      A small upheaval near the mouth of a river would have a similar
 effect. The Thames below London, and the Somme below St. Acheul,
 can now only just hand on the mud brought down from higher ground ;
 but suppose an elevation of a hundred feet over those parts of England
 and France (quite imperceptible if extended over 10,000, 1000, or even
 100 years), and the rivers would tumble over soft mud and clay and
 chalk, and soon cat their way back from Sheppey to London, and from
 St. Valery to Amiens.
      So when we want to estimate the age of the gravels on the top of
 the cliff at the Reculvers, or on the edgo of the plateau at St. Acheul,
 we have to ask not how long would it take the rivers to cut down to
their present level from the height of those gravels at the rate at

136 Professor Hughes on Geological Measures of Time. [Mar. 24, 1876.
which that part of their channel is being lowered now, but how long
would it take the Somme or Thames, which once ran at the level of
those gravels, to cut back from where its mouth or next waterfall was
then to where it runs over rapids now. We ought to know what
movements of upheaval and depression there have been ; what long
alluvial flats or lakes which may have checked floods, but also arrested
the rock-protecting gravel ; how much the wash of the estuarine waves
have helped. In fact, it is clear that observations made on the action
of the rivers at those points now have nothing to do with the calcula
tion of the age of the terraces above, and that the circumstances upon
which the rate of recession of the waterfalls and rapids depends are so
numerous and changeable that it is at present unsafe to attempt any
estimate of the time required to produce the results observed.
    But although, when we examine critically the various measures of
time that have beon employed, it would seem that with our present
knowledge there is no certainty to be arrived at with regard to the
age of any geological phenomena of considerable antiquity, still we
know that we have measured some good base lines, and if as yet
we have got no sensible parallax for those far-off worlds, we may hope
eome day to measure longer base lines, and get a better result.
                                                        [T. MoK. H.]

           ftogal Institution of (Kreat Britain.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 31, 1876.
 George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice President, in the Chair.
             Professor James Dewar, F.B.S.E.                Part II.*
                      The Physiological Action of Light.
 On a former occasion I communicated the results of a research on the
 " Physiological Action of Light " executed conjointly with Professor
 T. G. McKendrick. The principal facts then established may be thus
 summarized.
     Comparative Physiology of the Action of Light.—The impact of
 light upon the eyes of members of the following groups of animals,
 viz. mammalia, birds, reptiles, amphibia, fishes, and crustaceans,
 produced a variation amounting to from three to ten per cent, of the
 normal current. At that time we found light caused a negative varia
 tion in the case of warm-blooded animals.
     Transmission of Action to Brain.—The electrical variation may be
 traced into the brain. Instead of severing the eye from the brain and
 cutting the optic nerve, simply remove the head of the frog. Then
 suppose one of the electrodes in contact with the surface of the brain
 and the other in contact with the surface of the cornea, an effect is
obtained from the action of light similar to that just described.
     Action due to Change in Retina. —This action is really due to an
alteration in the retina itself. This must be definitely proved, because
it was a legitimate criticism that the change produced by the action
of light may be due to contraction of the iris ; the iris being a
muscular structure contracting on the action of light by a well-known
reflex mechanism in normal circumstances, and even after removal
of the eye from the head. A contraction of the iris might pro
duce a negative variation or diminution of the electrical current, but
it is difficult to imagine that it could cause an increase or positive
variation. In order, however, to get rid of this difficulty, cut
off the front part of the eye altogether, and place one electrode so
as to touch the surface of the vitreous humour while the other
impinges on the transverse section of the optic nerve, a current is
                    * See B. I. Proceedings, vol. vii. p. 360.
    Vol. VIII.     (No. 65.)       -                                  l

 138                       Professor James Dewar              [March 31,
 obtained —no doubt weaker, but still a current sufficiently strong for
 detecting any variation which light may produce. In these circum
 stances, light still produces the variation I have described. To make
 it more definite still, pick out the retina with a fine glass point,
 and leave only tho sclerotic and perhaps fragments of the choroid.
 Even then an electrical current is obtained ; but this current is not
 affected by light. It is, therefore, proved that the variation produced
 by the action of light is due to some change or other occurring in the
 retina when light impinges upon it.
     Bays of the Spectrum. —Which rays of tho spectrum produce tho
 greatest effect? We know, of course, that the rays which are the
 most luminous to our consciousness are the yellow rays. The colours
of a very pure spectrum were obtained, the eye being brought into the
various rays successively, and the result noted. To obtain comparative
results, the operations were repeated as quickly as possible. It was
 found, in studying the results, that those rays which we regard as tho
most luminous produce the greatest variation. For instance, the low
red rays at the end of the spectrum produce very little effect, and
if you go below the red into the heat rays there is no action. But
the effect increases till you reach the yellow, and if you go on to the
violet it gradually becomes less and less until, beyond the violet,
there is no action.
    Relation of Electrical Variation to Luminous Intensity.—Experiments
made have conclusively shown that a quantity of light, one hundred
times in excess of another quantity, only modifies the electric variation
to the extent of increasing it from three to five times its original
amount. The effects observed vary in such a manner as to correspond
closely with the relative variations that would result if the well-
known psycho-physical law of Fechner was applicable to this class of
phenomena.
      The effect of Fatigue.—The retina, on the action of light, behaves
in a similar manner as regards fatigue, to a muscle that has been
exhausted by repeated stimulation. Tho musclo diminishes in its
mechanical effect for the same stimulation and recovers during repose.
The amount of electric variation in the case of the eye diminishes for
the same amount of light stimulation, unless the organ has had
sufficient time to recover its normal condition. In this case, the
recovery takes place in the absence of light.
     We have continued this investigation in various new directions,
and have arrived at results which may be thus shortly detailed.
    New Method of Experimenting.— One of the chief difficulties in
arriving at the exact relation between the electrical variation and
the different luminous and colour intensity of light, was the con
tinually diminishing sensibility to the stimulus, owing to the abnormal
conditions of the eye when removed from the head. You can easily
understand how this occurs. When you begin the experiment, the
eye is remarkably sensitive to light, and a largo variation of current
is obtained ; but the amount of this current is gradually falling in

1876.]             on the Physiological Action of Light.              139
consequence of the gradual change in the parts of the eye, owing to
their loss of vitality and sensibility. In fact, the parts are dying—
the blood is not circulating, and molecular and chemical changes aro
slowly occurring. In the caso of the frog's eyes, however, it is a fact
that tho retina retains its sensibility from three to four hours, and
sometimes longer. After a lapse of two hours or so, the frog's eye
frequently remains in a tolerably stable condition, in which it does
not lose rapidly. This condition may last for four or five hours. In
order to get rid of the difficulty of gradual death of the parts, wo
tried various methods. In our earlier experiments, we attempted to
got the eye removed as quickly as possible, and to make the obser
vations rapidly. In the case of the warm-blooded animals, this did
not lead to very good results, because the sensibility to light dis
appeared in a very few minutes. We also on several occasions exposed
the posterior aspect of the eye in the living anassthetized warm
blooded animal, and succeeded in bringing one electrode into contact
with the severed optic nerve while the other touched the cornea.
This method was troublesome and difficult.
    We, however, did succeed in obtaining definite results. These
experiments are now made in quite a different way. By placing a
frog, rabbit, or pigeon under the influence of chinoline, the animal
remains motionless. We then remove a small portion of the surface
of the cranium, so as to expose a portion of the brain. One of
the electrodes is brought into contact with the surface of the
cornea, and the other with the surface of the brain. The blood is
still circulating. A current is obtained; and all the effects I have
just mentioned may be observed with ease. The animal remains in
this condition, retaining its sensibility to the action of light, for as
long a period, in the case of the frog, as forty-eight hours. These
observations led to the discovery made recently, that there is no
necessity for even exposing the surface of the brain. That is to say,
the action of light can be traced, if needful, through the whole body.
If, for example, we take a frog, place it in position, slightly abrade the
skin on the surface of the head or back, or any part of the body, then
adjust the electrodes, one in front of the cornea and the other upon
the abraded skin, we obtain an electrical current which is affected by
light in the usual way. But if the electrode in contact with the
cornea be shifted to some other part of the body, a current may be
obtained ; but this current is not sensitive to light. In order to
produce the specific action of light upon the eye, the retina must be
included in the circuit. This discovery enabled us to perform many
experiments without injuring the animal, except to the extent of
abrading or removing a small portion of skin. It at once opened up
the way for making observations upon warm-blooded animals (one of
the chief difficulties in our earlier investigations). For example : givo
a rabbit or a guinea-pig a small dose of chinoline, and the animal
remains prostrate and quiet. Then cut off a little of the hair from
the surface of the head at the back of the neck, and abrade the skin
                                                               h 2

140                           Professor James Detcar                   [March 31,
so as to have a moist surface ; bring the electrodes into position,
placing one in contact with the abraded surfaces and the other in
contact with the surface of the cornea, and you will at once obtain
the effect.
Diagram showing arrangement of apparatus in the experiment on eye of frog. A. Eye
     showing the electrode, E, in contact with it. B. Skin removed and subcutaneous
     tissue in contact with other electrode, E. K. Key. G. Galvanometer. Arrows
     indicate direction of current. Cornea, positive. Back, negative.
     Action of Light in Warm-blooded same as in Cold-blooded Animals. —
By the use of chinoline we were able to make experiments of the kind
just described for a considerable time, without the necessity of main
 taining artificial respiration. The result of those investigations upon
 warm-blooded animals has been to show that in these, as in the cold
blooded, light produces first an increase in the electric current on
 impact ; continued light usually causes the electrical curre.it to
 diminish; and on the removal of light, there is a second rise, as
 described in the case of the frog. In our earlier investigations, we
 always observed in the case of warm-blooded animals (when the eye
 had either been quite removed from the body or was receiving an
 inadequate supply of blood), that the action of light caused a negative
 variation, that is, a diminution in the electrical current. By improved
 methods, however, which have the effect of placing the eye in con
 ditions more normal, we find that light causes a positive variation, that

1876.]               on the Physiological Action of Light.                        141
is, an increase ; thus agreeing with what had hitherto been observed
in the eye of the frog. This is a point worthy of notice. Du Bois-
Reymond showed, even in the case of sensory nerves, that physio
logical action caused a negative variation. But it appears that in the
case of the retina the action of the normal stimulus is to cause a
positive not a negative variation.
     Experiment with the Living Lobtter. — The action of light can be
readily shown in this animal. Fix it loosely in a cloth, and lay it
on the table in a slightly oblique position. With a small trephine
remove a circular portion of the carapace, about three millimetres in
diameter, and expose tho moist tegumentary surface. Bring one
electrode into contact with this surface, while the other touches tho
cornea. The usual effects of light may then be noted ; but in the case
of the lobster, tho variation caused by the impact is greater than what
 Diagram showing arrangement of appnr&tui in experiment on living lobster. A. Cor
      neal surface, having electrode, K, in contact with it. B. Portion of carapace
      removed so as to gxpose moist surface for electrode, E. K. Key. G. Galvanometer.
      Arrows indicate direction of current.
 we have noticed in any other animal, often amounting to one-tenth of
 tho total amount of current. Anothor interesting experiment, com
 parable with that of tho two eyes just described, may be made on the
 lobster by placing an elcctrodo in contact with each cornea. The
 result frequently is apparently no current, but in reality tho currents
 neutralize each other. Light fulling on tho one eye causes the needle
 to move, say to the left, while if it fall on the other eye, tho noodle
 swerves to the right. When the eye of the lobster, removed from tho
 body, was divided longitudinally into segments, oach sogmont was
 found sensitive to light. The offect of light was then to incroaso the
 primary current, but no inductive action was observed on withdrawal.

142                      Professor James Dewar               [March 31,
This observation is interesting as a confirmation of the views of
physiologists regarding the mode of action of a compound eye.
     Mode of Experiment on Eye of Fish.—Recently we were enabled to
perform an experiment upon the eye of a fish in a very simple way,
by a method adopted in Professor Strieker's laboratory in Vienna
some months ago for another purpose. Take a fish and give it a very
small dose of woorara. It soon becomes almost motionless, and sinks
in some cases to the bottom of the vessel. The animal would soon
die in consequence of paralysis of the movement of the gills necessary
for respiration. But, if we take the animal out of the water, put it
upon a glass plate, introduce a little bit of cork under each gill, and
then by means of an indiarubber tube placed in the mouth allow a
little water to flow over the gills, the fish will live out of water in
that condition for many hours. By this method we were able to
perform the experiment upon the eye of a fish with the same
results.
     Observation on Human Eye.—Having succeeded in detecting tho
action of light on the retina of the living warm-blooded animal
without any operative procedures, it appeared possible to apply a
similar method to the eye of man. For this purpose, a small trough
of clay or paraffin was constructed round the margin of the orbit, so
as to contain a quantity of dilute salt solution, when the body was
placed horizontally and the head properly secured. Into this solution
the terminal of a non-polarizable electrode was introduced, and in
order to complete the circuit the other electrode was connected with a
large guttapercha trough containing salt solution, into which one of
the hands was inserted. By a laborious process of education, it is
possible to diminish largely the electrical variation due to the in
voluntary movements of tho eye-ball, and by fixing the eye on one
point with concentrated attention, another observer, watching the
galvanometer, and altering the intensity of the light, can detect an
electrical variation similar to what is seen in other animals. This
method, however, is too exhausting and uncertain to permit of quanti
tative observations being made.
     Explanation of Variation in Direction of Current.—One phenomenon
particularly attracted the attention of physiologists, and especially of
 those who first saw the experiments : viz. that sometimes, in the case
 of the eye of the frog, light produced an increase in the electrical
 current, and in other cases a diminution. This we could not at first
 account for. But we have been able to make out that the positive
 and negative variation, or the increase or diminution of the natural
 current on the action of light, depends upon the direction of the
 primary current, when the cornea and brain are in circuit. If the
 cornea be positive and the brain be negative, then light produces an
 increase of the electrical current. If, on the other hand, the cornea
 be negative and tho brain positive, light then produces a diminution in
 the electrical current. It is thus conclusively shown that the current
 superadded, or if we may use the language, induced by the action of

 1876.]             on the Physiological Action of Light.             143
light, is always in the same direction ; only in the one case it is
added to, and in the other subtracted from, the primary current.
     The Use of equal and opposite Currents.—We have performed many
experiments in which equal and opposite currents were transmitted
through the galvanometer at the same time, and observed the effect of
light in these circumstances. By the use of resistance coils, it was
not difficult to balance the current from the eye ; but, owing to the
inconstancy of even a Daniell's cell in such experiments as these, it
was impossible to avoid fluctuations which might possibly have been
mistaken for those due to the action of light. This difficulty was got
over by what we formerly called the double eye experiment, in which
two similar eyes are placed in reversed positions on the electrodes, so
that the current from the one neutralizes that of the other. When
this is accomplished, it is easy by means of a blackened box, having a
shutter at each side, to allow light to fall on either the one eye or the
other, and it is then shown that the galvanometer needle moves either to
the right or left, according to the eye affected. Instead of removing the
eyes from the head and balancing them as just described, it is a much
better method to apply the two electrodes directly to the corneas in
their natural position. By a little manipulation, it is possible to
obtain two positions, that seemingly give no electrical current. In
these circumstances, light, allowed to fall on the one eye or the other,
produces the effects above detailed.
    Action of Polarized Light and Colours of Spectrum. —The next
point recently investigated is the action of polarized light and the
various complementary colours. We arrived at the results of our
earlier experiments with the colour-spectrum in various ways, such as
by passing light through solutions having various absorptive powers,
by the direct coloured rays of the spectrum, &c, but always with the
same conclusion— namely, that the most luminous rays produce the
greatest effect. For studying the action of polarized light, we have
recently used the simple contrivance of a black box, having a hole on
one side of it, placed over the eye. Opposite the hole we placed two
cylindrical tubes of brass, each carrying a Nicol's prism, and between
the two prisms a thin plate of quartz is introduced, producing the
various colours of polarized light on rotating one of the prisms.
The general results were exactly the same as when we used the
colours of the spectrum. In all cases, the impact of the yellow rays
produced the greatest effect. It has also been ascertained by this
method that the effect of the impact of light is much more regular
than the effect of its removal. The results of one scries of observa
tions are given in the two following tables :

144                      Professor James Dewar                     [March 31,
           Action on Frog's Eye of Colours of Polarized Light.
                                    Initial Effect.        Final Effect.
        Purple                       rise of 3              rise of  14
         Light Bluo                     .,       5             „     12
        Red Violet                        ,     5              „     15
        Blue                             „      7              „     20
         Red                            „ 8-5                  .,    15
        Orange Red                      „ 10                   .,    22
        Green Blue                      „ 10                   ..    24
         Green                          „ 13                   »    24
        Yellow                          „ 16                  ,.    24
         Rose                           „       8              ,.    19
       Action on Frog's Eye of Spectrum of Oxyhydrogen Flame.
                                    Initial Effect.        Final Effect.
        Yellow, nenr Orange      ..  rise of  70    .. .. rise of    10
         Cireen Yellow                   ,     25   .. ..      „      5
        Green — low                     „      15   ..  ..     „      0
         Green— high                    „      15   .. ..      „      0
         Green—higher                   „      18   .. ..      „      8
         Yellow Green                    ,     85               ,    35
         Yellow                                80                   40
    Determination of Electro-motive Force. —Very soon after the first
experiments were announced, certain physiologists said, that although
we had obtained the results of the action of light which I have
just described as indicated by the galvanometer, we had no right
to say that there was a change in the electro-motive force as stated in
the earlier communications. We had, however, satisfied ourselves
that the effect was due to an alteration in the electro-motive force,
but reserved details to the second part of our investigations. At first,
in attempting this Sir William Thomson's electrometer was used, but
the amount of electric potential to be measured was too small to get
good results. Another plan of determining the electro-motive force
 was adopted. This was the method introduced by Mr. Latimer
Clarke, the eminent electrician, and described in his work on
' Electrical Measurements.' The instrument devised for this purpose
is called by him a Potentiometer, and measures electro-motive forces
by a comparison of resistances. Practically we found the Paniell's
cell far too strong a battery to use as a standard of comparison". A
thermo-electric junction of bismuth and copper was substituted for it.
One end of the junction was constantly heated by a current of steam
passing over it, the other being immersed in melting ice. The
electro-motive force of this thermo-electric junction, as estimated
many years ago by Regnault, is extremely constant, and is about the
-r^jth part of a Daniell's cell. By means of this arrangement the
following results were obtained : —The electro-motive force of the
nerve-current dealt with in our experiments on the eye and the brain

1876.]             on the Physiological Action of Light.             145
of a frog varies from the 355th to the j^th of a Daniell's cell.
Light produced an alteration in the electro-motive force. This change
was, in many instances, not more than the -nnsW^ of a Daniell's cell.
But though small, it was quite distinct, and enabled us to say
positively that light produced a variation in the amount of the
electro-motive force. By the same arrangement, the gastroenemius
muscle of a well-fed frog gave 35th of a Daniell ; the same muscle
from a lean frog which had been long kept, gave 5j^th of a Daniell ;
and the sciatic nerve of the well-fed frog ^jith of a Daniell. Dr.
Charles Bland Badcliife states, in his 'Dynamics of Nerve and
Muscle,' p. 16, that he obtained, by means of Sir William Thomson's
quadrant electrometer, from a muscle, a positive charge equal to about
the tenth of a Daniell's cell, a much greater amount than ascertained
by the metho I I have just described.
     The electro-motive force existing between cornea and posterior
portion of the sclerotic in a frog amounts to -i-jxrth part of a Daniell,
and between the cornea and cross section of the brain is about four-
fifths of the above.
     Effect of Temperature on the Eye of the Frog. — From numerous
experiments on the irritability of muscle induced by the excitation of
nerve, it has been satisfactorily proved that a temperature of about
40° C. destroys the action of motor nerves in cold-blooded animals.
Up to the present time, we are acquainted with no observations as to
the temperature at which a terminal sense organ becomes incapable of
performing its functions. Having satisfactorily proved that the
retina is the structure in the eye producing the electrical variation
we have observed, it becomes evident that as long as this phenomenon
can be detected, the retina is still capable of discharging its normal
functions. In order to investigate thoroughly the effect of an in
creasing temperature on the sensibility of the retina, a method of
procedure was adopted of which the following may be taken as a general
account : a frog was killed, the two eyes removed rapidly from the
body, the one eye was placed on electrodes and maintained at the
 ordinary temperature of 16° C, while the other was placed on similar
 electrodes, contained in the interior of a water bath having a glass
front, the sides of the air chamber being lined with black cotton wool
 saturated with water. Into this chamber a delicate thermometer was
inserted, and the currents coming from the two eyes were alternately
transmitted to the galvanometer every five minutes by means of a
commutator, the temperature and the electrical variation produced by
the same amount of light being noted in each case. The general
 results are shown in the following table :

14G                             Professor James Dewar                              [March 31,
    Table showing Comparative Effect of Temperature on Sensibility of
                                         Frog's Eye.
             Eye kept continuously at           Eye at different Temperatures.
                        16° C.
            Initial Effect. Final Effect. Temperature. Initial Effect. Final Effect
                  55             28          16° C.           58            21
                  61             28          19° C.           55            16
                  53             27          24° C.           65            14
                  53             39          29° C.           97             5
                  53             45          29° C.          103           —4
                  6O             45          37° C.           65           —3
                  60             50         38° C.            65           —4
                  53             41         43° C.            12           —5
                  60             40         43° C.       no effect.     no effect.
     The initial amount of current was, however, increased on the
whole by the action of the higher temperature, thus showing that
the sensibility to light does not depend on the amount of current
circulating through the galvanometer. It will be observed, on in
specting this table, that the eye maintained at the temperature of 16° 0.
remains tolerably constant in its initial action, although it gradually
gets more sluggish, whereas the final effect steadily rises. On the
other hand, in the case of the eye subjected to a higher temperature,
the initial effect seems to have a maximum about 29° C, then
gradually diminishes, and vanishes about 43° C, the final effect con
tinuously falling and being actually reversed. To succeed in this
experiment, it is necessary to heat the electrodes which are to be used
in the water bath up to 40° C, in order to be certain that no changes
are induced in the electrodes themselves that might be mistaken for
those above mentioned. An eye that had been placed in dilute salt
solution along with lumps of ice was found to have the usual sensi
bility to light.
     Effect of Temperature on Eye of Pigeon.—Having succeeded in
experimenting with a water bath, in the manner above described, it
appeared interesting to ascertain if the eye of a warm-blooded animal
would be benefited by being maintained at the normal temperature of
body. The head of a pigeon was placed in the water bath, at a
temperature of 40° C, the eyes were found sensitive to light, the
action, however, being always a negative variation; but instead of
vanishing quickly, as it does at the ordinary temperature, kept up
 its activity for at least an hour. Por example, in one experiment, the
electrodes, being placed on the two corneas, so that the currents were
balanced, sensibility was active for an hour and a quarter, but half an
hour later it had almost disappeared. In this experiment, the sensi

1876.]               on the Physiological Action of Light.                         147
bility of the eye is shown by the large deflection produced by a single
candle at different distances—thus :
                      Distance of Candle         Divisions of Galvanometer
                          from Eye.                         Scale.
                            9 feet                           100
                            6 feet                           180
                            3 feet                           230
                            lfoot                            420
    Sensibility of the Optic Nerve.—We have formerly shown that when
the retina is entirely removed from the eye-ball, and the optic nerve
is still adherent to the sclerotic, no effect of light can be detected ;
and it now appeared possible to examine this question by repeating
Donders' experiment of focussing an image on the optic disc in the
uninjured eye, when no electrical disturbance ought to occur. This
was done in the eye of the pigeon, but an image free from irradiation
on the optic disc could not be produced, and consequently there was
always an electrical effect observed.
    Exhaustion and Stimulation of the Retina.—When the same light
from a fixed position is allowed to act on the eye for successive
intervals of time, say two minutes of light and two minutes of dark
ness, it gradually falls off in electrical sensibility. Thus, a candle at
9 inches gives the following results when successively used as a
stimulus :
                                          Initial Effect.            Final Effect.
                 1st experiment      ..  ..    259                      254
                 2nd        „        ..  ..    171                      276
                 3rd        „       ..   ..    140                      282
                 4th        „        ..  ..    122      ..   ..    ..    274
    These figures show a rapid fall of the initial effect. In these
circumstances, it is evident that the image being always localized on
the same minute portion of the retina, only a few of the rods and
cones of that structure are really exhausted. If the eye be allowed
repose in the dark for a period of from half an hour tcan hour, it will
regain as much as triple the exhausted sensibility. But another mode
of proving that only a minute portion of the retina was affected was
to show that an alteration of position of the image by a slight move
ment of the luminous body was followed by a new electric variation.
In order to vary and extend the action of a retinal image, it is
necessary to suspend a steady lamp by means of an indiarubber cord
or spiral spring, so as to be able, by inducing vibrations in any
direction, to stimulate in rapid succession different retinal areas. On
oscillating a pendulum of this kind, we have observed an electrical
variation whenever the amplitude of the vibrations is increased, and by
inducing a combination of vibrations, the electrical variation observed
corresponds to what would be found if the luminous intensity were
sixteen times as great as that of the stationary light. Similar experi
ments may be made by throwing an image from a small silver mirror

148                          Professor James Dewar                          [March 31,
connected with a metronome. The rapid exhaustion of the eye may be
most readily demonstrated by cutting off the anterior half of the eye,
leaving the vitreous humour in contact with the retina, observing the
effect of a candle, and then subjecting it to the action of a magnesium
lamp. The sensibility will now be enormously diminished. The
electrical variations resulting from the respective actions of a candle
and a magnesium lamp placed at the same distance from the eye
were as follows :
                                      Initial Effect,          Final Effect.
                                             3S       .. .. ..      78
                 Magnesium lamp            120        .. .. ..     135
This experiment proves that an increase of 200 per cent, in the
illuminating power of a source of light only triples the electrical
effect. Thus the eye becomes less sensitive as the illumination
increases.
Diagram showing the recording portion of Regnault's Chronograph. A A. Limbs of
     recording fork, worked by electro-magnets, G G. C. Slilotte on limb of recording
     tuning fork. B B. Levers in connection with armatures of electro-magnets, F F,
     and bearing markers D D, which, along with C, record on E, a strip of blackened
     paper passing over pulley.
     Chronometrical Observations.—The last point I wish to bring under
 your notice, is what we have recently been doing in the way of
 measuring the time required from the initial impact of light
 before the electrical variation is produced. As the electrical variation

1876.]            on the Physiological Action of Light.               149
has been shown to agree with our consciousness of luminous effects, it
became an interesting point to ascertain whether the time occupied
by the action of light upon the eye of the frog is similar to tho
time occupied in its action upon the eye of man. A good many years
ago, Professor Donders and his pupil, Schelske, performed a number
of experiments by which they determined that the time required by
the human being to observe light and to signal back the impression
occupied about ^th of a second. That is to say, ^th of a second is
occupied by the action of light on the eye, the transmission of nerve-
current to the brain, the change induced in the brain during percep
tion and volition, the time for the transmission of the nerve-current
to the muscles, on signalling the result, and the time occupied by
muscular contraction. The true period of latent stimulation in the
case of man must therefore be a very small fraction of a second. In
order to attempt a solution of this problem we have used a chrono
graph made by Dr. Konig, of Paris. A diagram of the recording
portion of the instrument is given above. The experimental
arrangements were as follows : The galvanometer, the eye apparatus,
and the chronograph being in separate rooms, one observer was
stationed at the galvanometer for the purpose of signalling the
moment the needle worked, which was recorded by one of the markers
D in the diagram, the other marker being used to register the time of
initial action.
    The first experiment was to transmit at a known moment, through
the eye circuit in the dark room, a quantity of current equal in
amount to the electrical variation produced when the eye was
stimulated by a flash of light from a vacuum tube, and to record the
difference of time between the origin of the current and the observer's
signal from the galvanometer.
    The second experiment was to flash a vacuum tube at a known
moment in a room where the eye was placed, and to record as before
the instant the galvanometer was affected. From the first observation
we ascertain the minimum amount of time necessary to overcome the
inertia of the instrument, the observer's personal equation, and the
signalling under the conditions of the experiment. If this result is
subtracted from the record of the second observation, the difference
will represent the latent period of light stimulation. From a large
number of experiments made on the eye of the frog we have found the
latent period amounts to less than TVth of a second, but its absolute
value must be ascertained by some method not liable to the variations
that are inevitable to the process described. Altogether the problem
is one of great difficulty, but we hope to continue the investigations.
                                                            [J.D.]

 150                        General Monthly Meeting.                  [April 3,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, April 3, 1876.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
               Mrs. Wm. Amhurst Tyssen Amhurst,
               Professor Albert James Bernays, Ph.D.
               Frederick Joseph Bramwell, Esq. F.R.S.
               Lieut.-Col. Christopher Buckle,
               Manuel Garcia, Esq. Hon. M.D.
               The Lady Albert Leveson Gower,
               Miss Wilhelmina Lydia Hall,
               Miss Mary Hall McClean,
               H. Saxon Snell, Esq.
               Samuel Sandars, Esq. MA Cant.
               William Woolley Turton, Esq.
               George Whitaker Walter, Esq.
               Allan V. White, Esq.
               James Wilson Eemington-Wilson, Esq.
were elected members of the Royal Institution.
     The following Arrangements of the Lectures after Easter were
announced :—
     Professor P. M. Duncan, F.R.S. — Four Lectures on the Comparative
Geology and former Physical Geographies of India, Australia, and South Africa ;
on Tuesdays, April 25 to May 16.
     Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. — Seven Lectures on Voltaic
Electricity ; on Thursdays, April 27 to June 8.
     Henry Woodward, Esq. F.R.S. F.G.S.—Two Lectures on Crustacea; on
Saturdays, April 29 and May 6.
     Professor W. G. Adams, F.R.S.—Three Lectures on some of Wheatstone's
Discoveries and Inventions ; on Tuesdays, May 23 to June 6.
     Frederick J. Furnivall, Esq.—Two Lectures on Chaucer; on Saturdays,
May 13 and 20.
     Professor Henry Morley, M.A.—Three Lectures on King Arthur's Place
in English Literature ; on Saturdays, May 27 to June 10.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     from
Agent-General for New South Wales—Financial Statement of Hon. J. Robertson.
     fol. 1875.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Second Series, Vol. XII. Part 1.
     8vo. 1876.

 1876.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                      151
 American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 95. 8vo. 1875.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1875, Part I. No. 3 ; Part II. No. 2. 8vo.
   Proceedings, 1875. No. 9. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVI. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo.
      1876.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1875-6. Nos. 5-8. 4to.
 Chemical Society—Journal for Feb. 1876. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1876. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for March, 1876. 4to.
   Chemical News for March, 1876. 4to.
    Electrical News for March, 1876.
   Engineer for March, 1876. fol.
   Journal for Applied Science for March, 1876. fol.
   Nature for March, 1876. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for March, 1876. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1876. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal for March 15, 1876. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 602, 603. 8vo. 1876.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1875. No. 2. 8vo.
Linnean Society—Journal, Botany, No. 82. 8vo. 1876.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Reports, 1874. Part 2. 4to. 1876.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Part 2. 8vo. 1876.
 New Zealand Government—Statistics for 1874. fol. 1875.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 265. 8vo. 1876.
Preussische Akademie der Wissensctutften—Monatsberiohte, Dec. 1875. 8vo.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXVII. Part 3. 4to. 1874-5.
   Proceedings, No. 90. 8vo. 1874-5.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 167. 8vo. 1876.
Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences—Handlingar (Memoirs), 1870, 1871, 1873.
      3 vols. 4to.
   Bi-hang (Supplement) : I. II. 8vo.
   Ofversigt (Bulletins). Nos. 28-31. 8vo.
   Lefnadsteckingar : I. 3. 8vo.
Scottish Society of Arts—Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 3. 8vo. 1875.
Smithsonian Institution—Smithsonian Report, 1874. 8vo. 1875.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symona' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      March, 1876. 8vo.
Tennant, Professor, F.G.S.—T. Sopwith, F.R.S. Description of Geological
      Models. 12mo. 1875.
Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 36. 8vo. 1876.
Whitburn, T. Esq. (the Editor)—Westward Hoe for Avalon in the New-found-
      land : as described by Captain R. Whitbourne, of Exmouth, Devon, 1622.
      12mo. 1870.
Wild, M. H. (the Editor)—Repertorium fur Meteorologie. Band IV. Heft 2. 4to.
      1875.
Woodworth, Dr. J. M. U.S.—Report of U.S. Marine Service. 8vo. 1874.
   Cholera Epidemic in the United States, 1873. 8vo. 1875.
Yorkshire Archaeological Society—Journal, Parts 13, 14. 8vo. 1875.

 152              Mr. E. B. Tijlor on Ordealt and Oaths.       [April 7,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, April 7, 1876.
       Geohge Busk, Esq. F.B.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                 Edward Buknrtt Tvlor, Esq. F.B.S.
                           Ordeals and Oaths.
In primitive stages of society the clannish life of rude tribes may
well have been more favourable to frank and truthful and faithful
relations between man and man, than our wider and looser social in
tercourse can be. Yet one can see from the habits of modern savages
that already in early savage times society was setting itself to take
measures against men who broke faith, to save themselves from harm,
or to gain some coveted good. At the stage of civilization where
social order was becoming regular and settled, the wise men turned
their minds to devise guarantees stronger than mere yes and no.
Thus the ordeal and the oath were introduced that wrong-doing
should not be concealed or denied, that unrighteous claims should
not be backed by false witness, and that covenants made should not
be broken.
    The principles on which these ordeals and oaths were invented
and developed may to this day be plainly made out. It is evident
that the matter was referred to the two intellectual orders of early
times—the magicians and the priests. Each advised after the manner
of his profession. The magician said, With my symbols and charms
I will try the accused, and bind the witness and the promisor. The
priest said, I will call upon my spirits, and they shall find out the
hidden thing, and p-nish the lie and the broken vow. Now magic
and religion are separate in their nature and origin. Magic is based
on a delusive tendency arising out of the association of ideas, namely,
the tendency to believe that things which are ideally connected in
our minds must thercforo be really connected in the outer world.
Religion is based on the doctrine of spiritual beings, souls, demons,
or deities, who take cognizance of men and interpose in their affairs.
It is needful to keep this absolute distinction clear in our minds, for
on it depends our finding our mental way through a set of complicated
proceedings, in which magical and religious elements have become
mixed in the most intricate ways. Well they might, considering
how commonly the professions of sorcerer and priest have overlapped
so as even to be combined in one and the same person. But it seems
from a general survey of the facts of ordeals and oaths, that on the

   1876.]          Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordealt and Oaths.               153
  whole the magical element in them is earliest and underlying, while
  the religious element is apt to come in later in history, often only
. taking up and consecrating some old magical process.
      In the series of instances to be brought into view, this blending
  of the religious with the magical element will be repeatedly ob
  servable. It will be seen also that the oideal and the oath are not
  only allied in their fundamental principles, but that they continually
  run into one another in their use. Oaths, we shall see, are made to
  act as ordeals, and ordeals are brought in as tests of oaths. While
  recognizing this close connection, it will be convenient to divide the
  two, and take them in order, according to their practical application,
 ordeals being proceedings for the discovery of wrong-doers, while
 oaths are of the nature of declarations or undertakings.
      The association of ideas which serves as a magical basis ior an
 ordeal is quite childish in its simplicity. Suppose it has to be deieded
 which of two men have acted wrongfully, and appeal is haa to the
 ordeal. There being no evidence on the real issue, a fanciful issue is
 taken instead, which can be settled, and the association of ideas does
 the rest. Thus in Borneo, when two Dayaks have to decide which is
 in the right, they have two equal lumps of salt given them to drop
  together into water, and the one whose lump is gone first is in the
 wrong. Or they put two live shell-fish on a plate, one for each
 disputant, and squeeze lime-juice over them, the verdict being given
 according to which man's champion mollusk moves first. This
 reasoning is such as any child can enter into. Among the Sandwich
 islanders, again, when a thief had to be detected, the priest would
 consecrate a dish of water, and the suspected persons, one by one,
 held their hands over it, till the approach of the guilty was known by
 the water trembling. Here the connection of ideas is plain. But we
 may see it somewhat more fully thought out in modern Europe,
  where the old notion is not forgotten that the executioner's sword
 will tremble when a thief draws near, and even utter a dull clang
 at the approach of a murderer.
      Starting with the magical ordeal, we have next to notice how
 the religious element is imported into it. Take the ordeal of the
 balance, well known to Hindu law. A rude pair of scales is set
 up with its wooden scale-beam supported on posts, the accused is
 put in one scale, and stones and sand in the other to counterpoise
 him, then he is taken out, and the balance is called upon to show
 his guilt by letting him go down on re-weighing, or his innocence by
 raising him up. This is pure magic, the ideal weight of guilt being
 by mere absurd association of ideas transferred to material weight in
 a pair of scales. In this process no religious act is essential, but in
 practice it is introduced by prayers and sacrifices, and a sacred
 formula appealing to the great gods who know the walk of men, so
 that it is considered to be by their divine aid that the accused, when
 put back into the scale, rises or falls at once in material fact and
 moral metaphor. If he either goes fairly up or down, the case is
      Vol. VIII. (No. 65.)                                       m

154             Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.          [April 7,
clear. But a difficulty arises if the accused happens to weigh the
same as he did five minutes before ; so nearly, at least, as can be
detected by a pair of heavy wooden scales which would hardly turn
within an ounce or two. This embarrassing possibility has, in fact,
perplexed the Hindu lawyers not a little. One learned pundit says—
he is guilty unless he goes right up ! A second suggests—weigh him
again ! A third distinguishes with subtlety—if he weighs tho same
he is guilty, but not so guilty as if he had gone right down ! The
one only interpretation that never occurs to any of them is, that sin
may be an imponderable. We may smile at the Hindu way of striking
a moral balance, but it should be remembered that a similar practice,
probably a survival from the same original Aryan rite, was kept up
in England up to the last century. In 1759, near Aylesbury, a woman
who could not get her spinning-wheel to go round, and naturally
concluded that it had been bewitched, charged one Susannah Haynokes
with being the witch. At this Susannah's husband was indignant,
and demanded that his wife should be allowed to clear herself by the
customary ordeal of weighing. So they took her to the parish church,
stripped her to her under-garments, and weighed her against the
church Bible ; she outweighed it, and went home in triumph. Here
the metaphor of weighing is worked in the opposite way to that in
India ; but it is quite as intelligible, and not a whit the worse for
practical purposes. For yet another case, how an old magical process
may be afterwards transformed by bringing in the religious sanction,
we may look at the ancient classic sieve and shears, the sieve being
suspended by sticking the points of the open shears into the rim, and
the handles of the shears balanced on the forefingers of the holders.
To discover a thief, or a lover, all that was required was to call over
all suspected names, till the instrument turned at the right one. In
the course of history, this childish divining-ordeal came to be
christianized into the key and Bible, the key of course to open the
secret, the Bible to supply the test of truth. For a thief-ordeal, the
proper mode is to tie in the key at the verso of the 50th Psalm :
"When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him," and then
when the names are called over, at the name of the guilty one the
instrument makes its sign by swerving and falling from the holder's
hands. This is interesting as being almost the only ordeal which
survives in common use in England ; it may be met with in many
an out-of-the-way farmhouse. It is some years since English rustics
have dared to " swim " a witch, that is, to put in practice the ancient
water-ordeal, which our folklore remembers in its most archaic Aryan
form. Its essential principle is as plainly magical as any ; the water,
being set to make the trial, shows its decision by rejecting the guilty,
who accordingly comes up to the surface. Our ancestors, who did
not seize the distinction between weight and specific gravity, used to
wonder at the supernatural power with which the water would hcavo
up a wicked fellow, even if he weighed sixteen stone.
    Mediasval ordeals, by water or fire, by touch of the corpse, or by

1876.]            Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.              155
wager of battle, have fallen to mere curiosities of literature, and it is
needless to dwell here on their well-known picturesque details, or to
repeat the liturgies of prayer or malediction said or sung by the con
secrating priests. It is not by such accompanying formulas, but by
the intention of the act itself, that we must estimate the real position
of the religious element in it. Nowhere is this so strong as in what
may be called the ordeal by miracle, where the innocent, by divine
help, walks over the nine red-hot ploughshares, or carries the red-hot
iron bar seven paces, or drinks a dose of deadly poison, and is none
the worse for it ; or, on the other hand, where tho draught of harmless
water cursed or consecrated by the priests will bring within few days
dire disease on him or her who, being guilty, has dared to drink of it.
    Looking at the subject from the statesman's point of view, the
survey of the ordeals of all nations and ages enables us to judge with
some certainty what their practical effect has been for evil or good.
Their basis being mere delusive imagination, when honestly adminis
tered their being right or wrong has been matter of mere accident.
    It would, however, be a mistake to suppose that fair-play ever
generally prevailed in the administration of ordeals. As is well
known, they have always been engines of political power in the hands
of unscrupulous priests and chiefs. Often it was unnecessary even to
cheat, when the arbiter had it at his pleasure to administer either a
harmless ordeal like drinking cursed water, or a deadly ordeal by a
dose of aconite or physostigma. When it comes to sheer cheating,
nothing can be more atrocious than this poison-ordeal. In West
Africa, where the Calabar bean is used, the administerers can give the
accused either a dose which will make him sick, and so prove his
innocence, or they can give him enough to prove him guilty and
murder him in the very act of proof. When we consider that over a
great part of that great continent this and similar drugs usually
determine the destiny of people inconvenient to the fetish-man and
the chief, the constituted authorities of church and state, we see before
us one efficient cause of the unprogressive character of African society.
The famed ordeal by red-hot iron, also, has been a palpable swindle
in the hands of the authorities. In India and Arabia it is a recognized
test of guilt or innocence to lick a hot iron; now no doubt the
initiated know that innocent or guilty alike can lick a white-hot iron
with impunity, as any blacksmith will do, and as I have done myself,
the layer of vapour in a spheroidal state preventing any chemical
contact with the skin. As for the walking over red-hot ploughshares,
or carrying a red-hot iron bar seven paces in the palm of the hand,
their fraudulent nature fits with the fact that the judges who adminis
tered them took their precautions against close approach of spectators
much more carefully than the jugglers do who handle the red-hot
bars and walk over the ploughshares at the circus nowadays; and
moreover, any list of cases will show how inevitably the friend of the
church got off, while the man on the wrong side was sure to " lose his
cause and burn his fingers." Remembering how Queen Emma with
                                                              11 2

 156              Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oalhs.            [April 7,
 uplifted eyes walked over the ploughshares without knowing it, and
 asked when the trial was to begin, and how after this triumphant
 issue one-and-twenty manors were settled on the bishopric and church
 of Winchester, it may be inferred with some probability that the
 glowing ploughshares glowed with nothing more dangerous than
 daubs of red paint.
     Almost the only effect of ordeals which can be looked upon as
 beneficial to society, is that the belief in their efficacy has done some
 thing to deter the credulous from crime, and still more often has led
 the guilty to betray himself by his own terrified imagination. Visitors
to Bome know the great round marble mask called the Bocca della
Verita. It is but the sink of an old drain, but many a frightened
knave has shrunk from the test of putting his hand into its open
mouth and taking oath of his innocence, lest it should really close on
him, as tradition says it docs on the forsworn. The ordeal by the
mouthful of food is still popular in southern Asia for its practical
effectiveness ; the thief in the household, his mouth dry with nervous
terror, fails to masticate or swallow fairly the grains of rice. So in
old England the culprit could not swallow the consecrated cor-suaed
or trial-slice of bread or cheese, but it stuck in his throat, as in
Earl Godwin's in the story. To this day the formula, "May this
mouthful choke me if I am not speaking truth!" keeps up the
memory of the official ordeal. Not less effective is the ordeal by
curse still used in Bussia to detect a thief. The babushka, or local
witch, stands with a vessel of water before her in the midst of the
assembled household, and makes bread pills to drop in, saying to each
in order : " Ivan Ivanoff, if you are guilty, as this ball falls to the
bottom, so your soul will fall into hell." But this is more than any
common Bussian will face, and the rule is that the culprit confesses
at sight. This is the best that can be said for ordeals. Under their
most favourable aspect, they are useful delusions or pious frauds. At
worst, they are those wickedest of human deeds, crimes disguised
behind the mask of justice. Shall we wondor that the world, slowly
trying its institutions by the experience of ages, has at last come to
the stage of casting out the judicial ordeal? Or shall we rather
wonder at the constitution of the human mind, which for so many
ages has set up the creations of delusive fancy to hold sway over a
world of facts.
    From the Ordeal we now pass to the Oath. The oath, for pur
poses of classification, may be best defined as an asseveration made
under superhuman penalty, such penalty being (as in the ordeal)
either magical or religious in its nature, or both combined. Here,
then, we distinguish the oath from the mere declaration or promise
or covenant, however formal. For example, the covenant by grasping
hands is not in itself an oath, nor is even that wide-spread ancient
ceremony of entering into a bond of brotherhood by the two parties
mixing drops of their blood, or tasting each other's. This latter rite,
though often called an oath, can under this definition only be

1876.]           Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.                 157
reckened as a solemn compact. But when a Galla of Abyssinia sits
down over a pit covered over with a hide, imprecating that he may
fall into a pit if he breaks his word, or when in our police-courts we
make a Chinaman swear by taking an earthen saucer and breaking
it on the rail in front of the witness-box, signifying, as the interpreter
then puts it in words, " If you do not tell the truth, your soul will be
cracked like this saucer "—we have here two full oaths, of which
the penalty, magical or religious, is shown in pantomime before us.
(By the way, the English judges who authorized this somewhat sensa
tional ceremonymust have believed that they were calling on the China
man to take a judicial oath after the manner of his own country ; but
they acted under a mistake, for in fact the Chinese use no oaths at all
in their law-courts.) Now we have to distinguish the real oaths from
mere asseverations, such as are made in emphatic terms, or with
descriptive gestures, merely for the purpose of showing the strength
of resolve in the declarer's mind. Where, then, does the difference lie
between the two ? It is clearly to be found in the incurring of super
natural penalty. There would be no difficulty at all in clearing up
the question, were it not that theologians have set up a distinction
between oaths of imprecation and oaths of witness. Such subtleties,
however, looked at from a practical point of view, are seen to be
casuistic cobwebs, which a touch of the rough broom of common-sense
will sweep away. The practical question is this, Does the swearer
mean that by going through the ceremony he brings on himself, if he
breaks faith, some special magic harm, or divine displeasure and
punishment ? If so, tho oath is practically imprecatory ; if not, it is
futile, wanting the very sanction which gives it legal value. It does
not matter whether the imprecation is stated or only implied. When
a Beduin picks up a straw, and swears by Him who made it grow and
 wither, there is no need to accompany this with a homily on the fate
 of the perjured. This reticenco is so usual in the world, that as often
 as not we have to go outside the actual formula and ceremony to learn
 what their full intention is. Let us now examine some typical forms of
 oath. The rude natives of New Guinea swear by the sun, or by a certain
mountain, or by a weapon, that the sua may burn them, or the moun
tain crush them, or the weapon wound them, if they lie. The even
ruder savages of the Brazilian forests, to confirm their words, raise the
hand over the head or thrust it into their hair, or they will touch the
points of their weapons. These two accounts of savage ceremony
introduce us to customs well known to nations of higher culture. The
raising of the hand toward the sky seems to mean here what it does
elsewhere. It is in gesture calling on the Heaven-god to smite the per
jurer with his thunderbolt. The touching of the head, again, carries
 its meaning among these Brazilians almost as plainly as in Africa,
where we find men swearing by their heads and limbs, in the belief
that they would wither if forsworn ; or when among the Old Prussians
 a man would lay his right hand on his own neck, and his left on the
 holy oak, saying, " May Perkun (the Thunder-god) destroy me ! "

158               Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.        [April 7,
As to swearing by weapons, another graphic instance of its original
meaning comes from Aracan, where the witness swearing to speak the
truth takes in his hand a musket, a sword, a spear, a tiger's tusk, a
crocodile's tooth, and a thunderbolt (that is, of course, a stone celt).
The oath by the weapon not only lasted on through classic ages,
but remained so common in Christendom that it was expressly for
bidden by a Synod ; even in the seventeenth century, to swear on one's
sword was still a legal oath in Holstein. As for the holding up of the
hand to invoke the personal divine sky, the successor of this primitive
gesture remains to this day among the chief acts in the solemn oaths
of European nations.
      It could scarcely be shown more clearly with what child-like
 imagination the savage conceives a symbolic action, such as touching
 his head or his spear, will somehow pass into a reality. In con
 nection with this group of oaths, we can carry yet a step further the
 illustration of the way men's minds work in this primitive stage of
 association of ideas. One of the accounts from New Guinea is that
 the swearer, holding up an arrow, calls on Heaven to punish him if
 he lies ; but by turning the arrow the other way, and using certain
 herbs, the oath can be neutralized. This is magic all over. What
 one symbol can do, the reverse symbol can undo. True to the laws
 of primitive magical reasoning, uncultured men elsewhere still
 carry on the symbolic reversal of their oaths. An Abyssinian chief
 who had sworn an oath he disliked has been seen to scrape it off his
 tongue, and spit it out. There are still places in Germany where the
 false witness reckens to escape the spiritual consequences of perjury
 by crooking one finger, to make it, I suppose, not a straight, but a
 crooked oath ; or he puts his left hand to his side to neutralize what
 the right hand is doing. Here is the idea of our " over the left " ;
 but so far as I know this has come down with us to mere schoolboy's
 shuffling.
       It has just been noticed that the arsenal of deadly weapons by
  which the natives of Aracan swear includes a tiger's tusk and a
  crocodile's tooth. This leads us to a group of instructive rites
  belonging to Central and North Asia. A few years ago, probably to
  this day, there might be seen in law-courts in Siberia the oath on the
  bear's head. When an Ostyak is to be sworn, a bear's head is
  t rought into court, and the man makes believe to bite at it, calling
  on the bear to devour him in like manner if he does not tell the
  truth. Now the meaning of this act goes beyond magic and into
  religion ; for wo are here in the region of bear-worship, among people
  who believe that this wise and divine beast knows what goes on, and
  will come and punish them. Nor need one wonder at this, for the
  idea that the bear will hear, and come, if called on, is familiar to
  German mythology. I was interested to find it still in survival in
  Switzerland a few years ago, when a peasant woman, whom a mis
  chievous little English boy had irritated beyond endurance, pro
  nounced the ancient awful imprecation on him, " The Bear take

1876.]            Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.               159
thee ! " (Der Bar nimm dich !). Among the Hill tribes of India a
tiger's skin is sworn on in the same sense as the bear's head among
the Ostyaks. Rivers, again, which to the savage and barbarian are
intelligent and personal divinities, are sworn by, in strong belief that
their waters will punish him who takes their name in vain. We can
understand why Homeric heroes swore by the rivers, when we hear
still among Hindus how the sacred Ganges will take vengeance sure
and terrible on the children of the perjurer. It is with the same
personification, the same fear of impending chastisement from the
outraged deity, that savage and barbaric men swore by sky or sun.
Thus the Huron Indian would say in making solemn promise,
" Heaven hears what we do this day ! " and the Tunguz, brandishing
a knife before the sun, would say, " If I lie may the sun plunge
sickness into my entrails like this knife." We have but to rise one
stage higher in religious ideas to reach the type of the famous Roman
oaths by Jupiter, the Heaven-god. He who swore held in his hand
a stone, praying that if he knowingly deceived, others might be safe
in their countries and laws, their holy places and their tombs, but
he alono might be cast out, as this stone now— and he flung it from
him. Even more impressive was the great treaty-oath, where the
pater patratus, holding the sacred flint that symbolized the thunder
bolt, called on Jove that if by public counsel or wicked fraud the
Romans should break the treaty first, " in that day, O Jove, smite
thou the Roman people as I here to-day shall smite this swine, and
smite the heavier as thou art stronger ! " So saying, he slew the
victim with the sacred stone.
     These various examples may be taken as showing the nature and
 meaning of such oaths as belong to the lower stages of civilization.
 Their binding power is that of curses, that the perjurer may be visited
 by mishap, disease, death. But at a higher stage of culture, where
 the gods are ceasing to bo divine natural objects like the Tiber or
 Ganges, or the sun or sky, but are passing into the glorified human
 or heroic stage, like Apollo or Venus, there comes into view a milder
 kind of oath, where the man enters into fealty with the god, whom he
 asks to favour or preserve him on condition of his keeping troth.
 Thus, while the proceeding is still an oath with a penalty, this penalty
now lies in the perjurer's forfeiting the divine favour. To this
milder form, which we may conveniently call the " oath of con
 ditional favour," belong such classic phrases as, " So may the gods
 love me ! " (Ita me Dii ament ! ), " As I wish the gods to be pro
 pitious to me ! " (Ita mihi Deos velim propitios). I call attention to
 this class of oaths, of which we shall presently meet with a remarkable
 example nearer home. We have now to take into consideration a
 movement of far larger scope.
     Returning to the great first-mentioned class of savage and
 barbaric oaths, sworn by gestures or weapons, or by invocations of
 divine beasts, or rivers, or greater nature-deities ; the question now to
 be asked is, What is tho nature of the penalties ? They are that the

160              Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.          [April 7,
perjurer may be withered by disease, wounded, drowned, smitten by
the thunderbolt, and so forth ; all these being temporal visible punish
ments. The state of belief to which the whole plan belongs is that
explicitly described among the natives of the Tonga Islands, where
oaths were received on the declared ground that the gods would
punish the false swearer here on earth. A name is wanted to denote
this class of oaths, belonging especially to the lower culture. Let us
call them " mundane oaths." Now it is much above their original
level in culture, that the thought comes in of the perjurer being
punished in a world beyond the grave. This was a conception familiar
to the Egyptians in their remotely ancient civilization. It was at
home among the old Homeric Greeks, as when Agamemnon, swearing
his mighty oaths, calls to witness not only Father Zeus, and the all-
seeing sun, and the rivers and earth, but also the Erinnyes who down
below chastise the souls of the dead, whosoever shall have been for
sworn. Not less plainly is it written in the ancient Hindu Laws of
Manu, " A man of understanding shall swear no false oath even in a
trifling matter, for he who swears a false oath goes hereafter and here
to destruction." To this stage of culture, then, belongs the introduc
tion of the new " post-mundane " element into oaths. For ages after
wards, nations might still use either kind, or combine them by adding the
penalty after death to that in life. But in the latter course of history,
there comes plainly into view a tendency to subordinate the old
mundane oath, and at last to suppress it altogether. How this came
to pass is plain on the face of the matter. It was simply the result of
accumulated experience. The continual comparison of opinion with
facts could not but force observant minds to admit that a man might
swear falsely on sword's edge or spear's point, and yet die with a whole
skin, that bears and tigers are not to be depended on to choose perjurers
for their victims, and that in fact the correspondence between the im
precation and the event was not real but only ideal. How judgment
by real results thus shaped itself in men's minds, we may see by the
 way it came to public utterance in classic times, nowhere put more
cogently than in the famous dialogue in the " Clouds " of Aristophanes.
The old farmer Strcpsiades asks, " Whence comes the blazing thunder
 bolt that Zeus hurls at the perjured?" " You fool," replies the Socrates
 of the play, " you smack of old Kronos' times—if Zeus smote perjurers,
 he would have been down on those awful fellows Simon and Kleonymos
 and Theoros. Why, what Zeus does with his bolt, is to smite his own
 temple, and the heights of Sunium, and the tall oaks ! Do you mean
 to say that an oak-tree can commit perjury ? " What is said here in
 chaff, full many a reasonable man in the old days must have said to
 himself in the soberest earnest, and once said or thought, but one
 result could come of it, the result which history shows us did come.
The scene of the judicial oath was gradually changed, and the later
kind, of which the penalty concerned the future life, remained practi
cally in possession of the field.
     As a point in the Science of Culture which has hitherto been

1876.]            Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.              161
ecaroely, if at all, observed, I am anxious to call attention to the
historical stratification of judicial oaths, from the lowest stratum of
mundane oaths belonging to savage or barbaric times, to the highest
stratum of post-mundane oaths such as obtain among modern civilized
nations.
     Roughly, the development in the course of ages may be expressed
in the following two classifications :
              Mundane        )          - Curse.
              Mixed           \ Oaths | Conditionul favour.
              Post-mundane )            | Judgment.
     Though these two series only partly coincide in history, they so
far fit that the judicial oaths of the lower culture belong to the class
of mundane curse, while those of the higher culture in general
belong to that of post-mundane judgment. Anthropologically, this
is the most special new view I have here to bring forward. It forms
part of a wider generalization, belonging at ouce to the Science of
Morals and the Science of Religion. But rather than open out the
subject into this too wide field, we may do well to fix it in our minds
by tracing a curious historical point in the legal customs of our own
country. Everyone knows that the modes of administering a judicial
oath in Scotland and in England are not the same. In Scotland,
where the witness holds up his hand toward heaven, and swears to
tell the truth as he shall answer it at the Day of Judgment, we have
before us the most explicit possible example of a post-mundane oath
framed on Christian lines. In contrasting this with the English
judicial oath, we first notice that our acted ceremony consists
commonly in taking a New Testament in the hand and kissing it.
Thus, unlike the Scotch oath, the English oath is sworn on a
halidome (Anglo-Saxon hdligdom, German heiligthum), a holy or sacred
object. Many writers have fallen into confusion about this word,
mystifying it into sacred judgment, or, " holy doom ; " but it is a
perfectly straightforward term for a sanctuary or relic, as " On tham
haligdome swerian " = to swear by the relic. Now, this custom of
swearing on a halidome belongs to far pras-Christian antiquity, one
famous example being when Hannibal, then a lad of nine years old,
was brought by his father to the altars and made to swear by touching
the sacred things (tactis sacris) that when he grew up he would be
the enemy of Rome. In classical antiquity the sacred objects were
especially the images and altars of the gods, as it is put in a scene in
Plautus, " Touch this altar of Venus ! " The man answers, " I touch
it," and then he is sworn. When this ancient rite came into use in early
Christian England, the object touched might be the altar itself, or a
relic-shrine like that which Harold is touching with his right fore
finger in the famous scene in the Bayeux tapestry, or, it might be a
Missal, or a book of the Gospels. In modern England a copy of the
New Testament has become the recognized halidome on which oaths
are taken, and the practice of kissing it has almost supplanted the

162             Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.          [April 7,
older and more general custom of touching it with the hand. Next,
our attention must be called to the remarkable formula in which (in
England, not in Scotland) the invocation of the Deity is made, " So
help me God ! " or " So help you God 1 " Many a modern English
man puzzles over this obscure form of words. When the question is
asked wbat the meaning of the oath is, the official interpretation
practically comes to saying that it means the same as the Scotch oath.
But neither by act nor word does it convey this meaning. So obvious
is the discrepancy between what is considered to be meant, and what
is actually done and said, thatPaley, remarking on the different forms
of swearing in different countries, does not scruple to say that they
are " in no country in the world, I believe, worse contrived either to
convey the meaning, or impress the obligation of an oath, than in our
own."
    This remark of Paley's aptly illustrates a principle of the Science
of Culture, which cannot be too strongly impressed on the minds of all
who study tho institutions of their own or any other age. People
often talk of mystic formulas and mystic ceremonies. But the more
we study civilization in its earlier stages, the more we shall find that
formulas and ceremonies, both in law and in religion, are as purpose
ful and business-like as can be, if only we get at them anywhere near
their origin. What happens afterwards is this, that while men's
thoughts and wants gradually change, the old phrases and ceremonies
are kept up by natural conservatism, so that they become less and less
appropriate, and then as meaning falls away, its place is apt to be
filled up with mystery. Applying this principle to the English oath-
formula, we ask what and where it originally was. It was Teutonic-
Scandinavian, for though corresponding formulas are known in Latin
(" Ita me adjuvet Deus "), and in Old French (" Ce m'ait Dicx," &c),
these are shown by their comparatively recent dates to be mere trans
lations of the Germanic originals. Now although ancient English
and German records fail to give the early history of tho phrase, this
want is fortunately supplied by a document preserved in Iceland.
Some while after the settlement of the island by the Northmen, but
long before their conversion to Christianity, the settlers felt the
urgent need of a code of laws, and accordingly Ulfliot went to Norway
for three years to Thorleif the Wise, who imparted to him his legal
lore. Ulfliot went to Norway a.d. 925, so that the form of judicial
oath ho authorized, and which was at a later time put on record in
the Icelandic Landnamabdk, may be taken as good and old in Norse
law. Its pra>Christian character is, indeed, obvious from its tenour.
The halidome on which it was sworn was a metal arm-ring, which
was kept by the godhi or priest, who reddened it with the blood of the
ox sacrificed, and the swearer touching it said, in words that are still
half English : " Name I to witness that I take oath by the ring, law-
oath, so help me Frey, and Niordk, and almighty Thor (hialpi mer
sva Freyr, ok Niordhr, ok hinn almattki Ass), as I shall this suit
follow or defend, or witness bear or verdict or doom, as I wit lightest

1876.]             Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.             163
and soothest and most lawfully," &c. Here, then, we have the full
and intelligible formula which must very nearly represent that of
which we keep a mutilated fragment in our English oath. So close is
the connection, that two of the gods referred to, Frey and Thor (.who
is described as the almighty god) are the old English gods whose
names we commemorate in Friday and Thursday. The formula
belongs, with the classic ones lately spoken of, to the class of oaths of
conditional favour, " so help me as I shall do rightly," while
Frey and Niordh are gods whom a Norse warrior would ask for
earthly help, but who would scarcely concern themselves with his
soul after death. It is likely that the swearer was not indeed un
mindful of what the skalds sang of Nastrond, the strand of corpses,
that loathly house arched of the bodies of huge serpents, whose heads,
turned inward, dripped venom on the perjurers and murderers within.
 But the primary formula is, as I have said, that of the oath of con
 ditional favour, not of judgment. With the constituents of the
modern English oath now fairly before us, we see that its incoherence,
as usual in such cases, has a historical interpretation. What we have
done is to transplant from archaic fetish-worship the ceremony of the
 halidome or consecrated object, and to combine with this one half of
 a pras-Christian formula of conditional favour, without the second
 half which made sense of it. Considering that to this combination is
 attached a theological interpretation which is neither implied in act
 nor word, we cannot wonder if in the popular mind a certain amount
 of obscurity, not to say mystery, surrounds the whole transaction.
 Nevertheless we may well deprecate any attempt to patch up into
 Scotch distinctness and consistency the old formula, which may well
 last untouched so long as judicial oaths shall remain in use in
 England.
      Being in the midst of this subject, it may not be amiss to say a
 few words upon old and new ideas as to the administration of oaths to
 little children. The canon law expressly forbade the exacting of an
 oath from children under fourteen, " Pucri ante annos xiv. non
 cogantur jurare." This prohibition is derived from yet earlier law.
 The rough old Norsemen would not take oaths from children, as
  comes out so quaintly in the saga of Baldur, where the goddess makes
 all the beasts and birds and trees swear they would not harm him,
  but the little mistletoe only she craved no oath from, for she thought
 it was too young. Admitting the necessity of taking children's evi
 dence somehow, the question is how best to do this. In England it
 must be done on oath, and for this end there has arisen in our courts
 a custom of putting the child through an inquisition as to the theo
  logical consequences of perjury, so as usually to extract from it a
 well-known definition, which the stiffest theologian will not stand to
 for a moment if put straight to him, but which is looked upon as a
 proper means for binding the conscience of a little child. Moreover,
  children in decent families learn to answer plain questions some years

  164              Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.        [April 7,
 before they learn to swear, and material evidence is often lost by the
 child not having been taught beforehand the proper answers to make
  when questioned as to the nature of an oath. I heard of a case only
 lately, which was expected to lead to a committal on a charge of
  murder, and where an important point rested on the evidence of a
 young lad, who was to all appearance truthful, but who did not satisfy
  the bench that he understood the nature of an oath. Those in whom
  the ceremony of swearing a child arouses the feeling of physical
  repugnance that it does in myself, may learn with interest a fact as
  yet little known in England, and which sufficiently justifies my
  bringing forward tho subject. Hearing that there was something to
  be learnt from Germany, I applied to tho eminent jurist, Dr. Gneist,
  of Berlin, and hear from him that under the new German Bnles of
  Procedure, which are expected shortly to come into force, the evidence
  of children under sixteen may be received without oath, at the dis
  cretion of the judge. In these days there is a simple rulo, which an
  Englishman will do well to act up to, and that is, " Don't be beaten
  by a German ! " Let us live in the heartiest fellowship with the
  Germans, and never let them get ahead of us if we can help it. In
  this matter of children's legal evidence they aro fairly leaving us
  behind, by introducing a plan which is at once more humane and
  more effective than ours.
       If now, looking at the subject as one of practical sociology, we
  consider what place the legal oath has filled in savage, barbaric, and
  civilized life, we must adjudge to it altogether higher value than to
  the ordeal. At certain stages of culture it has been one of the great
  forces of society. There was a time when Lycurgus the orator
' could tell the men of Atheus that the oath is the very bond that
  holds the democracy together. There was a time when, as Mon
  tesquieu insists, an oath was so binding on the minds of the Romans
  that for its observance they would do more than even patriotism or
  love of glory could draw them to. In our own day its practical
  binding power is unmistakable over the consciences of a numerous
  intermediate class of witnesses, those who are neither truthful nor
   quite reckless, who are without the honesty which makes a good
  man's oath superfluous, who will indeed lie solemnly and circum
   stantially, but are somewhat restrained from perjury by the fear of
  being, as the old English saying has it, " once forsworn ever forlorn."
   Though the hold thus given is far weaker than is popularly fancied,
   it has from time to time led legislators to use oaths, not merely in
  special and solemn matters, but as means of securing honesty in tho
  detaf.s of public business. When this has been done, the conse
  quences to public morals have been disastrous. There is no need to
  hunt up ancient or foreign proofs of this, seeing how conspicuous an
  instance is the state of Englaml early in the present century, while it
  was still, as a contemporary writer called it, " a land of oaths," and
  the professional perjurer plied a thriving trade. A single illustration

1876.]           Mr. E. B. Tylor on Ordeals and Oaths.               165
will suffice, taken from the valuable treatise on oaths, published in
1834, by the Rev. Jas. Endell Tyler : " During the continuance of
the former system of Custom House oaths, there were houses of resort
where persons were always to be found ready at a moment's warning
to take any oath required ; the signal of the business for which
they were needed was this inquiry : " Any damned soul here ! "
Nowadays the enormous excess of public oaths has been much cut
down, and with the best results. Yet it must be evident to students
of sociology that the world will not stop short at this point. The
wider question is coming into view, What effect is produced on the
every-day standard of truthfulness, by the doctrine that fraudulent
lying is in itself a minor offence, but is converted into an awful crime
by the addition of a ceremony and a formula ? It is an easily-stated
problem in moral arithmetic ; on the credit side Government is able
to tighten with an extra screw the consciences of a shaky class of
witnesses and public officers ; on the debit side the current value of
a man's word is correspondingly depreciated through the whole range
of public and private business. As a mere sober student of social
causes and effects, dispassionately watching the tendencies of opinion,
I cannot doubt for a moment how the public mind must act on this
problem. I simply stand here and predict that where the judicial
ordeal is already gone, there the judicial oath will sooner or later
follow. Not only do symptoms of the coming change appear from
year to year, but its greatest determining cause is unfolding itself
day by day before observant eyes, a sight such as neither we nor our
fathers ever saw before.
    How has it come to pass that the sense of sanctity of intellectual
truth, and the craving after its full and free possession, are so -
mastering the modern educated mind ? This is not a mystery hard
to unravel. Can any fail to see how in these latter years the methods
of scientific thought have come forth from the laboratory and the
museum, to claim their powers over the whole range of history and
philosophy, of politics and morals ? This very spot has been for
years an active centre whence truth in thought has spread in wide
waves through the outside world. Of intellectual truthfulness, truth
fulness in word and act is the outward manifestation. In all modern
philosophy, there is no principle more fertile than the doctrine so
plainly set forth by Herbert Spencer, that truth means bringing our
minds into accurate matching with the realities in and around us ; so
that both intellectual and moral truth are bound up together in that
vast process of evolution whereby man is gradually brought into fuller
harmony with the universe he inhabits. There need, then, be no fear
that the falling away of such artificial crutches as those whose history
I have traced to-night, should leave public truth maimed and halting.
Upheld by the perfect fitting of the inner mind to the outer world,
the progress of truth will be firmer and more majestic than in the
ancient days. If, in time to come, the grand old disputation before

166                           Mr. George J. Romanes                           [April 28,
King Darius were to be re-enacted, to decide again the question,
" What is the strongest of all things ? " it would be said, as then, that
" Truth abides and is strong for evermore, living and conquering
from age to ago." And the people, as of old, would say again with
ono voice, " Truth is great, and prevails ! " *
                                                                          [E. B. T.]
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, April 28, 1876.
   George Busk, Esq. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  George J. Komanes, Esq. M.A. F.L.S.
             The Physiology of the Nervous System of Medusce.^
For the sake of clearness in what follows, I shall begin by very
briefly describing such features in the anatomy of the Medusas as will
afterwards be found more especially to concern us. The general form,
then, of these animals varies in different species from that of a bell to
that of a bowl, an umbrella, or a saucer. The external, or convex, surface
is separated from the internal, or concave, surface by a thick mass of
transparent and non-contractile jelly. The external surface itself
consists of a thin layer, or sheet, of pavement epithelium cells, while
the internal surface consists of a thin layer, or sheet, of muscular
tissue The structure thus far described constitutes the main bulk of
the animal, and is called the swimming-bell. From the middle, or
highest point, of the internal surface of the swimming-boll there
always depends a contractile organ, which is called the manubrium or
polypite. This structure, although it varies greatly in different species
both as to size and form, is always the mouth and stomach of the
animal. From the point at which the polypite is inserted into the
swimming-bell there arise a system of nutrient tubes, which radiate
quite down to the margin of the swimming-bell, where they all open
into a continuous circular tube, which is called the marginal canal.
In one large division of the Medusas—the naked-eyed —the radial
tubes are unbranched, and usually four in number, while in tho
other large division —the covered-eyed—the radial tubes are strongly
branched. The margin of the swimming-bell, both in the naked-
and covered-eyed Medusse, supports a series of contractile tentacles,
and also another series of bodies which are of great importance
for us to-night. These are the so-called marginal bodies, or eye-
specks, which vary in number, size, and structure in different species.
    * Esdras i 4 : )uyi\r\ ri &A?j0«ia, ra! iirepiaxiiet. " Magna est Veritas, et prccvalet."
    t For a full account of tho investigation see the Croonian Discourse before
 the Royal Society, to be published in the forthcoming volume of the ' Philosophical
Transactions.'

1876. J      on the Physiology of the Nervous System of Medusce.           167
In all the covered-eyed species, however, the eye-specks are in the
form of little bags of crystals, which are protected by curiously-shaped
" hoods " or " covers " of gelatinous tissue. In the naked-eyed species
these hoods are always absent, and the crystals usually so. In
nearly all cases the eye-specks contain moro                   Fig. 1.
or less brightly coloured pigments.*
     The question as to whether a nervous
system is present in the Medusas, is a ques
tion which has long occupied the more or
less arduous labours of many naturalists.
Hitherto, however, there has been so little
agreement in their results, that Professor
 Huxley—himself one of the greatest autho
rities upon the group—thus defines the
 present standing of the question : " No
 nervous system has yet been discovered in
 any of these animals." f The cause of this
 uncertainty is to be found in the fact, that
 the transparent and deliquescent nature of
 the tissues of the Medusas renders adequate
 microscopical observation in their case a
 matter of extreme difficulty ; so much so,
 that, looking to the quantity and quality
 of the labour which has already been be
 stowed upon the question, I doubt whether
 the latter could ever have been satisfac
 torily settled by the histological methods
 alone. As, however, there is one very com
 petent histologist who states that in the
 case of one particular genus of the Medusas
 it is possible, with great care and peculiar
 treatment, to obtain microscopical evidence
 of the presence of nerves, I shall here
 give a brief epitome of his results. The
 observer is Prof. Haeckel, and he describes
 the nervous system of Geryonia as consisting
 of a continuous nerve-fibre running all round
 the margin of the swimming-bell, swelling               Sarsia x 3 times,
 out into a ganglion in the immediate vicinity of each eye-speck, and
 sending off a nerve-fibre to each of tho four radial tubes. Thus,
 according to Haeckel, the course of the nervous system everywhere
 follows the course of the nutritive system, and forms a chain of
 ganglia all the way round the margin of the swimming-bell. It will
     * It may not be superfluous to state that the Medusas swim by means of an
 alternate contraction and relaxation of the entire bell. At each contraction
 water is ejected from the open mouth of the bell, and the consequent reaction
 propels the animal in the opposite direction.
     t Classification of Animals, p. 22.

168                       Mr. George J. Romanes                 [April 28,
immediately be seen in how striking a manner Prof. Haeckel's histo
logical observations are confirmed by the physiological experiments
which I will now proceed to describe.
    Fundamental Orservatigns.—In the case of all the naked-eyed
Medusa which I have been able to procure —viz. thirteen species
belonging to six of the most divergent genera— it has been found by
numberless experiments, that excision of the entire margin of a
swimming-bell is invariably followed by immediate, total,and permanent
paralysis of the entire organ. That is to say, if we take any naked-
eyed Medusa which is swimming about in the astonishingly active
and vigorous way that is characteristic of these animals, and if with
a pair of scissors we cut off the extreme periphery of the swimming-
beli, then all the swimming motions instantly cease, and are never
-again resumed. It would be impossible to imagine anything more
decided than is this highly remarkablo effect. Indeed, I do not know
of any case in the whole animal kingdom where the removal of a
centre of spontaneity is followed by so sudden and so complete a
paralysis of the muscular system— even such gentle reflex twitchings
as are observable in the muscles of vcrtebrated animals after removal
of the brain not being here apparent.
    So much, then, for the mutilated swimming-hell ; it is completely
and permanently paralyzed. But, on the other hand, the margin
which has just been removed from the swimming-bell continues its
rhythmical motions with a vigour and a pertinacity not in the least
impaired by its severance from the main organism. For hours, and
even for days, after the operation these motions persist ; so that the
contrast between the death-like quiescence of the mutilated swimming-
bell, and the active contractions of the thread-like portion which has just
been removed from its margin, is a contrast as striking as it is possible
to conceive. Of course it does not signify how large or how small a
part of the swimming-bell is left adhering to the severed margin ; for
whether this part be large or small, it continues to be animated by the
margin. For instance, if in Sar*ia (Fig. 1) the incision be carried
through the equator of the animal, then all the upper half of the
swimming-bell is paralyzed, while all the lower half continues its
contractions as before ; only, as the latter is now converted into an
open tube, it is, of course, unable to progress.
    Hence there can be no doubt that in the naked-eyed Medusas all
the spontaneity of the swimming-bell is lodged exclusively in the
marginal rim. The question, however, arises, Is evory part of the mar
ginal rim equally endowed with the function of spontaneity, or is this
function lodged only or chiefly in the marginal bodies ? Now it is
impossible to answer this question by direct experiment in the case of
most of the species, from the fact that the marginal bodies are too nu
merous to admit of being cut out separately. In the case ofSarsia, how
ever, the marginal bodies are only four in number ; so that nothing can
be easier than to try tho differential experiment, of first cutting out all
the four marginal bodies without injuring any of the intertentacular

1876.]     on the Physiology of the Nervous System of Medusas.        169
marginal tissue, and then, conversely, of cutting out all the inter-
tentacular marginal tissue without injuring any of the marginal bodies.
Well, I find by these experiments that in Sarsia (and so probably in
all the naked-eyed Medusas,) the principal ganglionic supply is seated
in the marginal bodies ; but that, nevertheless, it is not exclusively so.
For whatever be the condition of the animal as to size, vigour, &c,
before the operation, it endures removal of three of its eye-specks
without suffering much apparent detriment ; but immediately the
fourth one is removed the animal falls to the bottom of the water
perfectly motionless. If the specimen was not previously in a
vigorous condition, it will perhaps never move again : it has been killed
by nervous shock. But if the specimen was previously in a lively
state, the period of quiescence will probably be but short—varying
from a few seconds to half an hour, or more. Usually, however, the
motions of the animal after the operation are conspicuously less
vigorous than they were before it. Nevertheless, the fact that any
motion at all takes place after removal of the marginal bodies alone,
proves that some ganglia must be present in the intervening portions
of the margin. Occasionally, indeed, it happens that the swimming-
bell of Sarsia will continue its pulsations after all the margin has
been removed, with the exception of a piece of the intertentacular
tissue so small as to bo invisible without the aid of a powerful lens.
    So much, then, for the naked-eyed Medusas. Turning now to the
covered-eyed Medusas, or those large sea-blubbers with which we are
all acquainted, I find that removal of the margin is attended with
results analogous to, but not identical with, the results which we have
just seen to be so remarkable in the case of the naked-oyed Medusas.
For, in the case of the covered-eyed Medusas, the paralysis, though
usually complete for a time, is not always permanent. After periods
varying from a few seconds to half an hour or more, occasional con
tractions begin to manifest themselves, or the contractions may even
be resumed with but little apparent change in their character and
frequency. But there are great differences in different species of
covered-eyed Medusas in these respects, and I have no time to enter
into details. It must, therefore, be sufficient to say that, looking to
the covered-eyed Medusas as a whole, they differ from the naked-eyed
Medusa in that their ganglionic supply, although without question
principally situated in the margin, is not exclusively so situated. It
seems as though the ganglionic system, like the nutritive system, is
more diffused in the one group than in the other.
     Coming next to the question as to the relative value of the
marginal bodies and of the intervening portions of the margin in
respect of ganglionic function, I have a different answer to give in the
case of the covered-eyed Medusas from that which I have already
given in the case of the naked-eyed Medusas. For, in the covered-
eyed Medusas, all the remarkable paralyzing effects which follow upon
cutting off the whole margin, follow equally well upon cutting out
 the marginal bodies alone ; and any sized portion of contractile tissue
     Vol. VIII. (No. 65.)            '                           n

  170                      Mr. George J. Romanes                 [April 28,
  left adhering to an excised marginal body will continue its rhythmical
  pulsations, while all other parts of the margin when detached at once
  cease to move. The differences, then, betweon the ganglionic system
  of the naked- and of the covered-eyed Medusae may be roughly summed
  up thus : —The ganglionic system of a covered-eyed Medusa is usually
  more diffused than that of a naked-eyed Medusa, if we have regard to
  the organism as a whole; but it is less diffused if we have regard to
  the margin alone.
      As the question concerning the presence of a nervous system in
  Medusas has long been a warmly disputed one, I may here observe that
  there is no other instance in the whole animal kingdom of so great a
 disproportion between the mass of a ganglionic centre and that of the
  structure which it is capable of animating, as there is between tho
  mass of a marginal body and that of the swimming-bell in the case of
 a large covered-eyed Medusa. Thus, in order to obtain an exact esti
 mation in a good-sized jelly-fish weighing 30 lb., I cut out all the mar
 ginal bodies except one, and observed, as is always the case when this
 is done, that the single remaining ganglion continued to animate the
 entire swimming-bell. I then cut out this ganglion also, and thus
 paralyzed the bell. Lastly, I weighed the excised marginal body,
 and obtained the surprising result that it had been previously actively
 animating a structure 30,000,000 times its own weight !
      Stimulation. —All the tissues of all the Medusas are keenly sensitive
 to all kinds of stimulation. When a swimming-bell, for instance, is
 paralyzed by excision of its margin, it invariably responds to a single
 stimulus by once performing that movement which it would have per- '
 formed in response to that stimulus had it still been in an unmutilatcd
 state.
      To mechanical stimulation the sensitiveness of the paralyzed bells
 is wonderfully great —a drop of water let fall from an inch in height
 upon the contractile tissue being sufficient, in some species, to elicit a
responsive contraction.
      Towards electrical stimulation the behaviour of the mutilated bells
 and of the severed margins differs in an important particular; for
 while tho mutilated bells continue responsive to make and break of
 the constant current after they cease to be affected by strong induction
 shocks, or oven by Faradaic electricity with the secondary coil pushed
 to zero, the reverso is true of the severed margins— these continuing
 responsive to induction shocks after they have ceased to be affected
 by make and break of the constant current (one Daniell's cell in all
cases). This fact tends strongly to confirm the view that the
 specialized tissue of the margin is of a truly ganglionic nature.
      By means of a Du Bois-Reymond induction apparatus and of
needle-point terminals (the needles being passed through a small
piece of cork as a support, and the cork being fixed to tho stage-
forceps on the mechanical stage of a Ross's microscope), I was
able to investigate tho distribution of excitable tracts in Sarsia.
I found that thcro is an uninterrupted increase of excitability from

1876.]      on the Physiology of the Nervous System of Medus0e.       171
the apex to the base of the swimming-bell, that the positions occupied
by the radial tubes are tracts of comparatively high excitability, and
that the eye-specks aro the most excitable portions of the margin.
Thus all my experiments, both in section and stimulation, confirm, in
a very remarkable manner, the histological observations of Professor
Haeokel.
    Exhaustion of the excitable tissues may easily bo shown by the
ordinary methods. Exhausted tissue is much less sensitive to stimu
lation than is fresh tissue, and, so far as the eye can judge, the con
tractions are slower with the period of latent stimulation prolonged.
     Tetanus produced by Faradaic electricity is not of the nature of an
apparently prolonged contraction, but that of a number of contrac
tions rapidly succeeding one another, as in a frog's heart under the
influence of similar stimulation.
    In their behaviour towards chemical stimuli, the excitable tissues
of all the Medusas conform in every respect to the rules which are
followed by the nervo-muscular tissues of higher animals. Both the
severed margins and the mutilated swimming organs, as well as severed
tentacles and polypites, respond to applications of various acids,
alkalis, solutions of various metallic salts, alcohol, ether, glycerine,
&c. Fresh water is quickly fatal to the Medusas.
     Section.—Thus far, then, we have seen that the margin of a jelly
fish contains the ganglia or nerve-centres of the animal, and that after
the removal of these ganglia the rest of the animal remains responsive
to all the known modes of stimulation. The question now arises, How is
the influence of the marginal ganglia distributed over the expanse of the
muscular sheet ? Are there anything resembling nerve-fibres leading
from the ganglionic centres of the margin to all parts of the muscular
sheet, or are the connections of a more primitive naturo— the gan
glionic impulse being discharged into the muscle-fibres that lie in
the immediate vicinity of the ganglia, and these muscle-fibres propa
gating the impulse to the next adjacent muscle-fibres, and so on in the
form of a wave of contraction, such as we see to occur in primitive
protoplasm, where the living material has not as yet been differentiated
into either muscle or nerve '? This question is one of great interest
both to the physiologist and to the evolutionist ; but as I have no time
to state all the issues which it involves, I will merely observe that, as
the Medusas are the first animals in the ascending scale of life where
the presence of ganglia can be shown to occur, we have in them the
opportunity of ascertaining whether ganglia appear upon tho scene
of life before nerve-fibres do, or whether the evolution of nerve-
fibres proceeds pari passu with the evolution of ganglia. Now I fear
it is impossible to answer tho question before us by microscopical
observation ; for, if any general nerve-plexus is present in the Medusas,
its constituent fibres are too transparent to admit of being actually
seen. There is, however, another method by which I hope to answer
this question, and that is by section.
     Aurelia aurita is a covered-eyed Medusa of a flattened form, and
                                                              n 2

 172                      Mr. George J. Romanes               [April 28,
 about the sizo of a soup-plate. It has eight marginal bodies, and
 when all these are removed the animal is usually as completely
 paralyzed as is a naked-eyed Medusa when deprived of its margin.
 If, however, only seven of the eight bodies be removed, the eighth
 one continues to animate the entire bell ; and it may now be quite
 plainly seen that the contractions of the muscular sheet always
 originato in the immediate neighbourhood of the single remaining
marginal body, and then spread out with the greatest rapidity
 until the wholo muscular sheet takes part in the contraction. The
appearance presented is that of two contractile waves which start
at the same instant, one on each side of the marginal body, and which
then course with equal rapidity in opposite directions, and so meet at
the point of the flattened disc that is opposite to the marginal body.
Now the question is, Do these contractile waves require the preseuco
of nerve-fibres to convey them, or do they merely pass from one
muscle-fibre to another ? To answer this question I submitted these
jelly-fish to various forms of section, some of which are here repre
sented. If you imagine all the expanse of this muscular sheet to be
pervaded by a nervous plexus, one would think that when it is cut as
here represented, the conducting function of the nervous plexus would
require to be destroyed. You see there is only one ganglion (g) left
in its place, so that the contractile waves, when radiating from it, are
                                   Fig. 2.
obliged, if they pass at all, to zig-zag round and round the tops of
these interdigitating cuts ; and therefore a moment's thought will
show how destructive such a mode of section must be to the con
tinuity of anything at all resembling a nervous plexus. Yet the jelly
fish from which this drawing was taken continued to swim about after
being cut in this way almost as well as it did before the operation.

1876.]     on the Physiology of the Nervous System of Medusce.       173
Even the time required for the contractile waves to pass from the
ganglion to the opposite side of the disc was only very slightly pro
longed by the sections.
    Here, again, is another form of section. Seven marginal bodies
having been removed as before, the eighth one was made the point of
origin of a circumferential section, which was then carried round and
round the disc in the form of a continuous spiral, the result, of
course, being this long riband-shaped strip of tissue with the ganglion
(g) at one end, and the remainder of the swimming-bell at the other.
Well, as before, the contractile waves always originated at the gan
glion ; but now they had to course all the way along the strip until
they arrived at its other extremity, and as each wave arrived at that
extremity it delivered its influence into the remainder of the
swimming-bell, which thereupon contracted. Hence, from this
mode of section as from the last one, the deduction certainly
appears to be that the passage of the contractile waves cannot be
dependent on the presence of a nervous plexus; for nothing could
well be imagined as more destructive of the continuity of such a
plexus than this spiral mode of section must be.
    Nevertheless, there is an important body of evidence to be adduced
on the other side ; but, as I can only wait to state a few of the chief
points, I shall confine my observations to the spiral mode of section.
First of all, then, I have invariably found it to be the case, that if
this mode of section be carried on sufficiently far, a point is sooner or

174                        Mr. Oeorge J. Romanes               [April 28 >
later sure to come at which the contractile waves cease to pass
forward : they become blocked at that point. Moreover, the point
at which such blocking of the waves takes place is extremely variable
in different individuals of the same species. Sometimes the waves will
become blocked when the strip is only an inch or less in length,
while at other times they continue to pass freely from end to end of
a strip that is only an inch broad and nearly a yard long ; and
between these two extremes there are all degrees of variation. Now
if we suppose that the influence of the ganglion at the end of the
strip is propagated as a mere muscle-wave along the strip, I cannot
see why such a wave should ever become blocked at all, still less that
the point at which it does become blocked should be so variable in
different individuals of the same species. On the other hand, if we
suppose the propagation of the ganglionic influence to be more or less
dependent on the presence of a more or less integrated nerve-plexus,
we encounter no difficulty ; for on the general theory of evolution it
is to be expected, that if such fibres are present in such lowly animals,
they should not be constant as to position.
     But there is a still stronger argument in favour of nerve-fibres, and
it is this. At whatever point in a spiral strip which is being pro
gressively elongated by section the blocking of the contractile wave
takes place, such blocking is sure to take place completely and
exclusively at that point. Now I cannot explain this invariable fact
in any other way than by supposing that at that point the section has
encountered a line of functionally differentiated tissue—has severed
an incipient nerve.
     On the whole, therefore, I provisionally adopt the supposition that
all parts of the muscular sheet of the Medusa are pervaded by a
plexus of more or less rudimentary nerves, or " lines of discharge ; "
and I explain the fact of the tissues enduring the severe forms of
section here represented without suffering loss of their physiological
continuity, by supposing that all the rudimentary fibres composing
the plexus are capable, in an extraordinarily high degree, of vicarious
action.
     There are a great many more things which I should like to say
about these and other modes of section; but I must now direct your
attention to another part of the inquiry. Various naturalists nave
speculated as to the possibility of the so-called eye-specks, or marginal
bodies, of the Medusa being incipient organs of vision. Such specu
lation, of course, was of little better value than a guess ; for the
marginal bodies of the Medusas do not resemble any other form of
visual apparatus with which we are acquainted. The guess, however,
in this case happens to be correct.
    Having placed several hundred Sarsia in a large bell-jar, and having
completely shut out the daylight from the room in which the jar was
standing, by means of a dark lantern and concentrating lens I then
cast a beam of light through the water in which the Sarsia were
swimming.' The effect was most curious and interesting. From all

1876.]       on the Physiology of the Nervous System of Medusa.          175
parts of the jar the Sarsia crowded into the path of the beam, and
were particularly numerous at the side of the jar nearest the light.
Indeed, close against the glass at that side they formed an almost
solid mass, which followed the light wherever it was moved. The
animals moreover were very excited—dashing themselves against the
glass very much as moths do under similar circumstances. There
can thus be no doubt about the Medusas being able to see. I there
fore next took a dozen vigorous specimens, and placed them in
another bell-jar by themselves. From nine of these I removed tho
marginal bodies, while the other three were left unmutilated. The
three unmutilated specimens sought the light as before, but tho nine
which were deprived of their marginal bodies swam hither and thither
without paying it any regard. I conclude, thereforo, that they were
blinded by the operation, and hence that the so-called eye-specks are,
properly speaking, rudimentary organs of vision.
    This fact I consider to be one of considerable interest, because, as
already stated, the structure of the eye-speck does not resemble that of
any other type of visual apparatus ; so that it thus affords us another
instance of the plasticity of nerve-organization—organization which is
already known to be affected by light through such divers structures
as are the eye of vertebrated animals, the compound eye of the higher
articulated animals, and the ocellus of still lower types. And not only
so, but in the Medustc, where both nerves and sense-organs first
appear upon the scene of life, the rudimentary sense-organs seem to
revel, as it were, in undergoing in different species all sorts of modifica
tions of structure. Another point of interest connected with these
rudimentary sense-organs is, that the rays by which they are affected
appear to be tho same as those by which our own eyes are affected ;
for, on repeating the above-mentioned experiment with the non-
luminous part of the spectrum, I found that the Sarsia did not appear
to perceive the presence of the beam.
    Poisons.—The influence of the nerve-poisons on the Medusae con
stitutes an important branch of the inquiry on which I am engaged ;
for in them we have, as it were, a test whereby to ascertain whether
nerve-tissue, where it can first be shown to occur in the animal king
dom, is of the same essential character as the nerve-tissue of higher
animals.
    Chloroform, ether, morphia, &c, all exert their anassthesiating
influence on the Medusa quite as decidedly as they do on the higher
animals. Soon after a few drops of the anassthetic have been added to
the water in which the Medusae are contained, the swimming motions
of the latter become progressively slower and feebler, until in a
minute or two they cease altogether, the animals remaining at the
bottom of the water apparently quite dead. No form or degree of stimu
lation will now elicit the slightest response ; and this fact, it must be
remembered, is quite as remarkable in the case of the Medusas as in
that of any other animal. Recovery in normal sea-water is exceed
ingly rapid, especially in the caso of chloroform and ether.

 176        Mr. G. J. Romanes on Nervous System of Medusce.    [April 28,
     The effects of strychnia may be best observed on a species called
 Cyancea capillata, from the fact that, in water kept at a constant tem
 perature, the ordinary swimming motions of this animal are as regular
 and sustained as the beating of a heart. But soon after the water has
 been poisoned with strychnia, unmistakable signs of irregularity in
 the swimming motions begin to show themselves. Gradually these
 signs of irregularity become more and more pronounced, until at last
 they develop into well-marked convulsions. The convulsions show
 themselves in the form of extreme deviations from the natural rhythm
 of this animal's motion. Instead of the heart-like regularity with
 which systole and diastole follow one another in the unpoisoned
 animal, we may now observe prolonged periods of violent contraction,
 amounting in fact to tonic spasm ; and even when this spasm is
 momentarily relieved, the relaxation has no time to assert itself pro
 perly before another spasm supervenes. Moreover, these convulsions
 are very plainly of a paroxysmal nature ; for after they have lasted
 from five to ten minutes, a short period of absolute repose comes on,
 during which the jelly-fish expands to its full dimensions, falls to the
 bottom of the water in which it is contained, and looks in every way
 like a dead animal. Very soon, however, another paroxysm sets in,
 and so on —prolonged periods of convulsion alternating with shorter
 periods of repose for several hours, until finally death puts an end to
all these symptoms so characteristic of strychnine poisoning in the
higher animals.
     Curare, when administered in appropriate doses to the higher
animals, has the remarkable effect of destroying the function of all the
motor nerves in the body, while it leaves the function of the sensory
nerves intact. My method of applying this poison to the Medusas was
very simple. Choosing a large and flat-shaped species of the naked-
eyed group (viz. Siaurophora laciniata), which always responds to
stimulation with a peculiar spasm-like movement, I divided the speci
men across its whole diameter, with the exception of a small piece of
marginal tissue at one side, which I left to act as a connecting link
between the two resulting halves. One of these halves I placed in
normal sea-water, and the other in water poisoned with curare. The
effects were most marked and beautiful. Previous to the administration
of the poison both halves of the divided Medusa were, of course, con
tracting vigorously—the contractile waves now running from half A
to half B, and now vice versa. But after one of the halves had been
sufficiently poisoned, all motion in it completely ceased, the un
poisoned half, however, continuing to contract as before. If tho
poisoned half were now irritated, by nipping with the forceps or
otherwise, it did not itself move, but tho other, or unpoisoned half,
immediately responded to the stimulation by performing the highly
distinctive spasmodic movement already referred to. This observa
tion I consider to be one of the highest importance, because it shows
that in those animals where we find the first indications of a nervous
system, this system has already undergone a differentiation of function

 1876.]                      Annual Meeting.                           177
 in its constituent parts, analogous to that which we observe in the
 sensory and motor tracts of higher animals.
      Alcohol has the effect, in the first instance, of accelerating the
 frequency of the locomotor contractions, and also of impairing their
 regularity : the swimming motions are therefore of an excited and
 flurried character, very different from the rhythmical pulsations of
 the unpoisoned animal. Presently, however, a drowsiness begins to
 come on, and this increases more and more until finally the jelly-fish
 ceases its motions altogether, lying perfectly still in a state of stupid
 torpidity. In normal sea-water, however, this state of intoxication
 gradually passes away, and eventually the Medusa is swimming about
 again as soberly as ever.
      It is interesting to observe, that if any of the narcotic poisons
 (including curare) be injected into one of the marginal bodies of a
 Medusa, that particular marginal body immediately ceases to perform
 its functions. Again, if any of these poisons be injected through one
 of the nutrient tubes which cross at right angles the contractile strip
 represented in Fig. 3 (the nutrient tubes are not represented), the
 contractile waves become blocked at the transverse line occupied by
the injected tube, and this quite as sharply as if the contractile strip
 had been cut through at that line. Further, if any portion of the
 length of such a contractile strip be immersed in water containing
 any of the narcotic poisons, the contractile waves first have their rate
diminished while travelling through the poisoned portion of the strip,
and very shortly afterwards become blocked at the boundary of the
poisoned water. On now transferring the poisoned portion of the
strip to normal sea-water, the contractile waves again begin to force
their passage —at first slowly and with difficulty, but every wave that
passes renders the course more easy for its successor, until very soon
the strip is again contracting from end to end at the same rate and
with the same vigour as it did before it was submitted to the influence
of the narcotic.
                                                             [G. J. R.]
                      ANNUAL MEETING,
                         Monday, May 1, 1876.
        Gkohge Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
     Tho Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year 1875,
testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management of tho
Institution, was read and adopted. The Stock sold out to rebuild
and furnish the Laboratories has been more then replaced.
     Fifty-six new Members were elected in 1875.
     Sixty-one Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were delivered
in 1875.

178                               Annual Meeting.                           [May 1,
      The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1875 amounted to about
156 volumes, making, with those purchased by the Managers, a total
of 323 volumes added to the Library in the year, exclusive of
periodicals.
      Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the Professors, for
their services to the Institution during the past year.
      Special thanks were voted to Dr. Spottiswoode, the Secretary, for
his course of four lectures on Polarized Light in March and April
last, for which he declined payment, esteeming the attontion of his
audience sufficient remuneration.
      The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers for
the ensuing year :—
      President—The Duke of Northumberland, D.C.L.
      Treasurer—George Busk, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.
      Secretary— William Spottiswoodo, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Treas.R.S.
                          Corresponding Member of Academy of Sciences, Paris.
                Managers.                                  Visitors.
George Berkley, C.E.                       John R. Andrews, Esq.
 William Bowman, Esq. F.R.S.               Thomas Boycott. M.D. F.L.S.
Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie, Bart. M.A.    John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
    D.C.L. F.R.S.
Adm. Sir Henry John Codrington, K.C.B.     Robert Pilkington Linton, Esq. F.R.C.S.
The Right Hon. John George Dodsou, M.P.    William Watkiss Lloyd, Esq.
SirT. Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G.           William Longman, Esq. M.A.
 Lieut. Col. James Augustus Grant, C.B.    Colonel William Pinney.
    C.S.I. F.R.S.                          Wyndham Spencer Portal, Esq.
Casar H. Hawkins, Esq. F.R.S.
Joseph Dalton Hooker, C.B. M.D. D.C.L.     John Rae, M.D. LL.D.
    Pies. R.S.                             The Rev. Arthur Rigg, M.A.
Alfred Latham, Esq.                        The Rev. William Rogers, M.A.
 Richard Liebreich, M.D. M.R.C.S.          John Bell Sedgwick, Esq.
The Lord Lindsay, M.P.                     Basil Woodd Smith, Esq. F.R.A.S.
William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.       Benjamin Leigh Smith, Esq.
0. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.     James Spedding, Esq.
      A Silver Salver, with the following Inscription, was presented to
 Professor Tyndall by the Chairman :
       " This Salver, together with the sum of Three Hundred Guineas,
 is presented to John Tyndall, F.R.S. Professor of Physics in the
 Royal Institution, upon his Marriage with Louisa Charlotte,
 daughter of Lord and Lady Claud Hamilton, on the 29th of
 February, 1876, in Westminster Abbey, by Memrers of the Royal
 Institution, to express their high esteem of his personal worth, and
 in grateful recognition of his eminent scientific services in its
Laboratories and Lecture Theatre."

1876.]    Prof. Gladstone on Methods of CJumical Decimiiosition,      179
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 5, 1876.
    George Bosk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in
                                the Chair.
              Professor J. H. Gladstone, Ph.D. F.R.S.
       Methods of Chemical Decomposition as illustrated by Water.
Among the most venorable of the Chinese classics is the ' Shoo King,'
a collection of ancient historical records ; and one of these records, the
fourth book of Chow, contains a still more ancient document, " The
Great Plan with its nine divisions," which purports to date from
the early part of the Han dynasty,—according to Dr. Legge about
2000 r.o. This remarkable treatise bears on physical as well as
ethical philosophy, and commences with an account of the five ele
ments, viz. water, fire, wood, metal, and earth. The first element,
water, is said to " soak and descend," and also to " become salt."
     This seems to be tho earliest known record of that doctrine of
elements which spread widely over the ancient world. In the
' Institutes of Manu ' we read of the elements also as five, but they
are earth, fire, water, air, and ether; and according to the cosmogony
of the Hindoo legislator, light or fire produced water, and water
 produced earth. There was, however, at least as lato as two centuries
ago, a sect in India who held it as a religious tenet that water was
 the prime or original element.
     Similar opinions found their way to Europe. Thus Thales, of
Miletus, who flourished in the sixth century B.C., taught that water was
the origin of all things. The Greek philosophers generally adopted
the theory of several elements, but reduced the number to four,— fire,
air, earth, and water.
     It is hard to say what was the precise meaning attached by the
ancients to the term " element." It no doubt did not always convey
 the same idea. Water also, at least in the Aristotelian philosophy,
 was a generic expression for many bodies in a fluid condition, and sig
 nified not so much a special material substance as an inherent quality
 of things. Thus it was said to be cold and moist, and the opposite of
 fire which was hot and dry. In the philosophy of the middle ages wo
 find the same views prevailing, and tho early chemists still looked

180                         Professor Gladstone                   [May 5,
upon water in the same light. Thus Becker enumerated five elements,
air, water, and inflammable, mercurial, and infusible earth ; while
Stahl adopted four,—water, acid, earth, and phlogiston. The ancient
theory maintained its hold till tho experimental philosophers at the
latter part of the eighteenth century gave a definite meaning to the term
element, and showed that water, air, and earth are compound bodies.
Yet the idea of the elementary character of water was not easily
abandoned.
     In 1781 Cavendish found that when a mixture of what were then
called " inflammable air " and " dephlogisticated air " is exploded by
a spark in such proportions that the burnt air is almost entirely
phlogisticated, pure water condenses on the sides of the vessel, and is
equal in weight to the weight of the two airs. His theory was that
water consists of " dephlogisticated air united to phlogiston," and
that " inflammable air is water united to phlogiston." At the time
of explosion, according to him, the excess of phlogiston was trans
ferred from the inflammable to the dephlogisticated air, and thus
both airs " turned into water." Cavendish also explained Priestley's
production of inflammable air on heating iron filings strongly, by con
tending that the phlogiston of the iron united with the moisture from
which they had not been freed. Lavoisier gave a different explanation of
these phenomena. He held that "dephlogisticated air" is an elementary
substance — oxygen—united with imponderable caloric, and that " in
flammable " air, or hydrogen, is capable of taking tho oxygen from the
caloric, thus producing water and heat. " Water is not a simple
substance, but is composed, weight for weight, of inflammable and
vital air." Thus water was at length deposed from its rank as an
element.
     In the first year of this century, when tho news of Volta's great
 discovery of the pile was made known in England, Messrs. Nicholson
 and Carlisle made various experiments with a series of halfcrowns,
 zinc plates, and pasteboard soaked in salt. Knowing that water con
ducted electricity, they inserted brass wires through corks at the two
 ends of a tube filled with water, which they are careful to tell us camo
from the New River. They were surprised to see a stream of minute
 bubbles rising from one pole while the other was corroded, and that
 this decomposition took place at each pole, though they were nearly
 2 inches apart. They enlarged the distance, and found that 36 inches
 of water was too much for their force to traverse. Substituting
 flattened platinum for their brass wires, they found that tho water was
 decomposed with the production of hydrogen at one end and oxygen
 at the other.
     The old notion that water, by continuous boiling, was turned into
 stone had been previously dispelled by Lavoisier, but Davy found that
 some salts and earths remained behind when water was elcctrolyzed,
 and that when the experiment was conducted in two cells communi
 cating with one another, the liquid in the one cell became acid, and in
 tho other alkaline. He traced the origin of this in a masterly re

1876.]               on Methods of Chemical Decomposition.                     181
search, which formed the Bakerian lecture for 1806.* He found that
the earthy substances were original impurities in the water, or came
from the vessels employed ; and using gold cones filled with distilled
water, and united together by asbestos, he convinced himself that
nitric acid was produced at the positive polo and ammonia at the
negative. Suspecting that these were produced from the small quan
tities of nitrogen dissolved in the water combining with the liberated
oxygen and hydrogen respectively, he took extraordinary precautions.
Making use of water which he had carefully distilled in a silver still
at 140° Fahr., and performing the experiment in vacuo, or rather in a
space which he had twice filled with hydrogen and exhausted as
thoroughly as the means at his disposal would permit, he then found
that the water was decomposed without the least production of either
acid or alkali. " It seems evident then," wrote Davy, " that water,
chemically pure, is decomposed by electricity into gaseous matter
alone, into oxygene and hydrogene."
     In the following year Davy discovered the metals of the alkaline
earths, potassium and sodium, and found that when these bodies are
thrown upon water they decompose it, appropriating its oxygen and
setting free its hydrogen. This is due to the superior chemical
power or " affinity " of the alkaline metals.
     In 1846 Mr., now Sir William, Grove observed that when steam
was subjected to something like a white heat, small quantities of mixed
oxygen and hydrogen gas were always produced.')' It has since been
shown that the gases are actually dissociated in one part of the flame
of the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe, after their first combination.
     It thus appears that there are three distinct ways in which water
may be decomposed :—By an electric current ; J by some substanco
which has a superior attraction for one of its elements ; or by heat
alone.
     It will readily be understood that tho powor of any one of those
agents will be augmented by the co-operation of either of the others.
Thus, the action of chemical affinity is usually augmented by heat ;
 for instance, if a pellet of sodium be thrown upon cold water it melts,
 on account of the chemical action at once set up, but if upon boiling
 water it not only melts, but bursts into flame through the greater
 violence of the action. This is the reason why in Priestley's experi
 ment iron at a red heat decomposed steam, though it will not do so at
 ordinary temperatures.
      Similarly the electrolysis of water is much facilitated if there is
 some chemical affinity between the oxygen and the metallic conductors.
 It is generally said that it requires two cells to decompose water
     * ' Phil. Trans.' 1807, p. 1.
     t Ihid. 1847, p. 1.
     X Though voltaic electricity alone is referred to in this discourse, it is well
 known that other forms of the same agent will effect chemical decompositions.
 Thus Professor Andrews has resolved pure water into its constituent gases by
 frictional electricity, and by that derived from the atmosphere.

182                        Professor Gladstone                   [May 5,
electrolytically. Now it is true that if platinum poles arc employed
there is no visible disengagement of gas when one cell only is used ;
but with zinc poles a single cell of Bunsen or Grove is amply sufficient.
Zinc alone without the voltaic current is incapable of displacing the
hydrogen in water; but it must be borne in mind that the tendency to
combine with oxygen is a constant property of this metal, and is easily
brought into activity by the co-operation of the feeble voltaic current.
The increased effect upon electrolysis which is due to the nature of
the poles is in proportion to the electromotive force of the different
metals. For pure water the order is,—zinc, lead, iron, copper, silver,
platinum, as tested by a galvanometer. This difference of result
according to the nature of the metals employed in the electrolytic
cell appears generally to have been overlooked, and it is the feeblest
metal— platinum—which is usually employed for experimental pur
poses, doubtless because it is incapable of oxidation—the very reason
of its feebleness.
    When the other metals of the above list are used, not only does the
positive pole oxidize, but the oxide, or rather hydrate, dissolves more
or less in the pure water, and becomes itself an electrolyte. The con
sequence of this is that the positive electrode gradually wears away,
while the metal is transferred to the negative electrode, and is
deposited upon it in crystalline fringes or filaments. With silver
theso are particularly beautiful, as they assume arborescent forms,
especially when able to spread over the surface of the containing
vessel.
     The temperature also of the liquid subjected to electrolysis has a
great influence upon the result. Thus in an experiment where zinc
poles and pure water were employed, the deflection of a galvanometer
was found to increase about fourfold between 5° C. and 80° C, and the
action augmented nearly pari passu with the temperature.
     A similar result occurs, as might be expected, when two dissimilar
metals, such as zinc and copper, are placed in cold water in connection
with one another, and the water is heated. The deflection was found
to double between about 30° and 80° C, but the difference for every
5° at the higher temperatures was several times greater than at the
lower ones.
     Another very important point in the electrolysis of water is to
reduce to a minimum the very great resistance offered by the water
itself. This is effected by bringing the electrodes as near to one
another as possible : and for the same reason, if the force be generated
by the action of two dissimilar metals upon water, they should be
brought into the closest proximity.
    A still more powerful means of decomposing water would evidently
be a combination, not of two, but of all three agents, chemical affinity,
heat, and voltaic force acting at an insensible distance. Thus zinc
has a strong affinity for oxygen, but is unable of itself to displace the
hydrogen of water : when united, however, with a more negative
metal, such as copper, its power is enhanced to such a degree that a

1876.J            on Methods of Chemical Decomposition.                183
separation of the constituents does take place ; but in the ordinary
arrangement of a voltaic cell the action is so slight that no evolution
of gas is perceptible. To produce a visible effect, the metals must not
only be close together, but ought to touch one another at a myriad of
points. This may be brought about by depositing the copper upon
the zinc in a spongy condition ; then the zinc will be oxidized, and
bubbles of hydrogen will appear amongst the branches of the copper,
even at the ordinary temperature, but the effect is greatly increased
by the application of heat.
     The arrangement just described is the "Copper Zinc Couple,"
which has been employed by Mr. Tribe and the speaker, and more
recently by others, to effect a variety of chemical decompositions.
Zinc foil is immersed in a solution of sulphate of copper until a black
velvety deposit of the metal is produced ; the soluble salts are then
washed away, and the couple after being dried is ready to be placed
in any liquid it is desired to decompose. Water was the first body
experimented upon, and it was found that the action would go on as
long as there was any metallic zinc left in union with the copper, the
amount of hydrogen evolved gradually diminishing, though varying
somewhat with the temperature of the day. The great influence
exerted by heat is, however, better shown in the subjoined table,
which gives the results of an experiment reduced to the unit of an
hour's work.
            At 2-2° C.   ..        1-lc.i :. of hydrogen produced.
               222                 5-5              »
               344                13-9              u
               550                620               »
               74-4          ..  174-6              ii
               93-0          ..  528-0              ?»
     These figures strikingly exhibit the rapid acceleration of the action
at the higher temperatures.
     A greater effect may be produced by substituting for the copper a
still more negative metal. Thus a zinc platinum couple acts with
much greater energy upon water. Gold zinc couples, and many
others also, have been tried, but gold has the practical disadvantage
that the precipitated metal does not adhere well to the zinc. Alumi
nium alone does not decompose water, not even, according to Deville,
at a red heat; but an aluminium copper couple decomposes it
slowly, and an aluminium platinum couple more rapidly, even in
the cold. One of the most recent discoveries is that aluminium when
amalgamated with mercury is converted into hydrate even by tho
moisture of the air. The most powerful combination, however, might
be expected to be that of the most positive and the most negative
metal which can be conveniently brought together. These are mag
nesium and platinum ; and in fact, if strips of magnesium foil be
coated with finely divided platinum by immersing them in platinic
chloride, and the resulting salts bo washed away, a couplo may be

184                           Professor Gladstone                     [May 5,
obtained which produces a most vigorous evolution of hydrogen when
it is placed even in cold water.*
     The decomposition of water by the copper zinc couple was of
course a matter of little practical importance ; it does, however, yield
hydrogen in a state of purity, even though the zinc bo largely con
taminated with such a substance as arsenic—a fact which may provo of
great consequence in medico-legal inquiries. These observations on
water led to a long series of experiments on other bodies, especially
organic compounds. The action of the two metals in conjunction
frequently effects not only the splitting up of a compound, but a
redistribution of its elements ; and this has resulted not only in the
discovery of a simple means of producing various substances pre
viously known, but the formation of several others hitherto unknown.
Thus the first trials were made on iodide of ethyl in the hope that
Professor Frankland's beautiful process for making zinc ethyl might
be simplified ; and not only was a better result obtained in a shorter
time, but when the experiment was performed in the presence of
alcohol it was found that pure hydride of ethyl was given off, and a
new substance, the iodoethylate of zinc, remained in the flask.
     Among the bodies which may be prepared more easily or in
greater purity by the copper zinc couple are the following :
       Hydrogen.                  Olefiant gas.         Dially).
       Methyl hydride.            Acetylene.            Zinc ethiodide.
       Ethyl hydride.             Propylene.            Zinc ethyl.
       Propyl hydride.            Diainyl.              Zinc amyl.
       Amy! hydride.
     The substances that have been discovered by this agency are the
following :
           Zinc  propiodide                         Zn(C,H.)I.
             ,.  propyl                             Zn(OsH;)2-
             „   isopropyl                          Zn(C,H.)5.
             „   cthylobromide                      Zn(C,H5)Br.
             „   iodoethylate                       Zn(C,HsO)I.
             „   bromethvlate                       Zn(C2H,0)Br.
             „   chlorethylute                      Zn(C„HsO)Cl.
     Zinc propyl is a volatile liquid body, of specific gravity 1 - 098,
which takes fire spontaneously in the air, burning with a bluish-white
flame. The haloid ethylates are a new class of bodies which have
been prepared from both ethyl iodide and iodoform, and their corre
sponding bromine and chlorine compounds.
     The couple has also thrown some light upon the chemical struc-
    * Phenomena resulting from different metals in combination have frequently
been observid by several experimenters, and some of them are described by Mr.
W. N. Hartley in the 'Chemical News,' vol. xiv. p. 73; but it does not appear
that the metals have ever been freed from concomitant salts, or their action
understood or appreciated.

1876.]               on Methods of Chemical Decomposition.                      185
turo of some of these organic bodies, as, for instance, by its different
behaviour with the two isomeric bodies, chloride of ethylene and
chloride of ethylidine. This is a direction in which future investi
gation is likely to be rewarded.*
      This method of quietly bringing about a chemical change has
found a practical application in the hands of Professor Thorpe for de
termining the amount of nitrates in samples of water, a question of
great importance which has hitherto been also one of great difficulty.
The nitric acid is reduced by the couple to the condition of ammonia.
In a similar way chlorates are reduced to chlorides.f
      The progress of research by means of the copper zino couple was
interrupted by the discovery of a curious reaction, by which also
water and other substances may be decomposed. Metallic aluminium
does not attack water by itself, neither does iodine ; but if the three
are brought into contact, oxide of aluminium is formed and hydrogen
gas is evolved ; and not only this, but the solution so produced will
cause the oxidation of any excess of aluminium with the formation of
an equivalent amount of hydrogen. It is not even necessary that free
iodine should be employed, for iodide of aluminium itself will deter
mine the oxidation of any amount of metal. This action is greatly
quickened by coupling platinum with the aluminium. By employing
alcohol instead of water, a similar action is set up, and this has led to
the discovery of aluminium ethylate, A12(C2H6O)8, alcohol in which
the replaceable hydrogen is substituted by aluminium. It is a solid
body at the ordinary temperature, but easily melts, and is capable of
 being sublimed unchanged, its vapour burning with a luminous flame
and white smoke of the oxide of the metal. Other compounds prepared
by this singular reaction, and the nature of the chemical changes
 which occur, are at present the subject of study.t
                                                                      [J. H. G.]
     * Further particulars respecting the decomposition of water by this special
 kind of electrolysis may be found in ' Proc. Royal Soc' 1872, p. 218 ; ' Report
 Brit. Assoc.' 1872, Abstracts, p. 75 ; ' Journal Chem. Soc.' 1873, p. 452 ; ' Phil.
 Mag.' 1875, pp. 284, 285. The account of "Besearches on the Action of the
 Copper Zinc Couple on Organic Bodies " is given in the ' Journal Chem. Soc.'
 1873, pp. 445, 678, 961; 1874, pp. 208, 406, 410, 615; 1875, p. 508. Sec also
 vol. vii. of these 'Proceedings,' p. 521.
     t ' Journ. Chem. Soc.' 1873, p. 541.
     j Since this discourse was delivered, this peculiar reaction has been elucidated
in a paper read before the Chemical Society, on " The Simultaneous Action ot
Iodine and Aluminium on Ether and Compound Ethers." An intermediate body,
the aluminium iodoethylatc, Al,(C,HsO),I,, is there described.
      Vol. VIII.       (No. G5.)

 186                       General Monthly Meeting.                 [May 8,
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, May 8, 1876.
 George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
     The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year were
 announced :
             Sir T. Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G.
             Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.
             Dr. Joseph Hooker, O.B. D.C.L. Pres. R.S.
             George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer.
             William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. Secretary.
       The Hon. George Elliot,
       Ernest H. Goold, Esq. M.R.I.A.
       Charles Rose Lucas, Esq.
      Major T. Myles Sandys,
       Edward W. Stanton, Esq. M.A.
 were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      John Tyndall, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
 was re-elected Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The special thanks of the Members were returned to Dr. Warren
 De la Rue, F.R.S. for his valuable present of a Thomson's Quadrant
 Electrometer.
     The decease of Mr. Rorebt P. Linton, Visitor, through an
accident, was announced, to the great regret of the Members.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on tho
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
Accademia del Lincei, Roma—Atti, Serie II. Vol. I. II. 4to. 1873-5.
Artom, Rev. B. Chief Rabbi of the Spanish and Portuguese Congregations of
     England—Sermons, First Series. 2nd ed. 16to. 1876.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1875, Part I. No. 4. 8vo.
  Proceedings, 1875. No. 10. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVI. No. 5. 8vo. 1876.

  1876.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                        187
  Bavarian Academy of Sciences, RoyaZ—Abhandlun, Band XII. Abthgen. 1. 4to.
         1875.
     L. A. Buchner, Festrede. 4to. 1875.
     Almanach. 1875. 16to.
  Bayley, Major J. A. (the Author)—The Assault of Delhi : a Vindication of H.M.
         52nd Light Infantry. (L 16) 8vo. 1876.
  British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1875-6, No. 9. 4to.
 British Museum Trustees—Guide to Graco-Roman Sculptures. Part 2. 12mo.
         1876.
  Browning, George, Esq. (the Author)—The Edda Songs and Sagas of Iceland.
        (O 16) 16to. 1876.
  Chemical Society—Journal for March, 1876. 8vo.
  Cox, Serjeant E. W. M.R.I, (the Autlior)—The Mechanism of Man : an Answer to
        the Question " What ami?" Vol. I. 16to. 1876.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1876. 8vo.
     Athenaeum for April, 1876. 4to.
     Chemical News for April, 1876. o1 to.
     Electrical News for April, 1876.
     Engineer for April, 1876. fol.
    Journal for Applied Science for April, 1876. fol.
     Nature for April, 1876. 4to.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for April, 1876. 8vo.                                »
    Telegraph Journal for April, 1876. 8vo.
 Frankland, Professor E. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Reports of the Rivers Commis
        sion, 1868. 2 vols. fol. 1870-4.
 Franklin Irutitute—Journal, No. 604. 8vo. 1876.
 Geological Survey of India—Eecords, Vol. VIII. Parts 1-4. 8vo. 1875.
    PalfBontologia Indica. Series IX. 2, 3. fol. 1875.
 Hofmann, Professor A. W. F.R.8. (the Author)—Life-work of Liebig. (Faraday
       Lecture for 1875.) 8vo. 1876.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, Jan. 1876. 8vo.
 Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Part 42. 8vo. 1876.
 Meteorological Office—Physical Geography of the Atlantic, by Capt. Toynbee.
       8vo. 1876.
 MusCe Teyler, Haarlem (the Directors)—Archives, Vol. IV. Fasc. 1. 8vo. 1876.
 Photographic Society—Journal, No. 266. 8vo. 1876.
 Physical Society—Proceedings, Part 3. 8vo. 1875.
 Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaflen—Monatsberichte : Jan. 1876. 8vo.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 168. 8vo. 1976.
 Smith, Willoughby, Esq. (the Author)—Action of Light on Selenium. (K 101)
       8vo. 1876.
Stewart, Charles, M.A. (the Author) —International Correspondence by means of
       Numbers. 12mo. 1874.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
       April, 1876. 8vo.
Societe" HoUandaise dee Sciences, Haarlem—Natuurkundige Verhandelingen.
       3e Serie.
    Archives                     4to. X.1875.
                    Tome II. 5.Tome
                Ne¦erlandaises,          Liv. 5, 6, Tome XI. Liv. 1. 8vo. 1875-6.
Twining, Thomas, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—-Science made Easy: a Series of
       Familiar Lectures. 4 parts. 4to. 1876.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 85. 8vo. 1876.
 Vereins tur BefSrderung des Gewerbfieisses—Verhandlungen, Juli-Dec. 1875,
       Jan. Feb. 1876. 4to.
 Woodward, Henry, Esq. F.RJ3. (the Author)—Papers on Crustacea, &o. 1868-76.
Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. IX. Parts 5, 6, 7. 4to. 1876.
   Proceedings, 1875. Part 4. 8vo.
                                                                        o 2

188                          Mr. W. Froude                       [May 12,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 12, 1876.
       Sir T. Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G. Vice-President, in the
                                   Chair.
                        W. Froude, Esq. F.R.S.
          The Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships.
I propose to consider those principles of fluid motion which
influence what is termed tho " resistance " of ships. By the term
resistance, I mean tho opposing force which a ship experiences in its
progress through the water. Considering how great an expenditure,
whether of sail or steam power, is involved in overcoming this
resistance, it is clearly most important that its causes should "be
correctly appreciated.
     This subject is a branch of the general question of the forces
which act on a body moving through a fluid, and has within a com
paratively recent period been placed in an entirely new light by what
is commonly called the theory of stream-lines.
     This theory as a wholo involves mathematics of tho highest order,
reaching alike beyond my ken and my purpose ; but so far as we shall
have to employ it here, in considering the question of the resistance
of ships, its principles are perfectly simple and are easily under
stood without the help of technical mathematics ; and I will endeavour
to explain the course which I have myself found most conducive to
 its apprehension.
     In order, howovor, to show you clearly what light the theory of
 stream-lines has thrown on the question, I must first describe the old
 method of treating it, which is certainly at first sight the most natural
 one, and we shall thus see what germs of truth that method contained,
 and how far these were developed into false conclusions.
     It is a crude but instinctive idea, that the resistance experienced
 either by a ship, or by a submarine body such as a fish, moving
 through water, is due to the necessity of the body ploughing or forcing
 or cleaving a passage for itself through the water; that it has to drivo
 tho water out of its way and then to draw it in again after itself.
      When, however, an attempt was made to deal with the matter in a
 scientific manner, it was seen that an explanation was needed of how
 it was that water required force to move it out of the way. For it
 may naturally be asked, How can there be reaction or resistance in
 a perfectly mobile material such as water seems to bo? Wo can
 understand earth, for instance, resisting a ploughshare dragged through

1876.]    on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships. 189
it, and we can understand that even a perfectly thin flat plane would
make resistance if dragged edgeways through a sea of sand, or even
through a sea of liquid mud, owing to tho friction against its sides.
But water appears, at first sight, altogether unlike this, and seems
totally indifferent to change of form of any kind. If we stir water,
tho different currents seem to flow freely past one another, as if
they would go on flowing almost for ever without stopping. But we
find, that although to push a thin oar blade through the water edge
ways seems to require no force, yet, if we push it flatways, as in
rowing, it offers a considerable reaction. The distinction, then, which
suggests itself is that the particles of water, although they offer no
resistance to anything merely sliding past them, offer great resistance
to anything pushing against them, because the thing which is pushing
against them sets them in motion out of its way, and to set anything
heavy in motion, requires the exertion of force to overcome what is
 called its inertia.
     This, then, appears prima facie to be the characteristic of water, that
 to set the particles in motion, or what is the same thing, to divert them
from a straight path, requires force to ovorcome their inertia, although,
 when once set in motion, they are able to glide freely past one another,
or past a smooth surface. This supposition embodies the natural
 conception of a fluid, and if it wero absolutely exemplified in water,
 then water would be what we should call a perfectly frictionless
 fluid.
     Now, though water is not absolutely frictionless, yet it is true that
 in many of the more familiar ways of handling it, the forces de
 veloped by its slight frictional qualities are small compared to those
 due to its inertia, and it is therefore not surprising that those who
 theorised on tho resistance of ships, thought it quite accurate enough
 to treat of tho effect of the inertia only, and to neglect the com
 paratively small frictional qualities.
     It was assumed then for the purposes of calculation, that the fluid
 being frictionless, would offer no resistance to a perfectly thin, flat,
 smooth plane, such as that shown in Fig. 1, moving edgoways through
                                   Fig. 1.
                              ELEVATION.                   CROSS SECTION.
 it, since this would in no way tend to set its particles in motion.
 But it is obvious that a ship, or fish, or othor body, such as that

 186                        General Monthly Meeting.                [May 8.
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, May 8, 1876.
 George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
     The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year were
 announced :
             Sir T. Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G.
             Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.
             Dr. Joseph Hooker, C.B. D.C.L. Pros. U.S.
             George Busk, Esq. F.B.8. Treasurer.
             William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. F.R.S. Secretary.
       The Hon. George Elliot,
       Ernest H. Goold, Esq. M.R.I.A.
       Charles Rose Lucas, Esq.
       Major T. Myles Sandys,
       Edward W. Stanton, Esq. M.A.
 wcro elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      John Ttndall, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
 was re-elected Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The special thanks of the Members were returned to Dr. Wakrkn
 De la Rue, F.R.S. for his valuable present of a Thomson's Quadrant
 Electrometer.
     The decease of Mr. Robert P. Linton, Visitor, through an
accident, was announced, to the great regret of the Members.
     The Presents rocoived since the last Meeting wore laid on tbo
tabic, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
Accademia dei Lincei, Roma—Atti, Serie II. Vol. L II. 4to. 1873-5.
Artom, Rev. B. Chief Rabbi of the Spanish and Portuguese Congregations of
     England—Sermons, First Series. 2nd ed. 16to. 1876.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1875, Purt I. No. 4. 8vo.
  Proceedings, 1875. No. 10. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, floyai—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVI. No. 5. 8vo. 1876.

  1876.]                        General Monthly Meeting.                        187
  Bavarian Academy of Science*, Royal—Abhnndlan, Band XII. Abthgcu. 1. 4to.
         1875.
      L. A. Buchner, Festredc. 4to. 1875.
     Almanach. 1875. 16to.
  Bayley, Major J. A. (the Author)—The Assault of Delhi : a Vindication of H.M.
         52nd Light Infantry. (L 16) 8vo. 1876.
  liritiih Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1875-6, No. 9. 4to.
 British Museum Trustees—Guide to Groco-Roman Sculptures. Part 2. 12mo.
         1876.
 Browning, George, Esq. (the Author)—-The Edda Songs and Sagas of Iceland.
        (O 16) 16to. 1876.
 Chemical Society—Journal for March, 1876. 8vo.
 Cox, Serjeant E. W. M.R.I, (the Author)—The Mechanism of Man : an Answer to
        the Question " What am I ? " Vol. I. 16to. 1876.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1876. 8vo.
     Athensum for April, 1876. 1 to.
     Chemical News for April, 1876. 4to.
     Electrical News for April, 1876.
     Engineer for April, 1876. fol.
     Journal for Applied Science for April, 1876. fol.
     Nature for April, 1876. 4to.
     Pharmaceutical Journal for April, 1876. 8vo.                               .
     Telegraph Journal for April, 1876. 8vo.
 Frankland, Professor E. D.C.L. F.R.8. M.R.I.—Reports of tho Rivers Commis
        sion, 1868. 2 vols. fol. 1870-4.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 604. 8vo. 1876.
 Geological Survey of India—Records, Vol. VIII. Parts 1-4. 8to. 1875.
     PaUoontologia Indica. Series IX. 2, 3. fol. 1875.
 Hofmann, Professor A. W. F.R.S. (the Author)—Life-work of Liebig. (Faraday
        Lecture for 1875.) 8vo. 1876.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, Jan. 1876. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Part 42. 8vo. 1876.
Meteorological Office—Physical Geography of tho Atlantic, by Capt. Toynbee.
        8vo. 1876.
MusCe Teyler, Haarlem (the Directors)—Archives, Vol. IV. Fasc. 1. 8vo. 1876.
Photographic Society—Journal, No. 266. 8vo. 1876.
 Physiad Society—Proceedings, Part 3. 8vo. 1875.
Preussisohe Akademie der Wissenschaftcn—Monatsberichte : Jan. 1876. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 168. 8vo. 1976.
Smith, WiUoughby, Esq. (the Author)—Action of Light on Selenium. (K 101)
       8vo. 1876.
Steicart, Charles, M.A. (the Author)—International Correspondence by means of
       Numbers. 12mo. 1874.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)— Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
       April, 1876. 8vo.
Societc" Hollandaise des Sciences, Haarlem—Natuurkundige Verhandclingen.
       3e Serie. Tome II. 5. 4to. 1875.
    Archives Neerlandaises, Tome X. Liv. 5, 6, Tome XI. Liv. 1. 8vo. 1875-6.
Twining, Thomas, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Science made Easy: a Series of
       Familiar Lectures. 4 parts. 4 to. 1876.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 85. 8vo. 1876.
 lereins tur BefSrderung des Gmcerbfteisscs—Verhandlungen, Juli-Dec. 1875,
       Jan. Feb. 1876. 4to.
 Woodward, Henry. Esq. F.RJS. (the Author)—Papers on Crustacea, Ac. 1868-76.
Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. IX. Parta 5, 6, 7. 4to. 1876.
    Proceedings, 1875. Part 4. 8vo.

190                          Mr. W. Froude                       [May 12,
shown in Fig. 2, moving through the water, has to bo continually
setting the particles of water in motion, in order, first to get them out
                                    Fig. 2.
                      in               »-
                         ELEVATION.                     CB08S SECTION.
of its way, and afterwards to close them together again behind it, and
that tho inertia of the particles thus set in motion will supply forces
reacting against the surface of the body. And it seemed certain, at
first sight, that these reactions or forces on the surface of the body
would necessarily so arrango themselves as to constitute resistance.
    On this view, various formulas were constructed by mathematicians
to estimate those reactions, and to count up the sum total of resistance
which they would cause to a ship or moving body of any given form.
These formulas wcro not all alike, but they were mostly based on the
supposition that the entire forward part of tho body had to exert
pressure to give the particles motion outwards, and that tho entire
afterpart had to exert suction to give them motion inwards, and that
there was, in fact, what is termed plus pressure throughout tho head
end of the body, and minus pressure or partial vacuum throughout the
tail-end. And as it seemed that the number of particles which would
have to bo thus dealt with, would depend on the area of maximum
cross section of the body, or area of ship's way as it was sometimes
termed, the resistance was supposed to bear an essential proportion to
tho midship section of the ship. This idea has sometimes been em
phatically embodied in the proposition that the work a ship has to
do in performing a given voyage, is to excavate in tho surface of tho
sea, from port to port, a canal the cross section of which is the same
as the midship section of the ship.
    This theory of resistance was at first sight natural and reasonable;
it was generally admitted for many years to be tho only practicable
theory, and was embodied in all the most approved text-books on
hydraulics and naval architecture. But when the theory of stream
lines was brought to bear upon the question, then it was discovered
that the reactions, which the inertia of the fluid would cause against
tho surfaco of the body moving through it, and which were supposed
to constitute tho resistance, arranged themselves in a totally different
manner from what had previously been supposed, and that, therefore,
the old way of estimating their total effect upon the ship was funda
mentally wrong. How wrong, I can best tell you by stating that
according to the theory of stream-lines, a submerged body, such as a
fish for example, moving at a steady speed through the assumed

1876.]     on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships. 191
frictionless fluid, would experience no resistance at all. In fact, when
once put into motion it would go on for ever without stopping.
     The revelation, then, which was brought about by the application
of the stream-line theory to the question, amounted to this, that the
approved formulas for estimating the resistance of bodies moving
through water were not only wrong in detail, but that the supposed
cause of resistance, with which alone they professed to be dealing, was
in reality no cause at all ; and that the real cause of resistance, what
ever it might be, was entirely left out.
     It is easy to imagine how fruitful, in false aims and false principles
of nautical construction, would be the assignment of the resistance of
ships to a supposed cause which has no existence at all. And the old
theory, though now discarded by scientific men, has obtained such a
hold on the minds of the general public, that I hope you will excuse
my devoting considerable space to its refutation.
     I will now briefly sketch an elementary view of the stream-line
theory so far as it is relevant to our present purpose. Let it be
understood that I am still dealing only with the supposed friction-
less fluid ; that for reasons which will hereafter appear, I am
dealing not with a ship at the surface, but with a submerged body ;
and that I am supposing it to be travelling at a steady speed in a
straight lino. I am going to prove to you that under these circum
stances the inertia of the fluid which has to be set in motion to
make way for the body, will cause no resistance to it. Not that
such inertia will cause no pressures and suctions acting upon the
surface of the body; far from it; but that the pressures and suctions
so caused must necessarily so arrange themselves, that the backward
forces caused to the body on somo parts of its surface, will bo neu
tralised by the forward forces caused on other parts. In effect,
although the inortia of the fluid resists certain portions of the body,
it propels the other portions of the body with a precisely equal force.
     In showing how this comes about, I prefer to substitute for the
submerged body moving through a stationary ocean of fluid, the
plainly equivalent conception of a stationary submerged body
surrounded by a moving ocean of fluid.              The proposition that
such a body will experience no total endways push from the fluil
flowing past it arises from a general principle of fluid motion, which I
shall presently put before you in detail, namely, that to cause a friction-
less fluid to chango its condition of flow in any manner whatever, and
ultimately to return to its original condition of flow, does not require,
nay, does not admit of, the expenditure of any power ; whether the
 fluid be caused to flow in a curved path, as it must do in order to get
round a stationary body which stands in its way ; or to flow with
altered speed, as it must do in order to get through the local contrac
 tion of channel which the presence of the stationary body practically
 creates. Power, it may indeed be said, is being expended, and force
 exerted to communicate certain motions to the fluid; but that same

192                           Mr. W. Froude                      [May 12
power is also being given back, and tho force counterbalanced, where
the fluid is yielding up the motion which has been communicated
to it, and is returning to its original condition.
    In commencement, I will illustrate these two actions by considering
tho behaviour of fluid flowing through variously-shaped pipes ; and I
will begin with a very simple instance, which I will treat in some
detail, and which will serve to show the nature of the argument I am
about to submit to you.
     Suppose a rigid pipe of uniform sectional area, of the form shown
in Fig. 3, something like the form of the water-line of a vessel.
     The portions A B, B C, C D, D E are supposed to be equal in length,
and of the same curvature, the pipe terminating at E in exactly the
same straight line in which it commenced at A, so that its figure is
perfectly symmetric on either side of C, the middle point of its length.
     Let us now assume that the pipe has a stream of frictionless fluid
running through it from A towards E, and that the pipe is free to
move bodily endways.
     It is not unnatural to assume at first sight that the tendency of
the fluid would be to push the pipe forward, in virtue of tho opposing
surfaces offered by the bends in it—that both the divergence between
A and C from the original line at A, and the return between C and E
to that line at E, would place parts of the interior surface of the pipe
in some manner in opposition to the stream or flow, and that the flow
thus obstructed would drive the pipe forward ; if however we endeavour
to build up these supposed causes in detail, we shall find the reasoning
 to be illusory, and I will now trace the results which can be established
 by correct reasoning.
     The surface being assumed to be smooth, the fluid, being a
 frictionless fluid, can exercise no drag by friction on the side of
 the pipo in tho direction of its length, and in fact can exercise
 no force on the side of the pipe, except at right angles to it. Now
 the fluid flowing round the curve from A to B will, no doubt, have to
 bo deflected from its course, and its inertia, by what is commonly
 known as centrifugal action, will cause pressure against the outer side
 of the curve, and this with a determinable force. The magnitude and
 direction of this force at each portion of tho curve of the pipe between
 A and B, are represented by tho small arrows marked /; and the
 aggregate of these forces between A and B is represented by the larger
 arrow marked G. In the same way the forces acting on the parts BC,
 CD, and DE aro indicated by the arrows II, I, and J- and as tho

1876.]    on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships. 193
conditions under which the fluid passes along each of the successive
parts of the pipe, are precisely alike, it follows that the four forces
are exactly equal, and, as shown by tho arrows in the diagram, they
exactly neutralise one another in virtue of their respective directions ;
and therefore the whole pipe from A to E, considered as a rigid
single structure, is subject to no disturbing force by reason of the
fluid running through it.
     Though this conclusion that the pipe is not pushed endways, may
appear on reflection so obvious as to have scarcely needed proof,
I hope that it has not seemed needless, even though tedious, to
follow somewhat in detail the forces that act, and which, under the
assumed conditions, are the only forces that act, on a symmetrical pipe
such as I have supposed.
     Having shown that in the instance of this special symmetrically
curved pipe, the flow of a frictionless fluid through it does not tend to
push it endways, I will now proceed to show that this is also the
case whatever may be the outline of the pipe, provided that its be
ginning and end are in the same straight line.
     Assume a pipe bent into a complete circular ring with its ends
joined, and the fluid within it running with velocity round the circle.
Tho inertia of this fluid, by centrifugal force, exercises a uniform out
ward pressure on every part of the uniform curve ; and this is the only
force the fluid can exert. This outward pressure tends to enlarge or
stretch the ring, and thus causes a uniform circumferential tension on
each part of the ring.
     Now take a ring of twice the diameter and suppose the fluid to be
 running round it with the same linear velocity as before. The
 diameter of the curve being doubled, and the speed being the same, the
 outward pressure due to centrifugal force on each linear inch of the
ring will be halved ; but since the diameter is doubled, the number of
linear inches in the circumference of the ring will be doubled. Since,
 then, we have twice the number of inches acting, each with half the
 force, the total force tending to enlarge tho ring will be unaltered,
 and the circumferential tension on the ring caused by the centrifugal
 force of tho fluid, will be just the same as before.
     In the same way wo can prove that in any number of rings of
 any diameters, if the linear velocity of the fluid in each is the same,
 the circumferential tension caused by the centrifugal force of tho
 fluid will also be tho same in each.
     Now let us take each of these rings and cut out a piece, and then
join all these pieces together so as to form a continuous pipe, as in
 Fig. 4, and suppose the stream of fluid flowing through the com
 bined pipe, with the same linear velocity as that with which it was
 before flowing round each of the rings. The fluid in each of tho
 segments will now bo in precisely tho same condition as when tho
 segment formed part of a complete ring, and will subject each piece of
 ring to the same strains as before, namely, to a longitudinal tension or
 strain, and to that only. And since we have already seen that the

194                          Mr. W. Froude                    [May 12,
tension is tho same in amount in each ring, the tension will be the
same at every point in the combined pipe.
                                  Fig. 4.
    This being so, if wo imagine the pipe to bo flexible (but not
clastic), and to bo fastened at the ends, tho pipo, although flexible,
will not tend to bo disturbed in its shape by tho inertia of tho fluid
which is running through it ; because the fluid docs not cause any
lateral force, but only a longitudinal stretching force, and that, the
same in amount at every point. And this will clearly be so in a pipo
of any outline, because any curve may be made up by thus piecing
together short bits of circular arcs of appropriate radii.
     Let us then take a flexible pipe having the two ends in the same
straight lino, but pointing away from ono another, as in Fig. 5,
                                   Fig. 5.
the intermediate part being of any outline you please. If the ends
arc fixed we have seen that tho flow of fluid will not tend to disturb
the pipe, and therefore all that will be necessary to hold it in its
position, will be an equal and opposite tension supplied by the anchor
ages at the ends, to prevent the ends being forced towards ono another.
And if, instead of anchoring the ends, we put a strut between them
to keep them apart, the pipo thus fitted will require no external force
to keep it in position. In other words, whatever be tho outline of a

 1876.]    on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships. 195
pipe, provided its beginning and end are in the same straight lino, a
frictionless fluid flowing through it, will have no tendency to push it
bodily endways.
     So far I have dealt only with pipes having uniform sectional area
 throughout their length, an assumption which has been necessary to
the treatment pursued, as the velocity has in each case been assumed
to be uniform throughout the length of the pipe. I will now proceed
to consider the behaviour of fluid flowing through pipes of varying
sectional area, and consequently flowing with varying velocity.
    It is, I think, a very common impression, that a fluid in a pipe,
meeting a contraction of diameter (see Fig. 6), exercises an excess of
                   Fig. 6.                       Fia. 7.
pressuro against the entire converging surface which it meets, and
that, conversely, as it enters an enlargement (see Fig. 7), a relief of
pressure is experienced by the entire diverging surface of the pipe.
Further, it is commonly thought that there is in the narrow neck of
a contracted passage (see Fig. 8) an excess of pressuro duo to the
squeezing together of the fluid at that point.
                                  Fig. 8.
    These impressions are in every respect erroneous ; the pressure
at the smallest part of the pipe is, in fact, less than that at any other
point, and vice versa.
    If a fluid be flowing along a pipe A B which has a contraction
in it (see Fig. 9), the forward velocity of the fluid at B must be
greater than that at A, in the propor-                  fi0. 9.
tion in which the sectional area of        a
the pipe at B is less than that at                            —.     1L
A ; and, therefore, while passing *•—<U+25BA>
from A to B the forward velocity                      '
of the fluid is being increased. This increase of velocity implies
the existence of a force acting in the direction of the motion, to
overcome the inertia of the fluid ; that is to say, each particle
which is receiving an increase of forward velocity must have a
greater fluid pressure behind it than in front of it ; for no other con
dition will cause that increase of forward velocity. Hence a particle
of fluid, at each stage of its progress along the tapering contraction,
is passing from a region of higher pressuro to a region of lower
pressure, so that there must be a greater pressure in tho larger part
of the pipe than in the smaller, the diminution of pressure at

 196                            Mr. W. Froude                      [May 12,
 each point corresponding with the diminution of sectional area,
 corresponding, that is to say, with the additional forward velocity
 assumed by the fluid at each point of its advance along the con
 traction. Consequently, differences of pressure at different points in
 the pipe depend solely upon the velocities, or, in other words, on the
 relative sectional areas of the pipe, at those points.
     It is easy to apply the same line of reasoning to the converse
 case of an enlargement. Here the velocity of the particles is being
 reduced through precisely the same series of changes, but in an oppo
 site order. The fluid in the larger part of the pipo moves more
 slowly than that in the smaller, so that, as it advances along the
 enlargement, its forward velocity is being checked; and this check
 implies the existence of a force acting in a direction opposite to the
 motion of the fluid, so that each particle which is being thus retarded,
 must have a greater fluid pressure in front of it than behind it ; thus
 a particle of fluid at each stago of its progress along a tapering enlarge
 ment of a pipe, is passing from a region of lower pressure to a region
 of higher pressure, the change of pressure corresponding to the change
 of velocity required. Hence we see that a given change of sectional
area will require the same change of pressure, whether the pipo be an
enlargement or a contraction.
     Therefore, in a pipe in which thero is a contraction and a subse
quent enlargement to the same diameter as before (see Fig. 8), since
the differences of pressure at different points depend on the differences
of sectional area at those points, by a law which is exactly the same in
an enlarging as in a contracting pipe, tho points which have the same
sectional areas will have the same pressures, the pressures at the
larger areas being larger, and those at tho smaller areas smaller.
     Procisely the same result will follow in tho case of an enlarge
ment followed by a contraction (see Fig. 10).
                                    Fig. 10.
     Were water a frictionlcss fluid these propositions could be exactly
verified by experiment as follows.
     Figs. 11 and 12 show certain pipes, the one a contraction followed
by an enlargement, tho other an enlargement followed by a con
traction. At certain points in each pipe there are small holes, com
municating with vertical gauge-glasses. Tho height at which the
fluid stands in each of these vertical glasses, of course indicates the
pressure in the pipe at the point of attachment.
     In Fig. 11 the sectional areas at E and P are equal to one another.
Those at C and K are likewise equal to one another, but are smaller
than thoso at E and P. The area at I is the smallest of all. Now,
the fluid being frictionlcss, the pressures at E and P indicated by tho
heights E D and P Q would bo equal, these being greater than C H

1876.] on the Fundamental Principles of ihe Besistanre of Ships. 197
and K N. OH and K N would also be equal to one another, and
would be themselves greater than I J.
                                  Fig. 11.
                                  Fig. 12.
                     Level of Hiao out to velocity
    The results shown in Fig. 12 are similar in kind, equal pressures
corresponding to equal sectional areas.
    But if the experiment wero tried with water, some of the pressure
                                  Fig. 13.
at each successive point would bo lost in friction, and this growing
defect in pressure, or " gradient," would be indicated in the successive
gauge-glasses in the manner shown in Figs. 13 and 14.

198                           Mr. W. Froude                     [May 12,
     I have here arranged an experiment which conveniently illustrates
these propositions, making allowance for the frictional gradient.
     hklefgabc (soe Fig. 15) is a continuous series of glass
tubes, through which water is flowing from tho cistern n to the outlet
m. The cistern is kept full to a certain level. The tube from h to I
is what I have called an enlargement followed by a contraction Hike
Fig. 10); from e to g, the diameter is the same throughout; and from
a to 6, the tube is a contraction followed by an enlargement (like Fig.
8). Just as in Figs. 11, 12, 13, 14, gauge-glasses are here fitted to
the various tubes, to show tho pressures of the water in them at
various points.
     Let us first consider the parallel pipe eg. If the fluid were fric-
tionless, the diameter being uniform, the pressure would be uniform
throughout, and the fluid would stand at the same level in each of the
three gauge-glasses. But, owing to the friction, the water surfaces in
the three glasses do not come up to a level line, but form a descending
line, namely tho frictional gradient.
     Now take the pipe a c. Here the smallest pressure denoted by
the water level at b', is in the middle at 6, whero tho diameter is
smallest, and the greatest pressure denoted by the water levels at
a', c', is at the two ends a, c, where the diameter is greatest. And if
the fluid were frictionless, the pressure at the two ends, which have
the same diameter, would bo the same, but with water there is, as in
 the parallel pipe e g, a gradient or loss of pressure due to the
 friction.
      The frictional gradient, according to well-known hydraulic rules,
 has a definite law of variation in terms of diameter and velocity,
 consequently it has been possible by calculation to so arrange the
 diameters of the pipes, that the parallel pipe e g should, according
 to the rule, have the same frictional gradient as the pipe a c, and as
 we see that the gradients are in fact the same, the result not merely
illustrates but verifies the propositions.
      In the pipe h k I we have the smallest diameter at the two ends

1876. J on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships. 199
         15
h' and I, and the largest diameter at the middle point k, and conse
quently wo have the smallest pressures denoted by the water levels at
h' and /', at tho two ends, and the greatest pressure in the middle

200                                Mr. W. Froude,                      [May 12,
denoted by the water level at k\ and wo again have the fall or gradient
from end to end due to friction.
     These experiments afford a good verification of the proposition
which I just now explained, namely, that in a frictionless fluid
flowing through a pipe of varying diameter, the pressure at each
                                point depends on the sectional area at that
 Fig. 16.      Fig. 17.
                                point, there being equal pressures at the points
                                of equal sectional area. Hence if in the pipe
                                shown in Fig. 16 the areas at all the points
                                marked A are equal, if also the areas at all
                                the points marked B are equal, and so also
               „...V-~          with   those at C and D, then the pressures
                                at all the points A will be the same, the
                           jq pressures at all the points B will be the
                                same, and so with those at C and D.
                                     Since, then, the pressure at each point
                                depends on the sectional area at that point
                                and on that only, it is easy to show that the
                                variations in pressure due to the flow are not
                                such as can cause any total endways forco
                                on the pipe, provided its sectional area at
                                each end is the same.
                          8          Take for instance the pipe shown in Fig.
                                17. The conical portion of pipe A B presents
                                the same area of surface effective for end
                                ways pressure as does the conical portion
                                H I, only in opposite directions. They arc
                                both subject to the same pressure, being that
                                appropriate to their effective mean diameter
                                J. Consequently tho endways pressures on
                                these portions are equal and opposite, and
                                neutralise one another. Precisely in tho
                                same way it may be seen that the endways
                                pressures on B C, CD, D E, exactly counter
                                act those on QH, F G, E F ; and it may be
                                similarly shown, that in any combination
                                whatever of enlargements and contractions,
             K              Ip, provided the sectional area and direction of
               ...IIJ...-.J tho pipe at the two ends aro the same, the
                                total endways force impressed on the pipe
                                by the fluid flowing through it must be
                                nil.
                                     We see then that a frictionless fluid flow
                                ing through a pipe of any form, whether tor-
   1   I                        tuous or of varying diameter, will not tend
to push it endways, as long as the two ends of tho pipe are in the same
straight line, and have tho same sectional area ; in a word, as long as

 1876.] on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships.     201
the speed and direction of flow of the fluid are the same in leaving the
 pipe as in entering it ; and in this compound proposition concerning
the flow of fluid through pipes, I have laid the necessary foundation
for the treatment of the case of the flow of an ocean of frictionless
fluid past a submerged body.
     I have dealt with the instance of a single stream of uniform sec
tional area (and therefore of uniform velocity of flow) enclosed in a
pipe of any outline whatever, and I have dealt with the instance of a
single stream of varying sectional area and velocity of flow ; and in
both these cases I have shown that, provided the streams or pipe-
contents Anally return to their original direction and velocity of flow,
they administer no total endways force to the pipe or channel which
causes their deviations.
    I am now going to deal with a combination of such streams, each
to some extent curved and to some extent varying in sectional area,
which, when taken together, constitute an ocean of fluid, flowing
steadily past a stationary submerged body, see Fig. 18 ; and here also,
since the combination of curved streams surrounding the body, which
together constitute the ocean flowing past it, return finally to their
original direction and velocity, they cannot administer to the body any
endways force.
    Every particle of the fluid composing this ocean, as it passes the
body, must undoubtedly follow some path or other, though we may
not be able to find out what path ; and every particle so passing is
preceded and followed by a continuous stream of particles all fol
lowing the same path, whatever that may be. We may then, in
imagination, divide the ocean into streams of any size and of any
cross section we please, provided they fit into one another so as to
occupy the whole space, and provided the boundaries which separato
the streams exactly follow the natural courses of the particles.
    If we trace the streams to a sufficient distance ahead of the body,
we shall there find the ocean flowing steadily on, completely undis
turbed by, and, so to speak, ignorant of the existence of the body
which it will ultimately have to pass. There, all the streams must
have the same direction, the same velocity of flow, and the same
pressure. Again, if we pursue their course backwards to a sufficient
distance behind the body, we shall find them all again flowing in
their original direction ; they will also have all resumed their original
velocity ; for otherwise, since the velocity of the ocean as a whole
cannot have changed, we should have a number of straight and
parallel streams having different velocities side by side with one
another. This, in a frictionless fluid, would be clearly an impossible
state of things, for we have seen that in a frictionless fluid the velo
cities exactly correspond with the pressures, so that if the velocities
of these streams were different the pressures would be different, and if
the pressures were different the fluid would begin to flow from the
greater pressures towards the less, and the streams would thus become
curved instead of straight.
    Vol. VIII. (No. 65.)                                        p

202                           Mr. W. Froude                      [May 12,
     Thus, although in order to get past the body these streams follow
some courses or other, various both in direction and velocity, settling
themselves into these courses in virtue of the various reactions which
they exert upon one another and upon the surface of the body, yet
ultimately, and through the reverse operation of corresponding forces,
they settle themselves into their original direction and original velocity.
Now the sole cause of the original departure of each and all of these
streams from, and of their ultimate return to, their original direction
and velocity, is the submerged stationary body ; consequently the body
must receive the sum total of the forces necessary to thus affect the
streams. Conversely this sum total of force is the only force which the
passage of the fluid is capable of administering to the body. But wo
know that to cause a single stream, and therefore also to cause any
combination or system of streams, to follow any courses changing at
various points both in direction and velocity, requires the application
of forces the sum total of which in a longitudinal direction is nil,
provided that the end of each stream has the same direction and velocity
as the beginning. Therefore the sum total of the forces (in other
words the only force) brought to bear upon the body by the motion
of the fluid in the direction of its flow, is nil.
     Another instructive way of regarding the same problem is this.
Suppose each and every one of the streams into which we have
subdivided the ocean, to be enclosed in an imaginary rigid pipe made
exactly to fit it, throughout, the skin of each pipe having no thickness
whatever. The innermost skin of the innermost layer of pipes (I
mean that layer which is in contact with the side of the body), the
innermost skin, I say, of this layer is practically neither more nor less
than the skin or surface of the body. The other parts of the skins of
this layer, and all the skins of all the other pipes, simply separate
fluid from fluid, which fluid ex hypothesi would be flowing exactly as
it does flow if the skins of the pipes were not there ; so that, in fact,
if the skins were perforated, the fluid would nowhere tend to flow
through the holes. Under these circumstances the flow of the fluid
clearly cannot bring any force to bear on any of the skins of any of
the pipes, except on the innermost skin of the innermost layer. Now
we know that the fluid flowing through this system of pipes admini
sters no total endways force to any one of the pipes or to the system
as a whole. But it produces, as we have just seen, no force whatever
upon any of the skins which separate fluid from fluid ; consequently,
if these are removed altogether, the force administered to the remainder
of the system, will be the same as is administered to the whole system,
namely, no total endways force whatever. But what is this remainder
of the system which has no total endways force upon it ? Simply the
surface of the body, which is formed, as I have already said, by the
innermost skins of the innermost layer of pipes. Therefore no total
endways force is administered to the body by the flow of the fluid.
   ' I have now shown that an infinite ocean of frictionless fluid flowing
past a stationary submerged body cannot administer to it any endways

1876.] on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships. 203
force, whatever be the nature of the consequent deviations of the streams
of fluid. The question, what will be in any given case the precise con
figuration of those deviations, is irrelevant to the proof I have given
of this proposition. Nevertheless it is interesting to know something
at least, of the general character which these deviations, or " stream
lines," assume in simple cases; therefore I show some in Figs. 18 and
19, which are drawn according to the method explained by the late
Professor Rankine.
    The longitudinal lines represent paths along which particles flow ;
they may therefore be regarded as boundaries of the streams into
which we imagined the ocean to be divided.
     We see that, as the streams approach the body, their first act is
to broaden, and consequently to lose velocity, and therefore, as we
know, to increase in pressure. Presently they begin to narrow, and
therefore quicken, and diminish in pressure, until they pass the middle
of the body, by which time they have become narrower than in their
original undisturbed condition, and consequently have a greater
velocity and less pressure than the undisturbed fluid. After passing
the middle they broaden again until they become broader than in
their original condition, and therefore have less velocity and greater
pressure than the undisturbed fluid. Finally, as they recede from the
body they narrow again until they ultimately resume their original
dimension, velocity, and pressure.       Thus, taking the pressure of the
surrounding undisturbed fluid as a standard, we have an excess of
pressure at both the head and stern ends of the body, and a defect of
pressure along the middle.
    We proved just now that, taken as a whole, the pressures due to
the inertia of the fluid could exert no endways push upon the stationary
body. We now see something of the way in which the separate pres
sures act, and that they do not, as seems at first sight natural to
expect, tend all in the direction in which the fluid is flowing ; on the
contrary, pressure is opposed to pressure, and suction to suction, and
the forces neutralise one another and come to nothing ; and thus it is
that an ocean of frictionless fluid, flowing at steady speed past a
stationary submerged body, does not tend to push it in the direction of
the flow. This being so, a submerged body travelling at a steady
speed through a stationary ocean of frictionless fluid will experience
no resistance.
     Since then a frictionless fluid would offer no resistance to a sub
merged body moving through it, we have next to consider what are
the real causes of the resistance which such a body experiences when
moving through water.
     The difference between the behaviour of water, and that of the
frictionless fluid is twofold, as follows :
     First, the particles of water, unlike those of a frictionless fluid, exert
a drag or frictional resistance upon the surface of the body as they
 glide along it, This action is commonly called surface-friction or
                                                                   p 2

    Mr. W. Froude | May 12.
204

 1876.J on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships. 205
 skin-friction, and its amount in any given case can be calculated from
general experimental data. The resistance due to the surface-friction
of a body such as that which we have been considering is practically
the same as that of a plane surface of the same length and area,
moving at the same speed edgeways through the water.
     The second difference between the behaviour of water, and that
of the imaginary frictionless fluid surrounding the moving submerged
body, is that the mutual frictional resistance experienced by the
particles of water in moving past one another, somewhat hinders
the necessary stream -line motions, alters their nice adjustment of
pressures and velocities, defeats the balance of forward and
backward forces acting against the surface of the body, and thus
induces resistance. This action, however, seems imperceptible in
forms of fairly easy shape such as that shown in Fig. 2, and only
operates tangibly where there are angular features, or very blunt
sterns, like the blunt round tail, for instance, of the bodies shown
in Figs. 18 and 19. In such a case, the stream-lines, instead of
closing in round the stern, as shown in the figures, form a swirl or
eddy, from which it results that the excess of pressure which would
exist at the tail-end in a frictionless fluid, and which would there
counterbalance the similar excess of pressure at the nose of the body,
becomes in water greatly reduced, and in part converted into negative
pressure, and thus a very great resistance may result. It is worth
mentioning, however, that it is blunt tails rather than blunt noses that
cause these eddies, and thus a body with one end round and the other
sharp, no doubt experiences least resistance when going with the
round end first.
    I call this source of resistance " eddy-making resistance," and as
I have said, it will be imperceptible in forms of fairly easy shape,
such, for example, as Fig. 2. Such a form of submerged body will
experience practically no resistance except that due to surface-friction,
and will therefore experience practically only the same total resistance
as a thin plane, like Fig. 1, moving edgeways, which possesses the
same area of wetted skin. In fact, we may say generally, that all sub
merged bodies of fairly fine lines, experience no resistance except
surface-friction.
    I have hitherto, throughout the whole of this reasoning, been deal
ing with submerged bodies only, by which I mean bodies travelling at
a great depth below the surface of the fluid ; and I have shown the sole
causes of their resistance to be the two I have termed respectively
surface-friction and eddy-making resistance. But when we come to
the case of a ship, or any other body travelling at or indeed near the
surface, we find a new cause of resistance introduced ; a cause, the
consideration of which is often of most vital importance in the design
of the forms of ships, and which renders the question of the form of
least resistance for a ship, entirely different from that of the form
of least resistance for a submerged body. This new cause of re

206                          Mr. W. Froude                    [May 12,
sistance, like the eddy-making resistance, operates by altering the
stream-line motions and defeating their balance of forward and back
ward forces. It arises as follows :
     Imagine a ship travelling at the surface of the water, and first
let us suppose the surface of the water to be covered with a sheet
of rigid ice, and the ship cut off level with her water-line, so as
to travel beneath the ice, floating, however, exactly in the same posi
tion as before (see Fig. 20). As the ship travels along, the siream-
                                  Fig. 20.
line motions will be the same as for a submerged body, of which the
ship may be regarded as the lower half; and the ship will move
without resistance, except that due to the two causes I have just
spoken of, namely surface-friction and eddy-making resistance. The
stream-line motions being the same in character as those we have
been considering, we shall still have at each end an excess of pres
sure, and along the sides a defect of pressure, which will tend the
one to force up the sheet of ice and the other to suck it down. If
now we remove the ice, the water will obviously rise in level at each
end, in order that excess of hydrostatic head may afford the necessary
reaction against the excess of pressure, and the water will sink by the
sides, in order that defect of hydrostatic head may afford reaction
against the defect of pressure.
     The hills and valleys which thus commence to be formed in the
 water are, in a sense, waves, and though originating in the stream
 line forces of the body, yet when originated, they come under the
 dominion of the ordinary laws of wave-motion, and to a large extent
 behave as independent waves; and in virtue of their independent
 action they modify the stream-line forces which originated them, and
 alter the pressures which are acting upon the surface of the ship.
     The exact nature of this alteration of pressure, in any given case,
 we have no means of predicting ; but we can be quite sure it must
 operate to alter the balance of forward and backward forces in such a
 way as to cause resistance ; for we see that the final upshot of all the
 different actions which take place is this—that the ship in its passage
 along the surface of the water has to be continually supplying the
 waste of an attendant system of waves, which, from the nature of their
 constitution as independent waves, are continually diffusing and trans
 mitting themselves into the surrounding water, or, where they form
 what is called broken water, crumbling away into froth. Now, waves
 represent energy, or work done, and therefore all the energy repre
 sented by the waves wasted from the system attending the ship, is so
much work done by the propellers or tow-ropes which are urging the
 ship. So much wave-energy wasted per mile of travel is so much

 1876.] on the Fundamental Principles of the Besistance of Ships. 207
 work done per mile, and so much work done per mile is so much
 resistance.
     The surface of the water thus admits of an escape as it were, of
 the pressures which arise from the inertia of the particles of the fluid
 which have to be set in motion by the body. But so far from thereby
 rendering less obstruction to the passage of the body, these pressures
 are enabled by that very escape to result in a resistance, which, if
 they were confined by the fluid overhead, as with a submerged body,
 they would have been unable to produce ; in fact at the surface the
 particles are able to escape the duty of restoring to the body the
 power which the body employed to set them in motion. There can
 be no doubt that in this way a fish, when swimming so close to the
 surface as to make waves, experiences more resistance than when
 deeply immersed.
     It is worth remark that this cause of resistance, " wave-genesis "
or " wave-making resistance," as it has been termed, would be equally
a cause of resistance in a frictionless fluid, and it is for this reason
that in proving to you just now that a body would experience no
resistance in moving through a frictionless fluid, I limited the case
 to that of a submerged body. It is true that in a frictionless fluid
the wave system generated by a ship would not waste away, as in
water, by its internal friction ; but it would none the less be diffused
into the surrounding fluid, and thus, as the ship proceeded, she would
cover a larger and larger area of ocean surface with the waves she
was making.
     Having arrived at this point, I think it will be useful briefly to
review the several cases of motion through fluid, in order to trace
 where the several causes of resistance we have dealt with, come
into operation.
     Case I.— A plane moving edgeways through frictionless fluid.
Here there will be no resistance.
     Case II.— A plane moving edgeways through frictional fluid.
Here there will be resistance due to surface friction.
     Case III. —A submerged body moving through frictionless fluid.
The inertia of the fluid undergoing stream-line motion, causes excess
of pressure at the two ends, and defect of pressure along the middle.
The forward and backward pressures balance one another, and there
fore cause no resistance.
     Case IV.— A submerged body moving through frictional fluid.
Here there is resistance due to surface friction. Also, if the body
is abrupt enough to cause eddies, part of the excess of pressure at the
tail-end will be converted by the friction of the particles of fluid
into defect of pressure, and so will destroy the balance between the
forward and backward pressures, thus causing eddy-making resistance.
     Case V.—A body moving through frictionless fluid, but at or
near the surface. The direct pressures on the surface of the body, are
altered by the operation of the wave system which has been created,

   208                         Mr. W. Froude                       [May 12,
   thus destroying the balance of forward and backward forces, and
   introducing " wave-making resistance."
      Case VI. —A body moving through frictional fluid at or near the
  surface. Here, surface-friction, eddy-making resistance, and wave-
  making resistance will act in combination, and will together make up
  the total resistance.
      Having thus reviewed the several operations which will combine
  to cause resistance to a ship moving at the surface of the water, it
  will be interesting to see in what proportion they are combined in an
  actual ship of ordinary form; and to take a single instance I show the
  "curves of resistance," as they are called, of the SS. ' Merkara,' a mer
  cantile ocean steamship of 3980 tons. It is perhaps necessary to
  explain that a curve of resistance is a diagram constructed to show at
  a glance the resistance at any speed, so that if any point be taken on
  the scale of speed forming the base-line, the ordinate or vertical
 height from the point to the curve above, measured by the scale of
 force, will show the amount of resistance at that speed. Thus, in
 Fig. 21, where the uppermost line represents the total resistance of the
 ship, we see that at a speed of twelve knots the resistance as indi
 cated by the height up to the line is 9 • 3 tons.
      The plain line on Fig. 21, is the curve of total resistance of the
 ' Merkara ' deduced from experiments made with a model of that ship.
                                   Fig. 21.
                                                                          a
                                                                         .5
                                                                          8
                                                                         a
                          Speed in Knots per hour.
The lowest of the two dotted lines is the curve of surface-friction
resistance of the ship, calculated from experiments made upon the
resistance of thin planes moving edgeways through water. The space

 1876.]    on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships. 209
 between the foregoing line and the dotted line immediately above it,
 represents the amount of resistance due to eddy-making, deduced from
 data which it would take too long to describe here. The space
 between this upper dotted line and the plain line above it is the wave-
 making resistance.
     We see then, that with this ship the eddy-making resistance is
 about eight per cent, of the surface-friction, at all speeds. We see
 further that at eight knots the wave-making resistance is practically
 nil, that at eleven knots it is only twelve per cent, of the whole
 resistance at that speed, and that at thirteen knots, which is the
 maximum speed of the ship, it is seventeen per cent, of the whole.
 As we go further up in the scale of speed the wave-making resistance
 mounts up very largely, and at nineteen knots is fully sixty per cent,
 of the whole resistance.
     The curve of resistance here given may be taken as a fair sample
 of those of ships of good build. It may be said generally that the
 eddy-making resistance is a comparatively small amount, and that it
 bears at all speeds nearly a constant proportion to the surface-friction.
 The wave-making resistance, on the contrary, always increases with
 increase of speed at a more rapid rate than the surface-friction, being
 generally nil at a very low speed, and becoming, at very high speeds,
more than half of the whole resistance. Large ships, however, do
not often attain under steam, speeds at which the wave resistance is
more than some forty per cent, of the whole.
     It is a point worth noticing here, what an exceedingly small force,
after all, is the resistance of a ship, compared with the apparent magni
tude of the phenomena involved. Scarcely anyone, I imagine, seeing
for instance the new frigate ' Shah ' steaming at full speed, would be
inclined at first sight to credit, what is nevertheless the fact, that the
whole propulsive force necessary to produce that apparently tremen
dous effect is only 27 tons, in fact less than one two-hundredth part
of the weight of the vessel. And of this small propulsive force, at
least 15 tons, or more than one-half, is employed in overcoming surface-
friction simply.
     Thus, although the vessel carries at her bow a wave seven feet
high, the forces which produce this are so far neutralised by other
similar forces that the whole of her resistance, exclusive of surface-
friction, might be represented by the sternward pressure on her bow
which would be due to a single wave fourteen inches high. Indeed, a
wave thirty inches high would represent a sternward pressure equal
to the whole resistance of tho ship.
     The truth is, that the forces which are at work, namely the stream
line pressures due to the inertia of the fluid, are indeed very great ;
what we have to deal with, in the shape of eddy-making or wave-
making resistance, is nothing but a minute difference or defective
balance between these great forces, and fortunate it is that they
balance as well as they do. With a well-shaped ship at moderate
speed we have scarcely any resistance but skin friction, for the

 210                         Mr. W. Froud-                      [May 12,
 balance of stream-line pressures is almost perfect ; but nevertheless
 they are all the while in full operation, a forward force counteracting
 a backward force, each equal to perhaps five times the existing total
 resistance of the ship. We can easily imagine, then, that when we
 once begin to tamper with this balance, we may produce unexpectedly
 great resistance ; and thus when we are dealing with speeds at
 which the wave-making resistance comes into play, a small variation
 in form may cause a comparatively large variation in the wave-making
 resistance. It is this fact which gives the wave-making resistance
 such a vital importance in connection with the designing of ships;
 but unfortunately, although the surface friction element of resistance
 is easily calculated in all cases from general experimental data,
neither theory nor general experiment have as yet supplied means
of calculation applicable to the wave-making resistance. In the
absence of this knowledge we have to rely on direct experiments
with different forms of vessels, and to supply these is one of the
objects of the experiments upon the resistances of models of various
forms which I am now conducting for the Admiralty.
     By these experiments I hope not only to obtain a great many com
parisons, showing at once the superiorities of some forms over others ;
but to deduce general laws by which the influence of variation of
form upon wave-making resistance may be predicted. Already, indeed,
some most instructive propositions concerning the operations of this
cause of resistance have shaped themselves; but it would take far
too long to describe them in this discourse. I will merely refer to
one broad principle which underlies most of the important peculiarities
of the wave-making element of resistance.
     We have seen that the waves originate in the local differences of
pressure caused in the surrounding water by the vessel passing
through it; let us suppose, then, that the features of a particular
form are such that these differences of pressure tend to produce a
variation in the water level shaped just like a natural wave, or like
portions of a natural wave, of a certain length.
     Now an ocean wave of a certain length has a certain appropriate
speed, at which only it naturally travels, just as a pendulum of a
certain length has a certain appropriate period of swing natural to it.
And just as a small forco recurring at intervals corresponding to tuo
natural period of swing of a pendulum will sustain a very large
oscillation, so, when a ship is travelling at the speed naturally appro
priate to the waves which its features tend to form, t':e stream-line
forces will sustain a very large wave. The result of this phenome
non is, that as a ship approaches this speed the waves become of
exaggerated size, and run away with a proportionately exaggerated
amount of power, causing corresponding resistance. This is the
cause of that very disproportionate increase of resistance experienced
with a small increase of speed when once a certain speed is reached,
an instance of which is exhibited at a speed of about eighteen knots
in the curvo of resistance shown in Tig. 21.

1876.] on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships. 211
    We thus see that the speed at which the rapid growth of resistance
will commence, is a speed somewhat less than that appropriate to the
length of the wave which the ship tends to form. Now, the greater
the length of a wave is, the higher is the speed appropriate to it ;
therefore the greater the length of the waves which the ship tends
to form, the higher will be the speed at which the wave-making
resistance begins to become formidable. We may therefore accept it
as an approximate principle, that the longer are the features of a ship
which tend to make waves, the longer will be the waves which tend to
be made, the higher will be the speed she will bo able to go before
she begins to experience great wave-making resistance, and the less
will be her wave-making resistance at any given speed.
     This principle is the explanation of the extreme importance of
having at least a certain length of form in a ship intended to attain a
certain speed ; for it is necessary, in order to avoid great wave-making
resistance, that the " wave features," as we may term them, should be
long in comparison with the length of the wave which would naturally
travel at the speed intended for the ship.
     Time will not admit of my describing to you in detail how the
principles I have been explaining, affect the practical question of how
to shape ships. I must leave you to imagine for yourselves, if you
feel interested in following up the question, how the desirability of
length of " wave features," for lessening wave-resistance, is to a
greater or less extent counteracted by the desirability of shortness of
ship for lessening surface-friction ; and how in many othor ways a
certain variation of form, while it is a gain in one way is a loss in
 another, so that in every case the form of least resistance is a com
 promise between conflicting methods of improvement.
     My principal object has been to combat the old fallacy of " head-
 resistance," as it has been sometimes called, due to the inertia of the
 water acting against the area of the ship's way. I hope I have made
 it clear to you, that the inertia of a frictionless fluid could offer no
 opposing force to a submerged body of any shape moving through it,
for that the forces there developed by the inertia against the body, must
 of necessity push it forwards exactly as much as they push it back
 wards, and that when the body is moving through a frictional fluid, or
 when it is moving at the surface of a fluid, this balance is only more
 or less destroyed through the operation of conditions which are totally
 independent of the area of midship section or area of ship's way.
     For this reason, the only instances I have time to give you of the
application of our knowledge of the causes of resistance to practical
 questions, shall be directly applicable as illustrations of the fallacy
of the midship section theory.
     Let us suppose, that Fig. 22 represents the respective water-lines
of two vessels of the same tonnage but of different proportions of length
 to breadth. Now it is true that the shorter of the two, when the
 speed of the wave appropriate to its wave features is approached, will
 experience great wave-making resistance, and will therefore probably

 212                          Mr. W. Froude                     [May 12,
experience greater total resistance than the longer ship. But it is
certain that at low speeds when the wave-making resistance of both
                                   Fig. 22.
ships is practically nil, the shorter ship will make the least resistance,
because the long and narrow one has the largest area of skin, and
will therefore have the greatest surface-friction resistance. Judging,
however, by the midship section theory, we should have erroneously
concluded that the short and broad ship would make the greatest
resistance of the two at all speeds.
     Next let us take the two ships, whose waterlines are shown in
Fig. 23. It may bo seen that the one shown in dotted lines has the
                                   Fig. 23.
            WW\WH}^
                           n$
same length, and the same sharpness of ends as the other, but is filled
out amidships to a larger cross section. On the midship section
theory, this one would clearly have the greatest resistance of the two.
Nevertheless, in the trial of two models of those lines it appeared

1876.] on the Fundamental Principles of the Resistance of Ships. 213
that at the higher speeds, the form with the largest cross section made
considerably the least resistance. The explanation of this lies of
course in the fact that the addition amidships, though increasing the
displacement, forms a prolongation of the wave features of the two
ends, and thus lessens the wave-making resistance.
     In conclusion let me again insist, and with the greatest urgency, on
 the hopeless futility of any attempt to theorise on goodness of form
 in ships, except under the strong and entirely new light which the
 doctrine of stream-lines throws on it.
     It is, I repeat, a simple fact that the whole framework of thought
 by which the search for improved forms is commonly directed, consists
 of ideas which, if the doctrine of stream-lines is true, are absolutely
 delusive and misleading. And real improvements are not seldom
 attributed to the guidance of those very ideas which I am charac
 terising as delusive, while in reality those improvements are the fruit
 of painstaking, but incorrectly rationalised, experience.
     I am but insisting on views which the highest mathematicians of
the day have established irrefutably ; and my work has been to appre
ciate and adapt these views when presented to me.*
     No one is more alive than myself to the plausibility of the unsound
 views against which I am contending ; but it is for the very reason
 that they are so plausible that it is necessary to protest against them
 so earnestly ; and I hope that in protesting thus, I shall not be re
 garded as assuming too dogmatic a tone.
     In truth, it is a protest of scepticism, not of dogmatism ; for I do
 not profess to direct anyone how to find his way straight to the form
 of least resistance. For the present we can but feel our way cantiously
towards it by careful trials, using only the improved ideas which
the stream-line theory supplies, as safeguards against attributing this
or that result to irrelevant, or rather, non-existing causes.
    * I cannot pretend to frame a list of the many eminent mathematicians who
originated or perfected the stream-line theory ; but I must name from amongst
them, Professor Rankine, Sir William Thomson, and Professor Stokes, in order
to express my personal indebtedness to them for information and explanations,
to which chiefly (however imperfectly utilised) I owe such elementary knowledge
of the subject as alone I possess.
                                                                  [W. F.]

214                         Mr. Charles T. Newton                            [May 19,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 19, 1876.
Sir Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                          Charles T. Newton, C.B.
         XF.Kl'EK 07 THE GBEEK AND ROHAN ANTIQUITIES IN THE BRlTISH Ml SI III.
                      The Recent Discoveries at Olympia.
The discourse began with a brief notice of the topography of the
Olympian plain in EHs, in the Peloponnesus, and a description of the
nature and objects of the ancient Olympic festival, revived by Iphitus,
King of Elis, to promote harmony in Greece, of which we have records,
beginning with the victory of Coroebus, 776 B.C., and ending with its
abolition by Theodosius, a.d. 394. The games included races on
foot, on horseback, and in chariots, wrestling, boxing, and other
athletic exercises ; and the contests were open to free Greeks of all
ranks, of pure Hellenic blood, an Olympian prize being to them tho
highest honour conceivable. During the festival a sacred armistice
was established if held in time of war ; and treaties of peace were
 often published at Olympia. One of the objects was military training,
 to enable a small number of Greeks to resist a vast number of foes ;
 but the chief motive was undoubtedly religious. The hymns were
more in honour of Zeus than of the victor in the contests, and Pindar's
 odes are more admonitory than laudatory.
     In the second century of our era Olympia was visited by Pausanias,
 who gives in his ' Itinerary ' a most interesting description of the
then state of the Temple of Zeus, Phidias's colossal statue of the god
in ivory and gold, the large number of statues of victors, with edifices
abounding in treasures (occupying a space of about a square mile),
which no doubt conduced to the abolition of the festival.
     After alluding to the visits of Chandler, Leake, and Stanhope,
Mr. Newton described the explorations of the French expedition in
 1828, when the site of tho temple was ascertained, and a plan made,
of which he exhibited a copy; and the sculptures then discovered
were conveyed to the Louvre. At the part where the French left off
the work was taken up, in the autumn of 1875, by the German expe
 dition, conducted by Messrs. Hirschfeld and Botticher, whose dis
 coveries have been of transcendent interest. Some of these were
described by Mr. Newton, who, in company with Professor Colvin,

1876.]           on the Recent Discoveries at Olympia.             215
lately visited the spot. He specially commented on a noble but
mutilated statue of Victory, most probably the work of Pieonios, a
contemporary of Phidias, of which a description is given by Pausa-
nias, and he also described some sculptures of the eastern pediment
of the temple, stated by Pausanias to represent the preparation for a
chariot-race between Pelops and CEnomaus, King of Elis. These and
many of the torsos found are of very unequal merit, and proved, as
was remarked, that the decorations of the Greek temples were often
committed to inferior artists. After alluding to several other works,
and commenting on some interesting bronze tablets, with inscriptions,
recording treaties or granting civic privileges, the discourse con
cluded with a warm tribute of gratitude to the Germans for their
noble enterprise, and the expression of a confident hope of still more
important results.

216               Mr. J. Fletcher Motdton on the                [May 26,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 26, 1876.
    William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. LL.D. F.R.S. Secretary and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                      J. Fletoher Modlton, Esq.
             The Verification of Modern Scientific Theories.
The speaker began by calling attention to the rapid advances made by
science in recent times as well in the world of organic as of inorganic
matter. This advance had consisted partly of the discovery of a vast
number of isolated scientific truths, and partly of the discovery of wide
general principles. Such is found to be the case in any age that is
rich in discoveries ; and as the wide general principles thus arrived
at embrace many of the less general truths previously discovered, the
people in such an age have the choice of two methods of demon
strating these truths ; the one by direct induction from facts and
experiments specially relating thereto, and the other by deduction
from some wide generalization which has itself been established
by an induction proper to itself. Different minds will be affected
differently by the two processes, accordingly as they are more
keenly alive to a sense of general or of special harmony. A
parallel is to be found in the two rival styles of mathematical
 teaching so well exemplified in our English text-books— one class of
text-books prefer to prove particular theorems by special proofs,
each of which is applicable to its own theorem alone, while the
others prefer to face the difficulties of the demonstration of general
theorems at the outset, and deduce from them the theorems they need
as particular cases.
    The fact that there are classes of minds to which each method
is in turn specially convincing makes them both alike necessary and
valuable even in cases where either would be sufficient alone, for
in science our aim is to convince, and truths are often arrived at
and firmly held by the better scientific minds long before the evi
dence for them is sufficient to render their demonstration incon
testable. Such cases, i. e. of truths to reject which is not insane
but only stupid and unprofitable, constitute the most interesting
part of science in every age, and it is the attitude of a mind
towards these nascent discoveries that measures its enlightenment.
But though both methods are useful in the attainment of scientific
truth, the ono that seeks to deduce particular truths from general
ones is the one to which we should ultimately advance, and is, as

1876.]            Verification of Modern Scientific Theories.         217
we shall see, of far greater value as a training to the scientific
faculty. It is thus of great importance that we should go over
our scientific beliefs from time to time, especially just after some
wide generalization has been made, to see how many of the special
truths that we hold are instances of it either taken alone or in
combination with other generalizations, and we should accustom
ourselves, so far as is possible, to use these great fundamental
truths in our scientific reasoning.
     This review of the grounds of our beliefs is highly useful for
another reason. There is a very remarkable difference between the
amount of evidence demanded by the mind in this re-examination—
this verification—of its beliefs, and that which sufficed to convince it
at first. It is true that the demonstration may need to be stricter,
but in many cases the mind is rightly less exacting in its require
ments as to proof than it was at first. To use a simile that is justly
somewhat unsavoury at the present time, a new theory is like an
unexpected claimant to an estate. It is true that reflection may lead
us to see flaws in evidence that at first sight appeared irrefragable,
but on the other hand it may be that we shall discover that we
have been unjustly incredulous. In such cases every little pecu
liarity is counted suspicious; and the unfortunate aspirant is re
quired to explain away many a difficulty which makes neither for
nor against his claim, and he is refused credence until he has done
so. Let him, however, once establish his claim to be the rightful
heir, and let people become accustomed to the idea of his being so,
 and they straightway begin to see how much more proof they re
 quired than was sufficient for the purpose, and half the evidence
 that was needed to win the estate would enable him to hold it.
 In a similar way it will be found that some of the greatest dis
 coveries of this age will be considered by future ages to have been
 sufficiently proved by less evidence than that which now is con
 sidered by large numbers of intelligent men to leave them debatable
 questions.
     The speaker then examined the recently discovered truths which
 form the group known as the Conservation of Force or Energy. These
 constitute the continuation, or we might almost say the completion
 of Newton's work on matter and motion, and, together with the
 complementary theorem of the Dissipation of Energy, they give the
 governing laws of the working power of the universe. These laws,
 as now known, are exact quantitative laws ; they are universally active,
 and, in fact, all phenomena are only illustrations of their working.
 Numberless apparently distinct theorems follow directly from them,
 and in addition they constitute the most valuable check to the cor
 rectness of our hypothesizing, and must sooner or later be the final
 test of all theories. Their universality and exactnoss are immediately
 useful in enabling us to calculate the effect of forces acting on a scale
 immensely greater or immensely more minute than that on which they
 act in the cases that usually come under our notice, and of which we
     Vol. VIII. (No. 65.)                                        «

 218                Mr. J. Fletcher Moidlon on the                [May 26,
 have experience. Apart from some such guide as this, it would be
 well-nigh impossible to guess the effect of even well-known forces
 acting on a wholly unaccustomed scale. In other words, when the
 scale on which a force acts is such as to admit of the disturbing in
 fluence of the feeling of wonder in our reasonings, it is hopeless to
 attempt to arrive at reliable conclusions by processes that do not rest
 on accurate numerical laws. By taking the problem of the influence
 of the Gulf Stream on climate, the new theories of oceanic circulation,
 and the controversy between the uniformitarian and catastrophic
 schools of geologists, the speaker contrasted the unreliable guesses of
 earlier theorists with the distinct utterances of these universal physical
 laws, when interrogated in a right manner, and investigated the
 extent of the verification which we thus obtain for our modern
 theories on these important matters.
     Although in their nature these laws are exact and quantitative, yet
 the problems to which we have to apply them aro often too compli
 cated to permit of our making use of them in this their most com
 plete form, and we are compelled to content ourselves with drawing
 conclusions from them as to the general phenomena that characterize
 the processes of change in nature. For this they are eminently
 suited, inasmuch as they are, so far as we can ascertain, universal both
 in space and time, and have been the shaping laws of the universe
 during the whole of its existence. It is from them alone that we
 derive information about the earliest form of the earth, and its con
 dition and history during those ages whose geologic record is too
 blurred by time to be any longer legiblo. Examples of this applica
 tion of these laws are to be found in Laplace's Nebular Hypothesis,
and in the more definite conclusions of Sir William Thomson as to
the Plutonic history of the earth-. So useful are they for purposes
such as this, that by their aid we speedily arrive at a general know
ledge of the types of change that will most frequently present them
selves in the universe ; and in this way we arrive at a scientific
measure of the probability of theories, and aro enabled to determine
how great or how small an amount of ovidence will be needed to sup
port them. Apparent strangeness is no longer a ground for rejecting
a theory ; its credibility is measured by its harmony with some one
of the prevailing types of change ; and we have thus taken a further
step towards freeing ourselves from the disturbing influence of unen
lightened wonder—the faculty which is the most detrimental of all to
scientific thought, and the greatest hindrance to scientific progress.
This determination of the amount of evidence necessary to support
a Theory may be considered as an indirect verification (though an
incomplete one) of all such theories as are shown thereby to be
highly probable, even in the absence of direct evidence for them.
     Such considerations as these have led some eminent philosophers
to believe that we can arrive at secondary laws of change, by the aid
of which we shall be able in all cases to forotell the course of de
velopment without going back to the fundamental laws. This the

1876.]          Verification of Modern Scientific Theories.           219
speaker held to be an error. No such secondary laws have been
arrived at inductively, and none can be obtained deductively, so far as
we are able to see at present ; those proposed are vague and unmean
ing, and no interpretation that can be given to them will enable them
to stand the test of a rigorous examination. Nor is this failure to be
wondered at. The most marked characteristics of any special type of
change are often less directly the consequences of the fundamental
laws that ultimately govern the change, as of the special circumstances
that distinguish the cases in which it occurs. The most remarkable
instance of this is to bo found in the class of problems that relate to
living things. We do not doubt that the laws of physics and chomistry
are ultimately as supreme over the organic world as they are over tho
inorganic ; but it would be very unwise to approach the one solely
through the other, or to expect the prevalence of the same types of
change in both. The special circumstances which make life possiblo,
and those in connection with which it alone occurs, entail conse
quences which are much more evident, and influence to a much greater
degree the prevailing types of change than do tho great laws of
physics, considered in their most general and abstract form. No
further illustration of this is needed than the fact that one of tho most
important laws of all organic life is heredity, to which no trace of a
sound analogy can be found in all the universe of inorganic matter ;
every proposed analogy turns out on examination to be false and
delusive. If then so important a shaping law of organic nature is
exclusively confined to it, it must be that in living things we have
so peculiar a type of phenomena, that tho peculiarities of tho typo
have more direct influence on its laws of change than have the
fundamental laws that ultimately govern all change of whatever
kind it be.     So far then from seeking to find secondary laws of
change common to the two, we shall do wisely to keep as distinct as
possible our investigations into the laws of organic and inorganic
nature, and to view with suspicion, as being probably accidental
and superficial, any striking resemblances or analogies between their
governing laws ; and the speaker then proceeded to point out the
special circumstances which are essential to tho existence of life,
and which make it improbablo that the difficulties of biology will
bo successfully approached from the side of physics or chemistry.
     Tho speaker then drew attention to the fundamental laws which
in tho case of life take the place of those laws of physics which he
had been discussing, and analyzed the process of verification of the
Descent-Theory when we start from these laws. He showed that
the truth of this theory is an immediate corollary from one or two
facts which physics and geology tell us about tho history of the earth
 in the past, coupled with what we know of the laws of change of the
organic world. The amount of evidonco necessary to establish this
theory was greatly exaggerated at first. This error is to be traced to
 two causes : in the first place, Mr. Darwin, to whom the triumph of
 the theory is duo, had, as tho object of his great work on tho Origin
                                                               Q 2

220         Mr.J.F.MoultononVerificationofScientificTheories. [May 26,
of Species, the establishment of another and totally distinct theory,
i. e. that the development that accompanied this descent was primarily
due to Natural Selection. The two theories have thus become so
identified in the minds of most people, that they confound the amount
of evidence requisite to prove the fact of the descent of our present
world of animated nature from simple organisms, with that requisite
to settle the infinitely more difficult question of the forces that have
guided and modified it during the process of that descent. And
secondly, the novelty of the theory has caused the world to over
estimate the amount of evidence requisite to establish it, as might
have been expected from the considerations dwelt upon at the com
mencement of the lecture.
      The attempt to verify the theory which more peculiarly belongs
to Mr. Darwin, i.e. that of the part played by natural selection in
evolution, leads to very different results to the above, though it
soon becomes evident that natural selection has had a most important
influence in directing development. Any attempt to estimate how
large a part it has played, necessarily implies that we have either
some quantitative estimate of its effects, or that we have obtained a
knowledge of some of the fundamental laws of organic life in their
exact and quantitative form. Without somo such knowledge as this,
any attempt to arrive at the accumulated effect of natural selection
during millions of years, is mere guess-work, and is made under
circumstances which, as we have seen, are specially likely to induce
error, through the opportunity they give for the disturbing influence
of the highly unscientific faculty of Wonder. No such quantitative
estimate has ever yet been made, nor indeed are we at present
prepared for it, for we are still so ignorant of the laws of varia
bility, or, in other words, our enunciation of the law of heredity
is still so imperfect, that we cannot hope speedily to arrive at sound
conclusions as to the effect of the combined action of that variability,
and the selective influence of the struggle for existence ; in fact, it
is not too much to say that but a very small portion of the problem of
development can be considered as solved ; the greater part of it
has perhaps not yet been enunciated. The crowning merit of Mr.
 Darwin's discovery, and the cause of our especially keen feeling
 of gratitude to him, is that he has solved the part that troubled
 us most. Up to his time the peculiar adaptations so common in
 the world of life were supposed to be beyond the power of the
 blind, purposeless laws of nature to effect ; and he was the first
to show that this apparent motivation might be caused by natural
 laws, without the interference that the teleologist asserted to be
 necessary.
                                                            [J. F. M.J

1876.]    Prof. Roscoe on Recent Discoveries about Vanadium.            221
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, June 2, 1876.
        William Bowman, Esq. F.RJ3. Manager, in the Chair.
                     Profrssor Rosooe, Ph.D. F.R.S.
                   Recent Discoveries about Vanadium.
The name Vanadium, from Vanadis, a designation of the Scandinavian
goddess Freia, was given by the Swedish chemist Sefstrom to a new
metal obtained for the first time by him in the most minute quantities
in the year 1830.
    From that time up to 1868 onr knowledge respecting the habits
and proclivities of vanadium was derived entirely from the one
research of Berzelius, so that its relations to the other elements were
but ill understood. In the above year the speaker brought before a
Royal Institution audience * the fact that this metal which had
hitherto been wandering astray amongst her fellow elements had at
last been brought under the civilizing influences of law and order, so
that now she occupies a well-recognized position, and is looked upon
as a settled member of the society to which she is acknowledged to
belong.
    One of the most important aids which the chemist possesses in the
classification of the elements is the doctrine of isomorphism. Thus
the analogy and family likeness between the elements phosphorus,
arsenic, and vanadium, is pointed out in the isomorphism of the
minerals pyromorphite, mimetesite, and vanadinite, all of which
crystallize in hexagonal prisms, terminated with hexagonal pyramids
having the same angles and the same relative length of axes.
    In the year 1868 the fact was ascertained that the chemical con
stitution of the vanadium compounds assigned to them by their first
investigator, Berzelius, did not accord with that which their crystallo-
graphic relations required. Thus whilst to the highest oxides of
phosphorus and arsenic, contained respectively in the isomorphous
minerals pyromorphite and mimetesite, the formulas PsO„ and
As2O5 had been given by common consent, the formula which,
according to Berzelius, denotes the constitution of the highest and the
corresponding oxide of vanadium is V»O8 . Here then we have either
to do with an exception to the law of isomorphism, or the experimental
conclusions of Berzelius are incorrect.
    On the occasion above referred to, the speaker stated that the key
          * Friday, February 14, 1868 : ' Proceedings,' vol. v. p. 287.

 222                           Professor Roscoe                       [June 2,
 to the enigma had been obtained, inasmuch as it had been shown that
 Berzelius had overlooked the existence of two additional atoms of
 oxygen in the highest oxide of vanadium to which, therefore, the
 formula V2O6 must be given instead of V20,. According to Ber
 zelius the atomic weight of vanadium is 67 - 3, and the highest
 oxido, V,O2, has a molecular weight of 182-6. If, however, two more
atoms of oxygen really occur in this oxide, and if the substance
 supposed by Berzelius to be a metal is in fact an oxide, we must
subtract 16, or the weight of one atom of oxygen, from 67 - 3, and we
 get 51 - 3 as the true atomic weight of the metal. This then proves
 the analogy of vanadium (V = 51-3) with phosphorus (P = 31)
 and with arsenic (As = 75), and thus explains tho observed isomor
phism in the series of minerals above referred to.
     Tho speaker then reminded his audience that vanadium is the
fourth substance supposed by its discoverer to be a metal which had
recently been shown to be a compound body.
      Titanium.           Uranium.             Niobium.          Vanadium.
Wollaston.. 1823 ' Klaproth         1780 l/Hatchett .. 1801 '/SefstromandK
Wuhler .. 1849 Peligot              1849 .\Rose .. 1842-64 \ Berzelius / 1831
                                          Marignac .. 1865 I Boscoe     .. 1867
     Further research only tends to prove more conclusively tho
striking analogy between vanadium and the other members of tho
triad group of elements. Thus we now know that the elements can
be grouped according to a natural system in families, and vanadium
with the now atomic weight, fits exactly into the system, being placed
between phosphorus and arsenic, and near to the analogous elements
chromium and niobium, whereas when Berzelius's atomic weight is
employed these relations are altogether ignored. This relation is
seen in tho following table.
  Table showing the Growing op some of the Elements (Mentelejeff).
                 V     CI                  Br               I
Monads          19    355                  80             127
                 0      S                  Se              Te
Dyads           16     32                79-5       ..    128
                 N      r         V       As       Nb      Sb     Ta       Bl
1'riads         14     31       513        75      94     122    182      210
                 C     si        Ti                Zr      Sn
Tetrads    ..   12     28        50               89-6    118
                                 Cr                Mo   I         W        IT
Ilexads    ..                  52-4        --      96            184      240

 1876.]            on Recent Discoveries about Vanadium.                   223
     In many other respects the close analogy between vanadium and
 phosphorus has been confirmed. Thus the speaker has shown that the
 salts of vanadic acid, like the salts of phosphoric acid, are capable of
 existing in three distinct series, the ortho-salts, the pyro-salts and the
 meta-salts. The analogous composition of these salts is clearly shown
 in the following table.
                                      Phosphates.              Vanadates.
                                      Na,P04                   Na3V04
             Ortho-Salts              Ag,PO,
                                -I    Pb,(P04)2
                                      Na4P20,
                                                       ..      Pb, (VOJ,
                                                               Na4V20,
             Pyro-Salts               Ag,P„Or                  Ag,V20;
                                      Ca,P30;                  Ca2V20;
                                      Pb2P30;                  Pb2V20,
             Meta-Salts               NaPO,                    NaV03
                                      NH4PO,                   NH4V03
     The three series of phosphates and vanadates do not, however,
agree in order of stability. Thus it is well known that the tri-basic
phosphoric acid and the soluble ortho-phosphates are more stable than
the members of the pyro-series, and these again more stable than the
meta-compounds. In the case of the vanadates the order is reversed,
for at the temperature of boiling water the soluble ortho-vanadates
split up into tho pyro-salt and free caustic soda, thus :
                   2(Na,V04) + H20 = Na4V20; + 2NaOH.
Whilst, again, the pyro-salts aro readily decomposed by the weakest
acids such as carbonic acid with formation of the mcta-salt and a
carbonate, thus :
                     Na4V20; + CO, = 2NaV03 + Na2C03.
Another proof of the comparatively greater stability of the meta-
compounds is found in the fact that meta-vanadic acid HVO3 has
recently been prepared by Dr. Gerland. It has recently been stated
by M. Antony Guyard * that the substance supposed to be meta-
vanadic acid is an ammonium salt. The speaker in consequence had
carefully analyzed a sample prepared by Dr. Gerland, which gave the
following results, proving that this assertion is incorrect, and that
meta-vanadic acid really exists :
    (1) 0-1110 substance dried at 100° yielded on ignition 0-0983
VA-
    (2) 0-2713 of the same substance after continued washing, dried
at 100° yielded on ignition 0-2435 V8O5.
    Hence we have :—
                                           Calculated.      (1) F°Und¦(2)
           Percentage of V2Os      ..   ..   91-05      .. 88-57     89-84
                         * ' Bull. Soc. Chim.' xxv. 356.

224                               Professor Roscoe                         [June 2,
   It is a most remarkable substance—a yellow solid body crystallizing
in bright golden plates, which have so bright a lustre and are so
permanent in the air that they may possibly be used as a substitute
for gold-leaf in gilding. Ortho-vanadic acid 'E.iYOi and pyro-vanadic
acid I^V2O, have not as yet been isolated. •
     In many of their physical as well as their chemical properties the
vanadium and phosphorus compounds exhibit a close analogy. Thus
Gladstone * has shown that the specific refractive energy for phos
phorus (as deduced from the refractive indices of POC12) is 0'SGl,
whilst that of vanadium, deduced from VOCl2, is 0-494. If vanadium
were an ordinary metal having the atomic weight 51-2, we should
expect its refractive energy to be only about 0-13. Hence it is
entirely thrown out of the group of the heavy metals, and brought
into the group of one of the most refractive and dispersive bodies,
viz. phosphorus.
     In the same way the atomic volumes of the corresponding oxy-
chlorides POCl2 and VOCl2 have been shown by Thorpe f to stand
in the same relation to each other as the atomic volumes of the
tetrachlorides of silicon and titanium do to one another. Thus the
difference both in molecular weight and specific volume is in both
cases nearly constant,
               POC1,
               VOC1, ....   .... 15338
                                 173-73 \f oQ.g.
                                           m °°        101-58
                                                       106-54 /\ 4.9G
                                                                 * ab
               SiCl
               TiOl              191-84 joi.qn
                                 169-94 / ¦" 90        121'13 /W-Qrt
                                                       12603     4 90
Hence it appears that the constitution of vanadyl trichloride is similar
to that of phosphoryl trichloride, and that vanadium is to be repre
sented as a triad, the oxygen having the specific volume of 7-8
assigned by Kopp to that element when attached by one combining
unit only.
     The close relationship exhibited between vanadium, phosphorus,
and arsenic, is clearly shown by the very peculiar poisonous action of
the vanadium compounds on the animal system. A most careful and
extended series of experiments on this subject, made by Mr. John
Priestley, in the Owens College physiological laboratory, under
Professor Arthur Gamgee's superintendence, has yielded the following
results. The poisonous effects of vanadium are indicated by paralysis
of motion ; convulsions, local and general ; drowsiness or indifference
to external circumstances; congestion of the alimentary mucous
membrane ; discharge of sanguinolent fasces ; presence of glairy fluid
mucus in the intestine ; certain changes in respiration, and coinci-
dently a fall in temperature. The effects which vanadium exerts
upon the respiration are at first an acceleration, then a retardation,
and ultimately an arrest of respiration, due to an action of the poison
        * ' Phil. Trans.' 1870.               f ' Proc. Roy. Boo.' xxiv. 284.

1876.]             on Recent Discoveries about Vanadium.               225
on the respiratory centre situated in the medulla oblongata, and which
is at first stimulated, but afterwards paralyzed.
     The circulation is also notably affected by vanadium, which pro
duces a fall in the blood pressure, and an intermittance or stoppage of
the heart's action. This first action is partly due to a paralysis of
the vaso-motor centres, the second to a direct poisonous action which
vanadium compounds exert upon the intrinsic nervous apparatus of
the heart. These results point to a close relationship between the
poisonous action of arsenic and vanadium, and, therefore, go to
establish a physiological as well as a chemical resemblance between
these two metals. From experiments, which are as yet unpublished,
but the results of which have been kindly communicated to the
speaker by Dr. Arthur Gamgee, it appears that although the physio
logical action is in kind apparently the same in the case of the
different vanadium compounds, yet the intensity of the poisonous
activity is influenced by the nature of the compound, and this
relationship in the case of the vanadium compounds and of the
phosphorus compounds appears to be a very close one. Thus, if
 we examine the comparative poisonous and lethal actions of the
 salts of ortho- and meta- and pyro-vanadic acids, we find that the
 poisonous activity is least in the case of the first, and greatest in that
 of the third of these compounds. A subsequent examination of the
 poisonous action of the corresponding phosphoric acids has exhi
 bited the remarkable fact that whilst the ortho-phosphates appear
 to be inert, the pyro-phosphates are almost as poisonous as arsenic
 compounds.
     The speaker had recently been able to forge still closer in another
 direction the links connecting vanadium with the older members of
 the triad group, by the discovery of a new vanadium mineral, which
 forms the third member of the following series of phosphorus, arsenic,
 and vanadium compounds, all of which doubtless crystallize in the
 same form, and certainly have an analogous chemical composition.
 To the new mineral the name of Mottramite, from the locality where
 it was first obtained, has been given, and the complete series is :
             Dihydrite              Cu.P.O, + 2 Cu(OH),
             Erinite                Cu,Aa,0, + 2 Cu(OH),
             Mottramite             (CuPb),V,0, + 2 (CuPb) (OH),
      A second new vanadium mineral has lately been discovered by
 Dr. James Blake, of San Francisco, and analyzed by the speaker. It
 is a very interesting substance, and contains 28 per cent, of vanadic
 acid combined with alumina, potash, and silica. The formula of
 this mineral, to which Dr. Blake proposes to give the name of
 Roscoelite, is :
                          4A1'"V04 + K.Si.O,. + HsO.
 It is a greenish talc-like mineral found in a gold mine, serving as
  a matrix for the gold ; it occurs in small bunches, filling cavities in a
 schistose porphyry.

226                              Professor Roscoe                      [Juno 2,
     It is not, however, so much in relation to other elements that
vanadium is interesting, as by virtue of the remarkable properties
which the metal itself possesses. Thus the lowest stage of oxidation
which the element can assume, viz. V2O2, is a powerful reducing
agent, bleaching indigo by reduction almost as quickly as chlorine
does by oxidation. On allowing the solution thus bleached to stand,
the hypovanadous salt at once takes up oxygen from the air, and
indigo blue appears again. On the other hand, the highest oxide
V2O6 parts with its oxygen readily, and is easily reduced by organic
matter to a lower oxide ; acting in this respect like the highest oxide
of chromium CrO„.
     This property of vanadic acid enables this substance to be employed
in photography.* If gelatine be mixed with sodium divanadate, and
the film unequally exposed to light, the portions strongly insolated
become slightly less soluble in warm water than the non-exposed
portion, so that it is possible to print from such a film. Again,
if paper which does not contain any animal size is coated with a
solution of sodium ortho-vanadate and then exposed to light, the
portion insolated assumes a dark tint dependent upon tho length
of exposure and the strength of the solution employed. If the paper
thus prepared be immersed, after exposure, in a solution of silver
nitrate, the colour in tho exposed part instantly changes to a dark
brown or black colour, doubtless duo to the reduction of tho silver
salt by the vanadous compound formed in tho paper. Paper thus
prepared may bo used for photographic printing. The unexposed
portions of the print are in this process coated with yellow silver
ortho-vanadate ; but this can be completely removed by ammonia or
by sodium hyposulphite. Silver ortho-vanadate is capable of forming
a latent image, like the chloride or bromide, and this may bo developed
by the ordinary ferrous developer. Two or three minutes' exposure
to sunlight is needed. In the development little or no silver nitrate
must be present,
     By far the most important and interesting application of vanadium
is, however, that recently suggested for the preparation of a permanent
black which is now largely coming into use amongst dyers and calico
printers, and is already extensively employed as a permanent marking
ink.
     Of the commercial value of a permanent rich black dye it is
difficult for the uninitiated in such matters to form an idea. Suffice it
to say that it is very great. We must, however, remember that this
application of vanadium is only in its infancy, and whether tho
vanadium black will realize all the requirements of practice is a ques
tion which can only be settled by long and patient inquiry ; still it
has already so far proved a success that we may look forward with
confidence to its future.
     It is not at first sight easy to understand how a rare substanco like
          * This proposal was first made by Mr. James Gibbous in 1874.

1876.]           on Recent Discoveries about Vanadium.                227
vanadium, the price of which not long ago was 1#. 6d. per grain, and
which even now cannot be obtained for less than \d. a grain, can bo
employed for the production of a black colour, which, if not cheap and
able to compete with the other common dyes, is of course useless in a
practical and commercial point of view.
     In order to understand the possibility of the technical application
of one of Nature's rarest gifts, the history of the preparation of
aniline black must be noticed. The splendid red, crimson, violet, green,
and blue colours which are obtained from aniline are now universally
known and appreciated, and their wide-spread manufacture serves as a
striking illustration of the value of original scientific investigation.
It is, however, not so generally known that not only the bright and
gay colours, but also sombre browns and jetty blacks—by far the
most valuable because by far the most generally used of colours—can
be obtained from aniline.
     In the year 1860, Mr. John Lightfoot, calico printer, of Accring-
ton, applied to the processes of calico printing a black colouring
 matter which had been previously obtained in the manufacture of mauve
from aniline by Messrs. Roberts, Dale and Co., of Manchester.
     This black colouring matter is invariably formed when either
 aniline or toluidine, or mixtures of these two substances, are sub
jected to oxidizing actions ; but in spite of several researches which
have recently been published on aniline black, we are as yet unac
quainted with its chemical formula, nor indeed can we say that it
even possesses a constant chemical composition.
     In order that a colouring matter shall be fixed or permanent, it
 must bo fastened in some way to the fibre of tho cloth. In the case
 of cotton this is generally effected (1) either by the precipitation of
 the soluble colouring matter in the fibre by means of a mordant
 which forms an insoluble compound termed a lake with the colour, as
 in madder dyeing and steam-colour printing ; or (2) by the fixation
 of the colour by means of albumen, as in pigment printing ; or (3)
 by the gradual oxidation and consequent precipitation of the colouring
 matter in the fibre, as in indigo printing. It is to this latter class of
 processes that aniline-black dyeing or printing belongs ; for the aniline
 salt under the action of certain oxidizing agents passes moro or less
 quickly from the condition of a colourless solid readily soluble in
 water, into that of a black amorphous insoluble powder not to be dis
 tinguished at first sight from soot. Hence if the cloth can be impreg
 nated with the aniline and with the oxidizing agent at the same time,
 and if the process of oxidation can be allowed to go on in tho
 fibre, the black will be formed and will be permanently fixed in the
 fabric.
      Many oxidizing agents, such as chlorine, ozone, or electrolytic
 oxygen, have the power of transforming aniline into this black
 pigment. In most cases a high temperature is needed for this
  purposo. Thus, for instance, if aniline is heated with chlorate of
  sodium, and if then hydrochloric acid be carefully added, a deep black

228                         Professor Roscoe                    [June 2,
almost solid mass is produced. In order, however, that the process
may be employed in dyeing and calico printing, it is absolutely
necessary to avoid high temperatures as well as the action of strong
acids, because when exposed to theso the cloth invariably is rotted or
becomes " tender." If a mere mixture of aniline salt and chlorate of
potash be heated strongly enough, the black is formed ; but the heat
necessary to produce the colour is sufficient, together with the hydro
chloric acid which is at the same time liberated by the decomposition,
to make the cloth rotten, and therefore to render this process useless.
     It was found by Lightfoot that if an addition of 4 ounces of
nitrate of copper solution was made to the pound of aniline and
to the chlorate, the oxidation of the aniline went on at a lower
temperature than when the copper salt was absent, and hence, when
carefully worked, the black could be formed by this process without
tendering the cloth. Certain technical objections to this process,
however, soon arose; and in 1865 Lauth proposed to use the in
soluble copper sulphide instead of the soluble nitrate, by which
means he prevented the deposition of copper on the " rollers " and
on the " doctors " which took place in Lightfoot's process. The
method thus modified has been and is now extensively used for
the production of black, and the chief, if not the only, objection
which can be urged against it is that the black thus obtained is
not perfectly permanent, but is liable to become green when exposed
to reducing agents, such as the sulphurous acid contained in the
impure air of our towns. This is, however, a serious drawback, and
one which those practically engaged in solving such problems have
not been able to remove. So much so indeed is this the case, that
it is generally believed that the property of aniline black to become
 green when exposed to sulphurous acid, and to return to the black
when treated with alkalies, is an essential property of the substance,
which may be compared with the property of litmus to change colour
in presence of acids and alkalies.
     That the aniline black can not only be produced in presence of
copper but also, as Mr. Lightfoot showed in the year 1871, in
 presence of vanadium salts, and that by vanadium alone can the black
 be obtained of the requisite permanent character, has now been
proved beyond doubt. Moreover, the quantity of the vanadium
 necessary in order to produce the oxidation of the aniline is about
 ono thousand times less than that of the copper. Thus if a piece
 of calico be dipped into a solution of 2-5 grains of vanadate of
 ammonia dissolved in a gallon of water and then dried, the cloth thus
 prepared is capable of producing an intense black if treated with the
 mixture of aniline salt and chlorate. In the same way if 1 gallon of
 colour be mado containing 20 ounces of aniline hydrochlorate, 10 ounces
 of chlorate of soda, and 3 grains of vanadate of ammonia, a mixture
 is obtained with which no less than from 20 to 25 pieces, or from
 500 to 600 yards of cloth, such as that exhibited, can bo thus printed
 of a permanent black.

1876.]           on Recent Discoveries about Vanadium.               229
     In dyeing also, the vanadium will be extensively used ; and in the
same way only mere traces of this rare metal are requisite, whereas
the copper black cannot be used for dyeing. Thus, for instance,
1 gallon of colour intense enough to dye 40 lbs. of cotton yarn black
is obtained by mixing 8 ounces of aniline hydrochloride, 4 ounces of
sodium chlorate, and 8 grains of vanadate of ammonia. Cotton, wool,
or silk dipped twice into this mixture and then aged, or allowed to
oxidize, and " raised " in a solution of carbonate of soda, is dyed a
deep rich and permanent blue black. The goods may also be allowed
to steep in a bath of the above strength for three days, then well
washed in warm water, or boiled in a weak solution of acetic acid, to
remove any bronze colour found on the surface of the silk or wool.
The permanent black is then formed, and the fibre found to be quite
strong.
     The part played by vanadium in the formation of the black colour
may be easily explained, when we remember the ease with which the
 metal passes from one degree of oxidation to another; thus from
 V2O„ the highest degree, to V2O4, and vice versa. In this way it
doubtless acts, as M. Guyard has suggested, as a carrier of the oxygen
of the chlorate to the aniline, being alternately reduced and re-
 oxidized, so that an infinitely small quantity of vanadium compound
 will convert an infinitely large quantity of aniline salt into aniline
 black, reminding one of the action of nitrous fumes in the leaden
 chamber.
      Some time after the discovery of aniline black, Mr. Robert
 Pinkney, of the firm of Messrs. Blackwood and Co., of London, dis
 covered, independently of Mr. Lightfoot, that vanadium can be most
 advantageously substituted for copper in the formation of aniline black ;
 and he employed this reaction for the preparation of a permanent
 marking ink termed " Jetoline," of which many thousands of bottles
 have been sold. A few grains of vanadium—say from seven to twelve
 —being sufficient to produce, together with hydrochlorate of aniline
 and chlorate of soda, a gallon of marking ink.
      The subject of the use of vanadium as a valuable dyeing agent
 was next taken up by the Magnesium Metal Company, of Patricroft,
 near Manchester; and, thanks to the unwearied exertions of Mr.
 Samuel Mellor, this firm have now succeeded not only in securing a
 very considerable supply of the rare element which occurs in the
 Eeuper sandstone as the new mineral Mottramite, but are now in a
 position to produce a vanadium black for both calico printing and
 dyeing which is perfectly permanent. This is the more remarkable,
 as up to this time no aniline black made with copper has been
 produced in commerce which will withstand the reducing action of
 sulphurous acid.
      As the result of a large number of experiments made with various
 qualities of commercial aniline, and by varying the strengths of solu
  tions, proportions of aniline and sodium chlorate employed, and also
 by altering the temperature and the conditions of ageing, Mr. Mellor

230     Prof. Roscoe on Recent Discoveries about Vanadium.    [Juno 2,
has found (1) that within certain limits the purer the aniline used,
tho deoper and more permanent is the black obtained. (2) That there
is a maximum density of colour, beyond which if larger proportions
of aniline salt and chlorate are used, corresponding advantages
of colour are not obtained. This maximum colour is yielded by
16 ounces to 20 ounces of hydrochlorate of aniline per gallon of
colour. (3) That for the formation of a permanent black, the amount
of aniline salt and sodium chlorate used for 1 gallon of colour must
bear a definite relation to each other, the weight of sodium chlorate
being about one-half that of the aniline hydrochlorate used. (4) That
the permanency of the black depends very much upon the care and
skill shown in " ageing " tho cloth. If tho cloth is aged in a moist
atmosphere a blue-black is developed, which is very fleeting ; but if
aged in a dry air, and at a high temperature, a permanent black is
obtained. It is also interesting to learn that for other colours also,
the use of vanadium appears to be of value, as in the production of
catechu browns as well as in some of the brighter aniline dyes.
    It is indeed impossible to say what important technical functions
this rare and hitherto unapplied substance may not fulfil. Only tho
othor day vanadium was accounted one of our greatest chemical
curiosities, and the investigation of its properties would have been
thought, by the practical Englishman, to be a more waste of time.
    Now, however, we have in vanadium a new example of the value
of pure scientific research, which must carry conviction even to the
most utilitarian of minds.
                                                         [H. E. R]

 1876.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         231
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, June 5, 1876.
        Georob Busk, Esq. F.R.8. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
             General the Lord Sandhurst, G.C.B. G.C.S.T.
             Major Henry Collett,
             George Alexander Dick, Esq. C.E.
             Thomas George Barrett Lennard, Esq.
             Sydney McHenry, Esq.
             The Rev. Stewart Dixon Stubbs, M.A.
 wore elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     Stephen Busk, Esq. was elected Visitor in the room of Mr. Rorebt
 P. Linton, deceased.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
Agricultural Society, Royal—Minutes of the Chemical Committee. 8vo. 1876.
Armit, Lieut. R. H. (the Author)—History of New Guinea. (K 101) 8vo. 1876.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, New Series, Vol. VIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1876.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVI. No. 6. 8vo. 1876.
Belgique, Academic Royale des Sciences—Bulletins : 1874-5. 4 vols. 8vo.
   Annuaire, 1875-6. 12mo.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1875-6. No. 10. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for April, 1876. 8vo.
Crosbie- Dawson, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Street Pavements. (K 101) 8vo.
     1876.
De Camlolle, C. {the Author)—Sur la Structure et les Mouvements dcs Feuilles ilu
     Dionaea Muscipula. (Archives des Sciences, Avril, 1876.)
Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1876. 8vo.
  Argonaut for May, 1876. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for May, 1876. 4to.
  Chemical News for May, 1876. 4to.
  Electrical News for May, 1876.
  Engineer for May, 1876. fol.
  Journal for Applied Science for May, 1876. fol.
  Nature for May, 1876. 4to.
  Nautical Magazine for May, 1876. 8vo.
  Pharmaceutical Journal for May, 1876. 8vo.
  Telegraph Journal for May, 1876. 8vo.

292                          Gaufrcu Xmili"i Xvetimp.                  ¦Jvat 5,
frmmkiim J«*\ittt Jpnrunl Su. OB. *»l. 1*i«.
<i*wrt^4»o«/ Auo«*)i. fcvyul—.JmmibL TuLXLT. tiro. lfTC.
<*vMyn<d aveuif—<<uwt*tvr Juunaui. Xo. UJ6. ta. lir/i.
Hvytvu. l/r. t Y. IJ-utM ri.uU* Oeviupal—Eepan of ait Geakpo^ mi G**-
     gi*.}iijshj feurr*7 «# tut 1 •rraunut. %iu. ]*7<L
//«««w, Zs«Vrr. JLU 'Vbt Av&orr—Lifer uni XQni (K.H?) tva. 1*76.
J^ww HuwiM—±xutnL Xot «S. «S. *m 1«C«.
L*mfmnm mmdC*. JCtam,—»¦. X. Hartkr - Air «ud ie KenviaiB tr Lot. £ni «i.
     J*iw. J*7«,
MumeLetttr OvAysJ Si«wif—TnamtikiBt, TuL HE Ptet 11 ; XIT. Pnrt X
     **<'. 1*7*;.
Premu«vJ* MsiAmn* 4nr TtTwawAaSai—ICm&baidae : Fti. 1??S. Sra.
JS'yyW /x^ifl^» </ /x**»—Prv3fwdiii^E. Xa. IS*. Src l«Tfi.
/Icya/ £faa«fy </ 7«nMw«xi—MmitUj XoCkk* for 1*7*. tro. 1S75.
KisvU H,AiMMfiaim da baa***, Haarlem—Xouee Histanqne. Ac 8s«. 1 S74.
  Ki'-inx»* HdafaaAium*, T«u* X- Lir. 3: Tume XL Liv. 2. X Sta. 1&5-&,
fHutimiad Horittf-i'MmaL YoL XXXIX. Ptat L era. 1876.
hywMt, O. J. £*/. (tie AM&ory-%yuejai Msx&Ax Motor.i eieal M%mii^f,
     H*r, line,, fero.
TyubiU, Vnjtmur, rJUi. (the AmOor}—Fragment* rf Science. 5th esLtva.
     I2h*.. |l*76.
Vorktfurt Ar'Uxi«I/sjwiI and T'/u«oraplatal AttadaLom—Journal : Sai j }m»entuj
     Ytai U, \iA. IIL tiro. vm.


232                        General Monthly Meeting.                   [June 5,
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 605. 8vo. 1876.
Geographical Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XLV. 8vo. 1876.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 126. 8vo. 1876.
Hayden, Dr. F. V. United States Geologist— Report of the Geological and Geo
     graphical Survey of the Territories. 8vo. 1876.
Leains, Robert, M.V. (the Author)—Life and Mind. (K 101) 8vo. 1876.
IAvnean Society—Journal, Nos. 63, 83. 8vo. 1876.
Longmans and Co. Messrs.—W. N. Hartley ; Air and its Relations to Life. 2nd ed.
     leto. 1876.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIII. Part 11 ;¦ XIV. Part 3.
     8vo. 1876.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Feb. 1876. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 169. 8vo. 1876.
Royal Society of Tasmania—Monthly Notices for 1874. 8vo. 1875.
Society Hollandaiee des Sciences, Haarlem—Notice Historique, &c. 8vo. 1 876.
   Archives Neerlandaises, Tome X. Liv. 3; Tome XI. Liv. 2, 3. 8vo. 1875-6.
Statistical Society-Journal, Vol. XXXIX. Part 1. 8vo. 1876.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     May, 1876. 8vo.
Tyndall, Professor, F.R.S. (the Author)—Fragments of Science. 5th edition.
     12mo. 1876.
Yorkshire Archeeological and Topographical Association—Journal : Supplementary
     Part to Vol. III. 8vo. 1876.



1876.]          Prof. Tyndall on Parallel Roadt of Glen Roy.              233
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, June 9, 1870.
       His Majesty the Kino of Hanover, K.G. in the Chair.
              Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. &c.
                        The Parallel Roads of Glen Roy.
When, after many months of assiduous work, I ventured to bring
some of its fruits before you on the 21st of last January, I thought
that my tribute to the Friday evening discourses of the present year
had been fairly and honestly paid.* But your excellent Honorary
Secretary seems to have thought otherwise when he marked me down,
for the concluding evening of the season. And considering all that
our Honorary Secretary does for us here, I should feel ashamed to
demur to any arrangement which he might think agreeable to the
members, or otherwise conducive to the interests of the Institution.
Nevertheless, Friday evening discourses are not to be developed out
of consciousness at will, and my friend I fear must accept a portion
of the responsibility, if the subject introduced to your attention
to-night should appeal to some of you as a twice-told tale.
     To some, but not perhaps to all. Once only has the subject beon
introduced here, in a discourse commended by a great charm of delivery,
and a full report of which appears in the ' Proceedings ' of this Insti
tution.'!' To the views enunciated on that occasion I am unable to
subscribe, and it is well that the readers of the ' Proceedings ' should
know that there are two sides to this question. This is one reason
why I chose the subject. Another is that it is not yet considered to
be settled, for a new communication regarding it has been recently
laid before the Royal Society of Edinburgh by a very meritorious
member of that body. Under the circumstances, it can hardly be
considered inappropriate on the part of an old student of glacier
action to state briefly the side he is disposed to take in the discussion.
     The first published allusion to the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy
occurs in the appendix to the third volume of Pennant's ' Tour in
Scotland,' a work published in 1776. " In the face of these hills," says
this writer, " both sides of the glen, there are three roads at small
distances from each other and directly opposite on each side. These
    * The  work then described has been extended and confirmed in various ways
since that time,
    t Vol. iii. p. 341.
     Vol.   VIII. (No. 65.)                                          r

234                         Professor Tyndall                    [Juno 9,
roads have been measured in the complete parts of them, and found to
be 26 paces of a man 5 feet 10 inches high. The two highest are
pretty near each other, about 50 yards, and the lowest double that
distance from the nearest to it. They are carried along the sides of
the glen with the utmost regularity, nearly as exact as drawn with a
line of rule and compass."
     The correct heights of the three roads of Glen Eoy are respec
tively 1150, 1070, and 860 feet above the sea. Hence a vertical dis
tance of 80 feet separates the two highest, while the lowest road is
210 feet below the middle one.
     These "roads" are usually shelves or terraces formed in the yielding
drift which here covers the slopes of the mountains. They are all
sensibly horizontal and therefore parallel. Pennant accepted as rea
sonable the explanation of them given by the country people, who
thought " they were designed for the chase, and that the terraces were
made after the spots were cleared in lines from wood, in order to
tempt the animals into the open paths after they were rouzed in order
that they might come within reach of the bowmen who might conceal
themselves in the woods above and below."
     In these attempts of " the country people" we have an illustration
of that impulse to which all scientific knowledge is due—the desire to
know the causes of things ; and it is a matter of surprise that in the
case of the parallel roads, with their weird appearance challenging
inquiry, this impulse did not make itself more rapidly and energeti
cally felt. Their remoteness may perhaps account for the fact that
until the year 1817 no systematic description of them, and no scien
tific attempt at an explanation of them, appeared. In that year Dr.
MacCulloch, who was then President of the Geological Society, pre
sented to that Society a memoir, in which the roads were discussed,
and regarded as the margins of lakes once embosomed in Glen
Boy.
     To Dr. MacCulloch succeeded a man, possibly not so learned as a
geologist, but obviously fitted by nature to grapple with her facts and to
put them in their proper setting. I refer to Sir Thomas Dick-Lauder,
who presented to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, on the 2nd of March,
1818, his paper on the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy. In looking over
the literature of this subject, which is now copious, it is interesting to
observe the differentiation of minds, and to single out those who went
by a kind of instinct to tho core of the question, from those who
erred in it, or who learnedly occupied themselves with its analogies,
adjuncts, and details. There is no man, in my opinion, connected
with the history of the subject, who has shown, in relation to it,
this spirit of penetration, this force of scientific insight, more con
spicuously than Sir Thomas Dick-Lauder. Two distinct mental pro
cesses are involved in its treatment. Firstly, the faithful and sufficient
observation of the data ; and secondly, that higher mental process in
which the constructive imagination comes into play, connecting the
separate facts of observation with their common cause, and weaving

1876.J             cm the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy.                 235
them into an organic whole. In neither of these requirements did
Sir Thomas Dick-Lauder fail.
    Adjacent to Glen Roy is a valley called Glen Gluoy, along the
sides of which ran a single shelf, or terrace, formed obviously in the
same manner as the parallel roads of Glen Roy. The two shelves on
the opposing sides of the glen were at precisely the same level, and
Dick-Lauder wished to see whether, and how, they became united at
the head of the glen. He followed the shelves into the recesses of
the mountains. The bottom of the valley, as it rose, came ever nearer
to them, until finally, at the head of Glen Gluoy, he reached a col, or
watershed, of precisely the same elevation as the road which swept
round the glen.
    The correct height of this col is 1170 feet above the sea. It is
therefore 20 feet above the highest road in Glen Roy.
                       Parallel Roads of Glen Roy.
                 After a Sketch by Sir Thomas Dick-Lauder.
    From this col a lateral branch-valley led towards Glen Koy. Our
explorer descended from the col to the highest road in that glen, and
pursued it exactly as he had pursued the road in Glen Gluoy. For
a time it belted the mountain sides at a considerable height above
the bottom of the valley ; but this rose as he proceeded, coming ever
nearer to the highest shelf, until finally he reached a col, or watershed,
looking into Glen Spey, and of precisely the same elevation as the
highest parallel road of Glen Roy.
    He then dropped down to the lowest of these roads, and followed
                                                               r 2

236                        Professor Tyndall                    [June 9,
it towards the mouth of the glen. Its elevation above the bottom of
 the valley gradually increased ; not because it rose, but because it
 remained level while the valley sloped downwards. He found this
 lowest road doubling round the hills at the mouth of Glen Roy, and
 running along the sides of the mountains which flank Glen Spean.
 He followed it eastwards. The Spean Valley, like the others, gra
 dually rose, and therefore gradually approached the road on the
 adjacent mountain-side. He came to Loch Laggan, the surface of
 which rose almost to the level of the road, and beyond the head
 of this lake he found, as in the other two cases, a col, or watershed,
 of exactly the same level as the single road in Glen Spean, which, it
 will be remembered, is a continuation of the lowest road in Glen
 Roy.
     Here we have a series of facts of obvious significance as regards
 the solution of this question. The effort of the mind to form a
 coherent image from such facts, might be compared with the effort
 of the eyes to cause the pictures of the stereoscope to coalesce.
 For a time we exercise a certain strain, the object remaining vague
and indistinct. Suddenly its various parts seem to run together, the
object starting forth in clear and definite relief. Such, I take it, was
the effect of his ponderings upon the mind of Sir Thomas Dick-
 Lauder. His solution was this : Taking all their features into account,
 he was convinced that water only could have produced the terraces.
 He saw clearly that, supposing the mouth of Glen Gluoy to be
stopped by a barrier, if the water from the mountains flanking the
 glen were allowed to collect, it would form behind the barrier a lake,
 the surface of which would gradually rise until it reached the level of
 the col at the head of the glen. The rising would then cease ; the
 superfluous water of Glen Gluoy discharging itself over the col into
Glen Roy. As long as the barrier stopping the mouth of Glen Gluoy
continued, we should have in that glen a lake at the precise level of
its shelf, which lake, acting upon the loose drift of the flanking
mountains, would actually form the shelf revealed by observation.
     So much for Glen Gluoy. But suppose the month of Glen Roy
also stopped by a barrier sufficiently high. Behind it, the water from
the adjacent mountains would collect. The surface of the lake thus
formed would gradually rise, until it had reached the level of the col
which divides Glen Roy from Glen Spey. Here the rising of the
lake would cease ; its superabundant water being poured over the col
into the valley of the Spey. This state of things would continue as
long as tho barrier remained at the mouth of Glen Roy. The lake
thus dammed in, with its surface at the level of the highest parallel
road, would act, as in Glen Gluoy, upon the friable drift over
spreading the mountains, and would form the highest road or terrace
of Glen Roy.
    And now let us suppose the barrier to be so far removed from the
mouth of Glen Roy as to establish a connection between it and the
upper part of Glen Spean, while the lower part of the latter glen

1876.]             on the Parallel Roads of Glen Buy.                 237
continued blocked up. Upper Glen Spean and Glen Roy would then
be occupied by a continuous lake, the level of which would obviously
be determined by the col at the bead of Loch Laggan. The wuter
in Glen Boy would sink from the level it had previously main
tained, to the level of its new place of escape. This new lake-
surface would correspond exactly with the lowest parallel road, and
it would form that road by its action upon the drift of the adjacent
mountains.
     In presence of the observed facts, this solution commends itself
strongly to the scientific mind. The question next occurs, What was
the character of the assumed barrier which stopped the glens ? There
are at the present moment vast masses of detritus in certain portions
of Glen Spean, and of such detritus Sir Thomas Dick-Lauder imagined
his barriers to have been formed. By some unknown convulsion, this
detritus had been heaped up. But, once given, and once granted that
it was subsequently removed, the single road of Glen Gluoy and the
highest and lowest roads of Glen Roy would be explained in a satis
factory manner.
     To account for tho second or middle road of Glen Roy, Sir Thomas
Dick-Lauder invoked a new agency. He supposed that at a certain
point in the breaking down or waste of his dam, a halt occurred, the
barrier holding its ground at a particular level sufficiently long to dam
a lake rising to the height of, and forming the second road. This point
of weakness was at once detected by Mr. Darwin, and adduced by him
 as proving that the levels of the cols did not constitute an essential
 feature in the phenomena of the parallel roads. Though not de
stroyed, Sir Thomas Dick-Lauder"s theory was seriously shaken by
 this argument, and it became a point of capital importance, if the
 facts permitted, to remove such source of weakness. This was done
 in 1847 by Mr. David Milne, now Mr. Milne-Home. On walking
 up Glen Boy from Boy Bridge, we pass the mouth of a lateral
 glen, called Glen Glaster, running eastward from Glen Boy. There
 is nothing in this lateral glen to attract attention, or to suggest
 that it could have any conspicuous influence in the production
of the parallel roads. Hence, I think, the failure of Sir Thomas
 Dick-Lauder to notice it. But Mr. Milne-Home entered this glen, on
 the northern side of which the middle and lowest roads are fairly
 shown. The principal stream running through the glen turns at a
 certain point northwards and loses itself among hills too high to offer
 any outlet. But another branch of the glen turns to the south-east ;
 and, -following up this branch, Mr. Milne-Home reached a col, or
 watershed, of the precise level of the second Glen Boy Road. When
 the barrier blocking the glens had been so far removed as to open
 this col, the water in Glen Boy would sink to the level of tho second
 road. A new lake of diminished depth would be thus formed, the
 surplus water of which would escape over the Glen Glaster col into
 Glen Spean. The margin of this new lake, acting upon the detrital
 matter, would form the second road. The theory of Sir Thomas

238                         Professor Tynddl                      [June 9,
Dick-Lauder, as regards the part played by the cols, was re-riveted
by this new and unexpected discovery.
    I have referred to Mr. Darwin, whose powerful mind swayed for a
time the convictions of the scientific world in relation to this question.
His notion was—and it is a notion which very naturally presents
itself—that the parallel roads were formed by the sea; that this
whole region was once submerged and subsequently upheaved ; that
there were pauses in the process of upheaval, during which these
glens constituted so many fiords, on the sides of which the parallel
terraces were formed. This theory will not bear close criticism ; nor
is it now maintained by Mr. Darwin himself. It would not account
for the sea being 20 feet higher in Glen Gluoy than in Glen Roy. It
would not account for the absence of the second and third Glen Roy
roads from Glen Gluoy, where the mountain flanks are quite as
impressionable as in Glen Roy. It would not account for the
absence of the shelves from the other mountains in the neighbour
hood, all of which would have been clasped by the sea had the sea
been there. Here then, and no doubt elsewhere, Mr. Darwin has
shown himself to be fallible ; but here, as elsewhere, he has shown
himself equal to that discipline of surrender to evidence which girds
his intellect with unassailable moral strength.
    But, granting the significance of Sir Thomas Dick-Lauder's facts,
and the reasonableness, on the whole, of the views which he has
founded on them, they will not bear examination in detail. No such
barriers of detritus as he assumed could have existed without leaving
traces behind them ; but there is no trace left. There is detritus
enough in Glen Spean, but not where it is wanted. The two highest
parallel roads stop abruptly at different points near the mouth of Glen
Roy, but no remnant of the barrier against which they abutted is to
be seen. It might be urged that the subsequent invasion of the
valley by glaciers has swept the detritus away ; but there have been
no glaciers in these valleys since the retreat of the lakes. Professor
Geikie has favoured me with a drawing of the Glen Spean shelf near
the entrance to Glen Trieg. The shelf forms a belt round a great
mound of detritus which, had a glacier followed the formation of the
shelf, must have been cleared away. Taking all the circumstances
into account, you may, I think, with safety dismiss the detrital barrier
as incompetent to account for the present condition of Glen Gluoy
and Glen Roy.
    Hypotheses in science, though apparently transcending experience,
are in reality experience modified by scientific thought and pushed
into an ultra experiential region. At the time that he wrote, Sir
Thomas Dick-Lauder could not possibly have assigned the cause sub
sequently assigned for the blockage of these glens. A knowledge of
the action of ancient glaciers was the necessary antecedent to the new
explanation, and experience of this nature was not possessed by the
distinguished writer just mentioned. The extension of Swiss glaciers
far beyond their present limits, was first made known by a Swiss

1876.]              on the Parallel Roads of Glen Boy.                239
engineer named Venetz, who established, by the marks they had
left behind, their former existence in places which they had long for
saken. The subject of glacier extension was subsequently followed
up with distinguished success by Charpentier, Studer, and others.
Agassiz grappled with it with- characteristic vigour, extending his
evidences far beyond the domain of Switzerland. He came to this
country in 1840, and found in various places indubitable marks of
ancient glacier action. England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland he
proved to have once given birth to glaciers. He visited Glen Roy,
surveyed the surrounding neighbourhood, and pronounced, as a conse
quence of his investigation, the barriers which stopped the glens and
produced the parallel roads to have been barriers of ice. To Mr.
Jamieson, above all others, we are indebted for the thorough testing
and confirmation of this theory.
     And let me here say that Agassiz is only too likely to be misrated
and misjudged by those who fail to grasp in their totality the motive
powers invoked in scientific research. He lacked mechanical preci
sion, but he abounded in that force and freshness of the scientific
imagination which in some sciences, and probably in some stages of all
sciences, are essential to the creator of knowledge. To Agassiz was
given, not the art of the refiner, but the instinct of the discoverer,
and the strength of the delver who brings ore from the recesses of
the mine. That ore may contain its share of dross, but it also con
tains the precious metal which gives employment to the refiner, and
without which his occupation would depart.
      Let us dwell for a moment upon this subject of ancient glaciers.
Under a flask containing water, in which a thermometer is immersed, is
placed a Bunsen's lamp. The water is heated, reaches a temperature
of 212°, and then begins to boil. The rise of the thermometer then
ceases, although heat continues to be poured by the lamp into the
water. What becomes of that heat ? We know that it is consumed in
the molecular work of vaporization. In the experiment here arranged,
 the steam passes from the flask through a tube into a second vessel
 kept at a low temperature. Here it is condensed, and indeed congealed
 to ice, the second vessel being plunged in a mixture cold enough to
 freeze the water. As a result of the process we obtain a mass of ice.
Thatice has an origin very antithetical to its own character. Though cold,
 it is the child of heat. If we removed the Bunsen lamp, there would
 be no steam, and if there were no steam there would be no ice. The
 mere cold of the mixture surrounding the second vessel would not
produce ice. The cold must have the proper material to work upon ;
and this material—aqueous vapour—is, as we here see, the direct
product of heat.
      It is now, I suppose, fifteen or sixteen years since I found myself
conversing with an illustrious philosopher regarding that glacial epoch
 which the researches of Agassiz and others had revealed. This pro
foundly thoughtful man was of opinion that, at a certain stage in the
history of the solar system, the sun's radiation had suffered diminution,

  240                            Profestor Tyndall                           [June 9,
  the glacial epoch being a consequence of this central chill. The
  celebrated French mathematician Poisson had another theory. Astro
  nomers have shown that the solar system moves through space,
  and the temperature of space is a familiar conception with scientific
  men. It was considered probable by Poisson that our system,
  during its motion, had traversed portions of space of different tempera
  tures ; and that, during its passage through one of the colder regions
  of the universe, the glacial epoch occurred. Notions such as these
  were more or less current not many years ago, and I therefore
  thought it worth while to show how incomplete they were. Suppose
  the tomperaturc of our planet to be reduced, by the subsidence of solar
  heat, the cold of space, or any other cause, say one hundred degrees.
  Four-and-twenty hours of such a chill would bring down as snow
  nearly all the moisture of our atmosphere. But this would not produce
 a glacial epoch. Such an epoch would require the continuous genera
 tion of the material from which the ice of glaciers is derived. Mountain
  snow, the nutriment of glaciers, is derived from aqueous vapour raised
 mainly from the tropical ocean by the sun. The solar fire is as
 necessary a factor in the process as our Bunsen lamp in the experiment
 referred to a moment ago. Nothing is easier than to calculate the
 exact amount of heat expended by the sun in the production of a
 glacier. It would, as I have elsewhere shown,* raise a quantity of
 cast iron five times the weight of the glacier not only to a white heat,
 but to its point of fusion. If, as I have urged elsewhere, instead of
 being filled with ice, the valleys of the Alps were filled with white-
 hot metal, of quintuple the mass of the present glaciers, it is the
 heat, and not the cold, that would arrest our attention and solicit our
 explanation. The process of glacier making is obviously one of dis
 tillation, in which the fire of the sun which generates the vapour plays
 as essential a part as the cold of the mountains which condenses it.f
      It was their ascription to glacier action that first gave the parallel
 roads of Glen Roy an interest in my eyes; and in 1867, with a view
 to self-instruction, I made a solitary pilgrimage to the place, and
 explored pretty thoroughly the roads of the principal glen. I traced
 the highest road to the col dividing Glen Roy from Glen Spey, and,
 thanks to the civility of an Ordnance surveyor, I was enabled to inspect
 some of the roads with a theodolite. As stated by Pennant, the width
 of the roads amounts sometimes to more than twenty yards ; but near
 the head of Glen Roy the highest road ceases to have any width, for it
 runs along the face of a rock, the effect of the lapping of the water on
    * ' Heat a Mode of Motion,' fifth edition, chap. vi. : Forms of Water, §§ 55
and 56.
    t In Lyell's excellent 'Principles of Geology,' the remark occurs that "several
writers have fallen into the strange error of supposing that the glacial period must
have been one of higher mean temperature than usual." The really strange error
was the forgetfulness of the fact that in the production of glaciers, heat played
quite as important a part as cold.

1876.]             on the Parallel Roads of Glen Boy.                241
the more friable portions of the rock being perfectly distinct to this
hour. My knowledge of the region was, however, far from complete,
and nine years had dimmed the memory even of the portion which I
had thoroughly examined. Hence my desire to see the roads once
more before venturing to talk to you about them. The Easter holi
days were to be devoted to this purpose ; but at the last moment
a telegram from Roy Bridge informed me that the roads were snowed
up. I was thus thrown back upon books and memories ; but these
proving only a poor substitute for the flavour of facts, I resolved
subsequently to make another effort to see the roads. Accordingly
on Thursday fortnight, after lecturing here, I packed up, and started
(not this time alone) for tho North. Next day at noon we found
ourselves at Dalwhinnie, whence a drive of some five-and-thirty miles
brought us to the excellent hostelry of Mr. Macintosh, at the mouth
of Glen Roy.
    We might have found the hills covered with mist, which would
have wholly defeated us; but Nature was good-natured, and we had
two successful working days among the hills. Guided by the excel
lent Ordnance map, on the Saturday morning we went up the glen,
and on reaching the stream called Allt Bhreac Achaidh faced the
hills to the west. At the watershed between Glen Roy and Glen
Fintaig we bore northwards, struck the ridge above Glen Gluoy, camo
in view of its road, which we persistently followed as long as it con
tinued visible. It is a feature of all the roads that they vanish before
reaching the cols over which full the waters of the lakes which formed
1 hem. One reason doubtless is that at their upper ends the lakes
were shallow, and incompetent on this account to raise wavelets of
any strength to act upon the mountain drift. A second reason is that
they were land-locked in the higher portions and protected from the
south-westerly winds, the stillness of their waters causing them to
produce but a feeble impression upon the mountain sides. From
Glen Gluoy we passed down Glen Turrit to Glen Boy, and through
it homewards, thus accomplishing two or three and twenty miles of
rough and honest work.
    Next day we thoroughly explored Glen Glaster, following its two
roads as far as they were visible. We reached the col discovered by
Mr. Milne-Home, and which stands at the level of the middle road
of Glen Roy. Thence we crossed southwards over the mountain
Creag Dhubh, and examined the erratic blocks upon its sides, and the
ridges and mounds of moraine matter which cumber the lower flanks
of the mountain. The observations of Mr. Jamieson upon this region,
including the mouth of Glen Triog, are in the highest degree in
teresting. We entered Glen Spean, and continued a search begun on
the evening of our arrival at Roy Bridge—the search, namely, for
glacier polishings and markings. We did not find them copious, but
they are indubitable. One of the proofs most convenient for refer
ence, is a great rounded rock by the road side, 1000 yards east
of the milestone marked three-quarters of a mile from Roy Bridge.

242                          Professor Tyndall                    [June 9,
Farther east other cases occur, and they leave no doubt upon the
mind that Glen Spean was at one time filled by a great glacier.
To the disciplined eye the aspect of the mountains is perfectly
conclusive on this point ; and in no position can the observer more
readily and thoroughly convince himself of this than at the head of
Glen Glaster. The dominant hills here are all intensely glaciated.
    But the great collecting ground of the glaciers which dammed the
glens and produced the parallel roads, were the mountains south and
west of Glen Spean. The monarch of these is Ben Nevis, 4370 feet
high. The position of Ben Nevis and his colleagaes, in reference to the
vapour-laden winds of the Atlantic, is a point of the first importance.
It is exactly similar to that of Carrantual and the Maegillicuddy Keeks
in the south-west of Ireland. These mountains are, and were, the first
to encounter the south-western Atlantic winds, and the precipitation,
even at present, in the neighbourhood of Killarney, is enormous.
The winds, robbed of their vapour, and charged with the heat set free
by its precipitation, pursue their direction obliquely across Ireland ; and
the effect of the drying process may be understood by comparing the
rainfall at Cahirciveen with that at Portarlington. As found by Dr.
Lloyd, the ratio is as 59 to 21— fifty-nine inches annually at Cahir
civeen to twenty-one at Portarlington. During the glacial epoch this
vapour fell as snow, and the consequence was a system of glaciers which
have left traces and evidences of the most impressive character in the
region of the Killarney Lakes. I have referred in other places to the
great glacier which, descending from the Seeks, moved through the
Black Valley, took possession of the lake-basins, and left its traces
on every rock and island emergent from the waters of the upper lake.
They are all conspicuously glaciated. Not in Switzerland itself do
 we find clearer traces of ancient glacier action.
    What the Maegillicuddy Keeks did in Ireland, Ben Nevis and the
adjacent mountains did, and continue to do, in Scotland. We had an
example of this on the morning we quitted Roy Bridge. From tho
bridge westward rain fell copiously, and the roads were wet; but
the precipitation ceased near Loch Laggan, whence eastward the roads
were dry. Measured by tho gauge, the rainfall at Fort William is
86 inches, while at Laggan it is only 46 inches annually. The dif
ference between west and east is forcibly brought out by observations
at the two ends of the Caledonian Canal. Fort William at the south
western end has, as just stated, 86 inches, while Culloden, at its
north-east end, has only 24. To the researches of that able and
accomplished meteorologist, Mr. Buchan, we are indebted for these
and other data of the most interesting and valuable kind.
    Adhering to the facts now presented to us, it is not difficult to
restore in idea the process by which the glaciers of Lochaber were
produced and the glens dammed by ice. When the cold of the
glacial epoch began to invade the Scottish hills, the sun at the same
time acting with sufficient power upon the tropical ocean, the vapours
raised and drifted on to these northern mountains were more and

1876.]             on the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy.                243
more converted into snow. This slid down the slopes, and from
every valley, strath, and corry south of Glen Spean, glaciers were
poured into that glen. The two great factors here brought into play
are the nutrition of the glaciers by the frozen material above, and their
consumption in the milder air below. For a period supply exceeded
consumption, and the ice extended, filling Glen Spean to an ever-
increasing height, and abutting against the mountains to the north of
that glen. But why, it may be asked, should the valleys south of
Glen Spean be receptacles of ice at a time when those north of it
were receptacles of water ? The answer is to be found in the position
and the greater elevation of the mountains south of Glen Spean.
They first received the loads of moisture carried by the Atlantic
winds, and not until they had been in part dried, and warmed by
the liberation of their latent heat, did these winds touch the hills
north of the Glen.
    An instructive observation bearing upon this point is here to be
noted. Had our visit been in the winter we should have found all
the mountains covered ; had it been in the summer we should have
found the snow all gone. Bat happily it was at a season when the
aspect of the mountains north and south of Glen Spean exhibited
their relative powers as snow collectors. Scanning the former hills
from many points of view, we were hardly able to detect a fleck of
snow, while heavy swaths and patches loaded the latter. Were the
glacial epoch to return, the relation indicated by this observation
would cause Glen Spean to be filled with glaciers from the south,
while the hills and valleys on the north, visited by milder and drier
winds, would remain comparatively free from ice. This flow from
the south would be reinforced from the west, and as long as the
supply was in excess of the consumption the glaciers would extend,
the dams closing the glens increasing in height. By-and-by supply
and consumption becoming approximately equal, the height of the
glacier barriers would remain constant. Then, as milder weather set
in, consumption would be in excess, and a retreat of the ice would be
the consequence. But for a long time the conflict between supply and
consumption would continue, retarding indefinitely the disappearance
of the barriers, and keeping the imprisoned lakes in the northern
glens. But however slow its retreat, the ice in the long run would
be forced to yield. The dam at the mouth of Glen Boy, which pro
bably entered the glen sufficiently far to block up Glen Glaster,
would gradually retreat. Glen Glaster and its col being opened, the
subsidence of the lake 80 feet, from the level of the highest to that
of the second parallel road, would follow as a consequence. I think
this the most probable course of things, but it is also possible that
Glen Glaster may have been blocked by a glacier from Glen Trieg.
The ice dam continuing to retreat, at length permitted Glen Roy to
connect itself with upper Glen Spean. A continuous lake then filled
both glens, the level of which, as already explained, was determined
by the col at Makul, above the head of Loch Laggan. The last

244                            Professor Tyndall                         [June 9,
to yield was the portion of the glacier which derived nutrition from
Ben Nevis, and probably also from the mountains north and south
of Loch Arkaig. But it at length yielded, and the waters in the glens
resumed the courses which they pursue to-day.
     For the removal of the ice barriers no cataclysm is to be invoked ;
the gradual melting of the dam would produce the entire series of
phenomena. In sinking from col to col the water would flow over a
melting barrier, the surface of the imprisoned lake not remaining suf
ficiently long at any particular level to produce a shelf comparable to
the parallel roads. By temporary halts in the process of melting
due to atmospheric conditions or to the character of the dam itself, or
through local softness in the drift, small pseudo-terraces would be
formed which, to the perplexity of some observers, are seen upon the
flanks of the glens to-day.
     In presence then of the fact that the barriers which stopped these
glens to a height, it may be, of 1500 feet above the bottom of Glen Spean,
have dissolved and left not a wreck behind ; in presence of the fact,
insisted on by Professor Geikie, that barriers of detritus would un
doubtedly have been able to maintain themselves had they ever been
there ; in presence of the fact that great glaciers once most certainly
filled these valleys—that the whole region, as proved by Mr. Jamieson,
is filled with the traces of their action ; the theory which ascribes the
parallel roads to lakes dammed by barriers of ice has, in my opinion,
an amount of probability on its side which amounts to a practical
demonstration of its truth.
     Into the details of the terrace formation I do not enter. Mr.
Darwin and Mr. Jamieson on the one side, and Sir John Lubbock on
the other, deal with true causes. The terraces, no doubt, are due in
part to the descending drift arrested by the water, and in part to the
fretting of the wavelets, and the rearrangement of the stirred detritus,
along the belts of contact of lake and hill. The descent of matter
must have been frequent when the drift was unbound by the rootlets
which hold it together now. In some cases, it may be remarked, the
visibility of the roads is materially exalted by differences of vegeta
tion. The grass upon the terraces is not always of the same character
as that above and below them, while on heather-covered hills the
absence of the dark shrub from the roads greatly enhances their
conspicuousness.
     Beviewing our work, we find three considerable steps to have
marked the solution of the problem of the Parallel Boads of Glen Boy.
The first of these was taken by Sir Thomas Dick-Lauder, the second
was the pregnant conception of Agassiz regarding glacier action, and
the third was the testing and verification of this conception by the very
thorough researches of Mr. Jamieson.* To these may be added the
    * No circumstance, or incident, connected with this discourse gives me greater
pleasure than tue recognition of the value of these researches. They are marked
throughout by unflagging industry, by novelty and acuteness of observation, and

1876.]                 on the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy.                     245
important observation of Mr. Milne-Home in Glen 01 aster; with
other remarks and reflections scattered through the literature of the
subject, or suggested by the latest visit to the spot.
     Thus ends our rapid survey of this brief episode in the physical
history of the Scottish hills,—brief, that is to say, in comparison with
the immeasurable lapses of time through which, to produce its varied
structure and appearances, our planet must have passed. In the
survey of such a field two things are specially worthy to be taken
into account—the widening of the intellectual horizon and the re
action of expanding knowledge upon the intellectual organ itself. At
first, as in the case of ancient glaciers, through sheer want of capacity,
the mind refuses to take in revealed facts. But by degrees the steady
contemplation of these facts so strengthens and expands the intel
lectual powers, that where truth once could not find an entrance it
eventually finds a home.
     [The formation, connection, successive subsidence, and final dis
appearance of the glacial lakes of Lochaber were illustrated in the
discourse here reported, by a model constructed under the supervision
of my assistant, Mr. John Cottrell. Glen Gluoy with its lake and
road and the cataract over its col ; Glen Koy and its three roads with
 their respective cataracts at the head of Glen Spey, Glen Glaster,
and Glen Spean, were all represented. The successive shiftings of the
barriers, which were formed of plate glass, brought each successive
lake and its corresponding road into view, while the entire removal of
the barriers caused the streams to flow down the glens of the model
as they flow down the real glens of to-day. A map of the district,
with the parallel roads shown in red, is annexed.]
                                                                       [J. T.]
                           Literature of the Surject.
Thomas Pennant.—A Tour in Scotland. Vol. iii. 1776, p. 394.
John MacCulloch.— On the Parallel Boads of Glen Koy. Geol. Soc. Trans
      vol. iv. 1817, p. 314.
Thomas Lauder Dick (afterwards Sir Thomas Dick-Lacder, Bart.).—On the
      Parallel Boads of Lochaber. Edin. Boy. Soc. Trans. 1818, vol. ix. p. 1.
 Charles Darwin.—Observations on the Parallel Boads of Glen Boy, and of the
      other parts of Lochaber in Scotland, with an attempt to prove that they are
      of marine origin. Phil. Trans. 1839, vol. exxix. p. 39.
 Sir Charles Lyell.—Elements of Geology. Second edition, 1841.
Louis Agassiz.— The Glacial Theory and its Becent Progress—Parallel Terraces.
      Edin. New Phil. Journal, 1842, vol. xxxiii. p. 236.
 by reasoning power of a high and varied kind. These pages had been returned
 " for press " when I learned that the relation of Ben Nevis and his colleagues to
 the vapour-laden winds of the Atlantic had not escaped Mr. Jamieson. To him
 obviously the exploration of Lochaber, and the development of the theory of the
 Parallel Boads, has been a labour of love.

246                          General Monthly Meeting.                   [July 3,
David Milne (aftcrwnrdB David Milne-Home).—On the Parallel Roads of
     Lochaber ; with Remarks on the Change of Relative Levels of Sea and Land
     in Scotland, and on the Detrital Deposits in that Country. Edin. Roy. Soc.
     Trans. 1847, vol. xvi. p. 395.
Robert Chambers.—Ancient Sea Margins. Edinburgh, 1848.
H. D. Rogers.—On the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy. Royal Inst. Proceedings,
     1861, vol. iii. p. 341.
Thomas F. Jamieson.—fn the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy, and their Place in
     the History of the Glacial Period. Quart. Journal Geol. Soc. 1863, vol. xix.
     p. 235.
Sir Charles Lyell.—Antiquity of Man. 1863, p. 253.
Rev. R. Boog Watson.—On the Marine Origin of the Parallel Roads of Glen
     Roy. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soo. 1865, vol. xxii, p. 9.
Sir John Lubbock.—On the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy. Quart. Journ. Geol.
     Soc. 1867, vol. xxiv. p. 83.
Charles Babrage.—Observations on the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy. Quart.
     Journ. Geol. Soc. 1868, vol. xxiv. p. 273.
James Niool.—On the Origin of the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy. 1869. Geol.
     Soc. Journal, vol. xxv. p. 282.
James Nicol— How the Parallel Roads of Glen Roy were formed. 1872. Geol.
     Soc. Journal, vol. xxviii. p. 237.
Major-General Sir Henry James, R.E.—Notes on the Parallel Roads of
     Lochaber. 4to. 1874.
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, July 3, 1876.
           Sir T. Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G. Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
              Casimir de Candolle, Esq.
             Lewis Loeffler, Esq.
             Charles Heneage, Esq. F.R.G.S.
             The Rev. John Eade Pryor, M.A.
             W. Shore Smith, Esq.
             John L. Walker, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Vol. XI. 8vo. 1876.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Second Series, Vol. VI. No. 65. 8vo. 1876.
     8vo.Lieut.
Armit,           R. H. R.N. (the Author)—History" of New Guinea, &c (K
             1876.                                                       v 101 ')
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol XXXVI. No. 7. 8vo. 1876.
Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society— Journal, Vol. XL 8vo. 1876.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1875-6, No. 13. 4to.

1876.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                      247
Cernuschi, M. H. (the Autlior)—M. Michel Chevalier et le Biinetallisme. 8vo.
     1876. (Two copies.)
Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1876. 8vo.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. XLIII. 8vo. 1876.
Crosbie-Dawson, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Street Pavements. (K 101) 8vo. 1876.
Be Laveleye, M. E, (the Author)—La Monnaie Bimetallique. (L 16) 8vo. 1876.
Dulton, Francis S. Esq. C.M.S. M.R.l.—W. Harcus: South Australia: its
     History, Resources, and Productions. 8vo. 1876.
Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1876. 8vo.
  Argonaut for June, 1876. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for June, 1876. 4to.
  Chemical News for June, 1876. 4to.
  Electrical News for June, 1876.
  Engineer for June, 1876. fol.
  Journal for Applied Science for June, 1876. fol.
  Nature for June, 1876. 4to.
  Nautical Magazine for June, 1876. 8vo.
  Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1876. 8vo.
  Telegraph Journal for June, 1876. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 606. 8vo. 1876.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XX. No. 4. 8vo. 1876.
Gladstone, Professor J. H. F.R.S.—The Argonaut, Vol. III. 8vo. 1876.
Hayden, Dr. F. 0. (United States Geologist)—Report of the Geological and Geo
     graphical Survey of the Territories 8vo. 1876.
Photographic Society—Journal, Nos. 267, 268. 8vo. 1876.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Marz, 1876. 8vo.
Sands, Admiral B. F. (the Superintendent)—Washington Astronomical and
     Meteorological Observations, 1873. 4to. 1875.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     June, 1876. 8vo.
  British Rainfall, 1875. 8vo. 1876.
Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 37. 8vo. 1876.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 8. 4to. 1876.
  Proceedings for 1876, Part 1. 8vo. 1876.

  248                        General Monthly Meeting.                      [Nov. G,
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, November 6, 1876.
  Admiral Sir Henby John Codbinqton, K.C.B. Manager, in the Chair.
                      Robert James Mann, M.D.
                      John Ralph Shaw, Esq.
  were elected members of the Royal Institution.
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same viz.:
       FROM
 French Government—Documents Inedits sur 1'Histoire de France:
    Negotiations avec la Toscane : Tomo V. 4to. 1875.
    Inscriptions de la France : Tome II. 4to. 1875.
    Recueil des Diplomes Militaires. Ed. L. Renier. 4to. 187'S.
    Lettres Missives do Henri IV. : Tome IX. Supplement. 4to. 1876.
 Brazilian Government—Empire of Brazil at the Universal Exhibition of 1876
       Philadelphia. 8vo. 1876.
    H. de Mello : Subsidies to the Formation of a Physical Map of Brazil (with
       Maps).
 The Hon. Hamilton Fish (Sec. State U.S.)—Reports of the Commissioners of the
       United States to the International Exhibition, Vienna, 1873. 4 vols. 8vo.
       18i6.
 New Zealand Government— Statistics of New Zealand for 1875. fol. 1876.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, No. 24. 8vo. 1876.
 Asiatic Society of Bengal—-Journal, 1875, Part II. No. 3. 8vo.
   Proceedings, 1876. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
Asiatic Society, Boyal, Bombay Branch—Journal, No. 33. 8vo. 1876.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVI. Nos 8 9 8vo
      1876.                                                              '
      1876. Academy of Sciences, Royal—Abhandlungen, Band XII. Abth 2- 4to •
Bavarian
   Sitzungberichte, 1875, Heft 3. 1876, Heft 1. 8vo. 1876.
Boblon Society of Natural History—Memoirs, Vol. II. Part 4. Nos. 2, 3 4 4to
      1875-6.     *
   Proceedings, Vol. XVII. Parts 3, 4. VoL XVIII. Parts 1, 2. 1875-6.
   Occasional Papers, II. N. M. Hentz : Spiders of the United States. 8vo. 1875.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1875-6, Nos. 11, 12. 4to!
British Association for the Advancement of Science—Report of the 45th Meeting-
      Bristol, August, 1875. 8vo. 1876.
Cernuschi, M. H. (the Author)—Silver Vindicated. 8vo. 1876.
Chemical Society—Journal for June-Oct., 1876. 8vo.
Civil Engineers Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vols. XLIV. XLV XLVI
     8vo. 1876.

 1876.J                      General Monthly Meeting.                        249
 Connecticut Academy of Arte and Sciences—Transactions, Vol. III. Part I. 8vo.
      1876.
Detotuhire Association for the Advancement of Literature, Science, and Art—Report
      and Transactions, Vol. VIII. 8vo. 187C.
 Dublin Society, Royal—Journal, Nos. 42, 43. 8vo. 1874-5.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for July-Oot. 1876. 8vo.
   Argonaut for Julv-Oct. 1876. 8vo.
   AthentBum for Jiily-Oct. 1876. 4to.
   Chemical News for July-Oct. 1876. 4to.
   Engineer for July-Oct. 1876. fol.
   Horological Journal for July-Oct. 1876. 8vo.
   Journal for Applied Science for July-Oct. 1876. fol.
   Nature for July-Oct. 1876. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for July-Oct 1876. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for July-Oct. 1876. 8vo.
   Quarterly Journal of Sciences for July and Oct. 1876. 8vo.
   Telegraph Journal for July-Oct. 1876. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 607, 608, 609, 610. 8vo. 1876.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XX. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo. 1876.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1876. No. 2. 8vo. 1876.
   Verhandlungen, 1876. Nos. 7-10. 8vo. 1876.
Geological Society—Journal, No. 1 27. 8vo. 1 876.
Geological Survey of India—Memoirs, Vol. XI. Port 2. 8vo. 1875.
   Records, Vol. IX. Parts 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1876.
   Palawntologia Indica : Jurassic Fauna of Kutch. Vol. I. No. 4. 1875.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. X. No. 1. 8vo. 1876.
Heyxcood, James, Esq. F.R.I. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Professor Hcer : Primaeval
      World of Switzerland. 2 vols. 8vo. 1876.
Hull Literary and Philosophical Society—Report, 1875-6. 8vo. 1876.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1876, No. 1. 8vo. 1876.
Jackson, L. D'A. Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Simplified Weights and Measures.
      8vo. 1876.
Linnean Society—Transactions : Second Series : Botany, Vol. I. Part 3 ; Zoology,
      Vol. I. Part 3. 4 to. 1876.
   First Series: General Index, Vols. XXVI.-XXX. 4to. 187G.
   Proceedings, Nos. 64, 65 ; 84, 85, 86. 8vo. 1870.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Part 4. 8vo. 1876.
Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society—Memoirs. 3rd series. Vol. V
     1876.
   Proceedings, Vol. XV. 8vo. 1876.
   Catalogue of Library. 8vo. 1875.
Mecltanical Engineers' Institution —Proceedings, May, 1876. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Part 43. 8vo. 187*1.
Meteorological Office—Report of Meteorological Committee of the Eoyal Society
      for 1875. 8vo. 1876.
   Meteorology of Japan. 4to. 1876.
Meteorological Office of Canada—Reports of Observatories of Canada, 1875. 8vo.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 19. 1876.
   Catalogue of Library. 8vo. 1876.
Musical .dMocialVon— Proceedings: Second Session. 1875-6. 8vo.
Norfolk and Norwich Naturalists' Society—Transactions. 18G9-76. 2 vols. 8vo.
North of England Institute of Engineers—Transactions, Vol. XIX.-XXIV. 8vo.
      1X69-75.
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences—Proceedings, 1875. 8vo.
Photographic Society—-Journal, Nos. 207, 268. Svo. 1876.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Momitsberichte : April-July, 1876.
     8vo.
Royal Society of Literature—Transactions, Vol. XI. Part 2. 8vo. 1876.
     Vol. VIII.       (No. 65.)                                          8

250                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov. 6,
Royal Society of Lomlon—Proceedings, Nos. 170, 171, 172, 173. 8vo. 1876.
   Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CLXV. Part 2. 4to. 1876.
Saxon Society of Sciences, Royal—Abhandlungen : Band XV. Nos. 7, 8, 9 : 1874.
     Band XVI. No. 6 : 1874. Band XVII. Nos. 2, 3, 4 ; 1874-6. Band XVIII.
     Nos. 1-5. 8vo. 1874-5.
   Berichte ; Phil. Hist. Olasse : 1873, 1874 : 1875, No. 1. 8vo.
   Math. Phys. Classo: 1873, Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6. 1874. 1875, No. 1.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XXXIX. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1876.
Stockholm, Royal Academy of Sciences— Handlingar, Bandet XI. and Atlas.
     1872-5. Bihang, Bandet III. Hafte 1. 8vo. 1875.
    Petersburg,1875.
St.OfVersigt,         8vo. des Sciences—Tableau Ge¦nerale des Matieres contenues
                 Acade¦mie
     dans ses Publications. Partie 1. 8vo. 1872.
   Bulletins, Tome XX. Nos. 3, 4 ; Tome XXI. Tome XXII. Nos. 1, 2. 4to.
     1875-6. 7« Serie. Tome XXII. Nos. 4-10 ; Tome XXIII. No. 1. 1875.
   Me¦moires.
   Repertorium fur Meteorologie. Band V. Heft 1. 4to. 1876.
St. Petersburg Central Physical Observatory—Annalen, 1874. 4to. 1876.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     July-Oct. 1876. 8vo.
Tremaux, M. P. (the Author)—Principe Universel du Mouvement, &c. 3rd ed.
      16°. Paris, 1876.
Tyndall, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Lessons in Electricity.
     8vo. 1876.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Nos. 84, 86, 87. 8vo. 1876.
Vereins zur BefSrderung des Geioerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandelungen. Marz,
     April, Mai, Juni, Juli, 1876. 4to.
 Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 38. 8vo. 1876.
   Canon Birks: On the Uncertainties of Modern Physical Science. 8vo. 1876.
Vincent, B. Libr. R.I. (the Editor)—Haydn's Dictionary of Dates. Fifteenth
      edition. (Two Copies.) 8vo. 1876.
 Yorkshire Archaeological and Topographical Association—Journal, Part 15. 8vo.
      1876.
Yorkshire Philosophical Society—Report for 1875. 8vo. 1876.
 Young, James, Esq. and Dr. R. Angus Smith (Editor)—T. Graham : Chemical and
      Physical Researches. (Privately printed.) 1876.
 Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 9. 4to. 1876.
   Proceedings, 1876, Parts 2, 3. 8vo.

1876.J                     General Monthly Meeting.                           251
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, December 4, 1876.
            Sir T. Fredkbiok Elliot, K.C.M.G. Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
          Major J. F. D. Donnelly, R.E.
          Mrs. L. E. J. Elwes,
          Edward Herries, Esq. C.B.
          Frederick John Horniman, Esq. F.L.S. F.R.G.S. F.Z.S. &c.
          Samuel Joshua, Esq.
          William Cunliffe Pickersgill, Esq.
          Evan Wynne Roberts, Esq.
          Henry Bowden Smith, Esq.
          Sydney Thompson, Esq.
          Mrs. Tyndall,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were given to Mr. William
Edward Kilburn for his Presents of a large Thermopile, a Uranium
Vacuum Tube, and Optical Apparatus for producing Lissajous'
Figures.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz: :—
   FROM
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1876, Part I. No. 1. Part II. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
   Proceedings, 1876. Nos. 3-7. 8vo.
Bradlee, Rev. C. D. (the Author)—The Teachings of the Mountains : a Sermon.
      (K 101) 8vo. 1876.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1876-7 : No. 1. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Fac Similes of Egyptian Hieratic Papyrus of the
      Reign of Rameses III. fol. 1876.
   Catalogue of Oriental Coins, Vol. II. 8vo. 1876.
   Catalogue of Greek Coins (Sicily). 8vo. 1876.
   Catalogue of Sanskrit and Pali Books. 4to. 1876.
   Fac Similes of Ancient Charters. Part II. fol. 1876.
   Catalogue of Fossil Reptilia of South Africa. (Illustrated.) 4to. 1876.
Chemical Society—Journal for Nov. 1876. 8vo.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. IX. 8vo. 1876.
 Cornwall Polytechnic Society —Forty-third Report. 1875. 8vo.
 Cracroft, Bernard, Esq. M.R.I, (the Autiwr)—Trustees' Guide. 12th ed. 4to.
      1876.
   Letters. 8vo. 1876.

  ¦252                        General Monthly Meeting.                 [Dec. 4, 1876.
  Editors—American Journal of Science for Nov. 1876. 8vo.
    Argonaut for Nov. 1876. 8vo.
    Athensoum for Nov. 1S76. 4to.
    Chemical News for Nov. 1876. 4to.
    Electrical News for Nov. 1876.
    Engineer for Nov. 1875. fol.
    Horological Journal for Nov. 1876. 8vo.
    Journal for Applied Science for Nov. 1876. fol.
    Nature for Nov. 1875. 4to.
    Nautical Magazine for Nov. 1876. 8vo.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for Nov. 1876. 8vo.
    Quarterly Journal of Sciences for Nov. 1876. 8vo.
    Telegraphic Journal for Nov. 1876. 8vo.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 611. 8vo. 1876.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 128. 8vo. 1876.
 Halliwell-Phillipps, J.O. Esq. (the Author) —Illustrations of the Life of Shakespeare,
       Parti, fol. 1874.
 JablonomskCsche Gesellschaft, Leipsic—Preisschriften, XIX. XX. 4to. 1876.
 Leeds Philosophical Society— Report for 1875-6. 8vo.
 Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 30. 8vo. 1876.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, July, 1876. 8vo.
 Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Transactions, Vol. LIX. 8vo. 1876.
 Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 20. 8vo. 1876.
 Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1876.
 Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Aug. 1876. 8vo.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 174. 8vo. 1876.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author) —Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
       Nov. 1876. 8vo.
 Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 39. 8vo. 1875.
 Warden of the Standards—Tenth Annual Report. 8vo. 1876.
     The following arrangements of the Lectures before Easter, 1877,
were announced :—
      Professor John Hall Gladstone, Ph.D. F.R.S.—Six Lectures adapted to
a Juvenile Auditory, on the Chemistry of Fire ; on Deo. 28 (Thursday), 30, 1876 ;
Jan. 2, 4, 6, 9, 1877.
      Professor Alfred H. Garrod, M.A. F.R.S.— Ten Leotures on the Human
Form; its Structure in relation to its Contour; on Tuesdays, Jan. 16 to
March 20.
      Dr. C. R. Alder-Wright, F.C.S.—Four Lectures on Metals and the Chief
Industrial Uses of these Bodies and their Compounds; on Thursdays, Jan. 18
to Feb. 8.
      William Pole, Esq. F.R.S. Mus.Doc.—Six Lectures on the Theory of Music ;
on Thursdays, Feb. 15 to March 22.
      Ernst Pauer, Esq. —Two Lectures on the Nature of Music: the Italian,
French, and German Schools ; on Saturdays, Jan. 20, 27.
      J. A. Symonds, Esq.—Three Lectures on Florence and the Medici; on
Saturdays, Feb. 3 to 17.
      Professor Henry Morley.—Five Lectures on Effects of the French Revolu-
tion upon English Literature ; on Saturdays Feb. 24, to March 24.
      Professor Tyndall will give a Course of Lectures after Easter.

        HJogal tfnjjtitutton of €Heat Britain.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, January 19, 1877.
Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President, in the Chair.
               Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
                 A Combat with an Infective Atmosphere.
                            [Abstract Deferred.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, January 26, 1877.
      William Spottiswoode, LL.D. Tr.R.S. Secretary and Vice-
                        President, in the Chair.
         Sir John Lurrock, Bart. M.P. D.C.L. F.R.S. M.B.I.
                           The Habits of Ants.
The Anthropoid apes no doubt approach nearer to man in bodily
structure than do any other animals ; but when we consider the habits
of ants, their social organisation, their large communities, elaborate
habitations, their roadways, their possession of domestic animals, and
even, in some cases, of slaves, it must be admitted that they have
a fair claim to rank next to man in the scale of intelligence. They
present, moreover, not only a most interesting but also a very ex
tensive field of study. In this country we have nearly thirty species ;
but ants become more numerous, in species as well as individuals,
in warmer countries, and more than seven hundred kinds are known.
Even this large number certainly is far short of those actually in
existence.
    I have kept in captivity nearly half of our British species of ants,
and at the present moment have in my room more than thirty nests,
belonging to about twenty species, some of which, however, are not
English. No two species are identical in habits; and, on various
accounts, their mode of life is far from easy to unravel. In the first
place, most of their time is passed underground : all the education of
the young, for instance, is carried on in the dark. Again, ants are
essentially gregarious ; it is in some cases difficult to keep a few alive
by themselves in captivity, and at any rate their habits under such
circumstances are entirely altered. If, on the other hand, a whole
    Vol. VIII. (No. 66.)                                         t

254                          Sir John Lubbock                          [Jan. 26,
community is kept, then the greater number introduces a fresh element
of difficulty and complexity. Moreover, within the samo species, the
individuals seem to differ in character, and even the same individual
will behave very differently under different circumstances. Although,
then, ants have attracted the attention of many naturalists, Gould,
Do Geer, Swammerdam, Latreille, Leuwenhoeck, Huber, and havo
recently been tho object of interesting observations by Frederick
Smith, Belt, Moggridgo, Bates, Mayr, Emery, Forel, and others,
they still present one of the most promising fields for observation
and experiment.
     Tho larva of ants, like those of bees and wasps, are small, white,
legless grubs, somewhat conical in form, being narrow towards the
head. They are carofully tonded and fed, being carried about from
chamber to chamber by the workers, probably in order to secure tho
most suitable amount of warmth and moisture. I have observed
also that they are very often sorted according to age. It is some
times very curious in my nests to see them divided into groups
according to size, so that they remind one of a school divided into
five or six classes. When full grown they turn into pupas, sometimes
naked, sometimes covered with a silken cocoon, constituting the so-
called "ant-eggs." After remaining somo days in this state, they
emerge as perfect insects. In many cases, however, they would
perish in the attempt, if they were not assisted ; and it is very pretty
to see the older ants helping them to extricate themselves, carefully
unfolding their legs and smoothing out tho wings, with truly feminine
tenderness and delicacy.
    Under ordinary circumstances an ants' nest, like a beehive, consists
of three kinds of individuals : workers, or imperfect females (which
constitute tho great majority), males, and perfect females. Thero
are, however, often several females in an ants' nest ; whilo, as wo all
know, there is never more than one queen in a hive. Tho queens
havo wings, but after a single flight they tear off their own wings,
and do not again quit the nest. In addition to the ordinary workers
there is in some species a second, or rather a third, form of female.
In almost any ants' nest we may see that the workers differ moro or
less in sizo. Tho amount of difference, however, depends upon tho
species. In Lcuius niger, the small brown garden ant, the workers
are, for instance, much more uniform than in the little yellow meadow
ant, or in Atta barbara, whero some of them are more than twice as
large as others. But in certain ants thero aro differences still more
remarkable. Thus, in a Mexican species, besides the common workers,
which have the form of ordinary neuter ants, there are certain others
in which the abdomen is swollen into an immense sub-diaphanous
sphere. These individuals aro very inactive, and principally occupied
in elaborating a kind of honey.* In the genus Pheidole, very com
mon in southern Europe, there aro also two distinct forms without
             * Westwood, ' Modern Class, of Insects,' vol. ii. p. 225.

1877.]                    on the Habits of Ants.                     255
any intermediate gradations ; one with heads of the usual proportion,
and a second with immense heads provided with very large jaws.
These latter are generally supposed to act as soldiers, and the size of
the head enables the muscles which move the jaws to be of unusual
dimensions, though the little ones are also very pugnacious. This
differentiation of certain individuals so as to adapt them to special
fuuetions seems to me very remarkable ; for it must be remembered
that the difference is not one of age or sex.
    The food of ants consists of insects, great numbers of which they
destroy ; of honey, honeydew, and fruit ; indeed, scarcely any animal
or sweet substance comes amiss to them. Some species, such, for
instance, as the small brown garden ant, ascend bushes in search of
aphides. The ant then taps the aphis gently with her antonnas, and
the aphis emits a drop of sweet fluid, which the ant drinks. Some
times the ants even build covered ways up to and over tho aphides,
which, moreover, they protect from the attacks of other insects. Our
English ants do not collect provision for the winter ; indeed, their
food is not of a nature which would admit of this. Some southern
species, however, collect grain, occasionally in considerable quantities.
Moreover, though our English ants cannot be said exactly to lay up
stores, some at least do take steps to provide themselves with food
in the future. The small yellow meadow ant (Lasius flavus), for
instance, lives principally on the honeydew of certain aphides which
suck the roots of grass. Tho ants collect the Aphides in tho nest,
not only watching over them themselves, but, as I have been able
to satisfy myself, even over their eggs, an act which one is much
tempted to refer to forethought, and which in such a case implies a
degree of prudence superior to that of some savages. Besides theso
aphides, many other insects livo in ants' nests. If they are to bo
regarded as domestic animals, then ants have moro domestic animals
than we have. The majority of theso ant guests are beetles. Some
of them, as, for instance, the curious little Claviger, are quite blind,
and are only found in ants' nests, tho ant taking just as much caro
of them as of their own young. It is evident, therefore, that in
some way they are useful or agreeable to the ants. The subject,
however, is one as yet but littlo understood, and very difficult to
study. Grimm and Lespes consider that some of these beetles secrete
a sweet fluid like the aphides, and from analogy this seems probable.
Other creatures which habitually live in ants' nests, like the little
Beckia albinos, or the blind woodlouse (Plaiyarthrus), perhaps make
themselves useful as scavengers.
    Nor are ants without their enemies. In addition to birds and
 other larger foes, if you disturb a nest of the brown ants at any
 time during tho summer you will probably see some very small flies
hovering over them, and overy now and then making a dash at
somo particular ant. Theso flies belong to tho genus Phora, and to
a species hitherto unnamed, which Mr. Verrall has been good enough
to describe for me. They lay their eggs on the ants, inside which
                                                              t 2

 256                          Sir John Lubbock                     [Jan. 26,
the larvse live. Other species of the genus are in the same way para
 sitic on bees. On tho 14th of October last I observed that one of
 my ants had a mite attached to the underside of its head. The mite,
 which is still in the same position, is almost as largo as the head.
 The ant cannot remove it herself. She has never come out of the nest,
 so that I could not do it for her, and none of her own companions
 from that day to this have thought of performing this kind office.
      In character the different species of ants differ very much from
 one another. F'. fusca, the one which is pre-eminently the enslaved
 ant, is, as might be expected, extremely timid ; while the nearly
 allied F. cinerea has, on the contrary, a considerable amount of
 individual audacity. F. rufa, the horse ant, according to M. Forel,
 is especially characterised by the want of individual initiative, and
 always moves in troops; he also regards the genus Formica as the
 most brilliant, though some others excel it m other respects, as, for
 instance, in the sharpness of their senses. F. pratensis worries its
 slain enemies ; F. sanguinea never does. The slave-making ant
 (P. rufescens) is, perhaps, the bravest of all. If a single individual
 finds herself surrounded by enemies, she never attempts to fly, as any
 other ant would, but transfixes her opponents one after another,
 springing right and left with great agility, till at length she succumbs,
 overpowered by numbers. M. sedbrinodis is cowardly and thievish ;
 during wars among the larger species they haunt the battle-fields and
devour the dead. Tetramorium is said to be very greedy ; Myrmecina
very phlegmatic.
     In industry ants are not surpassed even by bees and wasps. They
 work all day, and in warm weather, if need bo, even at night too. I
once watched an ant from six in the morning, and she worked without
intermission till a quarter to ten at night. I had put her to a saucer
containing larvas, and in this time she carried off no less than a
hundred and eighty-seven to the nest. I once had another ant, which
 I employed in my experiments, under observation several days.
When I came up to London in the morning, and went to bed at night,
I used to put her in a small bottle, but the moment she was let out
she began to work again. On one occasion I was away from home for
a week. On my return I let her out of the bottle, placing her on a
little heap of larva about three feet from the nest. Under these
circumstances I certainly did not expect her to return. However,
though she had thus been six days in confinement, the brave little
creature immediately picked up a larva, carried it off to the nest,
and after half an hour's rest returned for another.
     We have hitherto very little information as to the length of life
in ants. So far, indeed, as the preparatory stages are concerned,
there is little difficulty in approximately ascertaining the facts ;
namely, that while they take only a few weeks in summer, in some
species, as our small yellow meadow ants, the autumn larvaa remain
with comparatively little change throughout tho winter. It is much
more difficult to ascertain tho length of life of the porfect insect, on

 1877.]                     on the Habits of Ants.                      257
account of their gregarious habits, and the difficulty of recognising
individual ants. It has, however, generally been supposed that they
 live about a season, and this is probably the case ; but I have still
some workers of F. cinerea, which I captured at Castellamare, in
November, 1875, and some of F. sanguinea and F. fusca since
September in that year. They must now, therefore, be at least a year
and a half old. I have also some queens of F. fusca which have been
with me since December, 1874, and still seem in perfect health. If
they lived much longer, and could compare their experiences, ants
would, from their immense numbers, even in temperate regions, con
tend with mankind on no such very unequal terms.
     The behaviour of ants to one another differs very much accord
ing as they are alone or supported by numerous companions. An
ant which would run away in the first case, will fight bravely in the
second.
     It is hardly necessary to say that, as a general rule, each species
lives by itself. There are, however, some interesting exceptions.
The little Stenamma Westwoodii is found exclusively in the nests of
the much larger F. rufa and the allied F. pratensis. We do not know
what the relations between the two species are. The Stenammas,
however, follow the Formicas when they change their nest, running
about among them and between their legs, tapping them inquisitively
with their antennas, and even sometimes climbing on to their backs,
as if for a ride, while the large ants seem to take littlo notice of them.
They almost seem to be the dogs, or rather cats, of the ants.
Another small species, Solenopsis fugax, which makes its chambers
and galleries in the walls of the nests of larger species, is the bitter
enemy of its hosts. The latter cannot get at them, because they are
too large to enter the galleries. The little Solenopsis, therefore, are
quite safe, and, as it appears, make incursions into the nurseries of
the larger ant, and carry off the larvas as food. It is as if we had
small dwarfs, about eighteen inches to two feet long, harbouring in
the walls of our houses, and every now and then carrying off some of
our children into their horrid dens.
     Most ants, indeed, will carry off the larvae and pupa of others if
they get a chance ; and this explains, or at any rate throws some
light upon, that most remarkable phenomenon, the existence of slavery
among ants. ' If you place a number of larvas and pupue in front of a
nest of the horse ant, for instance, they are soon carried off; and
those which are not immediately required for food remain alive for
some days, though I have never been able to satisfy myself whether
they are fed by their captors. Both the horse ant and the slave ant
(F. fusca) are abundant species, and it must not unfrequently occur
that the former, being pressed for food, attack the latter and carry
off some of their larvae and pupas. Under these circumstances it occa
sionally happens that the pupas come to maturity in the nests of the
horse ant, and nests are sometimes, though rarely, found in which,
with the legit;mate owners, there are a few F. fuscas. With the horse

258                               Sir John Lubbock                         [Jan. 26,
ant this is, however, a very rare and exceptional phenomenon ; but
with an allied species, F. sanguinea, a species which exists in our
southern counties and throughout Europe, it has become an estab
lished habit. The F. sanguineas make periodical expeditions, attack
neighbouring nests of F. fusca, and carry off the pupse. When tho
latter como to maturity, they find themselves in a nest consisting
partly of F. sanguineas, partly of F. fuscas, the results of previous
expeditions. They adapt themselves to circumstances, assist in the
ordinary household duties, and, having no young of their own species,
feed and tend those of the F. sanguineas. But though tho F. sanguineas
are thus aided by the jF. fuscas, they have not themselves lost the in
stinct of working. It seems not improbable that there is some
division of functions between the two species, but we have as yet
no distinct knowledge on this point ; and at any rate the F. sanguineas
can " do " for themselves, and carry on a nest, if necessary, without
slaves.
     In another species, however, Polyergus rufescens, which is not
 British, this is not the case. They present a striking lesson of the
degrading tendency of slavery, for they havo becomo entirely de
pendent on their slaves. Even their bodily structure has undergone
a chango: thoir mandibles have lost their teeth, and have become
mere nippers, deadly weapons indeed, but useless except in war.
 They have lost the greater part of their instincts : their art, that is,
the power of building ; their domestic habits, for they take no care of
 their own young, all this being done by the slaves ; their industry—
 they take no part in providing the daily supplies; if tho colony
 changes the situation of its nest, the masters are all carried by the
 slaves to the new one ; nay, they have even lost the habit of feeding.
 Huber placed thirty of them with some larvas and pup® and a supply
 of honey in a box.
    " At first," he says, " tlioy appeared to pay some little attention to tho Inrvse ;
 they carried them here and there, but presently replaced them. More than one-
 half of the Amazons died of hunger in less than two days. They had not even
traced out a dwelling, and the few ante still in existence were languid and
without strength. I commiserated their condition, and gave them one of their
black companions. This individual, unassisted, established order, formed a
chamber in the earth, gathered together the larvas, extricated several young ants
that were ready to qnit the condition of pupas, and preserved the life of tho
remaining Amazons." *
     This observation has been fully confirmed by other naturalists.
However small the prison, however large the quantity of food, these
stupid creatures will starve in tho midst of plenty rather than feed
themselves. I havo had a nest of this species under observation for
a long timo, but never saw one of the masters feeding. I have kept
isolated specimens for weeks by giving them a slave for an hour or
two a day to clean and feed them, and under these circumstances they
remained in perfect health, while, but for the slaves, they would have
                       * Hnber, 'Natural History of Ants.'

1877.]                    on the Habits of Ants.                     259
perished in two or three days. I know no other case in nature of a
species having lost the instinct of feeding.
    In P. rufescens, the so-called workers, though thus helpless and
stupid, arc numerous, energetic, and in some respects even brilliant.
In another slave-making species, however, Strongylognathus, the
workers are much less numerous, and so weak that it is an unsolved
problem how they contrive to make slaves.
    Lastly, in a fourth species, Anergates airatulus, the workers are
absent, the males and females living in nests with workers belonging
to another ant, Tetramorium ccespitum. In these cases the Tetra-
moriums, having no queen, and consequently no young of their own,
tend the young of the Anergates. It is therefore a case analogous
to that of Polyergus, but it is one in which slave-owning has almost
degenerated into parasitism. It is not, however, a case of true para
sitism, because the Tetramoriums take great care of the Anergates, and
if the nest is disturbed, carry them off to a place of safety.
    M. Forel, in his excellent work on ants, has pointed out that very
young ants devote themselves at first to the care of tho larvas and
pupas, and that they take no share in the defence of the nest or other
out-of-door work until they are some days old. This seems natural,
because at first their skin is comparatively soft ; and it would clearly
be undesirable to undertake rough work or run into danger until
their armour had had time to harden. There are, however, reasons
for thinking that tho division of labour is carried still further. I do
not allude merely to those cases in which there are completely
different kinds of workers, but even to the ordinary workers. In
L. flams, for instance, it seems probablo that the duties of the small
workers are somewhat different from those of the large ones, though
no such division of labour has yet been detected. In F. fusca I made
an observation which surprised me very much. In the autumn of
1875 I noticed an ant out feeding alone. The next day the same ant
was out by herself, and 1 could easily recognise her because by some
accident she had lost the claws of one of her hind feet. My attention
being roused, I watched the nest for some weeks, and saw this same
ant out repeatedly, but uo other. This winter I have kept two nests
under close observation, that is, I arranged with my daughters and
their governess, Miss Weudland, most conscientious observers, that
we should look at the nest once every hour throughout the day, and this
has been done since the middle of November, with a few exceptions
not enough to affect the conclusion. The former nest contains about
two hundred, the second about four hundred individuals ; but as they
are somewhat torpid, and there are no larvas to be fed, much food
is not required. In each case only two or three individuals came
out for food, each about twice a day, though some days they did not
come out at all. Thinking that possibly these specimens were un
usually voracious, or in some other way abnormal, I imprisoned the
foragers belonging to one of the nests. The following day two others
camo out for food, and continued coming for soveral days. I then

260                         Sir John Lubbock                     [Jan. 26,
 imprisoned them also, when two others came out, showing, I think,
 that the community requires food, and that it was the function of
certain individuals to obtain it.
      One of the most interesting problems about ants is, of course, to
determine the amount of their intelligence. In order to test this, it
 seemed to me that one way would be to ascertain some object which
 they would clearly desire, and then to interpose some obstacle which
 a little ingenuity would enable them to overcome. With this object
 in view, I placed food in a porcelain cup on a slip of glass surrounded
 by water, but accessible to the ants by a bridge, consisting of a strip of
 paper two-thirds of an inch long and one-third wide. Having then
put a F. nigra from one of my nests to this food, she began carrying
 it off, and by degrees a number of friends came to help her. I then,
 when about twenty-five ants were so engaged, moved the little paper
bridge slightly, so as to leave a chasm just so wide that the ants could
not reach across. They came to the edge and tried hard to get over,
but it did not occur to them to push the paper bridge, though the
distance was only about one-third of an inch, and they might easily
have done so. After trying for about a quarter of an hour they gave
up the attempt, and returned home. This I repeated several times.
 Then, thinking that paper was a substance to which they were not
accustomed, I tried the same with a bit of straw one inch long and
one-eighth of an inch wide. The result was the same. I repeated
this twice. Again I placed particles of food close to and directly
over the nest, but connected with it only by a passage several feet in
length. Under these circumstances it would be obviously a saving of
time and labour to drop the food on to the nest, or at any rate to
spring down with it, so as to save one journey. But though I have
frequently tried the experiment, my ants never adopted either of these
courses. I arranged matters so that the glass on which the food was
placed was only raised one-third of an inch above the nest. The ants
tried to reach down, and the distance was so small that occasionally,
if another ant passed underneath just as one was reaching down, the
Appcr one could step on to its back, and so descend ; but this only
happened accidentally, and they did not think of throwing the par
ticles down, nor, which surprised me very much, would they jump down
themselves. I then placed a heap of fine mould close to the glass,
but just so far that they could still not reach across. It would have
been of course quite easy for any ant, by moving a particle of earth
for a quarter of an inch, to have made a bridge by which the food
might have been reached, but this simple expedient did not occur to
them. On the other hand, I then put some provisions in a shallow
box with a glass top, and a single hole on oue sido, and put some
specimens of Laaius niger to the food. As soon as a stream of ants
was at work, busily carrying supplies off to the nest, and when they
had got to know the way thoroughly, I poured some fine mould in
front of the hole so as to cover it up to a depth of about half an inch.
I then took out the ants which were actually in the box. As soon as

1877.]                   on the Habits of Ants.                     261
they had recovered from the shock of this unexpected proceeding on my
part, they began to run all round and about the box, looking for some
other place of entrance. Finding none, however, they began digging
down into the earth just over the hole, carrying off the grains of earth
one by one, and depositing them, without any order, all round at a
distance of from half an inch to six inches until they had excavated
down to the doorway, when they again began carrying off the food
as before. This experiment I repeated on following days three or
four times, always with the same result.
    As evidence both of their intelligence and of their affection for
their friends, it has been said by various observers that when ants
have been accidentally buried they have been very soon dug out and
rescued by their companions. Without for a moment doubting the
facts as stated, we must remember the habit which ants have of
burrowing in loose fresh soil, and especially their practice of digging
out fresh galleries when their nests aro disturbed. It seemed to me,
however, that it would not be difficult to test whether the excavations
made by ants under the circumstances, were the result of this general
habit, or really due to a desire to extricate their friends. With this
view I tried (20th August) the following experiments. I placed
some honey near a nest of Lasius niger on a glass surrounded with
water, and so arranged that in reaching it the ants passed over
another glass covered with a layer of sifted earth about one third of an
inch in thickness. I then put some ant to the honey, and by degrees
a considerable number collected round it. Then, at 1.30 p.m., I buried
an ant from the same nest under the earth, and left her there till
5 p.m., when I uncovered her. She was none the worse, but during the
whole time not one of her friends had taken the least notice of her.
    Again, September 1st, I arranged some honey in the same way.
At 5 p.m. about fifty ants were at the honey, and a considerable
number were passing to and fro. I then buried an ant as before, of
course taking one from the same nest. At 7 p.m. the number of ants
at the honey had nearly doubled. At 10 p.m. they were still more
numerous, and had carried off about two-thirds of the honey. At
7 a.m. the next morning the honey was all gone ; two or three ants
were still wandering about, but no notice had been taken of the
prisoner, whom I then let out. In this case I allowed the honey to
be finished, because I thought it might perhaps be alleged that the
excitement produced by such a treasure distracted their attention ; or
even, on the principle of doing the greatest good to the greatest
number, that they were intelligently wise in securing a treasure of
food before they rescued their comrade, who, though in confinement,
was neither in pain nor danger. So far as the above ants, however,
are concerned, this cannot be urged. I may add that I repeated the
same experiment several times, in some cases with another species,
Nyrmica ruginodis, and always with the same results.
    Ants have been much praised on account of their affection for
their friends. In this respect, however, they . seem to vary greatly.

262 .                       Sir John Lubbock                   [Jan. 26,
At any rate, anyone who has watched them ranch must have met with
very contradictory facts. I have often pnt ants which were smeared
with a sticky substance on the boards attached to my nests, and very
rarely indeed did their companions take any notice of, or seek to
disentangle them.
    I then tried the following experiment. A number of the small
yellow ants (L. flaws) were out feeding on some honey. I took five
of them, and also five others of the same species, but from a different
nest, chloroformed them, and put them close to the honey, and on the
path which the ants took in going to and from the nest, so that these
could not but see them. The glass on which the honey was placed
was surrounded by a moat of water. This, then, gave me an oppor
tunity of testing both how far they would bo disposed to assist a
helpless fellow-creature, and what difference they would make between
their nest companions and strangers from a different community.
The chloroformed ants were put down at ten in the morning. For
more than an hour, though many ants came up and touched them with
their antennas, none of them did more. At length one of the strangers
was picked up, carried to the edge of the glass, and quietly thrown,
or rather dropped, into the water. Shortly afterwards a friend was
taken up and treated in the same way. By degrees they were all
picked up and thrown into the water. One of the strangers was,
indeed, taken into the nest, but in about half an hour she was brought
out again and thrown into the water like the rest, I repeated this
experiment with fifty ants, half friends and half strangers. In each
case twenty out of the twenty-five ants were thrown into tho water as
described. A few were left lying where they were placed, and these
also, if wo had watched longer, would no doubt have been also treated
in the same way. One out of the twenty-five friends, and threo out
of the twenty-five strangers, were carried into the nest, but they were
all brought out again and thrown away like the rest. Under such
circumstances, then, it seems that ants make no difference between
friends and strangers.
    It may, however, bo said in this experiment, that as ants do not
recover from chloroform, and those ants were therefore to all intents
and purposes dead, we should not expect that much difference would
be made between friends and strangers. I therefore tried the same
experiment, only, instead of chloroforming the ants, I made them
intoxicated. This was a rather more difficult experiment. No ant
would voluntarily degrade herself by getting drunk, and it was not
easy in all cases to hit off the requisite degree of this compulsory
intoxication. In all cases they were mado quito drunk, so that they
lay helplessly on their backs. The sober ants seemed much puzzled
at finding their friends in this helpless and discreditable condition.
They took them up and carried them about for awhile in a sort of
aimless way, as if they did not know what to do with their drunkards,
any more than we do. Ultimately, however, the results were as
follows. Tho ants romoved twenty-five friends and thirty strangers.

1877.]                     on the Habits of Ants.                  263
Of the friends, twenty were carried into the nest, whore no doubt they
slept off the effect of the spirit—at least we saw no moro of them—and
five were thrown into the water. Of the strangers, on the contrary,
twenty-four were thrown into the water ; only six were taken into the
nest, and four of those were shortly afterwards brought out again and
thrown away.
    The difference in the treatment of friends and strangers was,
therefore, most marked.
    Dead ants, I may add, are always brought out of the nest, and I
have more than once found a little heap on one spot, giving it almost
the appearance of a burial ground.
    I have also made some experiments on the power possessed by
ants of remembering their friends. It will bo recollected that Huber
gives a most interesting account of the behaviour of some ants, which,
after being separated for four months, when brought together again,
immediately recognised ono another, and " fell to mutual caresses
with their antenna." Forel, however, regards these movements as
having indicated fear and surprise rather than affection, though he
also is quite inclined to believe, from his own observation, that ants
would recognise one another after a separation of some months. The
observation recorded by Huber was made casually ; and neither he
nor anyone else seems to have taken any steps to test it by subsequent
experiments. The fact is one, however, of so much interest, that it
seemed to me desirable to make further experiments on the subject.
On the 4th of August, 1875, therefore, I separated ono of my nests of
F. fusca into two halves, which I kept entirely apart.
    I then from time to time put an ant from one of these nests into
the other, introducing also a strangor at the same time. The stranger
was driven out, or sometimes even killed. The friend, on the
contrary, was never attacked, though I am bpund to say that I could
see no signs of any general welcome, or that sho was taken any
particular notice of.
    I will not trouble yon with all the evidence, but will content
myself with one case.
     On the 12th November last, that is to say, after the ant had been
separated for a year and three months, I put a friend and a stranger
into one of the divisions. The friend seemed quito at home. One of
the ants at once seized the stranger by an antenna, and began
dragging her about. At
       11.45. The friend is quite at home with the rest. The stranger
                  is being dragged about.
       12.0. The friend is all right. Three ants now have hold of
                  the stranger by hor logs and an antenna.
       12.15. Do. do.
       12.30. Do. do.
       12.45. Do. do.
         1.0. Do. do.

 264                         Sir John Lubbock                   [Jan. 2G,
         1.30. Do. One now took hold of the friend, but soon seemed
                 to find out her mistake and left go again.
         1.45. The friend is all right. The stranger is being attacked.
                 The friend also has been almost cleaned ; while on the
                 stranger the colour has been scarcely touched.
        2.15. Two ants are licking the friend, while another pair is
                  holding the stranger by her legs.
        2.30. The friend is now almost clean, so that I could only just
                 perceive any colour. The stranger, on the contrary,
                 is almost as much coloured as ever. She is now near
                 the door, and I think would have come out, but two
                 ants met her and seized her.
        3.0. Two ants are attacking the stranger. The friend was no
                 longer distinguishable from the rest.
        3.30. Do.
        4.0. Do.
        5.0. Do.
        6.0. The stranger now escaped from the nest, and I put her
                 back among her own friends.
    The difference of behaviour to theso two ants was most marked.
The friend was gradually licked clean, and except for a few moments,
and that evidently by mistake, was never attacked. Tho stranger, on
the contrary, was not cleaned, was at once seized, was dragged about
for hours with only a few minutes' interval, by one, two, or three
assailants, and at length made her escape from the nest at a time when
no other ant was out.
    In most species of ants the power of smell is very keen. I placed
ants on a strip of paper, each end of which was supported on a pin,
the foot of which was immersed in water. They then ran backwards
and forwards along the paper, trying to escape. If a camel's-hair
pencil be suspended just over tho paper, they pass under it without
taking any notice of it ; but if it be scented, say with lavender-water,
they at once stop when they come near it, showing in the most unmis
takable nianner that they perceive the odour. This sense appears to
reside, though not perhaps exclusively, in the antennas. I tethered,
for instance, a large specimen of Formica ligniperda with a fine thread
to a board, and when she was quite quiet I approached a scented
camel's-hair pencil slowly to the tip of the antenna, which was at once
withdrawn, though tho antenna took no notice of a similar pencil, if
not scented.
    On the other hand, as regards their sense of hearing, the case is
very different. Appri aching an ant which was standing quietly, I
have over and over again made the loudest and most shrill noises I
could, using a penny pipe, a dog-whistle, a violin, as well as the most
piercing and startling sounds I could produce with my own voice,
without effect. At the same time I by no means would infer from this
that they are really deaf, though it certainly seems that their range

 1877.]                   on the Habits of Ants.                   2G5
of hearing is very different from ours. We know that certain allied
insects produce a noise by rubbing one of their abdominal rings
against another Landois is of opinion that ants also make sounds in
the same way, though these sounds are inaudible to us. Our rango is,
however, after all, very limited, and the universe is probably full of
music which we cannot perceive. There are, moreover, in the
antennse of ants certain curious organs which may perhaps be of an
auditory character. There are from ten to a dozen in the terminal
segment of Lasius fiivus, the small meadow ant, and indeed in most of
the species which I have examined, and one or two in each of the
short intermediate segments. These organs consist of three parts : a
small spherical cup opening to the outside, a long narrow tube, and a
hollow body shaped like an elongated clock-weight. They may serve
to increase the resonance of sounds, acting, in fact, to use the words
of Professor Tyndall, who was good enough to look at them with me,
like microscopic stethoscopes.
     The organs of vision are in most ants very complex and con
spicuous. There are generally three eyes arranged in a triangle on
the top of their heads, and on each side a large compound eye
containing sometimes more than two thousand facets between them.
Nevertheless the sight of ants does not seem to be very good. In
order to test how far ants are guided by vision. I made the following
experiments. I placed a common lead pencil on a board, fastening it
upright, so as to serve as a landmark. At the base I then placed a
glass containing food, and then put a L. niger to the food ; when she
knew her way from the glass to the nest and back again perfectly
well, she went quite straight backwards an€ forwards. I then took
an opportunity when the ant was on the glass, and moved the glass
with the ant on it about three inches. Now, under such circumstances,
if she had been much guided by sight, she could not of course have
had any difficulty in finding her way to the nest. As a matter of
fact, however, she was entirely at sea, and after wandering about
for some time, got back to the nest by another and very roundabout
route. I then again varied the experiment as follows. I placed
the food in a small china cup on the top of the pencil, which thus
formed a column seven and a half inches high. When the ant once
knew her way, she went very straight to and from the nest. This
puzzled her very much : she went over and over the spot where
the pencil had previously stood, retraced her steps several times
almost to the nest, and then returned along the whole line, showing
great perseverance, if not much power of vision. I then moved the
pencil six inches. She found the pencil at last, but only after many
meanderings.
    I then repeated the observation on three other ants with the same
result: the second was seven minutes before she found the pencil,
and at last seemed to do so accidentally ; the third actually wandered
about for no less than half an hour, returning up the paper bridgo
several times.

266                           Sir John Lubbock                 [Jan. 26,
     Let us compare this relatively to man. An ant measuring say
one-sixth of an inch, and the pencil being seven inches high, is
consequently forty-two times as long as the ant. It bears, therefore,
somewhat the same relation to the ant as a column two hundred and
fifty feet high does to a man. The pencil having been moved six
inches, it is as if a man in a country he knew well would be puzzled
at being moved a few hundred feet, or if put down in a square
containing less than an acre, could not find a column two hundred
and fifty feet high, that is to say, higher than the Duke of York's
column.
     Another evidonco of this consists in the fact, that if, when my
L. niters were carrying off food placed in a cup on a piece of board,
I turned the board, round so that the side which had been turned
towards the nest was away from it, and vice versd, the ants always
returned over the same track on the board, and consequently directly
away from home. If I moved the board to the other side of my
 artificial nest, the result was the same. Evidently they followed the
 road, not the direction.
     It is remarkable that we do not even now know exactly how an
ants' nest is begun. Whether they always commence as a colony
from some older establishment ; whether wandoring workers who
 chance to find a queen, under cortain circumstances remain with her
 and begin a new nest ; or whether the queen ant, like the queen wasp,
 forms a cell for herself, and then brings up a few workers, who after
 wards take upon themselves the labours of tho family, as yet we
 know not. "When once started, the communities last for years, being
 kept up by a succession of individuals. Tho queens themselves
 rarely or never quit the nest, but receive their food from the workers,
 and indeed appear to do nothing except lay eggs.
      A nest of ants must not be confusod with an ant hill in the
 ordinary sense. Very often indeed a nest has only one dwelling, and
 in most species seldom more than three or four. Some, however, form
 numerous colonies. M. Forel even found a caso in which one nest of
 F. exsecla had no less than two hundred colonies, and occupied a
 circular space with a radius of nearly two hundred yards. Within
 this area they had exterminated all the other ants, except a few nests
 of Tapinoma erraticum, which survived, thanks to their great agility.
 In these cases the number of ants thus associated together must have
 been enormous. Even in single nests Forel estimates the numbers at
 from five thousand to half a million.
      In their modes of fighting, different species of ants havo their
 several peculiarities. Some also are much less military than others.
 Myrmecina Latreillii, for instance, never attack, and scarcely even
 defend themselves. Their skin is very hard, and they roll themselves
  into a ball, not defending themselves even if their nest is invaded, to
  prevent which, however, they make the entrances small, and often
  station at each a worker, who uses her head to stop tho way. The
  smell of this species is also, perhaps, a protection. Tetramorium

1877.]                    on the Habits of Ante.                     267
cccspitwn has tho habit of feigning death. This species, however,
does not roll itself up, but merely applies its legs and antennas closely
to the body.
     Formica rufa, the common horse ant, attacks in serried masses,
seldom sending out detachments, while single ants scarcely ever make
individual attacks. They rarely pursue a flying foe, but give no
quarter, killing as many enemies as possible, and never hesitating,
with this object, to sacrifice themselves for the common good.
     Formica sanguinea, on the contrary, at least in their slave-making
expeditions, attempt rather to terrify than to kill. Indeed, when they
are invading a nest, they do not attack the flying inhabitants unless
they are attempting to carry off pupas, in which case they are forced
to abandon the pupas. When fighting, they attempt to crush their
enemies with their mandibles.
     Formica exsecta is a delicate, but very active species. Thoy also
advance in serried masses, but in close quarters they bito right and
left, dancing about to avoid being bitten themselves. When fighting
with larger species they spring on to their backs, and then seize tliem
by tho neck or by an antenna. They also have the instinct of com
bining in small parties, three or four seizing an enemy at once, and
then pulling different ways, so that she on her part cannot get at any
one of her foes. One of them then jumps on her back and cuts, or
rather saws, off her head. In battles between this ant and the much
larger F. pratensis, many of the latter may be seen each with a littlo
F. exsecta on her back, sawing off her head from behind.
     One might, at first sight, be disposed to consider that the ants
with stings must have a great advantage over those with none. In
some cases, however, the poison is so strong that it is sufficient for it
to touch the foes to place them hors de combat, or at least to render
them incapacitated, with every appearance of extreme pain. Such
species have tho abdomen unusually mobile.
     The species' of Lasius make up in numbers what they want in
strength. Several of them seize an enemy at once, one by each of her
legs or antennas, and when they have once taken hold they will suffer
themselves to be cut in pieces rather than leave go.
     Polyergus rufescens, the celebrated ^lave-making or Amazon ant,
has a mode of combat almost peculiar to herself. The jaws are very
powerful, and pointed. If attacked—if, for instance, another ant
seizes hor by a leg—she at once takes her enemy's head into her jaws,
which generally makes hor quit her hold. If she docs not, the
Polyergus closes her mandibles, so that the points pierco tho brain of
her enemy, paralysing tho norvous systom. The victim falls in con
vulsions, setting free her terrible foe. In this manner a comparatively
small force of Polyergus will fearlessly attack much larger armies of
other species, and suffer themselves scarcely any loss.
     Much of what has been said as to the powers of communication
possessed by bees and ants depends on the fact that if one of them in
the course of her rambles has discovered a supply of food, a number

2G8                         Sir John Lulbock                    [Jan. 2G,
of others soon find their way to the store. This, however, does not
necessarily imply any power of describing localities. If the bees or
ants merely follow their more fortunate companion, or if they hunt
her by scent, the matter is comparatively simple ; if, on the contrary,
the others have the route described to them, the case becomes very
different. To determine this, therefore, I have made a great number
of experiments, of which, however, I will here only mention a few.
Under ordinary circumstances, if an ant discovers a stock of food she
carries as much as possible away to the nest, and then returns for
more, accompanied generally by several friends. On their return
these bring others, and in this way a string of ants is soon established.
Unless, therefore, varions precautions are taken, and this, so far as I
know, has never been done in any of the previous observations, the
experiment really tells very little.
    I therefore made the following arrangement. One of my nests of
the small brown garden ant, Latins niger, was connected with a board,
on which I was in the habit of placing a supply of food and water.
At a short distance from the board I placed two glasses (o &'), and on
b I placed some food. I then connected the glass 6 with the board
a by three slips of paper, c, d, e, and put an ant to the food. She
carried off a supply to the nest, returning for more, and so on.
Several friends came with her, and I imprisoned them till the experi
ment was over. When she had passed several times over the paper
bridges, I proceeded as follows. Any friends who came with her
were excluded from the bridges when she was on them. If she was
not there, as soon as a friend arrived at the bridge c, I took up e in
                              my fingers and rubbed it lightly, with a
                              view of removing or blurring the scent ;
                              and as soon as the ant arrived on d I
                         ]    took up the bridge c, and put it across
                              the chasm from d to b'. Now if the ant
                              went by description, she would of course
                              cross e to 6. If, on the other hand, she
                              went by scent, then she would be at the
                              least as likely to go over c to b'. The
                              results were that out of about one hundred
                              and twenty friends who passed over d,
                              only twenty went to the food, while
                              nearly one hundred passed over c to the
                              empty glass. In this case the friends
                              generally came more or less in sight of
                              one another to the bridge c, and once
                              there, could hardly avoid arriving either
at b or b'. I therefore modified the experiment as follows. I estab
lished and endowed an ant as before, imprisoning the friends who
came with her. When she got to know her way thoroughly, I allowed
her to return to the nest on her own legs, but as soon as she emerged
again I took her up and transferred her to the food.

1877.]                    on the Habits of Ants.                     269
     Under these circumstances, as will be seen, very few ants indeed
ever found their way to the food. I began this at 5.30, when she
returned to the nest. At 5.34 she came out with no less than ten
friends, and was then transferred to the food. The others wandered
about a little, but by degrees returned to the nest, not one of them
finding her way to the food. The first ant took some food, returned,
and again came out of the nest at 5.39 with eight friends, when exactly
the same happened. She again came out
        At 5.44 with 4 friends.              At 6.44 with 0 friends.
          .. 5.47  »   4                      „ 6.46  JJ  3
          „  5.49  >i  1                      „ 6.49  )»   2
          „  5.52                             „ 6.56
          „  5.54  » 5                        „ 6.59
          „  5.58  » 2                        „7.2    n   2
          „  5.59  » 2                        „7.4
          „  6.1   » 5                        „ 7.6   ») 3
          „  6.4   M   1                      „7.8    »» 3
          „  6.7                              „ 7.10  » 5
          n  6.H   )» 3                       „ 7.13
          „  6.14  » 4                        „ 7.17   M   3
          „  6.17  }»  6                      „ 7.19   J»  7
          „  6.20                             „ 7.21   » 5
          „  6.23  »   5                      „ 7.24
          „  6.25  JJ  6                      „ 7.26   JJ  3
          „  6.29  »   8                      „ 7.29   II  1
          „  6.32  H   2                      „ 7.31   )»  2
          „  6.35                             „ 7.35
          „  6.42  »J  4
              (39 journeys ; 11 alone, 28 with 120 friends.)
     Thus, during these two hours more than one hundred and twenty
ants came out of the nest, in company with the one under observation.
 She knew her way perfectly, and it is clear that if she had been left
 alone all these ants would have accompanied her to the store of food.
 Three of them were accidentally allowed to do so, but of the re
 mainder only five found their way to the food ; all the others, after
 wandering about awhile, returned empty-handed to the nest.
     I conclude, then, that when large numbers of ants come to food
they follow one another, being also to a certain extent guided by
 scent. The fact, therefore, does not imply any considerable power of
intercommunication. There are, moreover, some circumstances which
seem to point in an opposite direction. For instance, I have already
mentioned that if a colony of Polyergus changes the situation of its
nest, the masters are all carried to the new one by the slaves. Again, if
a number of F. fusca are put in a box, and in one corner a dark place
of retreat is provided for them with some earth, one soon finds her
way to it. She then comes out again, and going up to one of the
others, takes her by the jaws. The second ant then rolls herself into
      Vol. VIII. (No. 66.)                                     u

270                          Sir John Lubbock                 [Jan. 26,
a heap, and is carried off to the place of shelter. They then hoth
repeat the same manoeuvre with other ants, and so on until all their
companions are collected together. Now it seems to me difficult to
imagine that so slow a course would be adopted if they possessed any
power of communicating description.
     On the other hand, they certainly can, I think, transmit simpler
ideas. In support of this I may adduce the following experiment.
Two strips of paper were attached to the hoard just mentioned
(p. 268), and parallel to one another, and at the other end of each I
placed a piece of glass. In the glass at the end of one tape I placed
a considerable number (three to six hundred) of larvie. In the second
I put two or three larvw only. I then took two ants, and placed one
of them to the glass with many larvas, the other to that with two or
three. Each of them took a larva and carried it to the nest, return
ing for another, and so on. After each journey I put another larva in
the glass with only two or three larvas to replace that which had been
removed. Now, if other ants came under the above circumstances as
a mere matter of accident, or accompanying one another by chance,
or if they simply saw the larvas which were being brought, and conse
quently concluded that they might themselves also find larva) in the
same place, then the numbers going to the two glasses ought to be
approximately equal. In each case the number of journeys made
by the ants would be nearly the same; consequently, if it were a
matter of smell, tho two routes would be in the same condition. It
would be impossible for an ant, seeing another in the act of bringing
a larva, to judge for itself whether there were few or many larvas left
behind. On the other hand, if the strangers were brought, then it
would be curious to see whether moro were brought to the glass with
many larvffl than to that which only contained two or three. I should
also mention that every stranger was imprisoned until the end of the
experiment. I will select a few of the results :
     Exp. 1. Time occupied, one hour. The ant with few larvas made
 6 visits, and brought no friends. The one with many larvas made 7,
and brought 11 friends.
     Exp. 3. Time occupied, three hours. The ant with few larva
made 24 journeys, and brought 5 friends. The one with many larva)
made 38 journeys, and brought 22 friends.
     Exp. 5. Time occupied, one hour. The ant with few larvas made
 10 journeys, and brought 3 friends. The other made 5 journeys, and
brought 16 friends.
     Exp. 9. Time occupied, one hour. The ant with few larva made
 II journeys, and brought one friend. The one with many larvas made
 15 journeys, and brought 13 friends.
     Exp. 10. I now reversed the glasses, the same two ants being
under observation ; but the ant which in the previous observation had
few larvffl to carry off now consequently had many, and vice versd.
Time occupied, two hours. The ant with few larvae made 21 journeys,
and brought 1 friend. The one with many larvas made 22 journeys,

  1877.]                  on the Habits of Ants.                      271
  and brought 20 friends. These two experiments are, I think,
  especially striking.
      Taken as a whole, I found that in about fifty hours the ants which
  had access to many larvas brought 257 friends, while those visiting a
  glass with few larva: only brought 82. The result will appear still
  more striking if we remember that a certain number, say perhaps 25,
  would have come to the larvas anyhow, which would make the
  numbers 232 as against 57, a very striking difference.
      I have elsewhere discussed the relations of flowers to insects, and
 especially with bees, and particularly the mode in which the flowers
 were modified so that the bees might transfer the pollen from one
 flower to another. Ants are also of considerable importance to plants,
 especially in keeping down the number of insects which feed on them.
 So far as I know, however, there are no plants which are specially
 modified in order to be fertilised by ants ; and, indeed, even to those
 small flowers which any little insect might fertilise, the visits of
 winged insects are much more advantageous, because, as Mr. Darwin
 has shown in his excellent work on cross and self-fertilisation of
 plants, it is important that the pollen should be brought, not only
 from a different flower, but also from a difforent plant, while
 creeping insects, such as ants, would naturally pass from flower to
 flower of the same plant.
      Under these circumstances it is important to plants that ants
 should not obtain access to the flowers, for they would otherwise rob
 them of their honey without conferring on them any compensating
 advantage. Accordingly, we not only find in flowers various modes
 of attracting bees, but also of excluding ants ; and in this way ants
 have exercised more influence on the vegetable kingdom than might
 be supposed. Sometimes, for instance, the flowers are protected by
chevaux de frise of spines and fine hairs pointing downwards (Carlina,
Lamium) ; somo have a number of glands secreting a glutinous
substance over which the ants cannot pass (Linnaia, gooseberry) ; in
others the tube of the flower is itself very narrow, or is almost closed
either by hairs or by internal ridges, which just leave space for the
proboscis of a bee, but no more. Lastly, some, and especially pendu
lous flowers (Cyclamen, snowdrop), are so smooth and slippery that
ants cannot easily enter them, but often slip off in the attempt, and
thus are excluded, just as the pendulous nests of the weaver-birds
preclude the entrance of snakes. This, however, is a largo subject,
into which I cannot now enter.
     Let me in conclusion once more say, that as it seems to me, not*
withstanding the labours of those great naturalists to whom I grate
fully referred in commencing, there are in natural history few more
promising or extensive fields for research than the habits of ants.
                                                               [J.L.]
                                                             v 2

272                    Professor Osborne Reynolds               [Feb. 2,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 2, 1877.
  Bir T. Frederick Elligt, K.C.M.G. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     Profrssor Osrorne Reynolds,
                          OWENS COLLEGE, MANCHESTKB.
                              Vortex Motion.
In commencing this discourse the author said, Whatever interest or
significance the facts I hope to set before you may have, is in no
small degree owing to their having, as it were, eluded the close
mathematical search which has been made for them, and to their
having in the end been discovered in a simple, not to say common
 place, manner. In this room you are accustomed to have set before
 you the latest triumphs of mind over matter, the secrets last wrested
 from nature by gigantic efforts of reason, imagination, and the most
 skilful manipulation. To-night, however, after you have seen what I
 shall endeavour to show you, I think you will readily admit that for
 once the case is reversed, and that the triumph rests with nature, in
 having for so long concealed what has been so eagerly sought, and
 what is at last found to have been so thinly covered.
      The various motions which may be caused in a homogeneous
 fluid like water, present one of the most tempting fields for mathe
 matical research. For not only are the conditions of the simplest,
 but the student or philosopher has on all hands the object of his
 research, which, whether in the form of the Atlantic waves or of
 the eddies in his teacup, constantly claims his attention. And,
 besides this, the exigencies of our existence render a knowledge of
 these motions of the greatest value to us in overcoming tho limitations
 to which our actions are otherwise subject.
      Accordingly we find that the study of fluid motion formed one of
  the very earliest branches of philosophy, and has ever since held its
  place, no subject having occupied the attention of mathematicians more
  closely. Tho results have been, in one sense, very successful ; most
  important methods of reasoning have been developed, mathematical
  methods, which have helped to reveal numberless truths in other
  departments of science, and have taught us many things about fluids
  which most certainly we should not otherwise have found out, and of
  which we may some day find the application. But as regards the

1877.]                      on Vortex Motion.                        273
direct object in view, the revelation of the actual motion of fluids,
the research has completely failed. And now that generations of
mathematicians have passed away, now that the mysteries of the mo
tions of the heavenly bodies, of the earth itself, and almost of every
pieco of solid matter on the earth have been explained by mathe
maticians, the simplest problems of fluid motion are yet unsolved.
    If we draw a disc flatwise through the water, we know by a
process of unconscious geometrical reasoning that the water must
move round the disc ; but by no known mathematical process could
the motion bo ascertained from the laws of motion. If we draw the
plate obliqnely through the water we experience a greater pressure
on the one side than on the other. Now this case, representing as it
does the principle of action of the screw propeller, is of the very
highest importance to us ; and yet, great as has been the research, it
has revealed no law by which we may in a given case calculate the
resistance to be obtained, or indeed tell from elementary principles
in what way the- water moves to let the plate pass. Again, the deter
mination of the resistance which solid bodies, such as ships, encounter
is of such exceeding economic importance, that theory, as shipbuilders
call it, having failed to inform them what to expect, efforts have been,
and are still being, made to ascertain the laws by direct experiment.
Instances might be multiplied, but one other must suffice. If we
send a puff of fluid into other fluid we know that it will travel to a
considerable distance, but the manner in which it will travel and tho
motion it will cause in the surrounding fluid, mathematics have not
revealed to us.
    Now the reasons why mathematicians have thus been baffled by
the internal motions of fluids appear to be very simple. Of the
internal motions of water or air we can see nothing. On drawing
the disc through the water there is no evidence of the water being
in motion at all, so that those who have tried to explain these results
have had no clue ; they have had not only to determine the degree
and direction of the motion, but also its character.
     But although the want of a clue to the character of the motion
may explain why so little has been done, it is not so easy to under
stand how it is that no attempts were made to obtain such a clue. It
would seem that a certain pride in mathematics has prevented thoso
engaged in these investigations from availing themselves of methods
 which might reflect on the infallibility of reason.
    Suggestions as to the means have been plentiful. In other cases
where it has been necessary to trace a particular portion of matter in
its wanderings amongst other exactly similar portions, ways have been
found to do it. It may be argued that the influences which determine
the path of a particular portion of water are slight, subtle, and
uncertain, but not so much so as those which determine the patb of a
sheep. And yet thousands of sheep have been from time immemorial
turned loose on the mountains belonging to different owners, and
although it probably never occurred to anyone to reason out the paths

 274                    Professor Osborns Beynolds                 [Feb. 2,
 of Ms particular sheep, they have been easily identified by the aid of
 a little colour. And that the same plan might be pursued with fluids,
 every column of smoke has been evidence.
      But these hints appear to have been entirely neglected, and it was
 left for nature herself, when, as it were, fully satisfied with having
 maintained her secret so long, and tired of throwing out hints which
  were not taken, at last to divulge the secret completely in the beau
 tiful phenomenon of the smoke ring. At last ; for the smoke ring is
 probably a phenomenon of modern times. The curls of smoke, as
 they ascend in an open space, present to the eye a hopeless entangle
 ment ; and although, when we know what to look for, we can see as
 it were imperfect rings in almost every smoke cloud, it is rarely that
 anything sufficiently definite is formed to attract attention, or suggest
 anything more important than an accidental curl. The accidental
 rings, when they are formed in a systematic manner, come cither
 from the mouth of a gun, the puff of a steam engine, or the mouth of
 a smoker, none of which circumstances existed in ancient timos.
     Although, however, mathematicians can in no sense be said to havo
 discovered the smoke ring, or the form of motion which it reveals,
 they were undoubtedly tho first to invest it with importance. Had
 not Professor Helmholtz some twenty years ago called attention to the
 smoke ring by the beautiful mathematical explanation which he gave
of its motion, it would in all probability still be regarded as a casual
 phenomenon, chiefly interesting from its beauty and rarity. Follow
ing close on Helmholtz came Sir William Thomson, who invested
these rings with a transcendental interest by his suggestions that
they are the type after which tho molecules of solid matter are
constituted.
     The next thing to enhance the interest which these rings excited,
 was Professor Tait's simple and perfect process of producing them at
 will, and thus rendering them subjects for lecture-room experiments.
 Considering that this method will probably play a great part in
 perfecting our notions of fluid motion, it is an interesting question
 now Professor Tait came to hit upon ii There is only one of the
accidental sources of these rings which bears even a faint resemblance
 to this box, and that is the mouth of a smoker as he produces these
rings. This might have suggested the box to Professor Tait. But
 since this supposition involves the assumption that Professor Tait
 sometimes indulges in a bad habit, and as we all know that Professor
Tait is an eminent mathematician, perhaps we ought rather to
suppose that he was led to his discovery by some occult process
of reasoning which his modesty has hitherto kept him from pro
pounding.
     But however this may be, his discovery was a most important one,
and by its means the study of tho actual motion of these rings has
been carried far beyond what would otherwise have been possible.
     But it has been for their own sake, and for such light as they might
throw on the constitution of matter, that these rings were studied.

 1877.]                     on Vortex Motion.                         275
 The most important lesson which they were capable of teaching still
 remained unlearned. It does not appear to have occurred to anyone
 that they were evidence of a general form of fluid motion, or that the
 means by which these had been revealed, would reveal other forms of
motion.
     There was, however, at least one exception, which will not bo
forgotten in this room : the use of smoke to show the effect of sound
upon jets of air.
     Also, the late Mr. Henry Deacon, in 1871, showed that minute
 vortex rings might be produced in water by projecting a drop of
coloured water from a small tube. And his experiments, in spite
of their small scale, excited considerable interest.
     Four years ago, being engaged in investigating the action of the
screw propeller, and being very much struck by the difference between
some of the results he obtained and what he had been led to expect,
 tho author made use of colour to try and explain the anomalies
 when he found that the vortex played a part in fluid motion which
 he had never dreamt of; that, in fact, it was the key to almost all
the problems of internal fluid motion. That these results were equally
now to those who had considered the subject much more deeply than
he had, did not occur to him until after some conversation with
Mr. Froude and Sir William Thomson.
     Having noticed that the action of the screw propeller was greatly
affected when air was allowed to descend to the blades, he was trying
what influence air would have on the action of a simple oblique vane,
when a very singular phenomenon presented itself. The air, instead
of rising in bubbles to the surface, ranged itself in two long horizontal
columns behind the vane. There was evidonce of rotational motion
about these air lines. It was evident, in fact, that they were the
central lines of two systematic eddies.
    That there should be eddies was not surprising, but eddies had
always been looked upon as a necessary evil which besets fluid motion
as sources of disturbance, whereas hero they appeared to be the very
means of systematic motion.
    Here then was the explanation of the nature of the motion caused
by the oblique vane, a cylindrical band of vortices continually pro
duced at the front of the plate, and falling away behind it in an
oblique direction.
    The recognition of the vortex action caused behind the oblique
vane, suggested that there might be similar vortices behind a disc
moving flatwise through the water, such as are the eddies caused by a
teaspoon.
    There was one consideration, however, which at first seemed to
render this improbable. It was obvious that the resistance of tho
oblique vane was caused in producing the vortices at its forward part ;
so that if a vortex wore formed behind a flat plate, as this vortex would
remain permanently behind, and not have to be continually elongated,
the resistance should diminish after tho plate was once set in motion ;

276                     Professor Osborne Beynolds                    [Fob. 2,
whereas experience appeared to show that this was by no means the
case. It appeared probable, therefore, that from some disturbing
cause the vortex would not form, or would only form imperfectly,
behind the plate.
    This view was strengthened when, on trying the resistance of
a flat plate, it did not appear to diminish after the plate had been
started.
    Accidentally, however, it was found that if the float to which the
plate was attached was started suddenly and then released, the float
and plate would move on apparently without any resistance. And
more than this, for if the float were suddenly arrested aud released, it
would take up its motion again, showing that it was the water behind
that was carrying it on.
    There was evidence therefore of a vortex behind the disc. In the
hope of rendering this motion visible, coloured water was injected in
the neighbourhood of the disc, and then a beautiful vortex ring,
exactly resembling the smoke ring, was seen to form behind the disc.
If the float were released in time, this ring would carry the disc on
with it ; but if the speed of the disc were maintained uniform, the
ring gradually dropped behind and broke up. Here then was another
part played by the vortex previously undreamt of.
    That the vortex takes a systematic part in almost every form of
fluid motion was now evident. Any irregular solid moving through
the water must from its angles send off lines of vortices such as those
behind the oblique vane. As we move about we must be continually
causing vortex rings and vortex bands in the air. Most of these will
probably be irregular, and resemble more the curls in a smoke cloud
than systematic rings. But from our mouths as we talk wo must
produce numberless rings.
    One way in which rings are produced in perhaps as great numbers
as from our mouths is by drops falling into the sea. If we colour the
surface of a glass vessel full of wator, and then let drops fall into it, rings
are produced, which descend sometimes as much as two or three feet.
    But the most striking rings are those produced in water, in a
manner similar to that in which the smoke rings are produced, using
coloured water instead of smoky air.
    These rings are much more definite than smoke rings, and
although they cannot move with higher velocities, since that of the
smoke ring is unlimited, the speed at which they move is much more
surprising.
    In the air we are accustomed to seo objects in rapid motion, and so
far as our own notions are concerned, we are unaware of any rcsistanco ;
but this is quite otherwise in water. Every swimmer knows what re
sistance water offers to his motions, so that when we see these rings
flash through the water wo cannot but be surprised. Yet a still more
striking spectacle may bo shown, if, instead of coloured water, a few
bubbles of air be injected into the box from which tho puff is sent;
a beautiful ring of air is soen to shoot along through tho water,

1877.]                      on Vortex Motion.                        277
showing, like the lines of air behind the oblique vane, little or no
tendency to rise to the surface.
     Such is the ease with which these vortex rings in water move, and
so slight is the disturbance which they cause in the water behind
them, as to lead to the conclusion that they experience no resistance
whatever, except perhaps a little caused by slight irregularities in
their construction. Their velocity gradually diminishes ; but this would
appear to be accounted for by their growth in size, for they are thus
continually taking up fresh water into their constitution, with which
they have to share their velocity. Careful experiments have con-
f rmed this view. It is found that the force of the blow they will
f.trike is nearly independent of the distance of the object struck from
che orifice.
     The discovery of the ring behind the disc afforded the opportunity
of observing the characteristics of these rings much better than was
afforded by the smoke rings ; and also suggested facts which had pre
viously been overlooked. The manner of motion of the water which
formed the ring and of the surrounding water was very clearly seen.
It was at once seen that the visible ring, whether of coloured water or
air, was merely the central line of the vortex ; that it was surrounded
by a mass of coloured water, bearing something the same proportion
to the visible ring as a ball made by wrapping string (in and out)
round a curtain ring until the aperture was entirely filled up. The disc,
when it was there, formed the front of this ball or spheroid of water,
but the rest of the surface of the ball had nothing to separate it from
the surrounding water but its own integrity. Yet when the motion was
very steady the surface of the ball was definite, and the entire moving
mass might be rendered visible by colour. The water within the ball
was everywhere gyrating round the central ring, as if tho coils of
string were each spinning round the curtain ring as an axis, the
water moving forwards through the interior of the ring and backwards
round the outside, the velocity of gyration gradually diminishing as
the distance from the central ring is increased.
     The way in which the water moves to let the ball pass can also bo
seen, either by streaking the water with colour or suspending small
balls in it. In moving to get out of the way and let the ball of water
pass, the surrounding water partakes as it were of the gyrating
motion of the water within the ball, the particles moving in a horse
shoe fashion, so that at the actual surface of the ball the motion of the
water outside is identical with that within, and there was no rubbing
at the surface, and consequently no friction.
     The maintenance of tho shape of the moving mass of water against
the unequal pressure of the surrounding water as it is pushed out of
the way is what renders the internal gyratory motion essential to
a mass of fluid moving through a fluid. The centrifugal force of this
gyratory motion is what balances the excess of pressure of the sur
rounding water in the front and rear of tho ball, compared with what
it is at tho sides.

278                    Professor Osborne Reynolds                [Feb. 2,
    It is impossible to have a ring in which the gyratory motion
is great, and the velocity of progression slow. As tho one motion dies
out so does the other, and any attempt to accelerate the velocity of
the ring by urging forward the disc, invariably destroyed it.
    The striking ease with which the vortex ring, or the disc with the
vortex ring behind it, moves through the water, naturally raised
the question as to why a solid should experience resistance. Could it
be that there was something in the particular spheroidal shape of these
balls of water which allowed them to move freely. To try this,
a solid of the same shape as the fluid ball was constructed and floated
after tho same manner as the disc. But when this was set in motion,
it stopped directly—it would not move at all. What was the cause of
this resistance ? Here were two objects of the same shape and weight,
tho one of which moved freely through the water, and the other
experienced very great resistance. The only difference was in the
nature of tho surface. As already explained, there is no friction at
the surface of the water, whereas there must be friction between the
water and the solid. But it could be easily shown that the resistance
of the solid is much greater than what is accounted for by its surface
friction or skin resistance. The only other respect in which these
two surfaces differ is that the one is flexible, while the other is
rigid, and this seems to be the cause of the difference in resistance.
     If ribbons be attached to the edge of the disc, these ribbons will
envelope tho ball of water which follows it, presenting a surface
which may be much greater than that of the solid ; and yet this,
being a flexible surface, the resistance of the disc with the vortex
behind it is not very much greater than it would be without the
ribbons—nothing to be compared to that of the solid.
     Colouring the water behind the solid shows, that instead of passing
through the water without disturbing it, there is very great disturb
ance in its wake. An interesting question is as to whether this dis
turbance originates with the motion of the solid, or only after the
solid is in motion. This is settled by colouring the water immediately
in front of the solid before it is started. Then on starting it tho
colour is seen to spread out in a film entirely over the surface of the
solid, at first without the least disturbance, but this follows almost
immediately.
    Among the most striking features of the vortex rings, is their
apparent elasticity. When disturbed they not only recover their
shape, but vibrate about their mean position like an elastic solid. So
much so, as to lead Sir William Thomson to the idea that the
elasticity of solid matter must be due to its being composed of vortex
rings.
     But apart from such considerations, this vibration is interesting
as showing that the only form of ring which can progress steadily is
the circular. Two parallel bands, such as those which follow tho
oblique vane, could progress if they were infinitely long, but if not,
they must be oontinually destroyed from the ends. Those which

1877.]                     on Vortex Motion.                         279
follow the oblique vane are continually dying out at one end, and
being formed again at the other.
    If an oval ring be formed behind an oval plate, the more sharply
curved parts travel faster than the flatter parts ; and hence, unless the
plate be removed, the ring breaks up. It is possible, however, to
withdraw the plate, so as to leave the oval ring, which proceeds
wriggling along each portion moving in a direction perpendicular to
that in which it is curved, and with a velocity proportional to the
sharpness of the curvature. So that not only does the ring continu
ally change its shape, but one part is continually falling behind, and
then overtaking the other.
    These were some of the forms of fluid motion which imagination
or reason had failed to show us, but which had been revealed by the
simple process of colouring the water.
    Now that we can see what we are about, mathematics can be most
usefully applied ; and it is expected that when these facts come to be
considered by those best able to do so, the theory of fluid motion
will be placed on the same footing as the other branches of applied
mechanics.
                                                               [O.K.]

280                        General Monthly Meeting.                      [Feb. 5,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, February 5, 1877.
   Sir T. Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  Sir Thomas Douglas Forsyth, K.C.S.I.
                  Miss Gladstone.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Vol. VII. No. 1. 8vo. 1876.
   Archaeologia, Vol. XLIV. Part 2. 4to. 1877.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. IX. Part 1. 8vo. 1876.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVII. Nog. 1, 2. 8vo.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal—Sitzungsberichte, 1876 : Heft 2. 8vo. 1876.
Board of Admiralty—Catalogue of the Admiralty Library. By R. Thorburn.
     4to. 1875.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1876-7, Nos. 2-4. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of British Hymenoptera, Part I. 8vo. 1876.
Buchnill, J. C. M.D. (the Author) —Notes on Asylums for the Insane in America.
            1876.
     8vo. D.—Memoire
Carrire,                 de Geomc¦trie. 4to. 1876.
Chemical Society—Journal for Dec. 1876, Jan. 1877. 8vo.
Dawson, Dr. J. W. {the Author)—On a Recent Discovery of Carboniferous Batra-
     chians in Nova Scotia. (From American Journal of Science, 1876. 8vo.)
Dobell, Horace, M.D. (the Editor)—Annual Reports on Diseases of the Chest.
     2 vols. 8vo. 1875-6.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Dec. 1876 and Jan. 1877. 8vo.
   Argonaut for Dec. 1876 and Jan. 1877. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for Dec. 1876 and Jan. 1877. 4to.
   Chemical News for Dec. 1876 and Jan. 1877. 4to.
   Engineer for Dec. 1876 and Jan. 1877. fol.
   Horolngical Journal for Feb. 1872-Jan. 1877. 8vo.
   Journal for Applied Science for Dec. 1876 and Jan. 1877. fol.
   Nature for Dec. 1876 and Jan. 1877. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Dec. 1876 and Jan. 1877. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Dec. 1876 and Jan. 1877. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for Dec. 1876-Jan. 1877. 8vo.
Faraoni, Dr. M. L. (the Author)—Tayuya contro la Sifilide e la Scrofula. (L 16)
      8vo. Milano, 1876.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 611-613. 8vo. 1876.
 Geographical Society, Royal— Proceedings, Vol. XXI. No. 1. 8vo. 1877.
 Geological Survey of India—Records, Vol. IX. Part 4. 8vo. 1876.
 Ilayden, F. V. Esq. United States Geologist—Report of United States Geological
      Survey, Vol. X. A. S. Packard: Monograph of the Phal.enidaj of North
      America. 4to. 1876.
 Horticultural Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. IV. Purt 16. 8vo. 1877.

1877.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                             281
Lindsay, The Lord, M.P. M.R.I.—Dun Echt Observatory Publications, Vol. I.
      4to. 1877.
Linnean Society—Transactions : Second Series : Botany, Vol. L Part 4 ; Zoology,
      Vol. I. Part 4. 4to. 1876.
   Proceedings, Nos. 66, 87. 8vo. 1876.
Liversidge, Professor A. {the Author}—Minerals of New South WaleB. (K 101)
      8vo. 1876.
   Disease of the Sugar Cane. (O 16) 12mo. 1876.
Marilwain, George, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author) —Vivisection : being Short Comments
      on Certain Parts of the Evidence given before the Royal Commission. 8vo.
      1877.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Parts 5, 6. 8vo. 1876-7.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, Oct. 1876. 8vo.
Mimtpellier Academie des Sciences—Memoires, Tome VIII. Fasc. 4. 4to. 1876.
North of England Institute of Engineers—Transactions, Vol. XXV. 8vo. 1876.
Pole, William, Esq. F.R.8. Mus. D. (the Author)—Life of Sir William Fairbairn,
      Bart. 8vo. 1877.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Aug. Sept. 1876. 8vo.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXVII. Part 4. 4to. 1876.
   Proceedings, Nos. 93-95. 8vo. 1875-6.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 175, 176. 8vo. 1876.
   Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CLXVI. Part 1. 4to. 1876.
St. Petersburg, Aeade¦mie des Sciences—Bulletins, Toaae XXII. No. 3. 4to. 1876.
Smithsonian Institution—Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge, Vols. XX.
      XXI. 4to. 1876.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author) —Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
      Nov. Dec. 1876, Jan. 1877. 8vo.
Trinity House Corporation— Fog Signals : A Special Gun, &c. (P 12) fol. 1876.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 88. 8vo. 1876.
 Volpieelli, Big. P.—F. Marco : Le Proprieta dell' Elettricita Indotta, Contraria, &c.
      (K 101) 8vo. 1876.
Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 10. 4to. 1876.

282                        Mr. Francis Gallon                    [Feb. 9,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 9, 1877.
       Sm W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vioe-Presideut,
                               in the Chair.
              Francis Galton, Esq. F.R.S. F.G.S. M.B.I.
                         Typical Laws of Heredity.
We are far too apt to regard common events as matters of coarse, and
to accept many things as obvious truths which are not obvious truths
at all, but present problems of much interest. The problem to which
I am about to direct attention is one of these.
    Why is it, when we compare two groups of persons selected at
random from the same race, but belonging to different generations of
it, we find them to be closely alike? Such statistical differences
as there may bo, are always to be ascribed to differences in the general
conditions of their lives ; with these I am not concerned at present ;
but so far as regards the processes of heredity alone, the resemblance
of consecutive generations is a fact common to all forms of life.
    In each generation there will be tall and short individuals, heavy
and light, strong and weak, dark and pale ; yet the proportions of the
innumerable grades in which these several characteristics occur tend
to be constant. The records of geological history afford striking
evidences of this statistical similarity. Fossil remains ot plants and
animals may be dug out of strata at such different levels, that thou
sands of generations must have intervened between the periods in
which they lived ; yet in large samples of such fossils we seek in vain
for peculiarities that will distinguish one generation taken as a whole
from another, the different sizes, marks, and variations of every kind,
occurring with equal frequency in both. The processes of heredity
are found to be so wonderfully balanced, and their equilibrium to be
so stable, that they concur in maintaining a perfect statistical resem
blance so long as the external conditions remain unaltered.
    If there be any who are inclined to say there is no wonder in the
matter, because each individual tends to leave his like behind him,
and therefore each generation must resemble the one preceding, I can
assure them that they utterly misunderstand the case. Individuals do
not equally tend to leave their like behind them, as will be seen best
from an extreme illustration.
    Let us then consider the family history of widely different groups,

  1877.J                on Typical Laws of Heredity.                   283
  say of 100 men, the most gigantic of their race and time, and the same
 number of medium men. Giants marry much moro rarely than me
  dium men, and when they do marry they have but few children. It is
  a matter of history that the more remarkable giants have left no issue
  at all. Consequently the offspring of the 100 giants would be much
  fewer in number than those of the medium men. Again, these few
  would, on the average, be of lower stature than their fathers, for two
  reasons. First, their breed is almost sure to be diluted by marriage.
  Secondly, the progeny of all exceptional individuals tends to " revert"
  towards mediocrity. Consequently the children of the giant group
  would not only be very few, but they would also be comparatively
  short. Even of these the taller ones would be the least likely to
  live. It is by no means the tallest men who best survive hardships ;
 their circulation is apt to be languid and their constitution con
  sumptive.
      It is obvious from this that the 100 giants will not leave behind
 them their quota in the next generation. The 100 medium men, on
 the other hand, being more fertile, breeding more truly to their like,
 being better fitted to survive hardships, &c, will leave more than their
 proportionate share of progeny. This being so, it might be expected
 that there would be fewer giants and more medium-sized men in the
 second generation than in the first. Yet, as a matter of fact, the
 giants and medium-sized men will, in the second generation, be found
 in the same proportions as before. The question, then, is this : How
 is it, that although each individual does not as a rule leave his like
 behind him, yet successive generations resemble each other with great
 exactitude in all their general features ?
      It has, I believe, become more generally known than formerly, that
although the characteristics of height, weight, strength, and fleetness
are very different in themselves, and though different species of plants
 and animals exhibit every kind of diversity, yet the differences in
 height, weight, and every other characteristic, among members of the
 same species, are universally distributed in fair conformity with a
single law.
      Tho phenomena with which that law deals are like those per
spectives spoken of by Shakespeare, which, when viewed awry, show
nothing but confusion.
      Our ordinary way of looking at individual differences is awry : thus
we naturally, but wrongly, judge of differences in stature by differences
in heights measured from the ground, whereas on changing our point
of view to that whence the law of deviation regards them, by taking
the average height of the race, and not the ground, as the point of
reference, all confusion disappears, and uniformity prevails.
     It was to Quetelet that we were first indebted for a knowledge of
the fact, that the amount and frequency of deviation from the average
among members of the same race, in respect to each and every cha
racteristic, tends to conform to the mathematical law of deviation.
      The diagram contains extracts from some of the tables by which

284                                Mr. Francis Gallon                                       [Feb. 9,
he corroborates his assertion. Three of the series in them refer to
the heights of Americans, French, and Belgians respectively, and the
fourth to the strength of Belgians. In each series there are two
parallel columns, one entitled " observed," and the other " calculated,"
and the close conformity between each of the pairs is very striking.
             American Soldiers                     France                     Belgium Quetelct.
 Scale of  (26.8J8 Observations).            (Hargenvllliers).              20 years' Observations.
 Heights.
          Observed.      Calculated.     Observed.      Calculated.        Observed.      Calculated.
  metres.
   1-90         1                3
   1-90         7                5                                               '               »
    .87        14
               25
                               13
                               28
                                                             "l
                                                               3
                                                                      )
                                                                                 2
                                                                                        }        3
    -84
    -81        45              52             25               7                 7               7
     -79       99              84                             16                14             14
    -76       112            117              32              32                34             28
     -73      138            142              55             55                 48             53
    -70       148            150              88             87               102             107
    -68       137            137             114            118               138             136
    -65        93            109             144            140               129             150
    -62      109               75            140            145                162            150
     -60       49              45            116            132                106            136
     -57       14              24                           105        1      110             107
     -54        8              11     \                      73                                53
     -51        1                4     |                     44                                28
    -48                          1                           24          1    147              14
    -45                       ,.       )     286              11                                 7
    -42                       ,,       I                       4
                                                                       >
                                                                                                 S
    -39                                                        2                                 1
    -36                       --      /                        1
            1000            1000           1000            1000              1000           1000
                                          Lifting Power of Belgian Men.
                        Degrees of
                     Dynamometer.           Observed.         Calculated.
                           200                   1                  1
                            190
                            180
                           170
                                       I         9                10
                            160
                                       }       23                 23
                           150         }       32                 32
                           140
                           130         }       22                 23
                           120
                           110         }       12                 10
                           100
                             90                  1                 1
                                              100                100

 1877.]                on Typical Laws of Heredity.                    285
     These tables serve another purpose ; they enable those who have
 not had experience of such statistics to appreciate the beautiful balance
 of the processes of heredity in ensuring the repetition of such finely
 graduated proportions as those that the tables record.
     The outline of my problem of this evening is, that since the cha
 racteristics of all plants and animals teud to conform to the law of
 deviation, lot us suppose a typical case, in which the conformity shall
 be exact, and which shall admit of discussion as a mathematical pro
 blem, and find what tho laws of heredity must then bo to enable
 successive generations to maintain statistical identity.
     I shall have to speak so much about the law of deviation, that it is
                                  Fia. 1.
absolutely necessary to tax your attention for a fow minutes to explain
the principle upon which it is based, what it is that it professes to
      Vou VIII. (No. G6.)                                         x

286                        Mr. Francis Qalton                      [Feb. 9,
show, and what the two numbers are, which enable long series to be
calculated like those in the tables just referred to. The simplest way
of explaining the law is to begin by showing it in action. For this
purpose I will use an apparatus that I employed three years ago in
this very theatre, to illustrate other points connected with the law of
deviation. An extension of its performance will prove of great service
to us to-night ; but I will begin by working the instrument as I did on
the previous occasion. The portion of it that then existed, and to
which I desire now to confine your attention, is shown in the lower
part of Fig. 1, where I wish to direct your notice to the stream issuing
from either of the divisions just above the dots, to its dispersion among
them, and to the little heap that it forms on the bottom line. This
part of the apparatus is like a harrow with its spikes facing us ; below
these are vertical compartments ; the whole is faced with a glass
plate. I will pour pellets from either of these divisions or from any
other point above the spikes ; they will fall against the spikes, tumble
about among them, and after pursuing devious paths, each will finally
sink to rest in the compartment that lies beneath the place whence it
emerges from its troubles.
    The courses of the pellets are extremely irregular ; it rarely happens
that any two starting from the same point will pursue the same path
from beginning to end ; yet, notwithstanding this, you will observe
the regularity of the outline of the heap formed by the accumulation
of pellets.
    This outline is the geometrical representation of the curve of
deviation. If the rows of spikes had been few, the deviation would
have been slight, almost all the pellets would have lodged in the com
partment immediately below the point whence they were dropped, and
would then have resembled a column ; if they had been very numerous,
they would have been scattered so widely that the part of the curve
for a long distance to the right and left of the point whence they were
dropped would have been of uniform width, like an horizontal bar.
With intermediate numbers of rows of teeth, the curved contour of
the heap would assume different shapes, all having a strong family
resemblance. I have cut some of these out of cardboard ; they are
represented in the diagrams 2, 3, 4 and 5, below. Theoretically
speaking, every possible curve of deviation may bo formed by an
apparatus of this sort, using extremely numerous and delicate spikes
and minute pellets, and by varying the length of the harrow and the
number of pellets poured in. Or if I draw a curve on an elastic sheet
of indiarubber, by stretching it laterally I produce the effects of
increased dispersion ; by stretching it vertically I produce that of
increased numbers. The latter variation is shown by the three curves
in each of the four diagrams ; but it does not concern us to-night, as
we are dealing with internal proportions, which are not affected by
the absolute number of the sample employed. To specify the variety
of curve so far as dispersion is concerned, we must measure the
amount of lateral stretch of tho indiarubber sheet. The curve has no

1877.J on Typical Laics of Heredity.    287
               Fio. 2.
               Fio. 3.
                Fio. 4.
                Fid. 5.
                                     x2

288                        Mr. Francis Galton                         [Feb. 9,
definite ends, so we have to select and define two points in its base,
between which the stretch may be measured. One of these points is
always taken directly below the place whence the pellets were poured
 in. This is the point of no deviation, and represents the mean posi
 tion of all the pellets, or the average of a race. It is marked as 0°.
 The other point is conveniently taken at the foot of the vertical line
 that divides either half of the symmetrical figure into two equal areas.
 I take a half curve in cardboard that I have again divided into two
 portions along this line ; the weight of the two portions is equal.
 This distance is the value of 1° of deviation, appropriate to each
 curve. We extend the scale on either side of 0° to as many degrees
 as we like, and we reckon deviation as positive, or to be added to the
 average, on one side of the centre, say to the right, and negative on
 the other, as shown on the diagrams. Owing to the construction, one-
 quarter or 25 per cent. of the pellets will lie between 0° and 1°, and
 the law shows that 16 per cent. will lie between -f- 1° and -j- 2°, 6 per
                                        cent. between -\- 2° and -f- 3° and
                 Fig. 6.                so on. It is unnecessary to go
                                        more minutely into the figures, for
                                        it will be easily understood that a
                                        formula is capable of giving re-
                                      . sults to any minuteness and to any
                                        fraction of a degree.
                                            Let us, for example, deal with
                                        the case of the American soldiers.
                                        I find, on referring to Gould's Book,
                                        that 1° of deviation was in their
                                        case l-676 inches. The curve I
                                        hold in my hand, Fig. 6, has been
                                        drawn to that scale. I also find
                                        that their average height was 67 ¦ 24
                                        inches. I have here a standard
                                        marked with feet and inches. I
                                        apply the curve to the standard, and
                                        immediately we have a geometrical
                                        representation of the statistics of
                                        height of all those soldiers. The
                                        lengths of the ordinates show the
                                        proportion of men at and about their
heights, and the area between any pairs of ordinates gives the propor
tionate number of men between those limits. It is indeed a strange
fact, that any one of us sitting quietly at his table could, on being told
the two numbers just mentioned, draw out a curve on ruled paper,
from which thousands of vertical lines might be chalked side by side
on a wall, at the distance apart that is taken up by each man in a rank
of American soldiers, and know that if the same number of these
American soldiers, taken indiscriminately, had been sorted according

 1877.]                 on Typical Laws of Heredity.                              289
to their stature and marched up to the wall, each man of them would
find the chalked line which he saw opposite to him to bo of exactly
his own height, So far as I can judge from the run of the figures in
the table, the error would never exceed a quarter of an inch, except at
either extremity of the series.
     The principle of the law of deviation is very simple. The im
portant influences that acted upon each pellet were the same ; namely,
the position of the point whence it was dropped, and the force of
gravity. So far as these are concerned, every pellet would have
pursued an identical path. But in addition to these, there were a host
of potty disturbing influences, represented by the spikes among which
the pellets tumbled in all sorts of ways. The theory of combination
shows that the commonest case is that where a pellet falls equally
often to the right of a spike as to the left of it, and therefore drops
into the compartment vertically below the point where it entered the
harrow. It also shows that the cases aro very rare of runs of luck
carrying the pellet much oftener to one side than the other of the
successive spikes. The law of deviation is purely numerical ; it does
not regard the fact whether the objects treated of are pellets in an
apparatus like this, or shots at a target, or games of chance, or any
 other of the numerous groups of occurrences to which it is or may be
applied.*
     I have now done with my description of the law. I know it has
been tedious, but it is an extremely difficult topic to handle on an
occasion like this. I trust the application of it will prove of more
interest.
     First, let me point out a fact which Quetelet and all writers who
have followed in his path have unaccountably overlooked, and which
has an intimate bearing on our work to-night. It is that, although
characteristics of plants and animals conform to the law, the reason of
their doing so is as yet totally unexplained. The essence of the law is
that differences should be wholly due to the collective actions of a host
of independent petty influences in various combinations, which were re
presented by the teeth of the harrow, among which the pellets tumbled
in various ways. Now the processes of heredity that limit the number
of the children of one class, such as giants, that diminish their resem
blance to their fathers, and kill many of them, are not petty influences,
but very important ones. Any selective tendency is ruin to the law
of deviation, yet among the processes of heredity there is the large
influence of natural selection. The conclusion is of the greatest im
portance to our problem. It is, that the processes of heredity must
work harmoniously with the law of deviation, and bo themselves in
some sense conformable to it. Each of the processes must show this
conformity separately, quite irrespectively of the rest. It is not an
    * Quetelet, apparently from habit rather than theory, always adopted the
binomial law of error, basing his tables on a binomial of high power. It is abso
lutely necessary to the theory of the present paper to get rid of binomial limitations
and to consider the law of deviation or error in its exponential form.

290                        Mr. Francis Gallon                   [Feb. 9 ,
admissible hypothesis that any two or more of them, such as reversion
and natural selection, should follow laws so exactly inverse to one
another that the one should reform what the other had deformed;
because characteristics, in which the relative importance of the various
processes is very different, are none the less capable of conforming
closely to the typical condition.
     When the idea first occurred to mc, it became evident that the
problem might be solved by the aid of a very moderate amount of ex
periment. The properties of the law of deviation are not numerous,
and they are very peculiar. All, therefore, that was needed from
experiment was suggestion. I did not want proof, because the
theoretical exigencies of the problem would afford that. What I
wanted was to be started in the right direction.
     I will now allude to my experiments. I cast about for some time
to find a population possessed of some measurable characteristic that
conformed fairly well to the law, and that was suitable for investiga
tion. I determined to take seeds and their weights, and after mauy
preparatory inquiries, fixed upon those of sweet-peas. They were
particularly well suited to my purposes ; they do not cross-fertilise,
which is a very exceptional condition ; they are hardy, prolific, of a
convenient size to handle, and their weight does not alter when the
air is damp or dry. The little pea at the end of the pod, so cha
racteristic of ordinary peas, is absent in sweet-peas. I weighed seeds
individually, by thousands, and treated them as a census officer would
treat a large population. Then I selected with great pains several
sets for planting. Each set contained seven little packets, and in each
packet were ten seeds, precisely of the same weight. Number one of
the packets contained giant seeds, all as nearly as might be of + 3°
of deviation. Number seven contained very small seeds, all of — 3 of
deviation. The intermediate packets corresponded severally to the
intermediate degrees + 2° + 1° and 0°. As the seeds are too small
to exhibit, I have cut out discs of paper in strict proportion to their
sizes, and strips in strict proportion to their weights, and have hung
below them the foliage produced by one complete set. Many friends
 and acquaintances each undertook the planting and culture of a com
plete set, so that I had simultaneous experiments going on in various
 parts of the United Kingdom. Two proved failures, but the final
 result was this : that I obtained the more or less complete produce of
seven sets, that is, of 7 x 7 x 10, or 490 carefully weighed seeds.
     It would be wholly out of place if I wore to enter into the details
of the experiments themselves, the numerous little difficulties and im
 perfections in them, or how I balanced doubtful cases, how I divided
 returns into groups, to see if they confirmed one another, or how I con
 ducted any other of the well-known statistical operations. Suffice
 it to say that I took immense pains, which, if I had understood the
 general conditions of the problem as clearly as I do now, I should not
perhaps have cared to bestow. The results were most satisfactory.
 They gave me two data, which were all that I required in order to

  1877.J                 on Typical Laws of Heredity.                    291
  understand the simplest form of descent, and so I got at the heart of
  the problem at once.
      Simple descent means this. The parentage must be single, as in
  the case of the sweet-peas which are not cross-fertilised, and the rate
  of production and the incidence of natural selection must both be in
  dependent of the characteristic. The only processes concerned in
 simple descent that can affect the characteristics of a sample of a
 population are those of Family Variability and Reversion. It is
 well to define these words clearly. By family variability is meant
 the departure of the children of the same or similarly descended
 families, from the ideal mean type of all of them. Reversion is the
 tendency of that ideal mean filial type to depart from the parent type,
 "reverting" towards what may be roughly and perhaps fairly de
 scribed as the average ancestral type. If family variability had been
 the only process in simple descent that affected tho characteristics of
 a sample, the dispersion of the race from its mean ideal type would
 indefinitely increase with the number of the generations ; but reversion
 checks this increase, and brings it to a standstill, under conditions
 which will now be explained.
      On weighing and sorting large samples of the produce of each of
 the seven different classes of the peas, I found in every case the law
 of deviation to prevail, and in every case the value of 1° of deviation
 to be the same. I was certainly astonished to find the family varia
 bility of the produce of the little seeds to be equal to that of the big
ones ; but so it was, and I thankfully accept the fact ; for if it had been
otherwise, I cannot imagine, from theoretical considerations, how tho
typical problem could be solved.
     The next great fact was that reversion followed the simplest
possible law ; the proportion being constant between the deviation of
the mean weight of the produce gonorally and the deviation of the
parent seed, reckening in every case from one standard point. In a
typical case, that standard must be the mean of the race, otherwise the
deviation would become unsymmetrical, and' cease to conform to the law.
     I have adjusted an apparatus (Fig. 1) to exhibit the action of these
two processes. We may consider them to act not simultaneously, but
in succession, and it is purely a matter of convenience which of the
two we suppose to act the first. I suppose first Reversion, then
Family Variability. That is to say, I suppose the parent first to
revert, and then to tend to breed his like. So there are three stages :
(1) the population of parents, (2) that of reverted parents, (3) that of
their offspring ; or, what comes to the same thing, (1) the population
of parents, (2) that of the mean produce of each parent, (3) that of their
actual produce. In arranging the apparatus I have supposed the
population to continue uniform in numbers. This is a matter of no
theoretical concern, as the whole of this memoir relates to the distin
guishing peculiarities of samples irrespectively of the absolute number
of individuals in those samples. The apparatus consists of a row of
vertical compartments, with trap-doors below them, to hold pellets

292                       Mr. Francis Galton                     [Feb. 9,
which serve as representatives of a population of seeds. I will begin
with showing how it expresses Reversion. In the upper stage of the
apparatus the number of pellets in each compartment represents the
relative number in a population of seeds, whose weight deviates from
the average, within the limits expressed by the distances of the sides
of that compartment from the middle point. The correct shape of the
heap has been ensured by a slit of the proper curvature in the board
that forms the back of the apparatus. As the apparatus is glazed in
front, I have only to pour pellets from above until they reach the
level of the slit. Such overplus as may have been poured in will run
 through the slit, to waste, at the back. The pellets to the right
 of the heap represent the heaviest seeds, those to the left the lightest.
 I shall shortly open the trap-door on which the few representatives of
 the giant seeds rest. They will run downwards through an inclined
 shoot, and fall into another compartment nearer the centre than
 before. I shall repeat the process on a second compartment in the
 upper stage, and successively on all the others. Every shoot converges
 towards one standard point in the middle vertical line ; therefore the
 present shape of the heap of pellets is more contracted in width than
 it was before, and is of course more humped up in the middle. We
 need not regard the humping up ; what we have to observe is, that
 each degree of deviation is simultaneously lessened. The effect is as
 though the curve of the first heap had been copied on a stretched
 sheet of indiarubber that was subsequently released. It is obvious
 from this that the process of reversion co-operates with the general
 law of deviation. The diagram that I annexed to Fig. 1, shows the
 principle of the process of reversion in a way that will be readily
 understood by many of those who are present.
    I have now to exhibit the effects of variability among members of
 the same family. It will be recollected that the produce of peas
 of the same class deviated normally on either side of their own mean
 weight ; consequently, I must cause the pellets which were in each of
 the upper compartments to deviate on either side of the compartment
 in which they now lie, which corresponds to that of the medium weight
 of their produce. I open the trap-door below ono of the compart
 ments in the second stage, the pellets run downwards through the
 harrow, dispersing as they run, and form a little heap in the lowest
 compartments, the centre of which heap lies vertically below the trap
 door through which they fell. This is the contribution to the suc
 ceeding generation of all the individuals belonging to the compart
 ment in the upper stage from which they came. They first reverted
 and then dispersed. I open another trap-door, and a similar process
 is gone through ; a few extreme pellets in this case add themselves to
 tho first formed heap. Again I continue the process ; heap adds itself
 to heap, and when all the pellets have fallen through, we see that the
 aggregate contributions bear an exact resemblance to the heap from
 which we originally started. A formula (see Appendix) expresses
 the conditions of equilibrium. I attended to these conditions, when I

1877.]                 on Typical Laws of Heredity.                     293
cut out the slit in the backboard of the upper compartment, by which
the shape of the original heap was regulated. As an exanple of the
results that follow from the formula, I may mention that if deviation
after reversion is to deviation before reversion as 4 to 5, and if 1° of
family variability is six units, then the value of 1° in the population
must be ten units.
    It is easy to prove that the bottom heap is strictly a curve of
deviation, and that its scale tends invariably to become the same as
tnat of the upper one. It will be recollected that I showed that
every variety of curve of deviation was producible by variations in the
length of the harrow, and that if the pellets were intercepted at suc
cessive stages of their descent they would form a succession of curves
of increasing scales of deviation. The curve in the second stage
may therefore be looked upon as one of these intercepts ; all that it re
ceives in sinking to the third stage being an additional dose of dispersion.
    As regards the precise scale of deviation that characterises each
population, let us trace, in imagination, the history of the descendants
of a single medium-sized seed. In the first generation the differences
are merely those due to family variability ; in the second generation the
tendency to wider dispersion is somewhat restrained by the effect of
reversion ; in the third, the dispersion again increases, but is more
largely restrained, and the same process continues in successive gene
rations, until the step-by-step progress of dispersion has been overtaken
and exactly checked by the growing antagonism of reversion. Rever-
sion acts precisely after the law of an elastic spring, as was well shown
by the illustration of the indiarubber sheet. Its tendency to recoil
increases the more it is stretched, hence equilibrium must at length
ensue between reversion and family variability, and therefore the
scale of deviation of the lower heap must after many generations
always become identical with that of the upper one.
    We have now surmounted the greatest difficulty of our problem ;
what remains will be shortly disposed of. This refers to sexual
selection, productiveness, and natural selection. Let us henceforth
suppose the heights and every other characteristic of all members of
a population to be reduced to a uniform adult male standard so that
we may treat it as a single group. Suppose, for example, a female
whose height was equal to the average female height + 3° of female
deviation, the equivalent in terms of male stature is the average male
height + 3° of male deviation. Hence the female in question must
be registered not in the feet and inches of her actual height, but in
those of the equivalent male stature.
    On this supposition we may take the numerical mean of the stature
of each couple as the equivalent of a single hermaphrodite parent, so
that a male parent plant having 1° deviation, and of a female parent
plant having 2° of deviation, would together rank as a single self-
fertilised plant of + 1£°.
    In order that the law of sexual selection should co-operate with
the conditions of a typical population, it is necessary that selection

 294                        Mr. Francis Galton                    [Feb. 9,
 should be nil ; that is, that there should not be the least tendency for
 tall men to marry tall women rather than short ones. Each strictly
 typical quality taken by itself must go for nothing in sexual selection.
 Under these circumstances, one of the best known properties of the
 law of deviation (technically called that of " two fallible measures ")
 shows that the population of sums of couples would conform truly to
 the law, and the value of 1° would be that of the original population
 multiplied by J2. Consequently the population of means of couples
 would equally conform to the law ; but in this case, as the deviations
 of means of couples are half those of sums of couples, the 1° of
 original deviation would have to be divided by ^2.
      The two remaining processes are Productiveness and Survival.
 Physiologically they are alike, and it is reasonable to expect the same
 general law to govern both. Natural selection is measured by the
 percentage of survival among individuals born with like character
 istics. Productiveness is measured by the average number of children
 from all parents who have like characteristics, but it may physiologi
 cally be looked upon as the percentage of survival of a vast and
 unknown number of possible embryos, producible by such parents.
 Tho number being unknown creates no difficulty, if there may be con
 sidered to be, on an average, the same in every class. Experiment
could tell mo little about cither natural selection or productiveness.
What I havo to say is based on plain theory. I can explain this best
by the process of natural selection. In each species, the height, &c,
the most favoured by natural selection, is the one in which the
demerits of excess or deficiency are the most frequently balanced. It
is therefore not unreasonable to look at nature as a marksman, her
aim being subject to the samo law of deviation as that which causes
the shot on a target to be dispersed on either side of the point aimed
at. It would not be difficult, but it would be tedious, to justify the
analogy ; however, it is unnecessary to do so, as I propose to base
the analogy on tho exigencies of the typical formula, no other suppo
sition being capable of fulfilling its requirements. Suppose for a
                                   Fig. 7.
moment that nature aims, as a marksman, at the medium class, on
purpose to destroy and not to save it. Let a block of stf ne, as is
Fig. 7, represent a rampart, and let a gun bo directed at a vertical lino

1877.]                on Typical Laws of Heredity.                   295
on its side on purpose to breach it, the shots would fall with the
greatest frequency in the neighbourhood of the vertical line, and their
marks would diminish in frequency as the distance increased, in con
formity with the law of deviation. Each shot would batter away a bit
of stone, and the shape of the breach would be such that its horizontal
outline will be the well-known curve. This would be the action of
nature were she to aim at the destruction of medium sizes. Her
action as preserver of them is the exact converse, and would be repre
sented by a cast that filled the gap and exactly replaced the material
that had been battered away. The percentage of thickness of wall
that had been destroyed at each degree of deviation is represented by
the ordinate of the curve, therefore the percentage of survival is also
an ordinate of the same curve of deviation. Its scale has a special
value in each instance, subject to the general condition in every
typical case, that its 0° shall correspond to the 0° of deviation of
height, or whatever the characteristic may be.
    In Fig. 8, the thickness of wall that has been destroyed at each
                                  Fig. 8.
degree of deviation is represented by the corresponding ordinate of
the horizontal outline of the portion which remains. Similarly, in the
case of an imaginary population, in which each class was equally
numerous, the amount of survivors at each degree of deviation will be
represented by the corresponding ordinate of this or a similar curve.
     But in the original population at which we are supposing nature
to aim, the representatives of each class are not equally numerous, but
are arranged according to the law of deviation ; the middle class being
most numerous, while the extreme classes are but scantily represented.
The ordinate of the above-mentioned outline will in this case repre
 sent, not the absolute number, but the percentage of survivors at each
degree of deviation.
     If a graphic representation is desired, that shall give the absolute
number of survivors at each degree, we must shape the rampart which
forms nature's target so as to be highest in the middle and to slope
away at each side according to the law of deviation. Thus Fig. 9
represents the curved rampart before the battered part has been
removed ; Fig. 10, afterwards.
     I have taken a block of wood similar to Fig. 7, to represent the

 296                        Mr. Francis Gallon                    [Feb. 9,
 rampart ; it is of equal height throughout. A cut has been made at
 right angles to its base with a fret-saw, to divide it into two portions
 —that which would remain after it had been breached, Fig. 8, and the
                                   Fin. 9.
cast of the breach. Then a second cut with the fret-saw has been
made at right angles to its face, to cut out of tho rampart an equiva
lent to the heap of pellets that represents tho original population.
The gap that would be made in tho heap and the cast that would fill
the gap are curved on two faces, as in tho model. This is sufficiently
represented in Fig. 10.
                                  Fig. 10.
    The operation of natural selection on a population already arranged
according to tho law of deviation is represented more completely in
an apparatus, Fig. 11, which I will set to work immediately.
    It is faced with a sheet of glass. The heap, as shown in the upper
compartment of the apparatus, is 3 inches in thickness, and the pellets
rest on slides. Directly below the slides, and running from side to
side of the apparatus, is a curved partition, which will separate the
pellets as they fall upon it, into two portions, one that runs to waste
at the back, and another that falls to the front, and forms a new heap.
The curve of the partition is a curve of deviation. The shape of this
heap is identical with tho cast of the gap in Fig. 10. It is highest
and thickest in the middle, and it fines away towards either extremity.
When the slide upon which it rests is removed, the pellets run down
an inclined plane that directs them into a frame of uniform and shal
low depth. The pellets from the deep central compartments (it has
been impossible to represent in the diagram as many of these as there
were in the apparatus) will stand very high from the bottom of tho

1877.]                on Typical Laws of Heredity.                   297
shallow frame, while those that came from the distant compartments
will stand even lower than they did before. It follows that the
selected pellets form, in the lower compartment, a heap of which the
                                 Fig. II.
scale of deviation is much more contracted than that of the heap from
 which it was derived. It is perfectly normal in shape, owing to
an interesting theoretical property of the law of deviation (see formula
 at end of this memoir).
     Productiveness follows the same general law as survival, being a

298                        Mr. Francis Gallon                      [Feb. 9,
percentage of possible production, though it is usual to look on it as a
simple multiple, without first multiplying and then dividing by the 100.
Looking upon it as a simple multiple, the front face of each com
partment in the upper heap represents the number of the parents
of the same class, and the depth of the partition below compartment
represents the average number that each individual of that class
produces.
    To sum up. We now see clearly the way in which the resem
blance of a population is maintained. In the purely typical case, all
the processes of heredity and selection are subject to well-defined and
simple laws, which I have formulated in the appendix. Family
variability, productiveness, and survival are all subject to the law of
deviation, and reversion is expressed by a simple fractional coefficient.
It follows that when we know in respect to any characteristic, the
values of 1° in the several curves of family variability, productiveness
and survival, and when we know the coefficient of reversion, we know
absolutely ail about the ways in which the characteristic in question
will be distributed among the population at large.
    I have confined myself in this explanation to purely typical cases,
but it is easy to understand how the actions of the processes would be
modified in those that were not typical. Reversion might not be
directed towards the mean of the race ; neither productiveness nor
survival might be greatest in the medium classes, and none of their
laws may be strictly of the typical character. However, in all cases
the general principles would be the same, and the same actions that
restrain variability are capable of restraining the departure of average
values beyond certain limits in cases where any of the above-men
tioned processes are unsymmetrical in their actions. The typical laws
are those which most nearly express what takes place in nature gene
rally ; they may never be exactly correct in any one case, but at the same
time they will always be approximately true and always serviceable
for explanation. We estimate through their means the effects of the
laws of sexual selection, of productiveness, and of survival, in aiding
that of reversion in bridling the dispersive effect of family variability.
They show us that natural selection does not act by carving out each
new generation according to a definite pattern on a Procrustean bed,
irrespective of waste. They also explain how small a contribution is
made to future generations by those who deviate widoly from the
mean, either in excess or deficiency, and they enable us to discover the
precise sources whence the deficiencies in the produce of exceptional
types are supplied, and their relative contributions. We see by them
that the ordinary genealogical course of a race consists in a constant
outgrowth from its centre, a constant dying away at its margins, and a
tendency of the scanty remnants of all exceptional stock to revert to
that mediocrity, whence the majority of their ancestors originally
sprang.

1877.]                on Typical Laws of Heredity.                     299
                                APPENDIX.
     I will now proceed to formulate the typical laws. In what has
been said, 1° of deviation has been taken equal to the "probable
error" = C X 0-4769 in the well-known formula
According to this, if x = amount of deviation in feet, inches, or any
other external unit of measurement, then the number of individuals
in any sample who deviate between x and x -J- 8 x will vary as
e ~ c* 8 x (it will be borne in mind that we are for the most part not
concerned with the coefficient in the above formula).
     Let the modulus of deviation (c) in the original population, after
 the process has been gone through, of converting the measurements
 of all its members (in respect to the characteristic in question) to the
adult male standard, be written e0.
     1. Sexual selection has been taken as nil, therefore the population
of " parentages " is a population of which each unit consists of the
mean of a couple taken indiscriminately. This, as well known, will
conform to the law of deviation, and its modulus, which we will write
«, , has already been shown to be equal to —r^ . c0 .
                                                7
     2. Reversion is expressed by a simple fractional   coefficient of the
deviation, which we will write r. In the " reverted " parentages (a
phrase whose meaning and purport have already been explained),
                                  1        __5L
                            y =     =— . e  r'c'-
In short, the population of which each unit is a reverted parentage
follows the law of deviation, and has its modulus, which we will
write c2 , equal to r c, .
     3. Productiveness. We saw that it followed the law of deviation ;
let its modulus be written /. Then the number of children to each
parentage that differs by the amount of x from the mean of the
parentages generally (i.e. from the mean of the race) will vary as
    X*                                                      x^
e~7* ; but the number of such parentages varies as e c7", therefore
if each child absolutely resembled his parent, the number of children
                                       X'         X*             l 1  1 J
who deviated x would-vary as e~7" X e~c7, or as e~x i/i + c?'-
Hence the deviations of such children in their amount and frequency
would conform to the law, and the modulus of the population of

300                          Mr. Francis Galton                    [Feb. 9,
children in the supposed case of absolute resemblance to their parents,
which we will write c3, is such that
                              J.VflUJ),
We may, however, consider the parents to be multiplied, and the
productivity of each of them to be uniform; it is more convenient
than the converse supposition, and it comes to the same thing. So
we will suppose the reverted parentages to be more numerous but
equally prolific, in which case their modulus will be c3 , as above.
     4. Family variability was shown by experiment to follow the law
of deviation, its modulus, which we will write v, being the same for
all classes. Therefore the amount of deviation of any one of the
offspring from the mean of his race is due to the combination of two
influences—the deviation of his "reverted" parentage and his own
family variability ; both of which follow the law of deviation. This
is obviously an instance of the well-known law of the " sum of two
fallible measures." * Therefore the modulus of the population in the
present stage, which we will write c4 , is equal to aJ (»2 -+- c32).
     5. Natural selection follows, as has been explained, the same
 general law as productiveness. Let its modulus be written s, then
the percentage of survivals among children, who deviate x from the
 mean, varies ase"?; and for the same reasons as those already given,
 its effect will be to leave the population still in conformity with the
 law of deviation, but with an altered modulus, which we will write
cs, and
                              ? = ^(i + c?)-
     Putting these together, we have, starting with the original popu
 lation having a modulus = c0 ,
                           1.  c, = — c„.
                                     VI
                           2. c, = re,.
                           4. c4 = V { "' + c,s I •
 And lastly, as the condition of maintenance of statistical resemblance
 in consecutive generations,
                        * Airy, ' Theory of Errors,' § 43.

1877.]                    on Typical Lawtof Heredity.                 301
    Hence, given the coefficient r and the moduli v, f, s, the value of
c0 (or c5) can be easily calculated.
    In the case of simple descent, which was the one first considered,
we have nothing to do with c0, but begin from c1. Again, as both
fertility and natural selection are in this case uniform, the values off
and » arc infinite. Consequently our equations are reduced to
                   c, = re,; et = J [ c» + c,' J ; ct = cit
whenco
    Suppose, for example, that r = J and t> = 6, then
                               86     3C x 25
                                               = 100,
or
                                  e, = 10,
as was mentioned in the courso of the foregoing remarks.
                                                               IF. G.j
     Vol. VUl.      (No. 66.)

302                        Professor F. Guthrie               [Feb. 16,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 16, 1877.
Sir T. Fredreiok Elliot, K.C. M.G. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                 Professor Frederick Guthrie, F.R.S.
                               Solid Water.
When, some months ago, I received, through your excellent Secretary,
a notification of your wish that I should undertake one of these Friday
evening discourses, I looked upon the invitation as a command : as a
command, if for no other reason, because, for some years past, I have,
through your courtesy, been privileged to participate between these
walls in many a rare intellectual treat.
    As I cast about for a suitable subject, I felt sure that, at your
hands, I should not incur the charge of egoism if I brought before
you, as briefly and simply as I could, the results of somo experi
mental researches which for the last few years have engrossed my
leisure time. And whatever hesitation I had in selecting a subject
of this nature, has been obliterated by the feeling that what I have to
 speak of to-night illustrates a generalization which, I think, has not
hitherto been enunciated with sufficient distinctness, but which may
be maintained with great show of reason. I will not call it a law of
nature, for they who use the term law in connection with natural
phenomena are, I believe, neither sufficiently alive to the insignifi
cance of law, nor to the omnipotence of nature. Let me therefore
call what I mean by the more expressive, because more ambiguous,
term " Generalization." It is this : " Substances which are most abun
dant are in their nature most exceptional." At once, among tho
elements we find that great trinity, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen,
standing as a group far removed from other elements, only to differ
from one another by immeasurable intervals. Tho metal sodium,
than which there is none more remarkable, is perhaps the most
abundant ; while the rarer metals, such as gold, platinum, osmium,
iridium, &c, have many characteristics in common.
    It will not do to push this proposition too far: for even as
 I spoke, instances have occurred to you, as they have to me, where
the generalization appears at least to fail. If, however, I wished to
adduce the strongest testimony in its favour, I should speak of water,
a compound body, and of all compound bodies as simplo as any, and

1877.]                         on Solid Water.                               303
perhaps as abundant. Let me glance at the properties which render
it pre-eminent. Of all compound liquids, it has by far the greatest
hardness or cohesion. Gather under like circumstances drops of
water and of all other known liquids, and you will find those of water
the largest. Endeavour to pass radiant heat through it, and you find
it resists such passage with the greatest stubbornness : it is eminently
athermanous. But compare its power of allowing heat of contact to
pass through, and you find it to be by far the best liquid heat con
ductor. Examine its capacity for heat, and you find that it here
exceeds all known liquids, with one exception, and that exception is
a mixture containing a large proportion of water. Cast light on it,
and it bends that light less than any substance, excepting its own
offspring, ice. Finally, it enjoys that rare and almost unique property
of having a state of maximum density at a temperature above its
freezing point.
     On all these grounds, the expression of the old Greek,
                                apurrov ft.cv vShip,
 seems to have been prophetic, if we understand apurros in its simple
sense of pre-eminence.
     I propose this evening to consider mainly one faculty of water,
 namely, its power of dissolving that innumerable class of bodies
 called salts, which may, I suppose, without much danger of a mis
 understanding, be considered as bodies soluble in water, and which
 contain metals. I wish to consider the relationship botween the
 water and the salt it has dissolved, and I desire to direct especial
 attention to the circumstances under which water becomes solid in
 presence of and in combination with other bodies.
     Water may become solid in a variety of ways. First, by itself,
 losing heat, it becomes ice ; secondly, when thrown upon quick lime
 and similar bodies, by the loss of heat it becomes along with the
 lime a solid, slaked lime ; thirdly, if you pour water upon dried alum
 and similar bodies, and let the solution stand, you get dry crystals, I
 dare scarcely say containing water, but from which water can bo
 readily got. Again, if you boil glue or isinglass with water, you get
 a more or less solid jelly, according to the quantity of water you
 employ.
      Those various ways by which water may bo solidified result in
 the more or less complete obliteration of its character as water.
  Chemists tell us that in the slaking of lime we do not witness the
  more juxtaposing of a molecule of water alongside a molecule of lime,
  but rather a double decomposition whereby the molecules of each con
  stituent are decomposed and one or two new molecules are formed ; *
              Not CaO + HO = CiOHO, but Ca20 + H2O = 2CaHO,         2Ci
                   (Ca = 20, H = 1, O = 8)        (Ca = 20. H = 1, 0 = 10)
                                           or CnO         H,0 = Ca2HO.
                                                  .... +,....-_    Ca'2
                                                 (0a = 40, 11 = 1,0= 16)
                                                                           Y

 304                        Professor F. Guthrie                 [Feb. 16,
 and that when by heat the water from slaked lime is recovered,
 recomposition of quick lime and of water ensues. Far less violent
 is the action when burnt alum dissolves in water, and far more
 readily are the two again separated : while from the ordinary
 " washing soda " in moderately dry air the water gradually escapes
 by diffusion into the air. Yet in all these cases the water is held by
 the solid with some strength. Lastly, when glue or gum dissolves in
 water there appears to be no energy expended in the act of solution,
 they mix even as two gases mix.
     Strictly speaking, when a grain of salt dissolves in a gallon of
 water both are destroyed ; the salt ceases to be salt and the water
 ceases to be water : the two form a salt solution. This fact must
 never be forgotten, but its strict observance would land us here in
 the cumbersome restriction of denying the name of water to the
liquids of our springs, rivers, and seas.
     On the table you see examples of the various kinds of solid
 water. And first stands ice. In this room it is unnecessary for
me to speak especially of this substance, which has formed for
you the basis of so many an eloquent discourse. Again, there is
water of combination, of constitution, of gelatinization, and of
crystallization.
     It is to be remarked, and is indeed for our present purpose most
noteworthy, that whole classes of salts are known which solidify
with water of crystallization, while others of no noticeable chemical
difference reject water as they build themselves together. Nay,
more, that salts most closely allied to one another in their chemical
 nature combine with water of crystallization in very different pro
portions. What is there peculiar in saltpeter, in lunar-caustic, in
 sal-ammoniac, that they should hitherto have refused to associate
themselves as solids with water ; while alum, soda, and the " vitriols,"
white, green, and blue, combine with water and form crystals of such
beauty ; to me of such extreme interest because in their faces and
edges, as in those of other and anhydrous crystals, nature for once
makes use of planes and straight lines ?
    It has been my good fortune to have been able, to some extent, to
wipe out this line of demarcation, to establish continuity ; to prove, in
short, that all salts whatever, which are soluble in water, are able to
combine with it in definite weight-ratio to form solid crystalline
bodies. I do not doubt but that we may consider the number of
known definite compounds to have been thereby at least doubled.
    The formation of these new solid water-compounds may perhaps
be best approached by studying the phenomena which take place
when any salt solution is cooled. Let us consider a boiling saturated
solution of saltpeter. Take it from over the lamp, and let it cool. A
certain quantity of the salt separates out, but the crystals are free
from water. Cool it down to 0° C, more anhydrous saltpeter
separates ; but at 0° C. it is still rich in saltpeter, and is, of course,
saturated at that temperature. What takes place if we go on cooling

1877.]                      on Solid Water.                          305
below 0° C. ? If pure anhydrous saltpeter were to go on separating
out until it were all out, there would be left at some temperature
below 0° C. pure liquid water—an impossibility. If, on the other
hand, only pure ice were to separate out, we should get at last
anhydrous saltpeter liquid below 0° C. : this is equally impossible.
What actually does occur is this—anhydrous saltpeter goes on
separating out until the solution has acquired a certain degree of
weakness (11 '20 per cent.), and this stage is reached at a certain
temperature below 0° C. ( — 2 - 6). When still more heat is with
drawn, the temperature refuses to sink further, and the remainder of
the solution begins to solidify, and continues to solidify at the tem
perature and with the composition it has reached until the last drop
is solidified.
    If, again, we begin with a very dilute solution of saltpeter, say
one containing 2 oz. of saltpeter in 98 oz. of water, it is well known
that such a solution requires to be cooled below the freezing point of
water before solidification begins ; and the differences of opinion
which have prevailed as to whether pure ice or " impure " ice is
separated in such cases arise apparently from the circumstance that
solutions of different strength have been examined. From our solu
tion, pure ice is separated at a little below 0° C. And as the tem
perature falls, more and more ice separates out, thus enriching the
remaining solution. But this cannot go on indefinitely, for if it did
so we should have at last anhydrous saltpeter liquid at some tempera
ture below 0° C. The enrichment goes on as the temperature falls,
until the same temperature and the same composition are reached as
were reached in the case of the impoverishment of the saturated
solution by the withdrawal of the saltpeter. And now again the
temperature ceases to fall, the salt solution ceases to change its com
position, the water and saltpeter solidify together at the same tem
perature and in the same ratio as they did before, until the last drop
is solid.
    What manner of body is this which is thus formed ? A solid, of
crystalline form, consisting of water and saltpeter in fixed ratio, and
of constant freezing and melting points. A hydrate obviously, and
because it can only exist in the solid form below the freezing point of
water, we may call it a cryohydrate.
    Thirty or forty of the most familiar soluble salts have been
examined in a similar manner and with similar results. Each com
bine with a certain proportion of water at a certain temperature
below zero C. The proportions are different with different salts, and
so are the temperatures of solidification, and at present I can only see
indications in a few cases of generalizations connecting the chemical
compositions with the temperatures.
    The Table A and Diagram B now nearly completely explain
themselves.

306                    Professor F. Guthrie on Solid Water.                    [Feb. 1G,
Table A.—Shows (1) The Chemical Formula of the Salt : (2) The Lowest
    Temperature to bo got by mixing the Salt with Ice ; (3) Temperature of
    Solidification of tho Cryohydrate ; (4) Molecular Ratio between Anhy
    drous Salt and Water of its Cryohydrate (Water-worth) ; (5) Per
    centage of Anhydrous Salt in Cryohydrate.
           (i)                    (2)              (3)            (4)
                                           Temperature of     Molecular     Percentage of
                            Temperature of  Solidification       Ratio     Anhydrous Salt
      Formula of Suit.
                               Cryogen.    of Cryohydrate. or Water-worth. in Cryohydrate.
 CaCl2                         - 33                37            11-8           36-45
 Nalir                         -28                 24             8-1           41-33
 NH.I                          -27              ¦27-5             64            55-49
  Nal                          -26-5            ¦28               ft -8         59-45
  KI                           -22              ¦22               8-5           52-07
  NaCl                         -22              •22              10-5           23-60
  SrCl2-f-0H2O .. ..           -18              ¦ 17             22-9           27-57
  NH,*SO,                      -17-5            ¦ 17             10 2           41-70
  NH.Iir                       -17              •17              11 1           32-12
  NH4N03                       -17              ¦172              6 72          43-71
  NaNO3                        - 16-5           ¦17-5             8 13          40-80
  NII,C1                       - 16              • 15            12 4           19-27
  KBr                          -13              ¦ 13             13 94          32 15
  KC1                          - 10-5            - 11-4          16 61          20 03
  K2CrO,                       -102                 12           18-8           36-27
  BaCI2+2H20 .. ..             - 7-2            - 8              37-8           23-2
  AgNO,                        - 6-5            • 6-5            10-09          48-38
  Sr2NO,                       - 6               • 6             33-5           25-99
  MgSO, + 7H.0           ..    - 5-3            - 5              23-8           21-86
  ZnS04+7H20                   - 5              - 7              20-0           30-84
  KNO,                         - 3              - 2 6            44-6           11-20
  Na2CO,                       - 2- 2-2         - 2              92-75            5-97
  CuS04 + 5H20                      2            - 2             43-7            16-89
  FeS04-f-7H20                       1-7        - 22             41-41          16-92
  K2S04                              1-5        -    1-2        114-2                80
  K2Cr20;                                       -    1         292-0                 30
  Ba2N03                                        -    0-8       259-0                 30
  Na.,S04 + 10H2O ..                                                                 .r)5
                                                 -   0-7        165-6
  KCI03                                         -    0-5       222 0                 98
  AI2NH42SO, + 12H20                             -   0-2        261-4                7
  HgCl,                                         -    0-2        450-0                21
      In Diagram B are shown, as well as the cryohydrates (which are
 the points of reflexure, or lowest points of each curve), the tempera
 tures at which various salts of various strengths (a left-hand branches)
 give up ice and (b right-hand branches) give up salt.
      Let me only remark concerning these ratios of Table A, that those
 bodies at the bottom of the list are nearly pure ice, and yet by the
 generalization of continuity they are bodies of similar composition to
 those at the top of the list which are well within the limits of
 chemical ratio. One is tempted to look upon these ratios as being
 brought about not by the same saturating capacity as determines

DlAGKAM B
308                       Professor F. Guthrie                 [Feb. 16,
elementary union, but by a kind of crystallographic relationship,
of which I can say no more because no more is known.
    Very palpable evidence of what we may in this generation call
physical relationship as distinguished from chemical relationship, is
shown in the composition of innumerable minerals, and notably in
the water quantity of various silicates, the composition of which can
only be reconciled to ordinary chemical ratio by the greatest licence
in arithmetical manipulation. I say, " in this generation," for haply
the time practically predicted by Berthollet at the beginning of the
century cannot be remote when the barrier between the two sciences
will vanish.
    Is it likely that so numerous and interesting a class of bodies
as these cryohydrates should be mere creatures of the physical
laboratory, and be without a function in nature ? I trow not. They
affect the composition of polar ice as follows.
    Although sea water has no maximum density, and therefore ice
can be formed anywhere in its mass, yet it loses heat mainly from the
surface, and it is there that ice is chiefly formed. If the fall of tem
perature be gradual, the crystals of pure water which solidify are for
the moment surrounded by cold sea water deprived of a portion of
pure water, that is enriched sea water— a stronger brine. This sinks
and diffuses, and gives place to fresher sea, which in its turn yields
pure ice. By gravity and osmose, in time, the pure sea is renewed
in the region of gelation, and pure ice results. But if the loss of
heat be sudden and considerable, the salts of the sea are fixed as
cryohydrates with the water, and so perpetuated in situ according to
the temperature at which their cryohydrates solidify. And I should
expect that paleocrystic ice formed from the freezing sea would
contain the metals sodium, magnesium, and calcium in a different
relative proportion to that in which they exist in the sea water. Be
this, however, as it may, it is clear to me that no theory of ocean
circulation can be complete which does not take into account the
formation of cryohydrates in the polar regions.
    These compounds of salts with water have both a great use in
many a familiar operation, and a great significance in many a
familiar phenomenon. With regard to their use, I need only
mention the fact, that it is clear that by their means we can
attain to and maintain with absolute constancy many definite tem
peratures below 0° C. For a body plunged into a melting or solidi
fying cryohydrate will be maintained at a temperature as constant as
that of melting ice or freezing water.
    With regard to their significance, they give us a complete key
to the hitherto closely concealed rationale of freezing mixtures or
cryogens made by mixing ice or snow with various salts. For the
degree of cold which can be reached on mixing a salt with ice
can never exceed in lowness the temperature at which the cryo
hydrate solidifies, because the consequent solidification of the cryo
hydrate would furnish heat. Nay, more. Since of all ratios between

1877.]                           on Solid Water.                              809
the salt and the water that of the cryohydrate demands the lowest
 temperature for solidification, the liquid portion of a freezing mixturo
can neither be stronger nor weaker than the cryohydrate, it is the
cryohydrate and the slightest further loss of heat causes solidifica
 tion. Look now at columns (2) and (3) of Table A, and you see
how closely parallel, how, indeed, within the limits of experimental
 error, identical are the two series of numbers.
     By cooling a thick slab of glass in a freezing mixture, and
dropping upon it various salt solutions, I show you now a few cryo
hydrates in the act of solidification.
     I may mention that not only metallic salts, hut crystalline solids,
of organic and inorganic origin form similar cryohydrates. Amongst
the most interesting of these are the cryohydrates of alcohol and
ether. The latter contains a large proportion of water, and its tem
perature of solidification is so little below zero C. that I can show it
you. Solidified in a test tube, and removed therefrom, it forms a
white crystalline rod, like a candle. The ether burns away when a
light is applied to one end, and, by its non-luminosity, clearly illus
trates the generalization of Dr. Frankland, that, other things being
the same, a cold combustible burns with less luminosity than a
hot one.
     Let me here turn for a moment to the comparison between the
effects of heat and cold upon salt solutions, and notice how closely
parallel are the two series of phenomena.
     Compare the decomposition of a salt solution by the loss of
heat with the decomposition by gain of heat when such a solution
boils. And in instituting this comparison, we must bear in mind
how much more sensitive to variation in pressure is the boiling than
the solidifying point.
     And before quitting this part of the subject, I may call_ to mind
   (1) A solution poorer than the cryo-      (1) A solution poorer than that satu-
hydrate loses heat ; ice is formed.       rated at a given temperature receives
                                          heat ; vapour is formed.
   (2) This goes on until the proportion     (2) This goes on until saturation is
of the cryohydrate is reached, the tem-   reached, the temperature rising,
perature falling.
   (3) The cryohydrate may be reached        (3) Saturation may be reached by
by freezing out ice from a weaker solu-   evaporation, boiling, or any other with-
tion, or by any other withdrawal of       drawal of water.
water.
   (4) When ice separates from a liquid,     (4) Vapour separated from a liquid
it remains in contact with the liquid,    is removed from the field of contention,
and endeavours to redissolve therein.     unless the liquid be enclosed with the
                                          vapour.
   (5) When by the separation of ice         (5) When by the separation of vapour
the proportion of the cryohydrate is      the proportion of saturation is reached
reached (nearly independent of pres-      (very dependent upon pressure), vapour
8ure), ice and the salt separate simul-   and the salt separate simultaneously,
taneously.

310                             Professor F. Guthrie                    [Feb. 16,
   (6) Tho two bedies (ioo and the salt)      (6) One being a solid and the other
being crysfallizable solids, unite to form a vapour, they do not unite, but in
a crystallizable cryohydrato which ex-     their separation preserve a constant
hibits a constant gravimetric composi-     gravimetric ratio under like conditions
tion.                                      of pressure.
   (7) A cryohydrate in theactofsolidi-      (7) A saturated solution, when boil-
fication shows identity of composition     ing, shows the same ratio between the
between the solid and liquid portions.     vapour formed and the salt precipitated
The temperature of solidification is       as exists between the liquid water pre-
constant.                                  sent and the ealt it holds in solution.
                                           Tho temperature of boiling is (under
                                           liko pressure) constant,
the fact that we find amongst the phenomena of igneous fusion facts
perfectly analogous with those which we have been studying. Thus,
in Pattinson's process for tho desilverizing of lead, the mass contain
ing a small percentage of silver is melted and gradually cooled, lead
(ice) separates out in almost perfect purity, tho temperature sinks,
and more and moro lead is separated, until, as Dr. Percy informs me,
a two and a quarter per cent, of silver lead alloy, a pyro-plumbide
(a cryohydrate), is reached.
     Lastly, let us reflect upon the solidification of water in jellies, and
its attitude towards colloid bodies.
     My illustrious teacher Graham, in a series of researches which
have perhaps never been surpassed for philosophical insight, showed
how all matter is divisible into two great classes, crystalloid and
colloid. He proved that a crystalloid body penetrates through a
colloid without essential obstruction. The colloid and crystalloid
have no grip on one another. And quite in accordance with Graham's
views I find that, although gum-arabic is far more soluble in water
than table salt, we totally fail to make a freezing mixture with gum
and ice or snow. And inversely, when a strong solution of gum or
glue is cooled, the temperature cannot be brought below 0° C. until
the whole of the water has been soparated as ice. This being so, we
ought also to find that the presence of gum or glue in water does not
raise its boiling point, as do the presence of crystalline salts. Experi
ment shows us that the boiling point of water is really and consider
ably lowered, so that if, for instance, I remove the atmospheric
pressure from two vessels slightly warmed, the one containing
C0 per cent, of gum and the other pure water, the gum solution is
the first to boil.
     In the series of barometer tubos on the table, whose images I
throw on tho screen, you have (1) an ordinary barometer, (2) a similar
barometer with a crystal of alum in the vacuum, (3) with a saturated
solution of rock salt, (4) with water, (5) with a morsel of size, and
(6) with a 50 per cent, solution of gum-arabic. It is observed that
the depression of the mercury, which of course measures the vapour
tension, is in the order mentioned. The solid water of crystallization
leaves tho alum, but is partly restrained by the afimity of the residue.
The saturated salt solution again, but moro feebly, restrains the

1877.]                        on Solid Water.                         311
water, while the gnm and size do not restrain the vapour tension of
the water at all ; they have no grip on the water.
    Even through the colloid caoutchouc, of which the toy air-balls
are made, water penetrates with marvellous facility. The one on the
table, which weighs now about 700 grams, weighed 750 grams only a
few weeks ago. It has been losing 0 - 06 grams per hour with remark
able regularity. And I suppose, if we could see the structure of a
jelly, we should find it to consist of a network of solid fibres hamper
ing the motion of the crystalloid liquid among them ; or of cells of
solid elastic matter, containing liquid such as the mass of cells on the
table.
     The hour is up, and I must end. My task will not have been
essayed in vain if I have brought forward evidence that, in the philo
sophy of the simplest things, yet much remains to be disclosed. Far
from me the thought of undervaluing the labours of those who from
time to time enrich science with hundreds of new substances of com
plex composition. On the contrary, I admire, I am grateful to them
for their successful efforts ; for I am thoroughly assured that it is
by the comparison of terms of series, which terms stand apart from
one another by almost imperceptible differentials, that the great
integral curves of natural generalizations can be traced out. And
yet I say, and earnestly maintain, that in the philosophy of the most
familiar properties of the most familiar things, there are, as it were,
lying at our very doors, vast and unexplored regions ; meads brightly
blooming with the unplucked flowers, and orchards mellow with the
ungarncred fruits of natural truth.
                                                                [P. G.J
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 23, 1877.
        Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                     John Fletcher Moulton, Esq.
                             Matter and Ether.
                             [Abstract Deferred.]

312                      General Monthly Meeting.                      [March 5,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 2, 1877.
Joseph Dalton Hooker, C.B. M.D. D.C.L. Pres.R.1. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                    Professor Huxley, LL.D. Sec.R.S.
                       The Natural History of Birds.
                              [Abstract Deferred.]
                  GENEKAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, March 5, 1877.
       George Busk, Esq. F.B.F. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
              John Laidlay Bashford, Esq.
              Miss Anna Frances Busk,
              James Farmer, Esq.
              John Harris, Esq.
              Rev. Francis Fraser Hird,
              James Enowles, Esq.
              John Fletcher Moulton, Esq.
              Capt. Hugh Gilliat Oldham,
              Francis Richard Philp, M.D.
              Carl H. Siemens, Esq.
              Mrs. C. F. Stovin,
              William George Stuart, Esq.
              Augustus Weiss, Esq.
              George F. White, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on tho
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1876, Part I. No. 1. Part II. No. 3. 8vo.
  Proceedings, 1876. No. 8. 8vo.
Blackie, W. G. Esq. {Secretary of Local Committee, British Association, Glasgow)—
     Western Scottish Fossils, Catalogue. 16to. 1876.
  West of Scotland Fauna and Flora. 16U,. 1876.
  West of Scotland Principal Manufactures. loto. 1876.

1877.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                        313
British Architect*, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1876-7. Nos. 5, 6. 4to.
Chemical Society—-Journal for Feb. 1877. 8vo.
Chrittiania University—Memoirs, &e. 4to and Svo. 1876.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. XLVII. 8vo. 1877.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Feb. 1877. 8to.
   Athenamm for Feb. 1877. 4to.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1877. 4to.
   Engineer for Feb. 1877. fol.
   Horological Journal for Feb. 1877. 8vo.
   Journal for Applied Science for Feb. 1877. fol.
   Nature for Feb. 1877. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Feb. 1877. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb. 1877. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for Feb. 1877. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 614. 8vo. 1877.
Geneve, Societe de Physique—Me'moires, Tome XXIV. Partie 2. 4to. 1875-6.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—-Jahrbuch, 1876. No. 3. 8vo. 1876.
   Verhandlungen, 1876. Nos. 11, 13. 8vo. 1876.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 129. Svo. 1876.
New South Wales Government—G. H. Reid : Essay on New South Wales. 8vo.
     Sydney, 1876.
Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Nog. 3, 4, 5. 8vo. 1876.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 177. 8vo. 1876.
St. Petersburg, Academic des Sciences—Bulletins, Tome XXIII. No. 1. 4to. 1876.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symous' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     Feb. 1877. 8vo.
Tunning, Thomas, Esq. M.B.I.—Public Libraries in the United States. 2 Parts.
     8vo. 1876.
University of London Senate—Catalogue of the Library. Svo. 1876.
Vawr, W. S. W. Esq. M.A. F.R.S. M.H.I, (the Author)—Persia : from the Earliest
     Period to the Arab Conquest. 16to.
Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 40. 8vo. 1876.
Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 10. 4to. 1876.

314                           Mr. F. J. Bramwell                  [March 9,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 9, 1877.
      Admieal Sik Henry John Codrinoton, K.C.B. Manager,
                                 in the Chair.
              F. J. Bramwell, Esq. M. Inst. C.E. M.B.I.
                    FAST PRESIDENT INST. MECHANICAL ENGINEERS.
                             Tlie Future of Steel.
With a few exceptions, construction (whether of building, of bridges,
or of ships) was, not so very long ago, carried out by the employment
of stone, of brick, or of timber. Metals played but an insignificant
part in any kind of construction. Lead probably was the most used
of all, being employed in roofing. If sheathing may be taken as part
of the structure of a ship, then it would seem that lead was thus
structurally employed, occasionally at all events, as far back as the
reign of Trajan; while the metal copper, now so largely used as
sheathing to wooden ships, was first applied in the Royal Navy in
1758, in tho ' Alarm' frigate, and had been adopted for ships of every
class in that navy by the year 1783. But the metal "iron," with
which and with its offspring, steel, wo are to-night concerned, was
practically not used as a portion of the structure, either of houses, of
bridges, or of ships, except, indeed, in the way of fastenings, bolts
and nuts, screws and nails, to unite other materials together. Gradu
ally, however, cast iron began to enter into structures. As far back
as the year 1779 tho celebrated bridge at Coalbrook Dale was built,
not long after followed by the Sunderland bridge, and early in the
present century by several others, including, in 1819, that magnificent
structure Southwark Bridge, the work of the elder Bennie, which
bridge still adorns the metropolis. Cast iron also was used in
buildings to replace stone columns and wooden story-posts for
direct pressure, and also as a substitute for wood in beams. In
Bur wash church, and in other churches in Sussex, may still be seen
cast-iron tombs, dated as long back as the fourteenth century.
     Wrought iron took its first important place as a structural material
 in the building of vessels. In 1787 an iron canal-boat was made in
 Staffordshire ; and, indeed, the first iron steamboat, the • Aaron Manby,'
 was produced in 1821 in that most inland of inland places, the
 Horseley Works.
     By the year 1830, however, iron ship-building had gone to its
 appropriate home, that of a large port ; for by that date Mr. Laird's
 works at Birkenhead, which were founded in 1824, were in full opera
 tion, and the first iron vessel had been built there, followed shortly by
 iron steam-vessels, the precursor of the large fleet which owes its
 origin to these justly celebrated works. From the small beginnings

1877.J                     on the Future of Steel.                   315
in Staffordshire and at Birkenhead sprang that wonderful wrought-
iron navy now to be found on every sea, a navy which, whatever may
bo the ownership of the vessels, has in most cases Great Britain for
its birthplace.
     But while both cast and wrought iron were being thus extensively
used, steel was not employed as a structural material at all. Steel was
a luxury ; it was made in small portions, it was sold at high prices,
as much as a shilling or eighteen pence per pound, or even more; and
it was employed, as we know, for swords, cutlery, surgical instru
ments, watch-springs, mechanics' tools, needles, and other purposes
such as these, where the quantity used was but trifling, and where
the importance of superior material was such as to justify the largo
expenditure incurred. It was felt in these days, as, indeed, it had
been for ages past, that steel was worth paying for because it was to
be trusted ; indeed its trustworthiness had passed into a proverb, " As
true as steel."
     Iron we nowadays use in three great divisions, cast iron, wrought
iron, and steel. Cast iron is, again, divisible into ordinary cast-iron,
chilled cast-iron, and malleable cast-iron. Wrought iron is also divi
sible into ordinary wrought-iron and case-hardened wrought-iron.
Steel, so far as I know, is not thus divisible ; but it may be of very
varied composition, producing qualities ranging from those which
possess great flexibility, even when quenched in cold water, to those
which exhibit intense brittleness when so treated.
     Cast iron, or pig iron is, as you know, produced by putting iron ore
with coke or raw coal and suitable fluxes into a blast furnace, a
structure which has now, in the Cleveland district, reached to 100 feet
in height by as much as 30 feet in diameter, having a capacity of over
40,000 cubic feet. Up through this enormous pile of materials a
powerful blowing engine sends air heated, in the most approved
furnaces, to as much as 1250°. The ore, as it descends through the
furnace, is first deoxidized ; and then the sponge of iron so produced
is impregnated with such a dose of carbon as to render the iron fusible,
so that it trickles down into the hearth of tho furnace, from which, at
intervals varying in different districts from four to as much as twelve
hours, it is tapped out into the pig bed, the earthy matter of the
 ore, of the fuel, and of the flux flowing away as a coarse glass or
 cinder. In these days, in the best furnaces the unconsumed carbonio
oxide is no longer allowed to blaze away from the top of the furnace,
but is conveyed therefrom by suitable pipes, and is employed to heat
the blast, and to generate steam for the blast engine. According to
the proportion of fuel employed, and to tho treatment, so will the
issuing pig iron be more or less charged with carbon.
     Pig iron is in common distinguished by numbers. I have on the
table before me, due to the courtesy of the authorities at the War
Office, two sets of samples of pig iron ranging from Nos. 1 to 8, No. 1
being the iron which will the most readily melt, and will become the
most fluid, and make the sharpest but weakest castings, while the

  316                        Mr. F. J. Bramwll                    [March 9,
  higher numbers are never used for ordinary foundry purposes, but are
  taken as proper irons to be converted into wrought iron. Anybody
 who examines these specimens closely will see quite clearly in the No. 1
 iron the flakes of graphite separated out, and lying between the crystals
 of the cast iron. These flakes become less and less obvious as the num
 bers get higher and higher, until with the No. 5 pig the graphite ceases
 to be easily visible, the whole of the carbon appearing to be combined.
      Leaving impurities out of consideration, pig iron or cast iron is
 the element iron accompanied with a very large proportion of carbon.
 In tho case of No. 1 as much as (taking the total of combined and un-
 combined carbon together) from 4 to 4jjj, or even more, per cent., while
 in the case of No. 8 the carbon is only probably from 2 to 2\ per cent. ;
 and although no portion of this is visible as graphite, the carbon, even
 here, is only partially combined with the iron ; complete combination
 with the carbon must be looked for when the cast iron is in another
condition, " chilled," such as is one end of the sample I have here.
You will see that one end of this bar has been chilled, and that the
other is not chilled. The chilling has been effected by pouring the
fluid cast-iron into a mould, one portion of which was made of metal
which conducted the heat away rapidly, and thus caused the iron to set
quickly and to chill ; while the other end of the mould was made of
sand, and there the metal cooled slowly, and did not chill. You will
also observe that the chilling, as it is called, has penetrated about one-
eighth of an inch ; and on trying it with the finest file, you will find it
impossible to cut it, while the other end of the bar may be filed with
ease. The hardness is due, I believe, to the iron being chilled by the
metal mould, and being thus set into a solid before the carbon has had
time to separate out of it, in the form of graphite, by liquation. As a
striking instance of chilling, I would call your attention to a split-
open chilled Palliser shell now on the table.
     I have here a sample bar of malleable cast-iron. This bar has been
made malleable at one end, but has been left in tho ordinary state of
cast iron at the other. The endowment with the malleable property
has been duo to the continued heating of the bar when placed in a
close vessel, and surrounded by iron ore. The oxygen of the ore has
partially decarbonized the metal, and has thereby caused it to approach
to the condition of wrought iron, rendering it, as you will see, malleable.
I have here a sample bar of malleable iron, which has been forged.
     Wrought iron is nowadays mado by taking pig iron and putting it
into the hearth or bath of a puddling furnace, where it is melted, and
then is stirred about, commonly by tools called " rabbles " worked by
hand, but occasionally lately by " rabbles " worked by mechanism ; or,
as the latest improvement, it is agitated in a furnace of a special con
struction, where the body part is put into revolution like a barrel-
churn. In whatever way the agitation may be effected, the object is
to cause the oxygen of the material (iron ore or other oxide of iron)
with which the furnace is lined (the " fettling," to use the technical
term) to unite with the carbon of the pig, and form carbonic oxide,
which, rising to the surface, keeps the whole bath of metal in a state

 1877.J                    on the Future of Sled.                      817
of violent ebullition or " boil," as it is called, the gas igniting on the
surface and producing a multitude of lively blue flames. The sub
merging by the "rabble" of any oxidized portions of the surface,
assuming that there may be at times froo air in the furnace, also
perhaps aids in tho decarbonizing process. This process goes on
until, practically, the whole of the carbon is driven off, about one and
a half tenths to two-tenths of 1 per cent, only remaining; and then tho
iron becomes pasty, it being no longor possible for it, when deprived
of the carbon, to remain fluid in the heat of an ordinary puddling
furnace, and the workman is enabled to gather it up into balls, making
probably four or fiv« balls out of a 4 cwt. charge. For the purposes
of this evening it would suffice to speak of cast iron as though it con
tained no foreign ingredient but carbon ; but I need hardly say that
this is not so, and that in practice the prosonce in the puddling furnace
of silicon, phosphorus, sulphur, and occasionally other matters, has
to be considered; and I will venture to occupy a few minutes by asking
your attention to diagrams representing the nature and tho extent of
the impurities which in practice have to be dealt with in the puddling
processes.
     As I shall have occasion to remark later on, when speaking of tho
due appreciation of such expressions as 0'00l or one-tenth of 1 per
cent,, I have a great belief in the value of models or diagrams that the
eye can readily appreciate. Such contrivances I find to be great aids
to ready comprehension and also to steadfast retention of facts and of
proportions. Mr. Head, of Middlesborough, who has done so much to
apply science to the industry of iron, has kindly lent me the diagrams
with which he illustrated, last year at the Mechanical Engineers'
Institution, his observations upon that which takes place in tho act of
puddling.
    You will see that the tall diagram to which I am now pointing
indicates by its height, 100 parts, by weight, of the charge from tho
introduction of the solid pig-iron into the puddling furnace down to the
puddled bar itself, after it has been hammered and rolled. The width
of the diagram represents time from l0h. 23m., when tho pig iron was
put in, to 12h. 42m., when the puddling was finished ; 2 hours and 19
minutes. The oloment iron is represented by the blue tint, while the
carbon, silicon, phosphorus, manganese, and sulphur are shown by
various colours. A near inspection of the diagram will enable you to
ascertain not only how these matters diminish in puddling, but the
rate and the order of their diminution. The fellow large diagram
represents the changes of the fluid cinder in tho furnace taken at
various times ; and you will see that while the impurities have been
leaving the iron, they havo been entering to a large extent into tho
cinder. The cinder being composed of oxides, each of the colours in
dicating the oxide of iron and the other oxide constituents has been
made of a dark shade and of a light shade, the dark representing the
base, and the light shade the accompanying oxygen. Besides the two
principal figures, there are drawings to a large scale of the impurities
both in their contorted form, due to their being drawn as superposed,
      Vol. VIII. (No. 66.)                                        z

318                          Mr. F. J. BramweU                    [March 9,
and also as each constituent would appear when laid off on a level
datum-line.
     Just ono caution in respect to these diagrams. Tbey do not repre
sent the variation in the total quantity of charge and of cinder (as
time goes on, this it is almost impossible to exhibit), but they repre
sent this, that if at the respective times 100 parts be taken from the
charge, they will be found to contain the percentages stated. If this
be not borne in mind, it will be difficult to understand why it is that
 there appears to be, during the first hour and more, an increase of
 carbon. This is not an actual increase, but a relative increase, due to
 the decrease of other matter. I think you will concur with me in
 thanking Mr. Head for this excellent mode of graphically exhibiting
 the changes and the sequence of the changes which take place in the
act of puddling.
      To revert to that which I was saying about puddling. During
 the balling process a very considerable waste of the iron ensues by
 oxidation ; the spongy mass is permeated by cinder, oxide of iron, and
 earthy matter, and in this condition it is put under a hammer called a
 shingling hammer, where, by dexterous manipulation, it is sought to
 drive out the cinder from the mass, and to weld together the particles
 of wrought iron into a bloom. This bloom, commonly at the same
 heat, but sometimes after being reheated, is passed through rollers,
 and is then known as puddle bar. These bars are cut up, are piled
into piles of the size desired for the intended production, arc reheated
 to a welding heat, and are then either hammered and subsequently
 passed through rolls, or else are passed through rolls direct, making
 No. 2 iron, the ordinary iron of commerce. Occasionally, for special
purposes, the piling and reheating and rolling are repeated. The
 material produced, when uncontaminated with phosphorus or sulphur or
 silicon, is the iron which, as I have said, has about one and a half tenths
 to two-tenths of 1 per cent, of carbon remaining in it, and it is this
material that for so many years past we have trusted to form the
 hulls of our ships, to form the shells of our boilers, to bear their
 140 lb. pressure per square inch, as they do on every railway, to form
our 81-ton and 100-ton guns, to form tho rails of our railways, and to
form bridges and viaducts, and, in fact, to be applied to those purposes
 where toughness, ductility, flexibility, conductivity, cheapness, and
trustworthiness woro the desiderata. Wrought iron has tho great
 advantage that it can be worked at almost any temperature between
that of the atmosphere (in the best kinds of iron) and that of a high
welding heat. It is a very fair conductor of heat whero it is necessary
to transmit heat, as through the sides of boilers, and it possesses that
excellent property of union by welding. But the best of wolds, or all
 but the very best of welds, are treacherous ; the manufacturer never
 can be suro that in the interior of the weld somo foreign substance,
 oxide of iron or sulphide of iron, is not interposed between the two
 surfaces, and thus he never knows whether the weld which looks so
 sound upon tho outside is really sound throughout. To show you
 how difficult it is to ensuro soundness in welding, I have on tho table

1877.]                    on the Future of Steel.                     319
before me a sample of a wrought-iron rail, which, I doubt not, when it
came out of the rolling mill, appeared to be perfectly sound metal,
metal of uniform structure from side to side. But what is it now that
it has been subjected to the action of engine and carriage wheels ? a
bundle of fibres, a mere faggot, These severances have not taken
place through the solid metal ; they have taken place through what were
supposed to be sound welds in the pile.
     I have here another sample of separation at the weld. This is a
piece of " shelly " boiler-plate. The layers of the pile from which this
plate was made have, under the action of the fire, separated at the
weld, and the result has been that the heat-conducting power of the
plate has become impaired, and it has blistered and has been rendered
useless, and, indeed, unsafe.
     For certain purposes, when it was desired to have the hardness of
hard steel combined with the toughness of wrought iron, case-harden
ing was resorted to. This was effected by surrounding wrought iron
with some suitable substance, commonly animal charcoal or bones, en
closing the whole in an air-tight vessel, and heating for a considerable
time. The result was to carbonize and theroby steelify or case-harden
the surface. The axle-trees of all our carriages are thus made at the
present day.
     I have on the table a wrought-iron bar, one end of which is case-
hardened, while the other is left in ite natural condition ; and you will
find that the case-bardened portion is unattackable, even by a fine file,
while the other parts may bo readily cut.
     Steel, in those days when steel was a luxury, was made, and,
indeed, is still made, as, again, no doubt you know, by taking the
wrought iron from which the workman had laboriously ejected the
carbon, putting that wrought iron into air-tight firebrick boxes con
taining charcoal, and heating the iron there during many hours.
Under these circumstances the iron, as in the instance of the case-
hardening, took up carbon, and then, the whole being suffered to get
cool, the bars were withdrawn and were found to be covered with
vesicles, and thereupon were called blistered steel. I have a sample of
such a bar before me. Until the middle of the last century these bars
were heated and forged, and were made into the articles required, and
were called shear steel ; and if heated and welded together and re-
forged they were double shear-steel. With such a process of manu
facture as this the product was of necessity very variable in quality, it
was irregularly carbonized, it was subject to the bad welds that I have
mentioned, and it was only due to the experience and dexterity of the
manipulator that useful steel was obtained. About the middle of the
last century, however, Huntsman made the great invention of cast
steel. I have already told you that the heat of an ordinary puddling
furnace, or, indeed, any of the heats of those days, was insufficient to
keep iron, when deprived of nearly all its carbon, in fusion, it being
the carbon that gives the ready fusibility to cast iron. But Huntsman
discovered that the carbon in steel was sufficient, if a very high heat
were got, to admit of fusion. By his process the blister-bars were
                                                              z 2

320                        Mr. F. J. BramweU                    [March 9,
broken up, they were examined to judge by their fracture as to the
amount of carbon they had taken in, and they were then put into
covered crucibles heated by coke fires, where, after many hours'
intense application of heat, and with a large consumption of fuel, the
pieces were molted and a charge of 50 or 60 lb. was obtained. The
pots were then laboriously lifted out by tongs, the legs of the workman
being enveloped in wet bandages to prevent him from being scorched
or from having his clothes set on fire.
     The cover being removed from the pot, the fluid steel was poured
out into an ingot mould, producing an ingot of cast steel. These
ingots were drawn out under the tilt-hammer or were rolled, and in
that way the steel of luxury, of which I have spoken, was made.
This cast steel had the great advantage over the shear steel of being,
at all events so far as each ingot was concerned, a substance of
homogeneity ; but the expense was very great ; there was the expense
of the crucibles, of the labour, and above all of the fuel. As much
as three tons of the highest-priced coke were required to melt a single
ton of steel, even if it were harsh steel, which, from its containing the
greatest amount of carbon, is the most fusible ; and still more was
required if it were desired to melt the milder qualities of cast steel.
For many years, indeed, these mild qualities were not made, and it
was long held that cast steel was not weldable, the fact being that the
cast steel of those days was all too highly carbonized to admit of its
bearing, when at a welding heat, the stroke of the hammer. After a
time, however, the furnaces and pots were improved, and steel so mild
as with great care to admit of welding was produced, and was looked
upon as a great wonder,—weldable cast steel. I may say that pot
steel contained probably in the very harshest, such as that employed
for making files, 1 - 0 to 1 - 2 per cent, of carbon, and in the very
mildest or less fusible steel, five-tenths to six-tenths of 1 per cent.
Not only was steel thus obtained expensive, but it was also limited to
small pieces of 50 or 60 lb., the contents of a crucible ; this objection,
however, was overcomo by, I believe, in the first instance, Krupp,
who, by taking care to have a sufficient number of pots hot at once,
and by drilling his men, succeeded, in 1851, in pouring the pots, pot
after pot, into the desired ingot, so as to form from these petty spoon
fuls, as it were, an ingot weighing as much as 4500 lb. This was
exhibited in the Exhibition of 1851, and was the object of great
admiration ; by 1862, however, Mr. Krupp was enabled to exhibit an
ingot perfectly sound, and of a weight of 20 tons.
    But others had been attempting to improve the manufacture of
steel ; and among these I must bring to your notico the ingenious
French chemist, Chenot, who essayed to get rid of the blast furnace
and the puddling furnace altogether in the preparatory stages, and to
make steel direct from the ore ; and he not only essayed it, but he
effected it. His plan consisted in putting a pure ore into an air-tight
vertical chamber surrounded by a heated central zone, and so con
structed that the ore could be put in at the top and could be drawn off
at the bottom at a considerable distance below this zone of heat, and

 1877.]                     on the Future of Steel.                   o21
 in a cool state. The ore, while in the chamber, was in company with
powdered charcoal, which deoxidized the ore, so that when it was
 withdrawn from the bottom of the furnace it was a sponge of iron,
 that is to say, wrought iron in minute particles accompanied by the
earthy matter of the ore. This sponge was ground, and a portion of
it was treated while cold with resin or fish-oil, or some other car
bonaceous matter ; then the portion thus treated was mingled in any
desired quantity with the untreated powder, the mixture was put into
a machine which, in order to consolidate the powder and make it
occupy less space, formod it into pellets of about the size and shape
of wine corks, these were then placed in ordinary steel melting-
crucibles and were fused. The earthy matter separated and floated
on the surfaco as a viscous glass, while the fluid steel which remained
below was poured into an ingot. Chenot called this process
" cementation a froid." The result was some of the very best steel I
have ever seen. But although it would seem that the process of
making steel direct from the ore should have been a cheap one, it was
not so ; the cost of the melting remained, and the process has not
been pursued to any extent in practice.
     About tho year 1850 a German, Biepe, patented (as a communica
tion) another mode of making steel, which was used to a very con
siderable extent in England ; tho product was known as puddled steel.
     I have mentioned that in converting cast iron into wrought iron in
the puddling furnace, the large quantity of carbon present in pig iron
is practically all driven out ; you will see, therefore, that there must
be a time in the puddling process when the mass still retains just so
much carbon as is required for steel. Biepe's patent was for stopping
tho puddling process at this point, and for bringing out the product
as stool. The patent provided an ingenious plan for enabling tho
workman to make (as was thought) sure of the result; but the
product was an uncertain one, and you will not wonder at this when
I tell you that nowadays the steel manufacturer is careful of his
proportions down to the twentieth of 1 per cent, of carbon.
     We drift into the habit of considering 1 per cent, of anything as
rather a small matter ; 1 per cent, of phosphorus for example. But
is 1 per cent, such a small matter, even when we compare bodies of
equal specific gravities ? I think, as I have already said, we can best
appreciate such facts by the aid of diagrams or of models ; and in this
case, following a suggestion of my friend, Mr. Hawkesley, past President
of tho Institution of Civil Engineers, and President of the Institution
of Mechanical Engineers, I will in this instance use models.
     You see I have here several coloured cubes. I will ask you to
suppose that the large ono (the blue one) represents wrought iron ; it
is exactly 1 cubic foot, 1728 in. I have a yellow cube and a black
cube, each of them is 2 "58 on tho side, and contains therefore 17"28
in., or 1 per cent, of the cubic foot ; and I have two smaller cubes,
yellow and black, each of which is 1 - 2 on the side, and contains
therefore 1 - 728 cubic in., or one-tenth of 1 per cent, of a cubic foot.
Assuming tho yollow and black cubes to represent respectively phos

322                          Mr. F. J. Bramtoell                 [March 9,
phorns and carbon, and that phosphorus and carbon had each the same
specific gravity as iron, the eye tells us that 1 per cent, is a very
appreciable amount, and that even one-tenth of 1 per cent, is by no
means to be despised ; but phosphorus and carbon are both lighter
than iron. Phosphorus I have taken as occupying 4-28 times the
bulk of iron, weight for weight, and carbon in the state of graphite
3 ' 48 times the bulk of iron. Let me now, therefore, substitute cubes
representing the bulk that 1 per cent, and one-tenth of 1 per cent, by
weight of phosphorus and carbon would occupy; you will find the
1 per cent, of carbon is now shown by a cube of 3-92 on a side, and
that one-tenth of 1 per cent, is represented by a cube of as much as
1 ' 82 linear dimensions, while the cubes of phosphorus, which has a
somewhat less specific gravity than graphite, being practically about
one-fourth that of wrought iron, have attained to 4"19 in. for the
 1 per cent., and to 1 - 95 for the one-tenth of 1 per cent.
     Looking at these models, I think we more easily appreciate the
influence that may be exercised by even only one-tenth of 1 per cent.
     To revert to Biepe. He patented (also ns a communi cation) another
 improvement in the steel industry, and an improvement which, unlike
his puddling process, remains. Before his time any article in steel had
 to be made by forging, casting being confined to the forming of the mere
 ingot from which the forgings were produced. The difficulty in casting
 steel was this: if it wero run into moulds of iron, such as those in which
 the ingots were made, it could not be a casting of any curved form
 that would embrace the mould, as that embrace would inevitably break
 the casting in the act of contraction ; moreover, the moulds would be
 costly to make, while, on the other hand, steel could not bo poured
 into moulds made of sand or loam such as are used for iron
 castings, because the excessive heat partially fused the material of the
 mould, and that material was also penetrated by spiculas of steel, and
 the casting was therefore useless. I have experimented upon this
 subject, to try whether it were possible to cast steel in large masses
  (30 cwt. in a piece) in the most carefully prepared mould, such as is
  used for cast iron. I tried to make a toothed pinion for a rolling mill,
  and I thought I had succeeded ; but when I endeavoured to clear out
  what I supposed was the sand from between the teeth, I found a
  mixture of sand and steel that was impossible to remove, and the casting
  was totally useless. Biepe's patent got over the difficulty in this simple
  way : the inventor said, " If your mould were faced with some material
  which has already been subjected to a heat equal to that of melted steel,
  then melted steel would not have much effect upon it ; one of the best
  materials you can use is that of the old crucibles in which steel has
  been melted ; grind these into powder." The objection to this was
  that such powder would not adhere, and the walls of the mould would
  tumble in. This objection was overcome by mixing with the ground
  crucible material an extremely small quantity of fireclay, just enough
  to cement the powder together. With these linings, moulds are com
  petent to receive molted steel just as well as ordinary loam mould

1877.]                      m the Future of Steel.                    323
are to receive fluid iron, and the casting comes out as clean ; and in
this manner we nowadays produce toothed wheels, screw propellers,
and all sorts of castings in steel. This process was first taken up by
Messrs. Vickcrs and Co., of Sheffield, and is now largely used by them
and by other firms. I have samples here of such castings.
     While efforts were being made to perfect the Puddled Steel
process, Bessemer came with his great invention. Leaving out the
early attempts, you know, of course, all of you in this Institution, that
the present apparatus of Bessemer and his process are (briefly stated)
as follows : An egg-shaped vessel, the convertor, with a curved spout
at the top, is mounted upon hollow trunnions through which air is
blown, and passing down suitable conduits at the sides of the vessel,
is received into a chamber below a false bottom, containing numerous
small holes, up through which the air issues into the egg-shaped
vessel. The vessel, being heated, is laid down on its side ; in this
condition it receives molten pig-iron, the blast is put on and then the
vessel is turned vertically, so that the molten iron is supported upon
the perforated floor, if I may so call it, through which the air is
issuing. The iron cannot flow down through the holes on account of
the violence of the upward blast, and thus the molten iron stands on
the top of the holes in the same way as the liquid in the upper part of
a gazogene stands upon the perforated bottom of that vessel. The air
in its passage through the molten iron combines with and burns out
the carbon and silicon, generating heat in so doing, and thereby in
creasing the temperature of the fluid mass, a most necessary thing,
as, from the loss of the carbon, that mass would set or become pasty, if
it were subjected to no higher heat than that which it had when it was
poured into the converter. Further, the air burns a portion of the
iron, and in this way there is produced the final intense heat requisite
for retaining in the fluid state iron practically deprived of its carbon.
As soon as the carbon has been driven off, and the metal has thus
been brought into the condition of fluid wrought iron, the convertor is
again laid down on its side, the blast is stopped, and a certain pro
portion of Spiegeleisen, that is, cast iron containing a large admixture
of carbon and of manganese, is poured in. The carbon restores to the
iron the quantity requisite to convert it into steel ; the manganese
plays a part in neutralizing the bad effects of the shut up, or, as I
believe the scientific term is, occluded oxygen, and probably, as I shall
have occasion to note hereafter, performs other useful offices. But on
this obscure subject of the true function of the manganese I dare not
at present to venture further.
     By the addition of the Spiegeleisen the fluid iron has become fluid
steel ; this is poured into ingots, and those ingots are forged and
rolled into rails, tyres, and other useful forms.
     Now, I told you that for years steel was a luxury ; I had also told
you that it was a luxury people paid for, because in certain cases that
which was to be trusted was worth any money ; and that steel was to
be trusted was a proverb, " As true as steel." But, unhappily, tho
time came when confidence in steel was lost, and its character was

321                         Mr. F. J. Bramwell                [March 9,
gone. The irregularity in the puddled steel did much to lower the
character ; and I regret to say that the employment of steel in civil-
engineering structures, such as bridges, has been retarded until this
very time (for indeed even yet the ban is not removed) by the Board
of Trade, because of their experiments in the year 1860 with puddled
 steel, experiments that did not yield results superior to those obtain
 able from wrought iron. The Bessemer process, although infinitely
 better than Riepe's in the matter of accuracy, and a process which
may be carried out with very considerable approach to certainty of
 result if great care be used, did not in the first instance repair the
 damaged reputation of steel as regarded uniformity. Do not for one
 moment imagine that I am casting any slur upon the Bessemer process.
On the contrary, I wish it to be understood that it Las no more ardent
 admirer than myself, and there is no one more ready to acknowledge
 the enormous stimulus that it gave to the steel trade, by making it
possible to afford to employ steel for purposes from which the price had
previously shut it out. But it was not unnatural, in the earlier days
of the manufacture, that the persons engaged therein wero not alive
to the extreme delicacy required ; and that thus steel was produced
 which, from charge to charge, varied two or throe tenths of a per cent,
of carbon. 1 have already called your attention to the fact that this,
 which, when stated in words, appears to be but a trifling matter, is
 seen to be, when judged of by inspection of models, a serious one ; and
practice proves that it is serious. Bails wero made of such steel, and
 the result was that sometimes the rails were entirely satisfactory,
 while at other times rails which appeared equally good broke under
 the weight of a passing engine, and an accident ensued. Boilers were
 made of steel plates, and it was found that, after punching, the plates
 wero so much weakened that they could not be trusted ; while another
 boiler appeared to be superior to any that had ever been constructed
 of wrought iron. Tests were made, and great diversity was found.
 Somo steel broke with 28 or 30 tons, others supported 50 ; and, as
 the result of these early investigations, steel got so bad a name that
 the prudent man began to think he must give up the idea of steel,
 and go back to iron. Steel manufacturers pointed to tlio fact that the
 average strength of steel was considerably in excess of wrought iron ;
 but the engineer responsible for the safety of structures retorted, and
 with great effect : " The average strength won't do for me ; an average
 may be made up of samples that may have a very high breaking
 resistance, and of others which have a very low one. How can I tell
 that in the structure I am making I may not have the low samples,
 or that I may not have them in certain parts which will bo as fatal
 as though I had them all over ? It will be a very poor consolation
 for some passenger maimed in a railway accidont to be told that I had
 made my calculations upon the average, and that these calculations
 were perfectly right, but that unhappily he had suffered from going
over a structuro which contained a minimum sample." Obviously the
thing needed in structures is not a high average alone, but a high
avoragc coupled with a minimum of variation, a certainty. It is only

1877.]                       on the Future of Steel.                              325
two years ago that Mr. Barnaby, speaking at the Institution of Naval
Architects, after stating the precautions taken in the French Govern
ment yards in the working of steel for ships, said : " I, for one,
should feel very doubtful about a ship built of it for myself, unless I
could see every plate worked."
     Mr. Barnaby was judging fairly enough from that which had been
the case during the infancy of the great wholesale manufacture, but
he was not giving credit for the advance which had been made by tho
able men who had been directing their intellects to the improvement
of the manufacture and to the attainment of certainty. Among these
men was one of the managers of this Institution, Dr. Siemens. He,
as you know, some years before had perfected his excellent invention
of the regenerative gas furnace,* by means of which he is enabled
to attain any heat consistent with the limit of endurance of the fur
nace materials. Armed with this power, he has no difficulty in
keeping pure wrought-iron in fusion, and in keeping it so without
waste, because he can always ensure that the flame (being under
control) shall be neutral, or even reducing. His process of making
steel and the system he employs (as I have had an opportunity of
seeing more than once at the Bandore Steel Works, Swansea, and at
other works) consists, according to one mode, in melting in a regene
rative furnace several tons, 7, 9, 10, or 12, according to the size of
the furnace, of pig iron. To this bath of fluid metal ho adds from
 time to time about 25 per cent, of iron ore. The ore and the pig iron
 react one upon the other ; the carbon of the pig iron and the oxygen
 of the ore unite so as to decarbonize the pig iron and to deoxidize tho
 iron ore, the result being fluid wrought-iron, with scarcely a trace of
 carbon in it. This fluid wrought-iron has added to it an appropriate
 quantity of Spiegeleisen, and in that way the bath is converted into
 steel. The process takes about four hours for the melting of the pig
 iron, about three hours for the addition, by degrees, of the ore, and
 about one hour for taking out specimens and ensuring that the correct
 condition has been arrived at, the power of thus taking specimens and
 adjusting proportions being a great advantage in the Siemens process.
 Then the Spiegeleisen and the tapping require also about an hour,
 and another hour is employed in getting the furnace into condition for
 a further charge, so that about ten to eleven hours elapse from the
 commencement of one chargo to the commencement of the next.
 Practically, including the short day on Saturday, thirteen charges of
 7, 9, or 12 tons are obtained from each furnace per week. Owing to
 the ability of testing the steel material before it is tapped out, this
 mode of manufacture can bo relied upon with the most absolute
 certainty to produco the very steel that tho manufacturer had in
 tended. If it is to contain two-tenths of 1 per cent, of carbon, he
 knows that it has got it, because he knows it was deprived of carbon
 down to say half of one-tenth, and then ho is aware of exactly the
 amount which is put in. A further advantage is that, as regards one-
 fifth of the material (tho iron ore), that fifth has never been contami-
      * ' PrucicUinya of the Kojal Institution,' June 20, 1862, vol. iii. p. 536.

 826                        Mr. F. J. BramioeU                 [March 9,
 nated by exposure to impure fuel or to impure fluxes. Moreover, the
 iron in it, which may be taken at, perhaps, 50 per cent, of tho weight
 of the crude ore, is iron in the very cheapest of all forms. A further
 advantage is that the labour is reduced to a minimum. With the gas
 furnace, the furnace-man has nothing to do with fuel, for that is shot
 out of the railway waggon into the tops of the producers in a very
 wholesale manner and by unskilled men. The furnace-man's work,
 as regards heating the furnace, is confined to turning a tap as he
 would to light the gas in his own room, and to alternate the re
 generator valves every half hour or three-quarters of an hour.
      The sole labour worth talking about consists in putting into the
 baths the 25 per cent, of iron ore during tho three hours out of the
 ten. There is no rabbling, and, in fact, no laborious employment at
 all. But it may be said that the process compares unfavourably with
 tho Bessemer in consequence of the amount of fuel used, for that in
 the Bessemer process no fuel is employed. This is not the place to go
 into commercial statistics ; but if it were, it could be shown that the
 coal required to make the coke for melting the Bessemer pig in the
 first instance, for heating the convertor, for working the blowing
 engines, and for melting tho Spiegeleisen amounts to from 13 to
 14 cwt. per ton of ingots, while 10 cwt. of small coal made into gas
 suffices, by the Siemens process, to make 1 ton of ingots ; moreover,
the ultimate fuel in the Bessemer process is the combustion of a
portion of the iron itself. These, however, are commercial details ; but
 the fact is undoubted, that while by tho Bessemer process, when con
ducted by skilled men thoroughly well acquainted with their business,
trustworthy results can be obtained, by the Siemens process it requires
very great cleverness indeed to obtain an untrustworthy result.
      There is another mode in which the manufacture of steel by tho
Siemens process is carried ont. This consists in melting pig iron as
before ; but instead of its being four-fifths of the total charge, it is
now only two-sevenths. Into this melted pig-iron ore, deprived in a
previous process of its oxygen, is introduced, either in the shape of
spongy iron, or in a more consolidated form as a ball or bloom,
produced direct from the ore in a rotatory furnace. In the absence of
this deoxidized ore, and for the purpose of using up old materials,
wrought scrap, such as worn rails and matters of that kind, or what
are known as the " skulls," thut is to say, steel which has set and
adhered to the sides of the ladles, may be put into the baths. These
readily melt down and dissolve in the high heat of a Siemens furnace
when in contact with the carbonaceous pig-iron ; then a small per
centage of ore is added to get rid of the carbon of the pig. It has
long been thought that phosphorus was absolutely destructive of good
steel; but this is not so, provided that it be accompanied by an
increase in the dose of manganese. Phosphorus appears not only to
be harmless for many purposes, but to replace the carbon ; and thus it
is that if the old iron contain phosphorus, the bath being treated with
ferro-manganeso instead of the Spiegeleisen yields good steel, although
there may be in it as much as ono-fourth of 1 per cent, of phosphorus.

1877.]                     on the Future of Steel.                   327
    I have already quoted to you Mr. Bamaby's remarks made at the
Naval Architects' meeting in 1875, when he expressed his doubts as
to the suitability of steel for the building of ships. In 1876, after he
had investigated the matter further, and had seen what could be done,
he said, speaking of certain samples of steel, that they were a
splendid material, such as shipbuilders might use with a very great
deal of confidence. "My remarks," said he, "last year were taken
somewhat unkindly, as I thought, by the Bessemer steel makers ; and
I would ask the gentlemen in the room now, who know most about
the matter, whether we have not since last year got a material better
suited for ship-building than we had then seen ? "
    I was going to say steel is getting back its character. I believe I
may truly say it has got back its character. At all events the
Admiralty show their confidence by using it. They demand that
when tested, every sample, if 8 inches long, shall elongate at least 20
per cent, before ultimate fracture, and also that every sample, after
being heated and quenched in cold water, should be capable of being
bent cold (the radius of curvature being not more than three-fourths
the thickness of the sample) without any distress whatever being
evinced by the metal. I believe I am correct in saying, that every
sample out of fourteen thousand which have been tested at Landore
has fulfilled these conditions. It has not been a question of averages,
but each sample has fulfilled the conditions.
     But the fact is, that such material will stand far more severe tests
than this. I will ask your attention to these samples, folded and re
folded quite flat when cold and after quenching. I have hung on the
 wall a rough diagram of the testing machine used at the Landore
Works. You will see that the sample to be torn asunder is tested in a
vertical position, and is held at its lower extremity in a shackle
attached to a strong adjusting screw, while the upper part is fast to a
similar shackle, which holds down the short end of the main lever.
 This lever is carried on knife-edges, and has a working end twenty
times as long as the short one, so that each hundredweight suspended
to the long end gives a ton strain to the sample. At the working end
 there is an hydraulic ram, which upholds the lever while the weight
 is being applied ; as soon as it is in its place a valve is opened, the
 water is suffered to run slowly out from below the ram, and thus tho
 weight is brought gradually on the specimen. Fractions of a ton are
 applied by sliding the small weight along the beam. By such an
 apparatus as this the experiments can bo accurately although rapidly
 conducted, and the amount of extension, the elastic limit, and tho
 strain required for rupture can all be ascertained.
     I wish at this point to make some observations upon testings,
 which testings, I think, have led the public to believe in higher
 results than have really been obtained. I have before me on the table
 the samples 8 inches long I have previously referred to, which samples
 have been tested for tho Admiralty at the Landore Works ; and to
 render more intelligible that which I am about to say, I have hung a
 diagram upon the wall, of the appcaranco presented by such samples ;

328                         Mr. F. J. Bramtcell                 [March 9,
you will see that at the point of fracture the width is diminished
 to about 80 per cent., and the thickness to about 80 per cent., so that
 the area of the fracture is rather more than five-eighths of that pos
 sessed by the original metal. You will also see that this diminution has
 not extended throughout the whole 8 inches, but that, on the contrary,
 it prevails only at the very point of fracture, and that the area greatly
 increases for about 1 inch each way. The elongation in the whole
 8 inches has been 2^, or above 25 per cent., instead of the 20 per
 cent, contracted for ; but if the 2 inches bordering upon the fracture
 alone were taken, it would be found the percentage of stretch in those
 2 inches would be as much as 50 per cent. ; and thus it is that by
 referring the extension at rupture to short samples, very high ratios
 of extension have been published, ratios which, as I have said, may,
 if not explained, lead to erroneous impressions.
     I have thought it might be interesting to you to see a samplo
tested ; and, thanks to tho kindness of the authorities at the Museum
of Economic Geology, who have lent me the apparatus, I am able
to show this to you. I have added a pointer, to indicate the extension
within tho elastic limits, and also the extension up to rupture. Tho
pointer exaggerates the movement ten times.
     [The image of the specimen was thrown upon the screen, so that
 the change of shape preceding the moment of rupture was seen.]
     I have here another sample of steel which has been torn asunder.
 This is a material intended for the outside of cannon, where the
requirements are, comparatively little extension but great ultimate
strength. The elongation here in the 8 inches has only been 14 per
 cent., while the ultimate tension has been 50 tons per inch.
     I need hardly toll this meeting that for all purposes of railway
 structure, railway axles, tyres, and in other instances where shock or
 impact have to be resisted by a material, the mere power of withstand
 ing a steady strain is not sufficient. "What is required is the ability
 to demand a considerable amount of mechanical force to be exerted to
 cause rupture—that is to say, the ability to resist " work done."
     Supposing that I had a material which would only bear one ton to
the inch, but which would extend 100 per cent, before rupture; then a
bridge made of such a material would bear a very light load only
 without beginning to yield, but no amount of shock would make it
break suddenly ; one sees that it would continue to stretch and stretch.
That would bo a useless material. Suppose, on the other hand, I had
a material that would bear 100 tons upon tho inch, but which would
only elongate one thousandth of 1 per cent, before fracture; that would
be, again, wholly unfit, because the smallest shock would break it; it
would be as brittle as glass. That which is required, therefore, is tho
union of the two qualities, the great strength and the great elasticity.
When the product of these two is a maximum, then the maximum of
safety is attained in structures exposed to shock. Steel which will
bear 30 tons, and will elongate 20 per cent., would obviously require
                                 30
in a length of 100 a power of -n by 20 ( = 300) to break one square

 1877.]                    on the Future of Steel.                     329
 inch.    If it would bear 40 tons, and woidd elongate 15 par cent., it
                                      40
 would equally require a power of — x 15 (= 300) to effect rupture ;
                                       &
 or if it would bear 60 tons, and would yield only 10 per cent., it again
would require a power of 300. Now, according to the purpose to
which the steel has to be applied, it may be desirable to increase the
 power of resisting the quiescent load or to increase the power of exten
sion ; but that which should be aimed at is obviously tho faculty of
 increasing both these in the same sample ; and I am sorry that any
 precaution as regards tests should be taken which deters the manu
facturer from improvement in this direction ; but such precautions are
taken. It is known that it is possible to make a steel which will not
bear more than 30 tons per square inch without rupture, but which
will certainly extend 20 per cent, in 8 inches beforo that rupture takes
place. There are persons who prescribe tests who are content with
this condition of things, and in order to ensure it they absolutely forbid
the steel being made to bear more than the 30 tons. To my mind th's
is to be regretted. I should have thought the right thing to do would
bo to say, " We will have our 20 per cent, in the 8 inches of extension ;
we will not have a less ultimate tensile strain than 30 tons ; but wo
shall be very much obliged to you to give us as much greater a tensile
strain, so long as it is accompanied by no decrease in extension, or in
other qualities, as your knowledge of steel manufacture can enable you
with certainty to give."
     I told you that tho civil engineer had suffered from tho Board of
Trade having experimented in the year 1860 with puddled steel. In
England, therefore, the very birthplace of tho great steel industry, in
contradistinction to the limited luxurious steel industry, the civil
engineer has been unable up to the present time to use steel in railway
bridges, because up to the present time steel (cheap as it has become)
has always been dearer than wrought iron, woight for weight, although
not dearer of late years when considered in relation to its power of sup
porting strains. But cheap as it has been, tho English engineer has
not been able to use it, because the Board of Trade will not recognize
it as being a more valuable material than wrought iron ; and therefore
if the engineer were to use steel, he would be compelled to employ just
as much weight of steel as he would employ of iron if he used wrought
iron.
     In Holland the civil engineer is allowed to use steel in his bridges,
and it is treated as it deserves to be, as a metal competent to bear
a greater strain than wrought iron ; but in England tho unhappy
puddled-steel experiment stands in the way. I am glad to say, how
ever, that by the insistance of Sir John Hawkshaw, in the first case,
and then by that of a Committee of tho British Association, inaugurated
at the Bradford meeting by Mr. William Henry Barlow, President of
the Mechanical Section, of which Committee Sir John Hawkshaw is a
member, the Board of Trade are, I believe, being brought to a duo
appreciation of tho present state of tho steel manufacture ; and I do,

330                         Mr. F. J. Bramwdl                   [March 9,
hope that ere long English engineers may not be debarred from making
railway bridges of large spans, which they could well do were they
allowed to use steel at its reasonably safe valuo.
     Let me remind you that it is not a mere question of tho weight
and cost of bridges which is here involved, but it is a question of the
maximum span that can practically be attained; and in respect of
this question I do not think I can do better than quote from Mr.
Barlow's address delivered at Bradford :
     "We know from established mechanical laws that tho limiting
spans of structures vary directly as the strength of the material
employed in their construction, when the proportion of depth to span
and all other circumstances remain the same. We know also that,
taking an ordinary form of open wrought-iron detached girder (as, for
example, when tho depth is one-fourteenth of the span), the limiting
span in iron, with a strain of five tons to the inch upon tho metal, is
about 600 feet ; and it follows that a steel girder of like proportions,
capable of bearing eight tons to the inch, would have theoretically a
limiting span of 960 feet.
     " This theoretical limiting span of 960 feet would, however, be re
duced by some practical considerations connected with the minimum
thickness of metal employed in certain parts, and it would, in effect,
become about 900 feet for a girder of the before-mentioned construc
tion and proportions.
     " The knowledge of the limiting span of a structure, as has been
explained elsewhere, enables us to estimate very quickly, and with
close approximation to the truth, the weight of girders required to
carry given loads over given spans ; and although the limiting spans
vary with every form of structure, we can obtain an idea of the effect
of introducing steel by the relative weights of steel and iron required
in girders of the kind above mentioned.
     " Assuming a load, in addition to the weight of the girder, of ono
ton to the foot, the relative weights under these conditions would be
as follows :
                        Span.     Weight of     Weight of
                                 Steel Girder. Iron Girder.
                                     torn.         tons.
                         200           57          100
                         800          150          300
                         400         820           800
     I must not leave the history of that which has been done to render
 steel trustworthy without alluding to a particular defect that frequently
occurred in the Bessemer ingot, and to the manner in which Sir
Joseph Whitworth, that most distinguished amongst English scientific
mechanics, has succeeded in curing that defect ; I refer to tho cavities
that wore sometimes found in the interior of the Bessemer ingots,

1877.]                         on the Future of Steel.                            331
cavities which, when they did occur, interfered permanently with the
strength of the article provided from such ingots ; because, although
the action of powerful hammers might close the cavities, it was im
possible for their sides, at the temperature at which steel is worked, to
be brought into actual metallic union. Sir Joseph Whitworth has
devised an apparatus by which the steel in the act of cooling can be
subjected to very heavy pressure, and by which therefore the cavities
may be prevented from forming, or may be materially diminished in
extent. Sir Joseph has obtained some very remarkable results ; but I
will not pursue this branch of steel improvement further, because it
has been brought before the members of this Institution on a previous
occasion by Professor Tyndall.*
     I think it right, however, to say that many steel manufacturers of
large experience hold that with steel made by the pot process or by the
Siemens process, sound ingots may be obtained without the application
of high pressure ; and I would on this subject ask your attention to a
 slice of the head of an ingot which has been polished and sent here by
 Messrs. Vickers and Co., of Sheffield.
     I think, on inspection after the lecture, you will find it to be
absolutely sound; and you must remember that this slice is taken from
the upper part, and therefore presumably the least sound part of the
large mass, the lower portion of which has been forged into a crank.
Messrs. Vickers write to me that they are making at the rate of two
 such crank-forgings a day, and that they can confidently say every one
of the ingots is as free from cavities as is this sample.
                                The Future of Steel.
     I embrace within the title of steel any material which is composed
 of iron united with a very small proportion of carbon, or of some
 other alloy, a material which has been in fusion and is malleable.
     I believe the application of steel to railways will be universal.
 For the rails it is now as commonly employed for new rails as is
 wrought iron itself. For wheel tyres it is used in all cases where
 excellence is wanted. For the locomotive engine I believe I am right
 in saying that Mr. Webb, of Crewe, has made every part of a locomotive
 engine which had been previously made of wrought iron (or of brass
 in the case of the tubes for the boiler), of steel ; steel frame, steel
 wheels, steel tyres, steel boiler, barrel, fire-box, and tubes ; and with
 respect to the bridges and other works on the line itself, I do hope, as
 I have said, that the Board of Trade difficulty will be removed, and
 that we shall see steel girder bridges of every construction. I have
 mentioned Mr. Webb's name and the extension he has given to the use
 of steel. He informs me that after years of careful observation he
 came to the conclusion that steel was so far superior to wrought iron
 for all the purposes for which the Crewe works supplied that first of
  our railways, the London and North-Western, that he has entirely
       * ' Proceedings of the Royal Institution,' June 4, 1875, vol. vii. p. 524.

 332                       Mr. F. J. Bramwell                     [March 9,
 abandoned the making of wrought iron at those works, stool having
 superseded it.
     With respect to ships, the Admiralty, as I have told you, are now
 using steel ; its future there is assured. With respect to boilers, it
 answers for the locomotive with" its 140 lb. of steam, and I believe
 it will succeed for all boilers in regular work ; but with respect to the
 boilers of the Royal Navy, the principal enemy of which is corrosion
 from want of use, and is not deterioration by ordinary wear, it remains
 to be seen whether this enemy may not be more prejudicial to mild
 steel than it is to iron.
     Wire ropes for collieries and for steam-ploughing have for years
 past been made of steel ; telegraph wires are made of steel ; cannon,
 when built up in separate hoops, are most advantageously mado of
steel, because the required variation in elasticity can be given to each
hoop. The shot and shells for cannon can advantageously be made of
steel. I have hero samples on the table from Landore.
     The so-called tinplates, the plates from which tin pots and all
 the other tinman's ware are made, aro now made from steel. This
material for tinned plates must be such as to admit of severe bending,
to enable the joints and seams of such ware to bo executed ; for this
purpose the very best charcoal-iron was used ; this is now replaced by
steel plates, of which we have samples from Landore before us.
     Reverting to that branch of modern steel manufacture, the casting
by tho Riepe process, we find that screw-propeller blades, church
bells, large toothed wheels, and, indeed, every conceivable thing in
which great strength is demanded, can be, and is already, to a large
extent, made in steel. Looking at these multifarious uses, it appears
to me that the future of steel is assured.
     To test the extent of this future, let us ask ourselves this question,
For what purpose to which wrought iron is now applied may steel
not bo beneficially substituted ? for that is the shortest way of taking
it. Well, it may be said that for these purposes, where welding is
absolutely necessary, steel welds badly. This is really not the case.
It does not weld badly, although I admit that up to the present time
it does not weld with tho samo facility as does wrought iron. But it
does weld, and thoroughly. Is it desired to have toughness? Wo
have got it. Twenty per cent, of extension in such samples as these.
Is it desired to have enormous tenacity ? We have got it. Fifty tons
to the inch in such samples as these, over 100 tons in the case of wire.
Is it desired to have homogeneous character? and most certainly that
is much to be desired. See what has happened to the split-up iron
rail. See what has happened to tho shelly boiler-plate. Then this
material, steel, which has been in fusion, has got that homogeneous
character in perfection. Is it desired to have certainty of manufac
ture ? We have now got that. Onco more you may say, without fear
of contradiction, " As truo as steel." You may rely on it for every
purpose for which you intend to use it. Is it desired to have cheap
ness? We have got that. Strength for strength, steel is now as

1877.]                   on the Future of Steel                      333
cheap or cheaper than wrought iron. Under these circumstances I
cannot see how, for these great and important uses, wrought iron is to
hold its own. It demands a more expensive process of manufacture,
involving more manual labour, more fuel, and more skill than the
manufacture of steel by the Siemens process, and it is far more un
certain in its result. But at present it is possible to use ores for tho
purpose of making wrought iron, which cannot be employed, so far as
chemical knowledge yet guides us, for the making of steel, although
even such ores, when passed through a preparatory process, may
advantageously bo converted into steel. I do not say that tho manu
facture of wrought iron by the puddling process will absolutely cease,
even if chemistry should teach us how to utilise all kinds of ore in
the steel manufacture. I think the village blacksmith stylo of forging
(the handicraftsman) will always keep up a petty demand for puddled
wrought-iron ; for that material can be brought into a very plastic
condition, and one much more amenable to treatment by the hand
hammer than is the material steel. Moreover, as I have said, wrought
iron welds with great facility. But for all the great purposes, in my
opinion it will not be many years before the puddled wrought-iron
manufacture will be an extinct industry, and, except for the potty
purposes I have mentioned, iron will be used in only two forms,
cast iron, which will be retained for those purposes where massiveness
is required, as in the case of bridges having good foundations, where
pressure only has to be exerted, as upon columns, and where complex
outlines and ornamentation are required, as in castings for railings
and matters of that kind.
    I have before me a beautiful specimen of art work, work in cast
iron, which is typical of a domain of cast iron proper, that of ornamen
tation, which, I believe, will never be invaded by steel. Messrs.
Barnard, Bishop, and Barnard, of Norwich, the makers of the Sand-
ringham gates, the Norwich gates of tho 1862 Exhibition (which gates
wero, however, all of wrought iron), have at my request sent mo
samples of foliage executed in malleable cast-iron, wherein is com
bined the facility of original manufacture due to a fluid metal,
coupled with the endurance arising from the toughness of wrought
iron, and united also with the power of varying the form of
tho cast foliage at the will of the artist by bending. For such
purposes as these cast iron will remain. Wrought iron, as I have
said, except for the village blacksmith's purposes, and except it be to
utilise iron ores which at the present time we do not know how to
make into steel, is, I believe, doomed. Tho Future of Steel, there
fore, in my view, is practically the occupation of tho whole province
that was previously filled by steel and by wrought iron ; and further,
that part of the province of cast iron, such as toothed wheels and
castings of that kind, where, to give adequate strength, wrought iron
would have been used had not tho complexity of the form prohibited
its employment, but where now, thanks to JRiepe's patent, steel may
be melted and made to flow into the desired shapes.
                                                             IF T B 1
    Vol. VIII. (No. 66.)                                      2 a'


           IRopal Institution of ®reat firftafa.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                      Friday, February 23, 1877.
      Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                John Fletcher Moulton, Esq. M.R.I.
                           Matter and Ether.
 All are familiar with the process by which the discovery of the laws
 that govern phenomena is effected. Close study of various instances
of some one phenomenon, with their general likeness and their
individual peculiarities, leads, either by the slow process of trial and
error or by some happy guess, to the discovery of the law to which
the observed variations all conform. When this is once ascertained,
the whole group of phenomena fall into harmony, and instead of a
mass of separate observations, science soems but the exemplification
of a single law. This step in the simplification and unification of
nature taken, the human mind is free to seek further conquests. But
great as is the advanco made by such a step, the mind cannot rest
content with it. The dry mathematical expressions which we know
as the laws of nature, are soon felt to assuage scientific curiosity to a
very imperfect degree. No sooner have we discovered tho law that
governs any set of phenomena, than we are irresistibly drawn to ask
the question, How comes it that this is the governing law ? of what
set of hidden causes is it the outcome ? And thus wo are led to seek
for the mechanism of nature and to find the physical causes of its
laws. Nay, we go further ; we cannot bo content till we discover the
nature and properties of the subject matter of its phenomena, and can
deduce from these the previously discovered laws as necessary con
sequences. And tho complete realization of one part, at least, of this
search, is not beyond the bounds of possibility. It probably will
some day be known to the human race that the whole of nature is but
the manifestation of a very few distinct physical existences, possessed
of known properties of so simple a kind and so universal in their
presence that experience can never onablo us to analyze them farther.
The possible forms assumed by these elements will be deducible from
their properties ; and the more complex laws that will regulate the
behaviour of the resulting substances, will be problems determinablo
from their known structure. Thus all nature will bo theoretically
the resultant of tho interaction of known agencies, and the solution
will be complete, even though the stupendous difficulties of the analysis
    Vol. VIII. (No. 67.)                                      2 r

336                      Mr. J. Fletcher Moullon                [Feb. 23,
necessary to deduce the laws of even the more simple phenomena
from the properties of these elements should compel the men of that
far distant future to arrive at laws by induction from experiment, just
as we do now already in the simplest of all sciences—astronomy. In
this science, the phenomena of which are due to only four laws, each
of which is capable of statement in most simple terms, the complexity
of the analysis well-nigh drives astronomers to abandon calculation
for observation, in the more delicate refinements of accuracy in which
 they indulge. Similar considerations will always operate to keep
 distinct the sciences that deal with distinct classes of phenomena, long
 after it has become a recognized truth that they are all the more or
 less complex manifestations of some few known elemental, physical
 existences. And certainly no considerations of the limits of possible
 success can avail to destroy the fascination of researches into the
 ultimate constitution of the existences of which nature is built up—the
 minute anatomy of the universe.
      But although investigations of this nature are so interesting, and
 promise not only success, but success of the highest order, and
 although the interest of the research is common to the devotees of
 every science, inasmuch as it deals with that which underlies them
  all, it is most remarkable thnt so little advance has been made in this
  direction. And not only is it the case that we are compelled to admit
  that our ignorance of the ultimate constitution of matter is well-nigh
  as dense now as it ever was, but if we examine the attempts at
  solving the problem, hitherto made, they strike us at once as having
  the strangest characteristics. While in most of the other regions of
  research the results of all investigators have a certain family
  likeness, and the theories they propose—though perhaps mutually
  exclusive—have many points in common, yet here we find that the
  different solutions proposed have the wildest dissimilarity, and many
  of them present so fantastic an appearance, that it is difficult to
  believe that they are the productions of the sober investigators whose
  names they bear. We are too apt to pass lightly over the lesson
   taught us by the contemporaneous existence of the corpuscular and
   the undulatory theories of light. That two theories so diametrically
  opposite in nature, hypothesizing such utterly different constructions
  and properties of matter, could at a time not so very long past have
  been considered as possessing tolerably equal claims to acceptance,
  opens up a vista of ignorance as to the ultimate constitution of matter
  which is very humiliating. Nor will it suffice to say that those were
   the days when true science was in its infancy. Though the dispute
   between the two theories of light was speedily settled by the com
   plete defeat of the corpuscular theory, and our ignorace of the real
   mechanism that produces and transmits light was rendered thereby
   less total—in fact we may say that it was so far dispelled that only
   those capable of thoroughly understanding the subject, can feel the
   difficulties and imperfections of the accepted theory—yet similar
   struggles are still going on in other kindred subjects, and for them

1877.]                     on Matter and Ether.                      337
no such excuse can be pleaded. Take, for instance, electricity and
magnetism. Our knowledge of their phenomena is extraordinarily wide ;
such a book as Wiedemann's ' Galvanismus ' shows an accumulation of
observations on one simple branch of the subject that can scarcely be
paralleled in any other science. Yet if we look at the rival theories
as to the nature of electricity, and its connection with matter, they
seem so grotesque and so dissimilar—so like mere guesses in short —
that we can scarcely help fancying that we are back in the days of
Lucretius, when the best qualification for being a philosopher was to
be an imaginative poet. And indeed in fertility of imagination, the
authors of such theories as those to which we are referring seem not un
worthy rivals of the Roman poet, and they make similar demands on
our powers of belief. Weber and Ampere's ideas of magnetism being
caused by each molecule of matter having its own special electric
current circulating round it everlastingly ; Poisson's idea that it is
caused by each molecule being permeated by two mutually neu
tralizing fluids, capable of being separated by external attraction, but
incapable of being removed from the molecule ; the rival theories of
two fluids, of one fluid, and of no fluid, in electricity, the numerous
theories as to the nature of the luminiferous ether and its relation to
matter, and the vortex theory of atoms, suffice to show that no
effective check has as yet been placed on the free use of the imagina
tion in this department of research, and seem to give some colour to
the suggestion that the intolerance of credulity, professed by men of
science, is easily relaxed by them in favour of their own pet
theories.
    The chief and immediate cause of this is not far to seek. Any
attempt to arrive at the hidden mechanism which causes a pheno
menon, must be a direct reflex of the knowledge and the ignorance of
the age in which it is made. Let us take the case of some ingenious
machine performing some known operations. If a person wholly
ignorant of mechanism, save so far as the objects of common life teach
it to intelligent observers, were to attempt to solve the problem of its
construction, he would seek for some arrangement of levers or other
mechanical appliances of the simplest and most elementary nature,
which would give the desired result. If a mechanician were to apply
himself to the same problem, he would have present to his mind all
the refinements of mechanical science, and would probably arrive at
a solution, no portion of which would resemble the one composed of
the simpler elements, while his might in no respect resemble that
which would be arrived at by one who, in addition to possessing a
knowledge of mechanism, was also a skilled electrician. Each of the
solutions would consist of the elements which the experience and
knowledge of the maker enabled him to use, and there would be no
probability of any of them representing the actual construction of the
machine in question, unless the artifices used in its. construction were
such as were known to some of the persons who were thus attempting
to reconstruct it. Just so is it with the attempts we make to arrive
                                                            2 r 2

338                      Mr. J. Fletcher Moulton                [Feb. 23,
at the mechanism of nature. They are charged to the full with our
ignorance. If we happen to be acquainted with structure similar to
tho actual structure sought for, then success is possible, and some
discoverer will in all probability arrive at a close approximation to
the real state of things. If wo do not, then all our efforts will but
lead us to the discovery of a possible mechanism—one which might cause
the phenomenon, but which is not the one which actually does cause it ;
and with this we must rest content, till in some way or other our know
ledge of possible elements of construction is widened, when we may
return again to the problem and find a new solution, which may in
its turn have to be replaced by future ones. Take, for example, the
question of the structure of matter. Matter was known to move with
little or no resistance through the ether, to attract other matter, to bo
capable of great complexity in its nature, inasmuch as the light pro
ceeding from elements, when in a state of incandescent gas, shows that
they are capable, of a large number of fundamental vibrations. To
explain all this many most ingenious hypotheses were devised, both
as to other and matter ; molecules or atoms were viewed as complex
arrangements of parts vibrating or revolving under their mutual
attractions. Ether was made an imponderable. Space was filled with
ultra-mundane corpuscles, which, by their perpetual rain on all masses
of solid matter, caused the phenomenon of gravitation. At length
Helmholtz discovered vortex-motion. Vortex-rings were found to
move with little or no resistance in the medium, whether fluid or
gaseous, in- which they were formed ; they were sensible of the
presence of one another though not in contact ; they were capable of
being made to have the most intricate forms, and to take up the most
complicated systems of vibrations. Instantly a vortex-theory of matter
was devised, which has very much to recommend it, and which is at
present the one in highest favour. But just as it was only rendered
possible by Helmholtz's discovery of the new form of motion after
which it is named, so it may in its turn have to give way to other
theories which enlarged knowledge shall have enabled us to suggest.
     The difficulty at once suggests itself, that if we admit that these
theories as to the actual mechanism of nature are so intimately
dependent on the state of the ignorance or knowledge in which we
are when they are framed, how can it be right to attach any credence
to them ? How can we believe a theory at the same time that we
admit that it will bo probably displaced by another and a different
one which will have at least as high claims to our belief? Science
would at once lose all claim to be called the strictest school of belief,
if it countenanced any such moral gymnastics as a belief which could
thus co-exist with disbelief. And yet so great is the assistance
derived from a well-constructed theory as to tho mechanism producing
phenomena, that she cannot afford to allow all efforts at solving such
problems to be delayed until there comes a stage of such perfect know
ledge, that the mind might claim to be capable of pronouncing on
them with certainty—if indeed such a time could ever come. So she

1877.]                      on Matter and Ether.                      339
boldly faces the difficulty of which we have spoken —the difficulty of
showing any other choice open to scientific men, than either to be
credulous or to be timid—by distinctly recognizing a class of scien
tific fictions, or, as they are usually called, hypotheses. These are
theories as to the mechanism of nature which, either completely or
to a great extent, account for some set of phenomena, and which
therefore, so far as our knowledge goes, may correctly describe the
whole or some part of the actual cause of the phenomena, i. e. the
mechanism that produces them.
     Nothing is more important in scientific thought than to dis
tinguish between these hypotheses and laws. The discoverer of
laws has nothing to do with actual causes. Ho only notices and
formulates connections and relations between phenomena, and these
formulations are laws. So far as the law is concerned, it is im
material whether the one of two connected phenomena is the cause
or the effect of the other , or whether the relation between them
arises from their being both connected with a third phenomenon ;
the law is equally true in all cases. So long as the induction
which has led to it has been duly and carefully performed, it is true
and will never be displaced or superseded, however mistaken wore the
ideas which its framer possessed of the nature or causes of the pheno
mena to which it relates. Newton was quite right when he said,
hypotheses non Jingo ; for the portion of his great achievements to which
he was referring consisted in the demonstration of the existence of
certain laws, and not in the explanation of their causes. But he, as
well as all other great men of science, when the right time came, was
ready to frame hypotheses, to start those scientific fictions, which were
to be thankfully received, studied, tested, respected, worked from, and
in short, everything but actually believed in. And he least of all
would have, on the one hand, despised these tentative solutions, or, on
the other hand, lightly believed in their truth. The whole of his
work shows that ho appreciated tho full value of hypotheses, a value
which it is difficult to express clearly, but which every learner or
teacher of science feels only too keenly. For, without some guiding
idea as to tho nature and causes of phenomena, the mind is very
sluggish in devising good methods of investigation ; but so soon as a
good hypothesis has been formed, it is so suggestive of fields of
research and of experiments, that, whether it be true or false, there
follows an immediate and rapid increase of knowledge. For a hypo
thesis may bo a good one without being a true one. It may render
the greatest assistance to the mind, it may be so well chosen that it
accounts for kindred phenomena, not known at the time when it was
first suggested, it may lead to tho discovery of new laws, and it may
enable calculations to be made which are of the highest value, and yet
it may turn out to be radically false. Even the theory that heat was
an imponderable fluid, might put forth a strong claim to our gratitude
for the assistance it gave to early discoveries. To be thus useful for
a time, it is not necessary that the assigned mechanism should be the

340                       Mr. J. Fletcher Motdton                 [Feb. 23,
true one, but only that the laws that result from its structure should
closely correspond with the more potent of the laws that actually
direct the observed phenomena. And just as this is all that a hypo
thesis need do, so is it all that its success entitles us to believe that it
is doing ; and the true scientific attitude of mind towards hypotheses
is to recognize them as describing causes which would produce results
similar to those observed, and which, if not truly representing the
mechanism which actually causes the results, at all events would
produce results governed by the same laws.
    How then are we to take the further step of selecting from
amongst those rival hypotheses, each of which professes to give some
mechanism able to produce a particular set of phenomena, the one
that actually represents the mechanism by which the phenomena are
in fact produced? This is the most serious and the most difficult
step in discovery. And yet, at first sight, considering how complex
are the phenomena that have to be explained, it would seem that any
theory that succeeded in accounting for even a portion of them must
be very near to the truth ; and it is so usual to consider that this is the
final and sufficient test of the claims of a hypothesis, viz. that it
should suffice to account for the phenomena, that when they are very
complex it is often considered a more than sufficient test, and the
hypothesis is accepted in spite of its being in many respects
undeniably deficient. But, in fact, so soon as we begin to apply
ourselves seriously to the problems of tho constitution of matter—
the hidden mechanism of nature —we are forced to abandon in great
measure all such ideas. For we find that we have no true measure of
complexity. From one single simple law will follow the most various
and complex results, and hence any mechanism so designed as to
exemplify in its results the working of that single law would, under
such a canon as the one just referred to, be able to claim as evidence of
its truth all the complexity which follows from that law. Yet such
evidence would equally avail to support the claims of any other
mechanism, whose results similarly obeyed that law, and of such
mechanisms there might be many. This has been often exemplified
in the history of science. The truth of a hypothesis has appeared to
be sufficiently demonstrated by the manner in which it fully accounted
for complex phenomena, and it has been accepted as a physical truth
on such grounds, until some other hypothesis has been shown equally
capable of accounting for them ; and the success of both has been
subsequently traced to their alike leading to results that were
obedient to some ono fundamental law, to the working of which the
whole of the observed complexity was due. In the history of such
deep-reaching principles as that of the Conservation of Energy this
has been a common occurrence ; but other instances are not wanting.
After Sir W. R. Hamilton had deduced theoretically from Fresnel's
Theory of Light, that in biaxal crystals there must be internal and
external conical refraction, and their existence had been thereupon
experimentally demonstrated by Dr. Lloyd, one might well havo fancied
that the accuracy of so remarkable a prognostication was sufficient

1877.]                     on Matter and Ether.                       341
to establish Fresnel's Theory in all its details. Yet a theory framed
by Cauchy, which, though in many respects similar to Fresnel's
Theory, is yet in fact wholly irreconcilable with it, was subsequently
found to account equally for the phenomena ; and it is probable that
any theory of undulatory transmission in a non-isotropic medium
might be made to do the like. In fact, we can express in abstract
language the weakness of the canon which would make the accept
ance of a theory follow from its success in explaining complex
phenomena, by saying that to render the canon a good one, com
plexity must be measured, not by the apparent intricacy of the result
ing phenomena, or the apparent difficulty of accounting for them, but
by the number of independent laws by which the phenomena are
governed, and which are successfully accounted for by the proposed
mechanism. And as we are seldom in a position to pronounce on the
question of the independence of the laws that govern a set of
phenomena, i.e. as to whether they are all traceable to a very few
fundamental laws or not, we are seldom able to estimate the complexity
of those phenomena in the way that would alone justify us in taking
it as sufficient warrant for the acceptance of a successful hypothesis.
    Nor is this the only one of the well-tried and approved canons of
discovery that fails us when we are engaged in researches in the
unknown land of the ultimate constitution of that of which the
universe is composed. There is no principle which is more con
stantly present to the mind of the scientific investigator in his search
for the causes of phenomena than that of simplicity. Wondrously
complex as are the processes that are going on all around us in
nature—so apparently complex that the untaught mind has in all
ages sought to ascribe them, in a greater or less degree, to conscious
ness and volition resident in the things themselves, or in beings
possessing the power to direct them—science has so often found
that these highly complex results come from the very simplest causes,
that the investigator expects to find simplicity in his results, and
naturally inclines to believe that explanation to be the true one which
accounts in the most simple manner for the observed phenomena.
This has been advanced by some persons almost to the dignity of a
law of thought, and the mind is considered by them to be constrained
to believe in the truth of the simplest hypothesis that explains a set
of phenomena to the exclusion of all more complex ones.
    It is not very easy satisfactorily to account for the undoubted value
of this canon, viz. that the simplest hypothesis is probably the true
one. That there can be any truth in it in its abstract form (as is
generally understood) is not probable. There is no reason to think
that naturo has any preference for simplicity over complexity, if
indeed it is possiblo to attach any meaning to such phrases. The
deeper our knowledge becomes, the greater the complexity that
confronts us, and the fainter our hope of finding that the ultimate
solution will be a simple ono. It is probable that much of the value
of the canon arises from the fact that the simpler hypothesis will in
general be the one that supposos the concurrent action of the fewest

342                      Mr. J. Fletcher Moultm                [Feb. 23,
 independent causes ; and it is, of course, more probable that a smaller
 number of independent causes should co-operate than that a larger
number should do so. But the value of the canon mainly lies in the
 view which the mind instinctively takes of simplicity. That is to us
 simple which is the result of means and processes to which we are
thoroughly accustomed, and with the results of which we are fully
familiar. Operations the most complex in their nature are often
felt to be simple, and scarcely to need any explanation, solely because
they are so common. It seems, for instance, almost superfluous to
invent elaborate mechanism to account for such simplo phenomena as
evaporation or weight. And thus a hypothesis which is felt to be
simple is usually one which traces the phenomena to the action of
causes with which we are very familiar, i.e. which are constantly at
work around us, and which are therefore just the causes that are the
most probable.
     From such considerations we at once see how useless must the
canon of simplicity be to us when investigating the ultimate consti
tution of the materials of which the universe is built up. For, in the
first place, we have little or nothing to guide us as to the probability
of tho concurrence of different causes in this unknown region, and
secondly, a thing which is of infinitely greater moment, we are abso
lutely ignorant (save in one or two isolated points) of the types of
structure and action that we may expect to find commonly exem
plified therein. For in seeking to determine the ultimate constitution
of matter and ether, and of all that directly or indirectly acts upon
them, we are going beyond all the phenomena with which we have
been rendered familiar by observation, whether general or special, and
we are occupied in ascertaining tho mechanism by which matter and
ether are enabled to produce the phenomena we see. Now, of this we
have no previous experience, and it cannot be too distinctly kept in
mind that where there is no experience there is absolute ignorance.
In the world around us we see only the aggregato results of infinitely
numerous separate actions, none of which are simply cognizable by
our senses or our instruments. Every experience of matter that we
have in mechanics is of matter acting in masses. Chemistry and
physics give us certain phenomena, caused doubtless by a more inti
mate action of matter upon matter, but the results are only known to
us in gross ; and even if we assume that the process is uniform
throughout, it is only tho result of that process that we see, and its
nature is wholly concealed from our view. Similar remarks apply to
the other branches of science. Nowhere do we get any direct infor
mation as to the nature or details of these processes, or as to the
mechanism by which they are rendered possible, and thus we nowhere
got any knowledge of the types of mechanism that we may expect to
find at work. It is true that in all action of matter upon matter we
see that certain laws aro universally obeyed. But all that this enables
us confidently to enunciate is, that the nature of matter must be such
that when matter acts upon matter in appreciable quantities, such and
such laws obtain. We are not even justified in asserting that the most

 1877.]                         on Matter and Ether.                                343
 universal of these laws must necessarily hold good in the case of the
separate actions of which the aggregate is made up.* Still less are
we in a position to say that one hypothesis is to be preferred to another,
because it hypothesizes only such types of structure or action as we
are familiar with in our experience of the world of visible phenomena.
It is scarcely too much to say that at present our ignorance of the
ultimate constitution of matter is such that no one suggested structure
ought to be viewed by us as being in itself more simple or more
probable than another.
      Unable then to use these canons in their ordinary form, we are
driven back to the truths that underlie them. It is true that we
cannot rightly judge of the value of success in explaining the complex
behaviour of matter as a test of the truth of a hypothesis. And it is
also true that we cannot directly judge whether the causes we propose
to assign for that behaviour are probable ones. But out of the com
bined effect of the two there arises a third canon of the highest value,
specially adapted to meet the peculiar difficulties of the task. It
may, perhaps, be expressed by saying that the probability of the truth
of a suggested hypothesis, as to the constitution of matter or the
nature and mode of transmission of its actions on other matter, is
measured by the dissimilarity of the phenomena explained by it. So
long as the hypothesis satisfactorily accounts for but one class of
kindred phenomena, no matter how complex they may be and how
satisfactorily it may account for them, its truth must still remain in
doubt, inasmuch as from our ignorance we are unable to say how much
is denoted by that success, in other words, how far such success may
be due to these phenomena being necessary consequences of but very
few laws, or even of a single one. But if the same hypothesis explains
phenomena of a wholly different character to those which suggested
it, and which so far as wo can judge have no direct connection with
them, then wo are justified in accepting the hypothesis as a genuine
contribution to our knowledge of nature.
      This will be rendered clearer by an example. Take as an instance
what is probably the most successful attempt that has yet been made
to penetrate the darkness that surrounds the constitution of matter.
Long ago, in order to explain the phenomena of combining pro
portions in chemistry, the hypothesis was framed that every element
or chemical compound consisted of small atoms or molecules of
definite size, constitution, and weight, and that the process of
chemical combination consisted in the building up of new compound
     * Tin's is no idle refinement. No law would seem to be more absolutely with
out exception than that heat of itself tends to pass from a hot bedy to a cold body,
i. e. that heat tends towards an equalization of temperature. Yet this has been
shown to depend in some instances rather upon the law of averages than on the
fundamental laws of energy, and to be mapplicable to the action of single mole
cules; and it is not impossible that we might be driven to take a similar view of
such a law as that of the conservation of energy, though, fortunately, nothing as
yet (Mjints to this, und it would, therefore, be unscientific to increase the difficulty
of investigation by making such a hypothesis until it shall be found that there
are good grounds for doing so.

344                       Mr. J. Fletcher Moulton              [Feb. 23,
molecules out of the molecules or atoms of the combining bodies, or
the atoms that composed such molecules. The impetus given to the
science of chemistry by this felicitous hypothesis can hardly be
exaggerated. It permeated the whole of chemical research, and
gradually came to be treated as though it represented a demonstrated
fact. Against this the more accurate scientific thinkers protested, and
were in the right in so doing. They pointed out that the only facts
relating to the matter with which we were acquainted were those
expressed by the law of combining proportions—that it was true that
the atomic theory satisfactorily accounted for this law, but that the
mere fact of its accounting for this single law was a very in
sufficient ground for accepting the absolute truth of the theory.
There could be no doubt of the justness of these views, and the
 strictly hypothetical character of the theory was once more generally
recognized. But of late the investigations of physicists into the
 dynamical theory of gases have shown that when substances are in
 the gaseous condition (in which alone the separate particles of which
 they are composed, are capable of free and independent motion, and
 —so to speak— of manifesting their separate constitution) they are
 composed of rapidly moving minute particles, of just such size
 and weight as the atomic theory would lead us to expect. Now
 this is precisely the type of confirmation which our canon points
 to as justifying belief. Nothing was farther from the thoughts
 of the inventor of the atomic theory than the explanation of the
 relations between temperature and pressure in gases—it was solely
 to account for a law of chemical combination that he framed his
 hypothesis—and yet we find that when in the state of gas the sub
 stances actually consist of just such particles as the atomic theory
 requires. No two more dissimilar classes of phenomena could well
 be imagined ; and it is in consequence of this wide dissimilarity of the
 phenomena which it explains, that, although theories have been started
 in other branches of molecular physics which have successfully
  grappled with far more intricate phenomena, there is no theory of the
 ultimate constitution of matter which has nearly so high a claim to
 be regarded as an absolute physical truth as the atomic theory.
      This canon seems to have but little connection with that of
 simplicity, or, as we may term it, the Law of Parsimony. And the
 reason of this is, as has been shown, that we are too deeply ignorant
 of the nature of the ultimate structure of any portion of the universe
 to be able to tell whether any suggested structure is a probable one,
 i. e. is one of a type frequently occurring. Slowly as we penetrate the
 mystery wc shall acquire knowledge of particular instances or typos
  of structure, and shall learn what sort of results to expect in our
 researches ; and so soon as this stage is attained we shall rightly
 givo weight to our inclination or ropugnance towards any suggested
  hypothesis. But at present we are scarcely justified in doing so in
  any degree, and therefore it is of the greatest help to science that
  different investigators should separately work out theories depending
  somo wholly on actions requiring a continuous medium for their

1877.]                       on Matter and Ether.                       345
transmission, and others hypothesizing action at a distance. Snch as
succeed in explaining the phenomena to which they relate must, in
the present stato of things, be held to be of an equally hypothetical
character, and, on the other hand, to be equally good candidates for
final acceptance. As we have said, there is good reason to hope that
this state of things is but temporary ; but at present it exists, and it
therefore profits nothing to turn the mind inward upon itself, to ask
it to pronounce on the possibility or impossibility of things as to
which it knows nothing. Nothing but laborious and prolonged
experimental investigations will entitle us to give the preference to
one or the other of the rival theories ; and this will be due to the
experience so gained, and not to any process depending on considera
tions of what is a priori possible or impossible in thought.
     It is this utter absence of experience —this total ignorance of what
is possible or impossible, probable or improbable—which causes us
on the one hand to tolerate so kindly such fantastic hypotheses as
those of which we have given instances in Weber's and Ampere's ideas
as to molecules, or the collision- theory of gravitation; and on the
other hand to view with such doubt and suspicion, and to examine
with such a jealous eye, the brilliant theories which have shed so
much light on various parts of physics and chemistry. Take, for
instance, the hypothesis of a luminiferous ether. In no branch of
physics are the phenomena so striking as in physical optics, and no
theory has ever fulfilled so difficult a task as has the Undulatory
Theory in explaining and accounting for them ; and yet if we
deliberately consider the claims of this hypothesis to be regarded
as a physical truth, we cannot free ourselves from the most serious
and perplexing doubt. We must separate in our mind the laws of
the Undulatory Theory from the mechanism by which the hypothesis
seeks to account for Jthem, and then if we weigh the evidence directly
in favour of the existence of such a mechanism apart from such as is
derived from its accounting for the laws of the Undulatory Theory,
and when we contrast this with the enormous difficulty of reconciling
the existence of such a mechanism with other phenomena, we are
almost in despair. Bemembering that light only makes itself known
to us in connection with matter, the necessity of a hypothesis of so
serious a character might well be doubted. If it were not for the
finite velocity of light, and the great improbability (judging from our
 knowledge of the law and nature of energy) of there being a store of
energy inherent in nothing for the time being, as there must be if the
radiant light in the interplanetary spaces is not propagated through a
continuous medium, it is very doubtful whether there would be any
 sufficient justification for the acceptance of the hypothesis of a lumini
ferous ether as being even a near approximation to a physical fact.
At present the existence of a luminiferous ether is generally admitted,
though it is very usual to doubt the existence of a medium for the
transmission of electric action, and to look upon the latter class of phe
nomenon as an instance of action at a distance. Tet I doubt whether
the evidence in favour of the existence of a luminiferous medium

346                Mr. J. F. Moulton on Matter and Ether.        [Feb. 23,
differs at all in kind, or even greatly in degree, from that in favour of
a medium for electric action ; always supposing that it can be shown
satisfactorily that induction across a vacuum occupies a finite time.
If then we admit the existence of a luminiferous ether to be satis
factorily demonstrated, we must also admit the existence of an electric
ether, and it will probably be found that other types of action have
equal claims with these to special media for their transmission. Are
we then to crowd space with interpenetrating media, each having as
its sole function the transmission of some special kind of action?
Without pronouncing dogmatically as to whether this can or cannot
be the truth, it is clear that at present we are justified in declining to
regard such conceptions as having any much higher rank than that of
hypotheses judiciously framed for the purpose of simplifying our
analysis, and assisting our thinking powers. If it should turn out
that the so-called luminiferous ether accounts for the transmission of
electric action, or—as at present seems more likely to be the case—
that a medium hypothesized for the purpose of accounting for electric
action is capable of satisfying all the needs of the Undulatory Theory
of light, then indeed we may begin to think that our hypotheses
closely represent physical facts. But such recognition is rightly
withheld so long as each new hypothesis suffices only to explain the
special type of phenomena for which it was framed.
     Many of our best physicists are at work on such subjects as these,
and arc making good progress. Difficult as is the task, it is still one
that occupies itself with what we have reason to believe is the simplest
 (if such a term can be appropriately used in such a connection), and
the most uniform and homogeneous typo of ultimate structure. Every
glimpse that we get of the nature of matter (such, for instance, as the
revelations of the spectroscope or the phenomena of crystallography
and chemical change) makes us start back astonished at the well-nigh
unimaginable complexity that it reveals. But in the caso of light and
electricity, although their manifestations must to some degree be
 bound up with matter, we have the attendant complexities of matter
 playing but a secondary part, and the main subject matter of the
manifestations appears to be the result of some infinitely less compli
 cated mechanism. It is truo that we are at present baffled by this
 very difference from gross matter, which in all probability will ulti
 mately render the problem more simple, inasmuch as our imagination
 is little rich in suggestions that rise above modified experience. But
 the fact remains that we are here brought most nearly face to face
 with the phenomena arising directly out of a comparatively simple
 type of ultimate constitution, and though the complex behaviour of
 matter would seem to give us more information as to its structure,
 and thus moro guidance in our remarks, it is, as far as we can yet see,
 in the domain of light and electricity that we have best reason
 to expect success in our efforts to arrive at the hidden secrets of the
 mechanism of the universe.
                                                            [J. F. M.]

1877.]          Professor Huxley on the History of Birds.             347
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 2, 1877.
   Joseph Hooker, M.D. D.C.L. LL.D. Pres. R.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
              Professor T. H. Huxley, LL.D. Sec. R.S.
                           The History of Birds.
The speaker commenced by quoting Cnvier's well-known saying, that
the geologist is an "antiquaire d'une espece nouvelle," and illustrating
the identity of the methods pursued by the archasological and the
palaeontological inquirer.
     He then commented upon the contrast presented by the phenomena
of the mineral world when they are compared with those exhibited by
 living beings during the lapse of time represented by the fossiliferous
stratified rocks. The former present a general uniformity, the latter
a constantly increasing divergence from the present state of things.
Nevertheless the amount of the divergence of the ancient forms of life
from those which now exist is limited, inasmuch as there is no extinct
animal which may not at once be classified in one or other of the
larger groups of the existing fauna.
     In order to illustrate the extent of the modification which can be
proved to have taken place within a single group in a given time,
the speaker selected the class of birds, which, at the present day, is
one of the most sharply defined of all the larger divisions of the
animal kingdom ; and he pointed out that the numerous remains of
birds which have up to this time been discovered in the quaternary
and tertiary strata, have not made us acquainted with a bird which
departs in any essential' respect from living types.
    About twenty years ago, however, the Solenhofen slates (which are
of middle secondary age) yielded, first, the impression of a feather and
then a large part of the skeleton of a bird, the structure of which in
some respects differs less from that of a reptile, than that of any other
known bird. And recently the cretaceous deposits of the western
territories of the United States have yielded to tho laborious explora
tions of Professor Marsh two kinds of birds, the Ichthyornis and the
Hesperornis, which differ from all other birds in the possession of
teeth, and thus still further diminish the interval between birds and
reptiles.

348           Professor Huxley on the History of Birds.               [March 2,
    In conclusion Professor Huxley referred to his discourse on
Feb. 7, 1868, on " the Animals which are most nearly intermediate
between Birds and Reptiles," when he demonstrated that, "in past
times, birds more like reptiles than any now living, and reptiles
more like birds than any now living, did really exist." *
                                                                  [T. H. H.]
        * ' Proceedings of the Royal Institution,' vol. v. pp. 278-287.

1877.]            Dr. Bryce on Armenia and Ararat.                  349
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, March 16, 1877.
      William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Tr. R.I. Secretary and
                     Vice-President, in the Chair.
                       James Bryoe, Esq. D.C.L.
                         Armenia and Ararat.
The lecturer began by some remarks on the peculiar interest at
taching to the Caucasian countries ; their remarkable physical
structure and the great variety of races, religions, and languages to
be found in them. He dwelt upon the part they had played in
history, and the importance which their commanding geographical
position seemed to reserve for them now, as well as upon the commercial
advantages which their situation on two seas secures to them.
     Proceeding to speak of Armenia, the lecturer described at some
length its orographical structure. It is a country of lofty, irregular
 plateaux, formed by the meeting of three great mountain systems, the
Caucasus, whose southern offsets, forming the watershed between the
Kur and the llion, ramify over the north of Armenia, the Taurus,
whose easternmost branches enter it on the west, and the ranges of
Iran, which run up into it from the S. and S.E. A more detailed
account was given of the Caucasus, which the speaker had himself
traversed, and the characteristics of its structure, its comparative
narrowness, its steepness, and the great persistent elevation which it
maintains, were described. The volcanic phenomena of Armenia
were then commented on, and the peculiarities of its soil, climate,
and vegetation. It is a high and bare country, with one or two rich
valleys, the largest and finest of which is that traversed by the
Araxes ; and with three remarkable lakes, two of which, those of
Van and Urumiah, are close basins, not discharging to the sea. The
climate is a climate of extremes, intensely cold in winter from the
great general elevation of the country, and the prevalence of N. and
 E. winds, and in summer very hot and dry. There is therefore a
want of wood, and a vegetation on the whole scanty : cultivation
is in many places only possible by means of artificial irrigation.
     Some account was then given of the inhabitants of Armenia.
 Excluding the Georgians, who live rather to the north of Armenia
 proper, and the Russians, who are recent immigrants and com
 paratively few in number, they belong to four distinct races: the
 native Armenians, the Kurds, the Persians, and the Tartars or Tatars.
 The Armenians are to all appearance the aborigines of the country,

350                Dr. Bryce on Armenia and Ararat.         [March 16,
and were once its rulers, having been for a time the masters of a
powerful kingdom, whose sway extended far down the valley of the
Euphrates. After the Soljukian conquests a great emigration took
place, and the bulk of tho race is now scattered over Asia Minor,
Georgia, and parts of Eastern Europe. Those who havo remained at
home are for the most part peaceful and submissive peasants, who do
not show either that active intelligence or that admirable aptitude for
trade which distinguish the travelled Armenian.
    The number who inhabit old Armenia, both Russian and Turkish,
is probably under two millions, while tho total number of the nation
has been estimated at five.
    The Kurds, who are apparently the Carduchi of Xenophon and
other ancient authors, seem to be also an aboriginal race, and speak
a tongue belonging, like the Armenian, to the Iranian family. They
are nomads, who wander during the summer over the mountains with
their flocks and herds, and in winter descend to the valleys, where
they often quarter themselves on tho Armenian peasantry, and
plunder wherever they go. They aro mostly nominal Mohamme
dans, but in practice care little for any form of religion, and have
never shown any disposition to adopt a settled or civilized life.
Their presence is, indeed, ono of tho greatest obstacles to the pacifi
cation and improvement of these countries, although they are not
without some fine qualities. The Persians inhabit only the towns in
the eastern part of Armenia, a region which they held till conquered
by the Russians in 1828, and tho Tartars, who appear to have immi
grated from the steppes north and cast of the Caspian in the earlier
part of the Middle Ages, form a largo part of tho pastoral and agri
cultural population of the valleys. They are a branch of the Turanian
race, speaking a language similar to, though rather rougher than, the
Osmanli of the Ottoman Turks, and are Mohammedans, generally of
the Shiah persuasion. Between these races there is no intermarriage,
nor indeed any intermixture whatever: each retains its religion,
laws, and customs, unaffected by the presence of the others.
     The lecturer then proceeded to give an account of Mount Ararat,
dwelling especially on its geological character, and wound up with a
 description of his ascent to its summit on the 12th of September,
 1876 ; an account whjch it is hardly necessary to condense here,
 because it has since appeared at full length in a book published by
him under the title of ' Transcaucasia and Ararat.'
                                                            [J. B.]

1877. J    Professor J. H. Gladstone on Refraction of Light.                351
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 23, 1877.
         Warren Dr la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. in the Chair.
                Professor J. H. Gladstone, Ph.D. F.R.S.
     Influence of Chemical Constitution on the Refraction of Light.
The object of the present discourse was to describe the advance that
had been made in the subject of refraction equivalents since the
lecture delivered on Friday, April 24, 1868. The speaker commenced
by explaining the terms employed. The index of refraction of a body
expresses the amount to which a ray of light is bent in passing from
a vacuum into that body at any other than a right angle. It varies
with the temperature, pressure, and every other condition which
affects the volume of the substance. The specific refractive energy
of a body is its refractive index minus unity, divided by the density,
and this is a constant unaffected (or nearly so) by changes of tempera
ture or pressure, passage from the solid to the liquid or gaseous
condition, solution in other substances, or chemical combination
within certain limits. The refraction equivalent is the specific
refractive energy of a body multiplied by its chemical equivalent.
    In the spring of 1868 the number of chemical elements of which
the refraction equivalent had been determined with more or less
accuracy was 17, a number which has since been increased to 52.
The additions are principally the metals, and their refraction has
been determined mainly from salts by taking advantage of the fact
that a salt is not altered in specific refractive energy by solution in
water or alcohol. About 200 salts have been examined, and by a com
parison of the results the value of each constituent has been obtained.
    The following table gives the complete list of the elements, and
their optical properties, as far as they are known :—
           Element.           Atomic Weight.   Refraction Specific Refractive
                                              Equivalent.       Energy.
                                   27-5            8-4            307
                                  122        24 5—318         201—260
                                   75            15-4             205
                                  137            15-8             115
                                  210            39-3             187
                                   11              4              364
                                   80        153— 169         191—211
                                  112            136              121
                                  133            13-7?            103?
                                   40            10-4             260
    Vol. VIII.      (No. 67.)

 352                             Professor J. H. Gladstone                       [March 23,
               Element.                 Atomic Weight.     Refraction      Specific Refractive
                                                          Equivalent             Energy.
  Carbon                                      12               5                   416
  Cerium                                      92             13-6?                 148?
  Chlorine                                    35-5        9-9—10-7             279—301
  Chromium ..                                 52-2       15-9-23               305—438
  Cobalt ..      ..                           58-8           10-8                  184
  Copper                                      635            11-6                  183
  Didymium ..                                 96             16                    166
  Fluorine                                    19               1-4?                 73?
  Gallium
  Glucinum . .                                  9-3            5:6                606
  Gold ..        ..                          196-7           24                    122
  Hydrogen . .                                  1         1-3—3-5          1-300—3-500
  Indium                                      74
  Iodine ..                                  127         24-5^-27-2            193^214
  Iridium                                    198             31-7?                160
  Iron                                        56         120—201              214—359
  Lanthanum                                   92             15-8                 168
  Lead ..                                    207             24-8                  120
  Lithium                                       7             3 8                 540
  Magnesium . .                               24              7                   292
  Manganese . .                               55         12-2—26-2            222—476
  Mercury                                    200         21-3—29-0             107—145
  Molybdenum                                  92
  Nickel..                                    58-8           10-4                 177
  Niobium                                     97-6
  Nitrogen                                    14          4-1—5-3             293^378
  Osmium                                     199
  Oxygen                                      16              2-9                 181
  Palladium ..                               106-5           22-2                 208
  Phosphorus                                  31             18-3                 590
  Platinum . .                               197-4           26                   132
  Potassium . .                               39 1             8-1                207
  Rhodium . .                                104             24-2?                232?
  Rubidium . .                                85-5           14                   164
  Ruthenium . .                              104
  Belenium . .                                79             30-5                 385
  Silicon                                     28          7-4—6-8              263—238
  Silver ..      ..                          108             13-5                  125
  Sodium                                      23               4-8                209
  Strontium . .                               87-5           136                   155
  Sulphur                                     32             16                    500
  Tantalum . .                               137-5
  Tellurium . .                              128
  Thallium ..                                204             21-6                  106
  Thorium                                    231-5
  Tin       ..   ..                          118         27-0—19-2             203—162
  Titanium . .                                SO             256                   512
  Tungsten . .                               184
  Uranium                                    120             10-8                   90
  Vanadium ..                                 51-2           25-3?                494?
  Yttrium                                     68
  Zinc                                        65             10-2                  156
  Zirconium . .                               90             22-3                  249
J,-The.siFn ' iodlc'lte» that the values have been deduced from only one compound, or that the
different determinations are not fairly accordant.

 1877.] on Influence of Chemical Constitution on Refraction of Light. 353
     A glance at the above table reveals several remarkable features.
 It is evident, for instance, that such non-metallic elements as phos
 phorus, sulphur, selenium, carbon and boron have remarkably high
 specific refraction, while hydrogen is more than double any other in
 value. A more remarkable relation is one that appears when the
 specific refractive energy of the metals is compared with their com
 bining proportion, that is to say, with the absolute amount which
 unites with one univalent atom—say 35 - 5 parts of chlorine—to from
 a stable compound. This is exhibited in the following table, in
which the metals are ranged according to their combining proportions,
 hydrogen being included on chemical grounds.
                                      Specific Refractive Combining
                    Element.                Energy.       Proportion.
            Hydrogen ..                      -300             1
            Glucinum ..                        606            47
            Lithium . .                        540            7
            Aluminium                          307            91
            Chromium                           305           17-4
            Magnesium                          292           12
            Calcium . .                        260          20
            Zirconium . .                     249           22-4
            Rhodium ..                        232?          34-8
            Manganese                         222           275
            Iron                              214           28
            Sodium                            200           23
            Palladium                         20S           26-6
            Potassium . .                     207           39- 1
            Arsenic                           205           25
            Tin .. ..                         203           29-5
            Antimony . .                      201           24
            Bismuth . .                        187          69
            Cobalt                             181          29-4
            Copper                             188          317
            Nickel                             177          29-4
            Didymium                           100          48
            Rubidium . .                       164          42-7
            Iridium                           160?          49-5
            Zinc ..                           156           32-6
            Strontium . .                     155           43-8
            Cerium                            148           46
            Platinum ..                       132           49-3
            Silver                            125          108
            Gold .. ..                        122           65-7
            Cadmium ..                        121           56
            Lead ..                           120          103-5
            Barium                            115           68-5
            Meroury ..                        107          100
            Thallium ..                       106          204
            Cassium . .                       103?         183
            Uranium . .                         90         120
    It is evident that as the figures in the first column decrease, those
in the second, as a rulo, increase ; that is to say, that the specific
                                                                 2 o 2

354                    Professor J. H. Gladstone                [March 23,
refractive energy of a metal is inversely as its combining proportion,
or, in other words, that those metals which have the greatest power in
retarding the passage of a ray of light, are those which have the
greatest power of saturating another element.
    This law does not hold good absolutely : thus potassium and
sodium, which have very different combining proportions—39 - 1 and
23 respectively—have practically the same refraction.
    The extent of these discrepancies would be better seen if the above
table were represented graphically. It would then appear as if there
were a tendency to form not one curve, so much as three or four
nearly concurrent curves, according to the particular character of
the elements : thus the univalent metals, lithium, potassium, ru
bidium, silver, caesium and thallium, would seem to form a curve
somewhat within the others.
    Theso two properties—the saturating power and the refractive
energy—are not directly proportional. It would rather appear that
the specific refractive energy is inversely as tho square root of the
combining proportion. Thus for the univalent metals :—
                             Specific Refractive Square Root  Product of these
            Metal.                 Energy.       of Combining  two Numbers.
                                                  Proportion.
                                  1-300               1            1-3
                                     540              2-6          1-4
                                     209              4-8          10
                                     207              6-2          1-28
                                     164              9-2          1-5
                                     125             104           1-3
                                     103?            11-5          118?
 Tliallium                           106             14-3          1-51
    The law evidently holds true, roughly, for this group, with the
exception of sodium, which as noticed above is discrepant. This is
the more remarkable, as the group includes the elements of the highest
and the lowest saturating power.
    Another point in regard to which an advance has been made, is
the following. If an element always had the same refractive energy
in whatever way it was combined, we should be able to calculate
beforehand the refraction equivalent of any compound of which the
composition was known, and its refractive index also if we knew its
density. This would be interesting, but we should evidently gain no
information as to the chemical constitution or structure of the com
pound. But the fact is otherwise. As a rule, the refraction docs not
vary : carbon, for instance, whether alone as in tho diamond, or
combined in such diversified bodies as bisulphide of carbon, coal gas,
cyanogen, alcohol, paraffin, sugar, and a hundred others, is exerting
the samo influence on tho rays of light which traverse it ; but there
are certain compounds of carbon, in which it exerts a different influ

1877. j on Influence of Chemical Constitution on Refraction of Light. 355
eiice, and it is from the consideration of this property—a wholly
independent means—that wo are able to confirm, or otherwise, our
theoretical views of their constitution. This may be illustrated by
the simpler case of iron. It is well known that one atom of iron
will combine with either two or three univalent atoms, forming two
classes of salts, which are totally distinct. Now in the ferrous salts,
such as FeCl,, that have been examined, the refraction equivalent is
12"0, while in the ferric salts, as FeCl2, it is 20- 1.
     To return to carbon. It is well known that one atom of this
element usually combines with four univalent atoms or radicles such
as H . CI . HO . NO2 . CH2 , or two divalent atoms such as O . S. In the
immense multitude of carbon compounds of this order, the carbon is
invariably found to have a refraction equivalent of 5-0. This is
independent of the manner of combination, so that isomers such as
chloride of ethylene and chloride of ethylidene have precisely the
same value.
     There is, however, a large group of bodies, in which the carbon is
not saturated in the same way, but we are obliged to imagine that six
atoms are associated together in each molecule, and that they thus
combine with six univalent atoms. This large group forms what
chemists call the aromatic group, of which benzene, aniline, oil of
bitter almonds, benzoic acid, carbolic acid, are well-known members.
     To the mind of the chemist, there is a very wide distinction in the
fundamental constitution of these two classes of carbon compounds.
The refraction goniometer exhibits this wide distinction in another
way, for every member of this aromatic group which has been
examined gives a value 6 or 7 above that which it would be if cal
culated on the supposition that carbon equals 5.
     The naphthalene group has evidently a very different ultimate
molecular structure, in which ten atoms of carbon are supposed to be
associated. The refraction is 14 or 15 higher than the amount cal
culated from the value already given.
     These three groups are typically expressed :—
                                 II                  H        H
              II                  1i
                         H—C^CnC—H
         H—C—H               1        II          1       II      1
               1                              H-<\c/CN(rSC-H
             11                                       1        1
                                   1                 k        H
                                 H
          Marsh Gas.          Benzene.               Naphthalene.
     Anthracene is probably more complicated, and its refraction
exceeds the theoretical amonnt by a still larger quantity. In fact,
 refraction and dispersion increase very rapidly with the number of
 atoms of carbon that are not combined with at least two of hydrogen
 or their equivalent.

356      Professor J. H. Gladstone on 'Refraction of Light.        [March 23,
    It is evident that this may afford a means of determining to what
group a doubtful body may belong. Thus a colourless oily body,
with a pleasant odour, named furfurol, has been obtained from bran.
The proportions of the elements are C6H4O2, but it was quite a matter
of opinion whether the five atoms of carbon were combined as above
with H and O counting for eight, and therefore that furfurol was
analogous in constitution to the essential oils (CI0HU or CuH,,), or
whether it contained two of hydroxyl, HO, in which case it would be
more analogous to the aromatic group, since there would be five
carbon atoms to four univalent radicles, like benzene C6H, minus
CH2. Now, the refraction equivalent of furfurol is 42-3, which
differs from the calculated value by 6"3, about the same difference
as we find in the aromatic group, and far exceeding that observed
in the case of the essential oils.*
     Besides determining in this way the class of bodies to which a
substance belongs, it is also evident that the prism may throw light
on the constitution of groups of complex isomers, and we may expect
that its indications will in many ways have an important influence on
the theoretical chemistry of the future.
                                                                 [J. H. G.]
    * Since this discourse was delivered I have learned that recent researches
have shown chemical reasons for associating furfurol with the benzene group.

1877.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                         357
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, April 2, 1877.
        Georgb Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                 Mrs. S. Bircham,
                 Sir Robert Burnett, Bart.
                 James Edmunds, M.D.
                 Georgo Barnet Goolden, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The following arrangements of the Lectures after Easter were
announced :—
     Professor J. H. Gladstone, Ph.D. F.R.S.—Five Lectures on the Chemistry
of the Heavenly Bodies ; on Tuesdays, April 10 to May 15.
         (No Lecture on May 1st, the day of the Annual Meeting, 2 p.m.)
     Professsor J. Dewar, M.A. F.R.S.E.—Three Lectures on the Chemical
Philosophy of Sir Humphry Davy ; on Tuesdays, May 22, 29, and Juue 5.
     Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.—Eight Lectures on Heat; on
Thursdays, April 12 to May 31st.
     Edward Dannreother, Esq.—Two Lectures on Chopin and Liszt: with
many Illustrations on the Pianoforte ; on Saturday, April 14, and Thursday,
June 7.
     The Rev. A. H. Sayce, M.A.—Three Lectures on Babylonian Literature ; on
Saturdays, April 21, 28, and May 5.
     Walter H. Pollock, Esq. M.A.—Three Lectures on Modern French Poetry ;
on Saturdays, May 12, 19, 26.
     Charles T. Newton, Esq. C.B.—Two Lectures on the Recent Discoveries
at Mycense ; on Saturdays, June 2 and 9.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same.
  from
The French Government (by the Minister of Public Instruction)—Inventaire des
     MSS. Francais de la Bibliotheque Nationale, Tome I. 8vo. Paris. 1876.
  Rapports sur le Service des Archives de la Bibliotheque Nationale, 1876. 8vo.
     1877.
Government of Bengal—General Report of Public Instruction in Bengal, 1875-6.
     fol. 1876.
The Lords of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanack for 1880. 8vo. 1876.
  Greenwich Observations for 1874. 4to. 1876.
  Results of Astronomical Observations at the Cape, by E. J. Stone, 1871-3.
     8vo. 1876.
The Warden of the Standards—Comparisons of the three Parliamentary Copies of
     the Imperial Standards. 8vo. 1877.

358                          General Monthly Meeting.                     [April 2,
Accademia dei Lincei, Rome—Atti, Serio III. Transunti, Vol. I. Fasc. 3. 4(o.
     1877.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVII. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo.
     1877.
British Arcliitects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1876-7, Nos. 7, 8. 4to.
Chaney, H. J. Esq. M.R.I.— Studnilz on Gold : translated by Mrs. Brewer, with
     Notes by E. Streeter. 16to. 1877.
Chemical Society—Journal for Feb. 1877. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1877. 8vo.
   Athenamm for March, 1877. 4to.
   Chemical News for March, 1877. 4to.
   Engineer for March, 1877. fol.
   Horological Journal for March, 1877. 8vo.
   Journal for Applied Science for March, 1877. fol.
   Nature for March, 1877. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for March, 1877. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1877. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journnl for March, 1877. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 615. 8vo. 1877.
Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XXI. Nos. 2, 3. Svo. 1877.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna— Jahrbuch, 1876, No. 4. 8vo. 1876.
   Vefhandlungen, 1876, Nos. 14-16. 8vo. 1876.
Geological Survey of India—Records, Vol. X. Part 1. 8vo. 1877.
Harris, George, Esq. LL.V. F.S.A. (the Author)—Civilization considered as a
     Science. New edition. 16to. 1872.
   The Theory of the Arts ; or Art in relation to Nature, Civilization, and Man.
     2 vols. 8vo. 1869.
   A Philosophical Treatise on the Nature and Constitution of Man. 2 vols. 8vo.
     1876.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1876, No. 2. 8vo. 1876.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, Nos. 67, 88. 8vo. 1876.
Mann, R. J. M.D. M.R.I, (the A uthor)—Tennyson's Maud Vindicated. 16to.
     1856.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings: Index, 1847-73. 8vo. 1876.
Meteorological Office—Monthly Charts of Meteorological Data for Nine 10°
     Squares of the Atlantic fol. and 4to. 1876.
Montpellier Academie des Sciences—Mcmoires. Tome VIII. Fasc. 3. 4to. 1876.
Physical Society of London— Proceedings, Vol. II. Part 2. 8vo. 1877.
Preussuche Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsborichte : Nov. 1876. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 178. 8vo. 1877.
Scottish Society of Arts, Royal—Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 4. 8vo. 1876.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital —Reports, Vol. XII. 8vo. 1876.
St. Petersburg, Academie des Sciences—Bulletins, Tome XXIII. No. 2. 4to. 1876.
Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
     March, 1877. 8vo.
Upsal Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta : Ser. III. Vol. X. Fuse. 1. 4to.
     1876.
   Bulletin Me¦teorologiquo Mensuel, Vol. VII. Anne¦e, 1875. 4to. 1875-6.
Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gcwerbfieisses in Preussen—Verhanilelungen, Aug.-
     Oct. 1876; Jan. Feb. 1877.
 Weiss, Augustus, Esq. M.R.I.—II Petrarcha colla Spositiouc di Misser Giovanni
     Andrea Gesvaldo. Vincgia. 4to. 1513.

1877.]    Mr. Spottiswoode on Experiments with Induction Coil.        359
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 13, 1877.
       Ghoroe Busk, Esq. F.R.8. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
   William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Treas. R.S. Sec. B.I.
                Experiments with a Great Induction Coil.
The experiments shown in this discourse were in illustration of the
power of an induction coil constructed for me by Mr. Apps, and
described in full in the ' Philosophical Magazine ' for January of this
year. The following are, however, the particulars of its principal
parts. The coil, as arranged on this occasion, has a core consisting
of a bundle of iron wires, each "032 inch thick, and forming together
a solid cylinder 44 inches in length, and 3-56 inches in diameter.
Its weight is 67 lbs. The copper wire used in this primary is 660
yards in length, "096 inch in diameter, has a conductivity of 93 per
cent., and offers a total resistance of 2-3 ohms. It contains 1344 turns
wound in six layers, has a total length of 42 inches, with an internal
diameter of 3-75 inches, and an external of 4-75 inches. The total
weight of this wire is 55 lbs.
    The secondary consists of 280 miles of wiro, forming a cylinder of
37-5 inches in length, 20 inches in external, and 9-5 inches in internal
diameter. Its conductivity is 94 per cent., and its total resistance is
equal to 110,200 ohms.
    The condenser required for this coil proves to bo much smaller
than might have been at first oxpected. After a variety of experi
ments, it appeared that the most suitable size is that usually employed
with a 10-inch spark coil, viz. 126 sheets of tinfoil 18 inches by 8-25,
separated by two thicknesses of varnishod paper, the two thicknesses
measuring '011 inch.
    When so arranged, this coil gave, with five quart cells of Grove, a
spark of 28 inches ; with ten similar cells, ono of 33 inches ; with
thirty such cells, one of 37-5 inches, and subsequently ono of 42 inches.
    When tho discharging points were placed about an inch apart, a
flowing dischargo was obtained, both at making and at breaking the

360                          Mr. Spottimeoode                  [April 13,
primary circuit. The sound which accompanies this discharge im
plies that it is intermittent.
    With a 28-inch spark, produced by five quart cells, a block of flint
glass 3 inches in thickness was pierced.
    When a Leyden battery, having a coated surface of 10 feet, was
inserted as a secondary condenser, the spark was sufficiently brilliant
to allow its spectrum to be projected on a screen. In this spectrum
the principal metallic lines were distinctly visible to the audience.
    A Leyden battery, having a coated surface of 20 feet, was charged
with 4 sparks from the coil.
    In further exemplification of the power of this induction coil,
some experiments were devised so as to exhibit to the audience effects
previously observed only in a revolving mirror.
     When, as is generally the case with an induction spark, the dis
charge occupies an appreciable interval of time, the image of it seen in
a revolving mirror appears spread out to a breadth proportional to its
duration, and to the velocity with which the mirror revolves. The
successive phases of the phenomena are then arranged in successive
positions, and may be studied separately, even when too rapid to be
disentangled by the unassisted eye. This method, however, is adapted
to only one or, at most, two observers at a time.
    In experiments with luminous objects where there is sufficient
brilliancy of light, the image as seen in a revolving mirror may
be projected upon a screen by replacing the plane by a concave
mirror of suitable focal length ; but the comparative feebleness of
light in vacuum tubes, even when illuminated by the great coil,
rendered even this method inapplicable for the purposes of an
audience. With a view to overcoming tho difficulty, I next tried the
effect of causing the tube itself to move during tho discharge ; and
after a variety of experiments, I finally attached the tubes to the
wooden arms about 6 feet in length, which were made to revolve
about their centre like the arms of a windmill, and succeeded in ex
hibiting the phenomena on a large scale. The instrumental arrange
ments were in substance similar to those of a Gassiot's star ; but the
discharges, instead of being almost instantaneous, were of long
duration ; and instead of appearing as mere radii, they covered sectors
of appreciable angle, sometimes semicircles, or even more, about the
centre.
    This being so, every stratification which remained fixed during
the entire discharge described the arc of a circle, and a column of
stria appeared as a series of concentric luminous rings or portions of
rings, according to the duration of the discharge. Similarly, stria
which were moving in one direction or another along the tube,
described arcs of spirals, the pole of which was situated towards the
beginning or end of the discharge, according as the motion was from
tho centre towards the extremities of the arms, or from the extremi
ties towards the centre.
    Any alteration in the velocity of the strias along the tube, or

1877.]         on Experiments tcith a Great Induction Coil.         361
proper motion as I have termed it, was shown by a corresponding
alteration in the curvature of the spiral ; and any intermittence in the
discharge by a dark sector in the field. In this manner the whole
behaviour of the strias during their brief period of existence was
delineated on the screen.
    The following are some of the general conclusions derived from the
experiments repeated in this discourse.
    I. The thin flake-like striae, when sharp and well denned, are
either short lived or have little proper motion, or both.
    II. The apparent irregularity in the distribution of the strias as
seen by the eye, is due to their unequal duration, and to the various
periods at which they are renewed.
    III. The proper motion of the strias is generally directed towards
the positive terminal ; and its velocity varies only within very narrow
limits.
    IV. Flocculent strias, such as are usually seen in carbonic acid
tubes, are a compound phenomenon ; and are due to a succession of
short-lived strias which are regularly renewed. The positions at
which the renewals take place determine the apparent proper motion
of the flocculent strias.
    V. The velocity of proper motion varies, other circumstances
being the samo, with the diameter of the tube. This was notably
exemplified in a conical tube.
    VL When the proper motion exceeds a certain limit, the stria
appear to the eye to be blended into an unbroken column of light,
and all trace of stratification is lost. The mirror will in many cases
resolve this column into its component strias, but not in all.
    The discharge from a Leyden jar, when sufficiently charged, is, as
is well known, continuous through its entire length ; but it still
exhibits a dissymmetry in extending from the point of the positive to
the hilt of the negative terminal. It is, moreover, so far as our
present instrumental measurements extend, instantaneous, and cannot
be spread out by a revolving mirror. Lastly, it exhibits no trace of
stratification. This difference of effect appears to depend on that of
tension. This was established by some experiments described in the
' Proceedings of the Royal Society,' 1877, vol. xxv. p. 73, and tend
to show that this character of the jar discharge is due to tension.
    A curious illustration of this was shown by inserting a Leyden jar
in a loop circuit with the tube. By this means the current was
divided ; one part went to charge the jar, while the other part went
directly through the tube. As long as the tension in the jar re
mained below a certain limit, the coil alone acted in the tube ; but as
soon as the charge in the jar was sufficient, it discharged itself
through the tube. As seen in the mirror, the field of view showed first
a stratified discharge, and then, following immediately upon it, a jar
discharge or unbroken line of light.
    It is, howover, impossible to convoy any adequate idea of these
phenomena by mere description ; and the reader who desires fuller

362    Mr. Spottiswoode on Experiments with Induction Coil.   [April 13,
illustration of the subject is referred to the figures which accompany
my paper in the ' Proceedings of the Royal Society,' 1877, vol. xxv.
p. 73.
    At the close of the discourse I expressed a hope that it might
prove possible with this great coil to photograph the image of the
phenomena here described ; and I am glad to add that subsequent
experience tends to confirm this hope.
                                                             [W. 8.]

1877.]              Mr. Frederick Pollock on Spinoza.               363
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, April 20, 1877.
         William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Treasurer R.S.
             Secretary R.I. and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                    Fhederick Pollock, Esq. M.A.
                                 Spinoza.
The commemoration of the two hundredth anniversary of Spinoza's
death which has this year taken place at the Hague has produced many
signs of the interest taken in him by students of philosophy, and has
also stirred up new interest, one may hope, among some who are not
philosophers. I shall now endeavour, without going into a critical
exposition for which the time would be insufficient, to tell you in
outline what manner of man Spinoza was, and of what sort was the
work done by him in philosophy which has had so great an influence
in the world.
    It may seem absurd to talk of the influence of philosophy in the
world at all. It is a common notion that philosophy is a sort of
intellectual playground where people who have a taste for it exercise
their wit by attempting to frame answers to insoluble questions, and
that such pastime can have no bearing on the practical conduct of life.
I might answer by the usual generalities about the power of thought
in human affairs. I might say that the ideas made in the workshops
of the philosophers aro the real moving forces which set up or cast
down governments, and rule the issues of peace or war. I might
say that the only complete conquests are those made by ideas ; the
sword may smite and destroy, princes and rulers may grind to
powder, but thought only can dissolve. But I choose to produce
more palpable examples.
    I first ask you to look back to a short half century in a critical
time of the development of the Roman Empire. It was the time when
the laws and institutions which have left an abiding stamp on the
greater part of the civilized world were being expanded from a muni
cipal to a cosmopolitan scale. It has been described by the greatest
of English historians as " possibly the only period of history in which
the happiness of a groat people was the sole object of government."

364                         Mr. Frederick Pollock                   [April 20,
During that period considerable parts of the world enjoyed beyond
question a vastly better government than they ever knew before or
have ever known since ; and not only was happiness procured for the
generations then living by the wisdom and virtue of their rulers, but a
step was thereby made good in the civilization of mankind. The
rulers of the Empire at that time were T. Antoninus Pius, and his
adopted son M. Aurelius Antoninus, surnamed the Philosopher.
     My other example is almost from our own times. In the darkest
hour of Germany, when her life and freedom seemed hopelessly
crushed under the first Bonaparte, there lived and taught in Prussia
a man named Fichte. He was a very philosopher of philosophers, a
constructor of magnificent theories, a dreamer of splendid dreams
surpassed only by Plato's, and he spoke of duty and patriotism with a
voice that no decree of Napoleon's could stifle. Meanwhile Scharn-
horst, a man with a different genius of his own—the inventor of the
modern Prussian army—was forging the weapon of deliverance.
When the hour struck, Fichte was among the first to proclaim it ; he
sent forth his students to fight for Germany, and himself died, though
not in battle, yet as truly for his country as if he had fallen on the
field. More than this, Scharnhorst's instrument is one that must have
intelligent patriotism to work it. Fichte was among the foremost
who saw the need of a national system of education for Germany, and
this dreamer of dreams was one of the chief actors in founding the
University of Berlin. Years passed on, and there came, as there will
in all great works, backsliding and disappointment; and men said again
that the Germans were a poor dreamy folk, fit for nothing but music and
philosophy. But in due time there rose up another man whose name
was Otto von Bismarck ; he is no philosopher that I know of,* but his
gift was to see that the crop Fichte and Scharnhorst had sown was
full ripe ; and he set to his hand and reaped the harvest whose fruit
we may all see at this day. These particular examples are not taken
at random. M. Aurelius Antoninus was the disciple and zealous
follower of the Stoic doctrine ; and the Stoic view of the world was
strikingly like Spinoza's on its practical side. As to Fichte, his
philosophy, though very different from Spinoza's as a whole, is full
of ideas taken from him or suggested by him.
     Before entering on Spinoza's doctrine it may be well to give a
brief summary of his life. He was born at Amsterdam on the 24th
of November, 1632 ; his parents were members of the Portuguese
synagogue, a community founded by Jewish exiles from Spain and
Portugal. A high standard of knowledge and culture prevailed in
this Jewish society, and at an early age Spinoza was learned in all
the wisdom of the Rabbis. He made himself thoroughly familiar
with Latin under the teaching of Dr. van den Ende. The story told
by his first biographer, and since often repeated, of his love for Van
    * Since writing this I have scon it stated that Prince Bismarck was at one
time a student of Spinoza,

1877.]                            on Spinoza.                           365
den Endo's daughter, and his rejection in favour of a richer suitor, is
now known not to be true in that form, and is probably mere fiction.
In 1656 he was excommunicated ; a proceeding of doubtful policy, and
perhaps even of doubtful validity, for according to Jewish law such
a sentence cannot properly be founded on heretical opinions alone.
Spinoza, however, did not dispute it. He had already left Amsterdam,
where an attempt on his life by some nameless fanatic had warned
him that he was not safe. His successive dwelling-places were
Ehijnsburg, near Leyden (1661), Voorburg, near the Hague (1664),
and lastly, the Hague itself (about 1670). He died on the 21st of
February, 1677. He was well known to men of letters and science,
and had many friends among them ; but his life was extremely
retired. He never taught in public, and his chief philosophical
works were not published in his lifetime at all.
                       Sources of Spinoza's Philosophy.
    I have tried to show the chief lines of deviation in the annexed
table. First in the order of time came the Jewish and Arabian
followers of Aristotle, whose importance in this and other respects
was underrated till quite lately. These men were the schoolmen of
mediasval Jewry and Islam. Like the Catholic schoolmen, who
drew largely from them, they set themselves to recast the doctrines of
current theology in an Aristotelian mould. Chief among the Jewish
school were Ibn-Ezra and the great Maimonides (Moses ben
Maimon). Their predecessor Avicebron (Ibn-Gebirol) had a curious
fate. He was an independent thinker who constructed a system of his
own, chiefly with Neo-Platonic materials. His speculations were
ill received by his own people, and fell into such oblivion that his
very name in its native shape was only lately recovered by the
research of Dr. Munk. But a Latin version of his work (Fons Vitce)
became current in Europe, and found a kindred spirit in Giordano
Bruno, who in turn passed on Avicebron's ideas, along with his own,
to Spinoza. In later times at least one Jewish philosopher was found
to break with the Peripatetic tradition. This was Chasdai Creskas, of
Barcelona, who flourished about the end of the fourteenth century.
His ideas were original and daring, and some of the most peculiar
features in Spinoza's philosophy are now accounted for by his in
fluence.*
    The Catholic schoolmen were not directly known to Spinoza ; hut
their habits of thought and language still pervaded philosophical
writing, and Descartes, though he rebelled against their methods,
could not wholly shake off their influence.| Through Descartes, as
well as through the Jewish philosophers whom the schoolmen them
selves had followed, Spinoza got much of the scholastic forms.
   * Joel, ' Beitr'age zur Geschichte der Philosophic.' Breslau, 1876. J. P.
N. Land, ' Ter Gedachtenia van Spinoza.' Leiden, 1877. (At pp. 14, 51.)
   t Land, op, cit. p. 15.

3GG                      Mr. Frederick Pollock [April 20,
   w
   H
  O
  H
                 t4_
         m
  w      <        ^.  k>
  hJ
      to
         N   ao   c
     ¦is    -*-'      O
  ra     O
                 £    O
      00     a   •"~ IS
         OQ

 1877.]                          on Spinoza.                            367
 Descartes' own part in the formation of Spinoza's philosophy, after
 being for a long time overrated beyond measure, is perhaps in danger
 of being underrated now. Leibnitz said of Spinoza that he only
 cultivated certain seeds sown by Descartes. No shallower saying was
ever uttered by a man of genius; but it is doubtful whether the
saying was even honest. Leibnitz's systematic depreciation of Spinoza
can under all the circumstances hardly be accounted for by honest
misapprehension. The differences between the philosophy of Spinoza
and that of Descartes are of a radical kind. Spinoza used Cartesian
terms as he used scholastic terms ; but he was no more a Cartesian
than he was a schoolman. There is no doubt, however, that the study
of Descartes gave a most important stimulus to Spinoza's philo
sophic research, and had much to do with settling its form and
direction. Spinoza himself did not seek to extenuate his obligation.
When he expressly marks (as he sometimes does) his dissent from
Descartes, it is in a decided but respectful tone such as he does not
use towards other opponents, and something like Aristotle's manner
in speaking of Plato. After all, it is a task of not very profitable
conjecture to measure against one another all the several elements
that went to make up the materials of a great man's work. It is
enough to know that Spinoza wrought, as all men must, upon the
matter given him by the conditions of his environment ; and in that
environment Descartes certainly filled a prominent place.
     One point, however, deserves to be distinctly noted ; no man ever
grasped more clearly than Spinoza the idea that a philosophy which
professes to account for things in general must include and harmonize
with the account of sensible things given by the natural sciences ; it
may transcend it, but it must not contradict it. It is this idea that
has enabled philosophy to enter on a new life ; and it is just this that
Spinoza could learn from Descartes, and, so far as I know, from
Descartes alone. His application of it was, indeed, a very different
one.
                  The Principles of Spinoza's Philosophy.
     It is for many reasons extremely difficult to explain Spinoza's
philosophy in any language but his own. His work does not lend
itself to any of the current phrases with which we are accustomed
to label systems of philosophy. For example, it is easy to call it
Pantheism; but what does that tell us? Almost nothing. The
Hindu philosophers are pantheists likewise, and so were the Stoics,
but the difference of their systems from Spinoza's and from each
other is immense.
     Brahmanism, together with its overgrown offshoot Buddhism, is
hopelessly remote from our Western ways of thinking in the very
groundwork it builds upon. It assumes as an elementary truth that
life is altogether a bad thing ; not only that man's life is unhappy, but
that all finite existence is in itself an evil and a mistake, and that con
sequently the problem set before man in the world is to escape from
    Vol. VIII. (No. 67.)                                        2 d

368                       Mr. Frederick Pollock               [April 20,
it as speedily and entirely as he can. This dogmatic pessimism would
bo almost inconceivable to us here and now, had not certain philo
sophers in Europe taken up with it on their own account quite
recently.
     The Stoics held the very opposite belief. For them the universe
was the product of perfect Reason, and as such was perfectly good :
and man's wisdom and happiness were to be found in the conviction
that nothing could happen, however hurtful it might seem in par
ticular relations, but what was in some way good for the world.
In the place of the Oriental pessimism we find a no less dogmatic
optimism.
     Spinoza does not admit either of these opinions. He docs not call
the universe either good or bad, for good and bad are to him un
meaning terms except in relation to the welfare of some individual
or kind. But he holds no less firmly than the Stoics, that tho
order of the universe, including the order of human nature, determines
certain conditions for man's welfare. It is in man's power to observe
these conditions, and thus to make the world good for himself.
Moreover, Spinoza holds, in distinct opposition to Brahmans and
 Buddhists, that life is in itself a good thing, or rather that by good
we really mean that which helps us to fulness of life. Thus his view
 of the world might be called a rational optimism.
     It will be seen that a common term which includes such widely
 different doctrines is really little better than illusory.
     The really important truth about Spinoza's way of thinking which
 is hinted at by the vague term Pantheism is this: his first funda
 mental idea is the unity and uniformity of the world. This had been
 conceived by many of Spinoza's forerunners from the purely specu
 lative side, and notably by Chasdai Creskas. To Descartes, and there
 fore also to Spinoza, the same idea presented itself from the scientific
 side on grounds of physical evidence. Spinoza seized upon the idea
 in both aspects at once, carried it out into its fullest development,
 and made it the groundwork of his whole philosophy. This distin
 guishes him from Descartes, who declined to pursue it thoroughly.
     The manner in which Spinoza works it out shows a struggle to
 express scientific ideas in scholastic forms. I will now give a sort of
 free translation of Spinoza's thought : I do not say that it is such as
 he would have given himself, or that it was present to his mind in
 anything like that form. But we are not thereby forbidden to make
 it for our own use, and I give it thus: "You have here scholastic
 terms such as essence, existence, attributes, which have been bandied
 about for centuries without acquiring an intelligible meaning. Yon
 have here, again, the scientific idea of the unity and uniformity of the
  world, irresistibly suggested by all our advances in knowledge, and
  spreading and prevailing day by day. Sooner or later no corner of
  the universe, not even the inmost recesses of human thought, will
  escape from its dominion. Therefore, if you would save the old
  terms from perishing utterly, you must breathe new life into them

 1877.]                        on Spinoza.                             309
by means of the scientific idea." So far my own modernized version.
 What follows is intended to be tolerably close to Spinoza's own way
of putting his doctrine. There is no absolute existence but in the
sum of all things; not a mere addition of unlimited parts, but an
infinite whole from which the parts derive their reality. Things
come and go ; but the universal order is one and infinite, an eternal
unity manifested in endless variety. Manifested, but how? Shall
we say that reality is only what is manifest to us, and make man the
measure of all things ? Or shall we say that the things we know are
not the real things, and bewail the impotence of human faculties?
Not so: that which we know is real, but it is not all. A world of
thought where space and extension have no meaning, and a world of
extended things in space out of all whose atoms not one thought can be
built—these we know, and so far as we know them they are real. But
we must believe in endless other ways of existence, to us inconceivable,
and differing in kind from thought and extension and from one
another, even as thought differs from extension. We cannot conceive
an Infinite which is infinite in limited ways. Extension and Thought
can no more fill up the sum of existence than an infinitely extended
plane could fill space. They are only two of the infinite attributes
wherein God, the one eternal self-existent substance, the source of all
reality, brings forth, not by a special act of creation, but by the very
fact of his existence, the boundless modes of being which infinite
understanding can conceive. This magnificent speculation is open to
grave difficulties, besides the impossibility of testing it by experience,
which to us is the most obvious objection of all, but is the very last
that would have occurred to any philosopher of Spinoza's time. But,
inasmuch as Extension and Thought are the only attributes we have
to do with, the Infinite Attributes lie outside the rest of the system,
whose real contents (the psychological and ethical part) are not affected
by this singularity of form. The infinite attributes may perhaps be
regarded as a metaphysical tour de force devised to avoid (if we may
use modern terms) the dangers of Naturalism on the one hand, and
Subjective Idealism on the other.
    This may prepare us for Spinoza's treatment of that vexed question
of metaphysics, the relations of mind and matter. We are all aware
of two series or classes of events which are distinct in kind. I wish
to move my hand : that is a feeling, as we say, in my own mind—an
event of which nobody can be conscious but myself. Each of you
may have a notion of it by the analogy of what you have known in
your own minds. But you can never have direct experience of it.
My wish is a mental event, and the sum of all events of that class is
the world of mind.
    Again, I do move my hand. That is an event which happens in
space—you can see it as well as I, or in certain positions better. It
is in some way —we do not now stop to ask how—part of your expe
rience as well as mine. This is a material event', and the sum of all
events of that class is the world of matter.
                                                             2 d 2

370                        Mr. Frederick Pollock                       [April 20,
    How are we to imagine the relation between these two trains of
events, so different in kind and yet so corresponding, as daily ex
perience tells us, in numberless ways ?
     We cannot really conceive mind as acting upon matter, or matter
upon mind : there is no common measure. There is no fellowship
between foot-pounds and emotion, between the sensation of warmth
and the mechanical equivalent of heat. One thing we may do is to
give up the question as hopeless, either by saying plainly that we can
make nothing of it, or by saying that mind and matter do act upon
one another, but how they do so is a mystery. This last was in effect
Descartes' answer. Leibnitz started the famous doctrine of pre-
established harmony (which was really taken from Spinoza with a
variation for the worse) : mind and matter, he said, are like two clocks
which are independently wound up and set to the same time, and are
so perfectly made that they keep the same time ever after. But
Spinoza says (to keep the very rough illustration of the clocks),
 There are not two clocks at all, but one clock with two faces. What
we call mind, and what we call matter, are manifestations of one and
the same reality— not an unknowable reality, for it is known in tho
manifestations, and they themselves constitute the reality—and they
correspond just because the reality is one. Holding this view, Spinoza
holds that the correspondence is exact. The chain of mental events
is matched by a parallel chain of material events ; but no link in the
one can be a link in the other. There can be no material cause of a
mental event, and conversely.
     Materialism-jwhich consists in mixing up the two classes of
events—is utterly foreign to Spinoza's way of thinking.
     It is impossible to discuss Spinoza's position here ; and I may say
at once that I do not think it strictly capable of demonstration. But
this or something like it is the conclusion to which the study of life
and thought aided by the lights of modern science—not direct light,
for the question is not one which physical science can answer, but
not the less by important side-lights—is in our own time con
verging. For this I call to witness the various important writings
in which the problem has been treated within the last few years in
our own country alone by Mr. Herbert Spencer, Mr. 6. H. Lewes,
Mr. Huxley, and Professor Clifford.
                            Spinoza's Psychology.
     Having fixed his leading ideas in the earlier part of the ' Ethics,'
 Spinoza proceeds to apply them to the particular consideration of the
human mind. The exact correspondence of material and mental
phenomena is expressed in the proposition, " The order and connexion
 of ideas* is the same as the order and connexion of things "\ —which
    * Idea is with Spinoza tho nornen f/eneralissimum for " mental state " (mode of
the Attribute Thought). It need not be, and often is not a state of consciousness,
or a state of human mind at all.            t Eth. 2, Fr. 7.

1877.]                               on Spinoza.                         371
does not mean that thought is the measure of things in the sense of
idealist systems. The thing corresponding in " order and connexion "
to an " idea " in my mind is not the thing I think about—or of which
I have an idea— but the state of my bodily organism corresponding to
the mental state. The human mind is an exceedingly complex thing
made up of simpler mental elements, just as the human body is an
exceedingly complex thing made up of simpler material elements. *
Spinoza goes on to state the law of mental association as distinctly
as any modern psychologist, and also states that there is a physical
law of the organism corresponding to it. J
     The ethical part of Spinoza's doctrine is introduced by a purely
scientific analysis of the passions, in which he proposes to " consider
men's actions and desires just as one would consider lines, surfaces,
or solids." As to the scientific value of his results, I need only
appeal to Johannes Muller, one of the first of European physiologists.
When Muller, in his classical work on Human Physiology, came to
speak of the passions, he expressed himself thus :
     " With regard to the relations of the passions to one another,
apart from their physiological conditions, it is impossible to give
any better account than that which Spinoza has laid down with
 unsurpassed mastery. In the following statement I shall therefore
 confine myself to giving the propositions of Spinoza on that subject." J
 And he translates accordingly, without further criticism or comment,
 the greater part of the Propositions of the third part of Spinoza's
' Ethics.' I know of no other case where science had been able to accept
in this unreserved way the fruits of philosophy.
     Spinoza reduces the passions to the elements of pleasure, pain,
 and desire. Pleasure is defined as the passage from less to greater,
 pain as the passage from greater to less perfection: which is curiously
 like the account of pleasure and pain lately given by Mr. H. Spencer
 on biological grounds —namely, that pleasure is originally correlated
 to actions beneficial to the organism, pain to those which aro injurious
 to it. Desire does not mean for Spinoza a desire of pleasant things
 as such. All living things, whether conscious or not, have appetite—
 a physical impulse determined by the universal tendency or effort,
 as Spinoza calls it, towards self-preservation. Desire is conscious
 appetite, and as such is prior to the voluntary pursuit of pleasant
 things as pleasant. Pleasure and desire are related not as cause and
 effect, but as effects of a common set of causes or functions of the same
 conditions. Nothing is more remarkable in Spinoza's philosophy
 than the easo with which these conceptions adapt themselves to our
 later theories of life and the " struggle for existence." It is hardly
 too much to say that Spinoza's notion of self-preserving effort—" the
 competence to be "—has been all this time only waiting to be filled in
 by Mr. Darwin. As it stands in the ' Ethics,' it is a grand conception
                   * Eth. 2, Pr. 15.          t Eth. 2, Pr. 17, 18.
                   X Miillcr, ' Physiol, des Menachen,' vol. ii. p. 543.

372                      Mr. Frederick Pollock                 [April 20,
which seems insufficiently connected with the world of sensible facts.
The theory of Evolution has put it in gear, so to speak, with the
working machinery of science, and filled it with life and motion.
Whether by fortune or by insight, Spinoza left a gap in his system
at exactly the right place ; and it is no small part of a philosopher's
merit to leave questions unanswered which cannot be answered with
the materials existing in his own time.
                       Spinoza's Ethical Doctrine.
    Spinoza places the foundation of moral action, as of all action
whatever, in the self-preserving effort. " The foundation of virtue is
no other than the effort to maintain one's own being, and man's
happiness consists in the power of so doing." * But self-preservation
does not lead, as might be supposed, to selfishness. Spinoza's morality
is neither more nor less egoistic than that of the Stoics, which has
often been called impracticable, but never selfish.
     The principles of the two systems are in fact identical, for the
Stoics really meant by " following nature " very much what Spinoza
meant by " suum esse conservare." And the consequences of these
principles run so closely parallel that one could hardly think it a case
of pure coincidence, but for the certainty that Spinoza knew little and
cared less about Grock philosophy.
     Every man seeks and must seek his own welfare ; that is the first
law of our moral nature in the scientific sense of law—that is, a uni
versal fact which you cannot get rid of. But it is part of the same
order that man is a reasonable and sociable animal. He cannot be
solitary if he would. Hence the only true self-preservation of man
is to be found in society ; the self-maintaining effort is not individual
but social. The desire of man's nature is fulfilled only in the fellow
ship of reasonable men. The welfare of the citizen is one with the
welfare of the city, and the life according to reason—a favourite ex
pression both with Spinoza and with the Stoics—is a life devoted to
the common weal.
     We have seen that Spinoza carried out without exception of any
kind the principle of the uniformity of nature. He applied it to the
actions of men no less than to the motion of a planet in its orbit.
Tho question is naturally asked, does this not crush morality under
the load of necessity, and drive us, if wo really accept it, into mere
fatalism ? We have no room here for any but a practical answer. The
 Stoics believed in universal law no less firmly than Spinoza, and the
 belief did not destroy—there is no evidence that it weakened—their
 morality.
     The sentimental objection to the doctrine of universal order
proceeds in great measure from a confused notion that it means an
 arbitrary destiny imposed upon tho world as it were from outside.
 But this is not what Spinoza and tho Stoics meant. They believed in
                           * Eth. 4, Pr. 18, Sohol.

1877.]                         on Spinoza.                           373
uniformity—the unbroken " reign of law "—as the very life of the world,
not outside it, but in it and of it. Every creature is part of this
order and must in some way serve it ; but man's privilege is to serve
it consciously and therein find his happiness. The fool serves blindly
and against his will, the righteous man in wisdom and gladness of
heart. This is the service which is perfect freedom, to fulfil in one's
own being the law of the world, which for man is the law of peace
and righteousness, of love and fellowship. The man who in our own
time has perhaps best understood Spinoza, and done most to make
him understood—I mean Berthold Auerbach—has summed up this
thought in the saying, Fret und Eins mit dem Gesetz : " Free and
made one with the law." Freedom is thus the fruit and reward of
righteousness— nor does she seek any other—and the wise and
righteous man alone is free.
    From Ethics we should naturally pass on to Politics, but an account
of Spinoza's doctrine on that subject, which offers a striking parallel,
not without contrasts however, to that of Hobbes, would lead us far
beyond the space at my command. I proceed, therefore, to a rapid
survey of the fortunes of Spinoza's philosophy since his death.
                           Spinoza's Influence.
    To givo a complete account of Spinoza's influence would be to
write the history of a great part of modern philosophy. The most
notable exception would be the English school down to the end of the
last century, which showed its independence of Continental thought
in this as well as in other ways. Locke entirely neglected Spinoza,
taking him probably for a sort of erratic Cartesian. Berkeley was to
some extent acquainted with him, but was prevented, either by some
similar misconception or by the repute of atheism which then attached
to Spinoza's name, from giving due consideration to him. Hume
barely mentions him ; and if his knowledge of Spinoza's philosophy
had been more than a slight and second-hand one, it is inconceivable
that he should not have seen its importance. The infinite Attributes
and the half mystic turn of the last book of the ' Ethics ' might have
pleased him little, but the excursus on Final Causes would have been
after Hume's own heart ; nor could he have failed to welcome
Spinoza's attacks on the logical doctrino of universals and other
cherished traditions of the schools. What is true of Locke, Berkeley,
and Hume, is also true, so far as I know, of the English philosophical
literature of the eighteenth century generally : Spinoza's name is not
unfrequently mentioned, but in such a way as to show very little real
knowledge of him. The writers who show most are (a strange con
junction) Clarke and Toland.
    In Spinoza's own country the immediate effects of his teaching
were greater than is commonly known ; I do not mean by way of
reaction alone, though in this manner Europe is indirectly indebted
to him for the greatest physician of the last century. Bocrhaave was in

374                           Mr. Frederick Pollock                   [April 20,
his youth destined for the ministry. Hearing Spinoza violently abased
by a fellow-traveller one day, he asked the speaker if he had ever read
Spinoza. Though he was in fact no follower of Spinoza, he got by this
the reputation of being a Spinozist, and seeing his prospects of eccle
siastical advancement cut off, betook himself thenceforth to medicine.
     There were more direct consequences, however, of a very curious
kind. Not long after Spinoza's death there sprang up in the Dutch
Reformed Church a whole tribe of heretics, whoso doctrines were
founded on a mystical interpretation of Spinoza's ' Ethics.' Their
opinions were repeatedly and expressly condemned as Spinozistic ;
but after being cut off from the Church they survived in small
dissenting bodies, of which remnants are said to exist at the present
day. The chief names among their leaders are those of Van fiattem,
(1641-1706), and Van Leenhof, who in 1703 published ' Heaven on
Earth,' an ethical treatise mostly taken from Spinoza.*
     In the European world of letters Spinoza was entirely misunder
stood and neglected for the best part of a century. Leibnitz, the man
most capable of doing him justice, preferred to take the opposite
course, and he was ill-treated even by the people who might have
been expected to take him up if only for the reason that he was hateful
to theologians. He fared little better at the hands of Bayle and
Voltaire than at the hands of orthodox apologists. To Lessing, the
founder in some sort of German literature and criticism, belongs the
credit of having seen and announced Spinoza's real worth. In a
certain memorable conversation with Jacobi he said, in so many
 words, " There is no philosophy but the philosophy of Spinoza." This
 and much more came out after Lessing's death in a long correspon
 dence between Jacobi and Moses Mendelssohn, which finally degene
rated into a controversy. After the report of that one conversation,
 the record of all this is now of little interest ; from these, however,
 and from other letters preserved among Lessing's works, the fact
 comes out that Lessing thoroughly understood Spinoza, and had
 grasped the leading points more firmly than many of Spinoza's later
 critics.
      Meanwhile Goethe too had found out Spinoza for himself, and
 he has recorded how the study of the ' Ethics ' had a critical effect on
 the development of his character.! And his statement is fully borne
 out by the witness of his mature work. Goethe's poems are full of
 the spirit of Spinoza ; not that you can often lay your finger on this
 or that idea and give a reference to this or that proposition in the
 ' Ethics,' but there is a Spinozistic atmosphere about all his deeper
 thoughts. There is a set of speculative poems (Gotl und Welt), which
 gives the most striking instances ; but the same ideas are woven into
     * See Van der Linde's ' Spinoza, seine Lehre und dessen erste Nachwir-
 kungen in Holland.' Gottingen, 1862. The ' Revue lies Deux Mondes ' for July 15,
  1867, contains a notice of this work (inter alia) by M. Paul Janet.
     f ' Aus raoinem Leben,' Book 14.

1877.]                              on Spinoza.                                 875
all parts of his work, and may be found alike in romance, tragedy,
lyrics, and epigrams.
     The influence thus started in philosophy and literature spread
rapidly. Kant's great work in philosophy was independent of it ;
but a strong current of Spinozism set in immediately after Kant, and
acted powerfully on his successors. Fichte, though his system widely
departs from Spinoza's, had obviously mastered bis philosophy and
felt the intellectual fascination of it ; and many of his metaphysical
ideas are simply taken from Spinoza. Hegel said, "You are much of
a Spinozist or no philosopher at all." So Schelling also said that
no one could arrive at philosophical truth who had not once at least
plunged into the depths of Spinozism. Novalis, Schleiermacher,
Heine, and many others have spoken of Spinoza in words of enthu
siastic praise. There is in Germany a whole recent literature of
exposition and discussion about him, which is fast increasing, and to
give an account of which would itself need a monograph.
      In France the prevailing tone of philosophy has not been one
that accords well with Spinoza ; but he has met there with keen and
intelligent criticism, which is the next best thing to intelligent
admiration ; and the beautiful address lately delivered by M. Renan
at the Hague (besides the serious attention given to the subject by
 M. Paul Janet * and others) is a sufficient proof that Spinoza has now
at least found a response in the highest thought of France.
      In England Coleridge, in this as in other things the advanced
guard of the peaceful invasion of German culture and philosophy,
spread the name of Spinoza, and much of his ideas, among the
friends whom he delighted by his conversation. He used to say
 that the three great works since the introduction of Christianity
were Bacon's ' Novum Organum,' Kant's ' Kritik,' and Spinoza's
 ' Ethics.' Coleridge's own position as to Spinoza was something
 like Jacobi's ; he admired and honoured him without accepting his
 teaching. It may well be that some part of the Nature-worship of
Wordsworth's poetry, which has been a most important element in our
later English literature, was derived through Coleridge from Spinoza.
 But we must come down many years later before we find any certain
 manifestation of this part of Coleridge's influence. Those who
have spoken of Spinoza to English readers as he deserves to be
 spoken of are still among us and working for us. We have Mr.
 G. H. Lewes' various articles and writings on Spinoza, to which he
 has given a finished form in his ' History of Philosophy.' We have
 Mr. Froude's essay on Spinoza,f perhaps the best general account of
his doctrine which has been given in our language for those who do
not make philosophy their special study. There is Mr. Matthew
 Arnold's admirable monograph on the Tractatus Theologico-Politicus,|
     * See his paper on " French Thought and Spinozism," in the ' Contemporary
Review ' for May, 1877.                  t In ' Short Studies on Great Subjects.'
     X " Spinoza and the Bible," in ' Essays in Criticism.'

 376                       Mr. Frederick Pdloek                [April 20,
 whose only fault is that he has not completed it by a companion piece
 on the 'Ethics.' There are Mr. Huxley's contributions to pure
 philosophy, which do not treat of Spinoza directly, but which—as
 well as Mr. G. H. Lewes' most recent work— have done much to put
 Spinoza's fundamental ideas into shapes adapted to the present state
of our knowledge. Nor are other signs wanting of an active and
increasing interest in Spinoza both at home and abroad.
     It has been said of Spinoza by an able and not unfair critic
 (M. Saisset), that his theory was after all but a system, which has
passed away like all other systems, never to come back. It is true
that Spinoza did not found a school, and had few or no disciples in
the proper sense. It would be difficult to name anyone who ever
formally accepted his system as a whole. But the worth of a
philosopher to the world is measured not by the number of people
who accept his system, or by the failure of criticism to detect logical
flaws in it, but by the life and strength of the ideas he sets stirring
in men's minds. Systems are the perishable body of philosophy,
ideas are the living soul. Judged by this test, Spinoza stands on a
height of eminence such as very few other thinkers have attained.
     It is singular that the two men whose thought has on the whole,
perhaps, had the most signal effects in modern times in guiding and
stimulating the thoughts of others on the highest problems of
speculation, have both been members of that race which has under
gone more reverses and sufferings than any other, only to rise up
again and again with fresh proofs of its marvellous persistence and
vitality. Their lives, conditions, and circumstances present to the
outward view the most striking contrasts. The one of these men
was a retired student, who never left his native land, and shrank
from the distractions of public office. The other was a traveller, an
orator, a shaper of new forms of society, a born ruler of men. Tho
one compelled men's attention by the steady pressure of intellectual
persuasion, the other by the impulsive stress of indomitable zeal and
eloquence ; the one showed in its highest manifestation the power
of reason, tho other the power of faith. The uulikcnuss is great
indeed; yet their conduct and the principles which animated it
present in some ways a likeness which is hardly less remarkable.
Each of these men was on the point of rising to the highest distinc
tion that in his country and time could be attained among his own
people ; each of them without hesitation abandoned his fairest pros
pects of advancement to fulfil the duty of serving the truth above
all things. Both were accused of holding opinions that struck at the
root of moral and social order, at the very same timo that they were
proclaiming in tho strongest terms the sacredness of the bond that
holds men together in society, and the duty of ungrudging obedience
to civil government. Both of them set little store by their individual
gains or losses, but also held it the duty of a citizen, for the sake of
the common weal, to resist injustice in his own case no less than in
another's, and wore ready to act on that conviction. Beckening

1877.]                          on Spinoza.                         377
themselves as they did the servants of the truth, they taught for the
truth's sake and not for their own, and each of them forbade his
friends to call a doctrine after his name. Though cut off from the
protection and fellowship of their own law, and condemned by the
professors of its letter, they never ceased to honour the spirit of it,
and they both fulfilled the precept which bids the teacher live by
the work of his own hands. It is hardly possible for a man to con
sider seriously the profoundest questions of life without at some time,
and in some measure, taking the one or the other of these men for
his master. One of them was Baruch de Spinoza, the Jew of
Amsterdam, afterwards called Benedict ; the other was Saul, the Jew
of Tarsus, afterwards called Paul.
                                                            [P. P.]

378                              Dr. John Bae                       [April 27,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 27, 1877.
       Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                   John Rar, M.D. LL.D. M.B.I. &c.
                         Arctic and Sub-Arctic Life.
Arotio life on land has this well-known peculiarity, that from the
beginning of April until the first or second week in June, and in
some places to a later date, every living thing has its head turned
northward ; the reindeer, the musk-ox, with the wolf (in close atten
dance, with deadly intentions), are among the earliest of the migrants,
several kinds of grouse being about the same date. Then towards
the last day of May, or early in June, como the geese and other
aquatic birds with wonderful regularity as to date. During the two
springs passed at Bepulse Bay, the Hutchins goose (A. Hutchinsii)
arrived on the one occasion on the 31st May, and the other on the
1st June.*
     Then como the lemmings, travelling always by night, sometimes
in great numbers ; not one of which would have been seen, were it
not that at the time our own habits were nocturnal, as during tho
day they were hid away under stones, snow, &c, wherever they could
find shelter. There also were flies and spiders, lively and active,
making their northward progress during tho warmth and sun of the
day, but lying dormant in a half or wholly frozen state during the cool
of tho night.
     In the sea I had not equal opportunities of observation, but I do
not think the same universal northward movement takes place there ;
certainly no such southward travel of marine animals was observable
in the autumn as was noticed on the land. In fact, the white porpoise
swims northward instead of southward on the approach of winter, in
great numbers from tho large rivers of Hudson's Bay. The cause
of marino animals being less migratory than those on land, may be
that the temperature of the sea is much more equable, never varying
more than eight or ten degrees ; whilst the difference between the
atmospheric temperatures of summer and winter is in some places as
much as 130 degrees.
     It had been my intention to endeavour to mention briefly all the
Arctic animals that havo come under my notice, but this I find to be
    * During ten years' residence at Moose, on the shores of Hudson's Bay, tho
first Canada geese wero always first seen on St. George's Day, 23rd April, or
once or twice on tho previous day.

1877.]                on Arctic and Sub-Arctic Life.                   379
impossible in the short space of one hour ; I have therefore chosen from
among them a few only, the peculiarities of which seem to me of tho
greatest interest.
    The first among these are the musk-rat, or musquash (Fiber zebi-
thicus), and the beaver ( Castor fiber), the two house-building fresh
water amphibia, a term rather improperly, but commonly, applied to
these animals.
    The musk-rat is found everywhere in the Hudson's Bay territory :
wherever there are low marshy places, and where there is a great
growth of the aquatic plants on which the animal feeds, it builds its
house in pools of water several feet deep. The material used for
building is mud, weeds, and grass, which are built up to the height
of about four feet, in the form of a small haycock.
    The floor of the dwelling is a few inches above the water level,
the external entrance to which opens from underneath the water,
of necessity near the bottom of the pond, for wero it anywhere near
the surface, it would be frozen up, as the ice forms to the thickness
of one or two feet in winter. Besides the principal dwelling, a number
of little breathing places, or lodges, are scattered at intervals all over
the pond, at distances of fifteen or twenty yards apart. The uses of
these will be obvious, when I mention that during the whole winter
of five or sis months' duration, from the first frost to the disappearance
of ice in spring, these little animals obtain all their food from the
plants growing in the pond under the ice. As the winter advances the
food near the house would be consumed, and the rats would have to
extend their range of feeding ground, in going to and from which a great
deal of time and labour would be expended ; in fact, they could not go
to any very great distance, as the period they can live without breathing
is very limited. They therefore prepare these little resting places all
over their domain, which enables them to get without difficulty to every
part of it. I have seen one of my men, when travelling in winter, not
unfrequently go up quietly to one of them, knock it over with a
sharp blow from an axe, and generally find a rat inside, with some of
the vegetable substance on which he had been feeding lying besido
him. The murdered rat on such occasions usually formed part of
our supper. The musk-rat, notwithstanding that it has numerous
enemies, and is constantly hunted by the Indians and others, is so
prolific, that there is at present little chance of its becoming extinct.
Upwards of two million skins are usually brought to London every
year from America.
     The beaver, unlike the musk-rat, always selects a running stream
in which to build his house, and to make his dam. In choosing the
stream, two important particulars must be considered. Care must be
 taken that there is a constant supply of water from a spring or other
source during the whole or greater part of the winter, and that there
is an abundance of the species of tree on the banks, the bark of which
forms its food. Supposing then that a beaver has taken unto himself
a wife, and they have decided to set up house, and that after much

380                            Dr. John Bae                     [April 27,
consultation they have fixed upon a favourable position, the first thing
is to form a weir or dam, which is accomplished by cutting down one
or more trees on each side, in such a manner as to fall transversely, or
nearly so, across the stream ; many of the branches are then cut off,
and placed crosswise; after which leaves, mud, stones, and pieces
of wood are accumulated on these, so that a powerful barrier is con
structed ; it is left a little lower on one side than the other, so that
any surplus water may readily escape.
    The house-building is even more arduous work than the con
struction of the dam, the materials composing it being mud, clay,
stones, and pieces of wood several inches in diameter, put together
with great ingenuity, the walls being often more than a foot thick, a
strength absolutely necessary to keep out their most determined enemy,
the wolverine !
    The beaver house is much larger, of course, than that of the rat, and
of a different shape, being much flatter, and wider on the top in propor
tion to its height. The floor is so placed as to be an inch or two above
the level of the top of the overflow part at the dam ; so there is little
danger of a flooding of the dwelling similar to the almost periodical
one that the poorer dwellings along the Thames are subjected to.
With a method almost to be expected from such good engineers, there
are to the dwelling at least two doors, presumably one for entrance,
the other for exit, the external opening being under water, close to the
bottom of the pond, as described in the rat house.
    Unlike the rat, however, the beavers do not build up little huts for
breathing places, but scrape holes in the banks of the stream instead,
sloping upwards, so that although the entrance is deep under water,
the upper or farther end is dry. To these they resort for feeding and
fresh air, when the food is at a distance from home, or when an enemy
has attacked and broken into their dwelling.
    The next work is to cut down and haul into the pond a number of
trees (usually the poplar) for the winter stock of food. These trees, in
their green state, are heavier than water, and consequently sink to tho
bottom. As the bark alone is eaten, it may be imagined what a largo
supply is needed, and what care must be taken that a sufficient quan
tity is stored up, otherwise starvation would be certain.
    For at least six weeks or two months of the autumn, the labours of
the beaver must bo very severe (as is indeed indicated by their being
then in somewhat poorer condition than at other times), and most of
their work is done in the night.
    One thing has puzzled naturalists, and that is, whirl is the use
of the beaver's curiously-shaped tail ? Some people have asserted
that it is used as a trowel for plastering and smoothing the mud of its
dwelling ! I do not think this is so ; but one use for it I do know ; and
that is, to give an alarm on the approach of real or supposed danger.
When crossing the Bocky Mountains, I tested this over and over
again in calm nights, when listening to these industrious creatures
hard at work at, no doubt, some kind of useful and necessary labour.

1877.]                on Arctic and Sub-Arctic Life.                          381
On intentionally making a noise, there was instantly a sharp report
like a pistol shot, certainly caused by the tail being brought forcibly
down on the water ; after which, for an hour or more, there was
perfect silence ; not the slightest signs of the work being resumed
could be heard. As the beavers carry the mud and clay for their
house-building in their fore paws, while walking on their hind legs, it
is probable that the tail forms a good support for the animal when
in an upright position, at least in preventing it falling backwards.
     As the whole winter, of perhaps 180 days' duration, is passed
by the beaver in this house in total darkness, or in swimming abroad
for food or exercise in his dam, where some amount of light may
penetrate through the two or three feet of snow and ice above him,
we must, in imagination, believe that the home-life of the beaver in
winter is dismal in the extreme ; yet the appearance of the animal
when killed at this season does not warrant us in coming to this con
clusion, for he is found to be in splendid condition, both as regards his
corporal state, and the beauty and thickness of his fur.
     When the family increases and becomes too large for the house, a
portion of them leave their old habitation, and if there are still suffi
cient trees of the proper kind for food in the neighbourhood, these
offshoots build a new dwelling on the old homestead ; but if the food-
producing tree is becoming scarce, there is a migration, generally
down stream, when a new dam is formed, a new house built, and
another colony established ; and so the work goes on and on as long
as the beavers are not destroyed by their enemies. The immense
amount of their labours, and the large quantity of trees cut down by
them, can alone be estimated by persons who have travelled through a
country that is or has been much occupied by them.
     A beaver sometimes separates himself from his kind, and leads a
wandering solitary life. He is usually of large size, as may be told
by the markings of his teeth on the trees he has been cutting, and
is generally met with along the banks of large rivers such as the
 Mckenzie and Fraser, in passing down which his roughly made
 bachelor establishment may be seen in some little eddy of the
stream where there is a small indent in the bank. How or where he
lays up his winter stock of food I am unable to tell ; for he, like the
more orderly members of the family, is never seen during the wintor.
     There is one circumstance connected with beaver life that cannot
 be easily explained. The house in which he lives appears to be as
impervious to air as it is to light, and when the family amounts to
six or eight there cannot be more than a cubic yard of air—if so much
—to each individual ! This quantity must last for twenty weeks or
more without change or purification of any kind that I am aware of,
unless indeed the water has the quality of re-oxydizing and decar
bonizing the air that has been rendered impure by constant respira
tion. Probably the clay and mud are to a certain degree porous.*
    * That the clay and mud were sufficiently porous to admit air was suggested
to me by the distinguished physicist, Professor Guthrie, F.R.S., of the educational
 department of the South Kensington Museum.

382                                Dr. John Bae                         [April 27,
     Each Indian or family of Indians has special hunting grounds,
the boundary of which is almost as well defined as a gentleman's
estate ; and any hunter who killed a beaver, or destroyed the beaver
house, on the lands of another, would be considered guilty of an
aggravated offence, and of a disreputable act of poaching.
     The fox family are curious as to their relations to each other,
and for their wonderful sagacity.* Their skins differ widely in
appearance, and also in value ; that of the silver fox has been known
to sell in London at as much as 451. or 501. for one skin, whilst the
usual value of that of the red fox is not more than 208. or 25*. Yet
these two varieties may be the produce of one litter. The silver is the
rarest, the cross next, and the red, no doubt the normal colour, far the
most common. The white and blue or sooty differ so very much in
appearance, that they are supposed by many to be distinct from each
other, or that the dark skin is that of the white fox in its summer
clothing. This is not the case ; for both of these are winter skins in
a high state of perfection, and the blue one is only a variety, and may,
like the other foxes, be in the same litter of young with the white.
The blue is much more rare than the white, and of much greater
value.
    I have only time to mention two cases, showing what I call tho
reasoning powers of the fox. A steel trap, set in a peculiar manner, is
a very common mode of catching foxes ; but there are certain of these
animals, probably taught by having seen others of their kind entrapped
by this means, which eludo all the efforts of the trapper, who then
resorts to another plan. A gun is set, with a line, one end of which is
attached to the trigger, the other to the bait, generally some odorous
substance. The line for several yards next to the bait is carefully
covered up with snow, so that the fox cannot see any connection
between the bait and the gun ; usually one or more foxes are readily
shot in this manner, but afterwards something like this not unfre-
quently happens. The trapper finds, when ho visits his gun in the
morning, that the line is cut, the bait gone, and the gun undischarged.
To show that this is not a chance thing, I may notice another plan
by which the bait is taken away in safety. The guns are usually
set in some out-of-the-way place on a deep snowdrift, into which,
beginning about a yard's distance from the bait, the fox scrapes a
trench a foot or so deep to where the bait is. While lying in this
trench he takes hold of it, sets the gun off, and trots off coolly with
his supper. In both cases we see the tracks of the fox on the snow,
indicating his evidently careful and cautious approach, before cutting
the line ; by his constant custom of scraping his trench at right
angles, or nearly so, to the direction in which the gun is pointed
(for if he did it in the same line, the shot would be likely to hit him),
whilst the snow is ploughed up by the shot immediately over where
he had been lying in his trench, and exactly where his head would
   * Bed fox (Vulpcs fulvus), cross fox (V. decussatus), silver fox (V. argentatus),
Arclio fox, white (K. lagopus), Arctic fox, blue {V. fuliginosus).

1877.J                on Arctic and Sub-Arctic Life.                383
have been had he taken the bait in the manner he was expected to do,
there is demonstration of forethought and reason.
    Whilst travelling in 1851 along the shores of Wollastonland,
I fell in with a number of hares feeding on a piece of ground which
the sun had denuded of snow (I had approached without being seen) ;
and while waiting patiently to get two or three of the hares in a
line, so as to bag more than one, I noticed one animal that looked
different from the others, yet wonderfully like, but the ears were not
so long, nor the tips of them black, like those of the hare. In every
other respect the likeness was complete. This proved to be a white
fox that had tucked his long bushy tail underneath, hopped about,
and sat up occasionally on his hind legs exactly as his companions
did, always edging nearer and nearor to them ; but the hares appeared
aware of the deception, for they usually moved away, but not rapidly,
or as if much alarmed. The fox was not within shot, so when I
fired and bagged three hares he scampered off.
    There are two kinds of reindeer (Cerims tarandus) ; the one fre
quenting the woods, the other, a much smaller variety, occupying the
barren grounds of America. This last migrates far to the north in
spring and summer, returning to its winter home on the barren lands
in September and October. This deer is to the northern Indians of
these parts, and to many of the Eskimos, as much a necessity of life
as the seal is to the Eskimos of Greenland. The skin of the animal,
in different modes of preparation, forms the clothing, shoes, blankets,
and tents, and even the cords with which the animal itself is snared.
Their venison constitutes the principal meat diet, and the contents of
their stomach the only substitute for bread and vegetables of these
people.
    The female reindeer have horns (an unusual circumstance), and
those of the full-grown male have a peculiar brow antler, which has
led to a very curious error ; for it has been represented, at no very
distant time, that this palmated branch of the horn was a sort of
natural shovel to scrape away the snow from the grasses and lichens
on which the animal feeds. Yet it cannot be so, as these horns are
shed in November, and during the whole winter the old male reindeer
has no horns at all, whilst tho female and young males retain their
horns (which have no palmated branches) all winter, and do not shed
them until about May or June. The roindeer when feeding in winter
invariably uses its foot to remove the snow. They migrate as far north
 as Banks Land, Melville Peninsula, and to the Parry Islands ; but I
 believe that many of them winter at the latter. They are killed by
the Indian in various ways, by snaring and with the gun, formerly
with bows and arrows ; they are also speared in great numbers when
crossing rivers.
     By the Eskimos they are also speared in crossing lakes, as already
mentioned, shot with bows and arrows, and caught in pitfalls dug out
in the deep snowdrifts in spring. It is surprising that tho Indians
have never domesticated this docile animul, as the Lapps and Thuchi
     Vol. VIII. (No. 67.)                                   2 r

384                             Dr. John Rae                         [April 27,
have done, as they are easily tamed. The only hindrance to their
doing this is the superstition of the savage, who thinks that were he
to do so, various misfortunes would happen to him and his people.
     I know of only three Arctic animals that hibernate : there may be
more. One is the marmot, which burrows deeply into some dry bank,
and there has his winter bed. Most of these clever little fellows take
up their quarters during the summer among rocks and stones, where
they are safer from their many enemies.
     The next I shall mention is a brown bear ( Ursus arctos), resembling
in colour the grizzly bear of the Rocky Mountains, nearly as large, but
differing in having shorter legs. This animal feeds on roots, marmots,
lemmings, and all kinds of carrion ; robs deposits of provisions as dexte
rously as the wolverine ; and at the beginning of winter stows himself
in a snug hole in the earth, where he sleeps away five or six months of
his life every season, the door of his bedroom being shut up with snow
that has drifted over it, and keeps him warm. My acquaintance with this
animal is so slight that I can tell little more about him. I endeavoured
frequently to get a skeleton of this bear, but failed, because the Indians
have a superstition about its being unlucky to preserve the bones, or
at least all of them, of any single animal.
     The female white bear ( U. maritimus) also hibernates under certain
circumstances, whilst the male roves about all winter from one sheet of
open water to another in search of its constant prey, the small seal,
which forms the bear's chief food. They also kill the walrus, and the
white whale (Beluga) occasionally. The latter sometimes defers too
long his voyage to the open water, where he spends the winter, and
is caught by frost. Under these circumstances, he is obliged to keep
a breathing place open in the ice by constantly rising to breathe. As
he has generally only one of these places, he cannot go to breathe
elsewhere, so if tho bear finds one of these holes, all he has to do
is to watch this opening, and every time the porpoise* comes to
breathe, the bear fastens upon him, and by repeated attacks kills him.
     The only seal (Phoca vetulina) 1 shall speak of is the small one,
frequently called by tho sealers the "floe-rat."' It is abundant in
Repulse Bay, particularly in the autumn ; and when the sea began to
freeze, it was interesting to watch them keeping breathing holes open,
in doing which they seemed to splash about the water much more than
at first appeared requisite, until an examination of one of these places
led me to discover the cause. We all know that the specific gravity
of ice is only so little less than that of water, that ice six inches thick
floats with certainly not more than ono inch above the surface.
     I found, on going to one of these breathing places, that by the
accumulation of broken ice and water thrown out by the seal, the ice
was twelve inches thick, whilst only six inches elsewhere, and that
round the opening it was about seven inches above the surface. The
    * This cetacean is as frequently called a porpoise as a whale, and it is of its
skin that the much valued porpoise-leather boots are ofti n made.

   1877.J              on Arctic and Sub-Arctic Life.                     385
  advantage of this raised ice was apparent on the first fall of snow
  occurring, which, if of the depth of only half an inch, was drifted by
  the wind into the opening, and the seal's head was not seen again, he
  having been able to make a small air chamber under the snow, which
  had the double effect of concealing him from his enemies, and, by
  keeping off the cold, preventing the opening from freezing up so
  readily. I believe each seal has two or more of these breathing
  places, because if he had only one, his death would be certain if his
  enemy, the bear or Eskimo, found that one.
      During winter the female seal scrapes out a little house, in which
  she has her young seal beside her, protected as far as possible by a good
  covering of snow from cold and danger. The chief food of this kind
  of seal in Repulse Bay is a small crustacean, somewhat resembling a
  shrimp in shape, of tho family named " Grammarus," which are in such
  myriads, that the water seems thick with them. On opening the
  stomachs of seals and salmon, I always found that these formed the
 chief contents.
      The Eskimos may be fairly classed into three great divisions.
 Those from the McKenzie river westward to Behring Strait, live in
 houses, or Ig-loos, built of wood ; thoso from the McKenzie east
 ward to the shores of Hudson's Bay, live in huts constructed of
 snow ; and thoso of Greenland have dwellings mado of earth, stones,
 bones, &e.
      Some anthropologists believe that the Eskimos migrated from the
 north to their present position, being driven thereto by a gradually
 increasing severity of climate and scarcity of game in the higher
 latitudes. Others, among whom is the distinguished Dr. Rink, think
 that the Eskimos are American, and came to the coast from the south.
 The third, and perhaps most popular idea, is that they migrated from
 Siberia, which I believe to be the true locality from which their
 exodus took place.
      At three places on the American coast, far apart from each other,
 where I have seen the Eskimos, I learnt, through an excellent inter
 preter, that they had a tradition of having come from the west, or setting
 sun, in doing which they had crossed a narrow sea separating the two
great lands. Drivon out probably from Asia by some groat pressure,
and finding on reaching America that their advance southward into the
interior was barred by numerous and hostile Indians, they were forced
to migrate eastward along the sea-shores, and thus gradually extend
themselves to the coasts of Greenland and Labrador, still retaining
their language with so little variation, that an interpreter from the shores
of Labrador can make himself perfectly understood by the natives living
west of the McKenzie, several thousand miles apart.
     If the theory of the migration from Siberia be true, a curious
sequence of events takes place. On the shores of Siberia the winter
houses of these people were constructed chiefly of earth, stones, and
bones. These bones show, by their size and shape, that large marine
animals, whilst forming a great part of the Eskimo's food, would yield
                                                              2 k 2

386                            Dr. John Bae                      [April 27,
abundance of oily substance for light and fuel to warm these Yourts
or dwellings.
     When the Eskimos crossed to America, they found large quantities
of driftwood, and they (being from my own knowledge wonderfully
adaptive) built their houses of wood, but did not use it for fuel ; even to
the present time (according to Dr. Simpson) burning oil in stone lamps
for heat and light ; whales, walrus, and seal being easily obtainable.
     East of the McKenzie there is little or no wood to be found, there
 are no walrus, and comparatively few seals and whales, and the chief
food of the Eskimos here is deer, musk cattle, and fish, which yield no
oil. Here, then, they cannot build a house of wood, because they have
not the materials. If they made a house of the same kind (of stone,
earth, and bones) as they dwelt in on the shores of Siberia, they would
 have no fuel to warm it. They therefore take the very wisest step they
 could possibly adopt, and build a hut of snow, which without fuel is
 warmer than any other. These snow-hut-builiiing Eskimos extend all
 the way eastward to Hudson's Bay; but when Baffin's Bay, Greenland,
 and Hudson's Straits are reached, the form of house used in Siberia is
 again resumed. The cause seems sufficiently apparent, for the wan
 derers have now again come to seas teeming with marine life of almost
 the same forms as were found on the shores of Siberia, from which they
 obtain oil enough for lighting and heating these otherwise wretched
 dwellings.
     It is of the life of the snow-hut Eskimos that I shall now speak, as
 I know more of them than of any other. In size they are by no means
 so dwarfish as is generally supposed, being taller, I believe, than the
 average Chinaman or Japanese, whom they very much resemble both
 in face and figure. They are of great solidity, their defect of height
 arising from the shortness of their legs and neck. Their faces are
 pleasant, especially among the young; and all the young girls and
 women have very fine teeth, and remarkably small feet and hands, the
 latter becoming coarse and clumsy after a time, by working up seal and
 other skins into a condition fitted to make dresses, &c.
     The duties of the women are, however, not very arduous ; and they
 are, as far as I have seen, treated with great kindness by their husbands,
 showing in this respect a remarkable contrast to the Bed Indian of
 America. The woman's duty is to attend to and trim the lamp [of which
 a sample was shown], and to cook when there is cooking ; but as they
 prefer their venison and fish raw, this docs not occupy much of their
 time ; they prepare the skins, make the dresses and boots ; all this
 entails a large amount of, however, not very hard work. Their sewing
 is beautiful, not only for its neatness, but for the manner in which it is
 done, with very rough materials, so that the seams are perfectly water
 tight. Their best winter dresses are always made of the finest of the
 reindeer skin ; two coats being worn, the inner one with the fur inwards,
 the outer one (which is generally taken off when indoors) having the
 fur outside.
     Their beds are made of a bank of snow covered with two or three

1877.]               on Arctic and Sub-Arctic Life.                  387
folds of thick, hairy deerskin, over which thero is one blanket of the
same material, large enough to cover the whole family or occupants of
the hut. When going to rest at night, they generally remove the upper
part of the dress, just as our athletes do when they are to run or row
a race, but with an entirely opposite object. The athlete strips himself
for the purpose of coolness, the Eskimo does so to keep himself warm.
    The routine of Eskimo life at or near Repulse Bay is as follows.
In the autumn and early winter they live in tents made of deer skins
with the hair on (the tents for spring and summer being of skins with
the hair removed), which they set up in a convenient position for
killing reindeer, usually on the south shore of some narrow lake
lying east and west or at right angles to the route of migration, across
which the animals readily swim, instead of going several miles out of
their way to got round the lake.
    When in the water they are chased in the swift kayak and speared
in great numbers, and dragged easily on shore afterwards, as they float
on the surface when killed. If the season is favourable, sufficient
venison is obtained and put into " cache " to last the whole winter ;
and with this for food, and some carefully hoarded up oil from seals
killed the previous spring, the cold season is passed in plenty and
comfort. Several families assemble, build their snow huts close to
one of these provision depots, and live upon its contents until finished,
when they remove to another depot, build a new village of huts, and
go through the same process as before. Their chief meal, as is common
among all natives of America, is eaten before going to bed.
    During this time they are not idle, for the men have their hunting
weapons, and perhaps frames of canoes, to make, whilst the women
are occupied in sewing by the light of their lamps ; the children are
being educated ; the girls are stitching pieces of skins together in the
form of dolls' clothes, &c, whilst the boys are making miniature
sledges, bows and arrows, and spears. When the weather is not too
stormy they also angle for trout. This kind of life, if provisions hold
out, continues until late in spring, when all move to the sea-coast, first
for the purpose of killing seals, the skins of which are wanted for
making boots and canoes, and the oil for light and cooking during the
following winter. The seal killing goes on until the ice begins to
break up, when a number of families resort to the mouth of some
small river, which, whilst very shallow, discharges a considerable
amount of water ; across the mouth of this is built a slight barricade
of stones, about two feet high, put together in such a way that the
water runs through easily, but the fish cannot pass. Over this
barrier, which is much below high-water mark, the salmon pass with
the flowing tide, but are prevented returning with the ebb, and remain
in pools about two feet deep (a necessary part of the arrangement),
where they are struck with a fish spear, such as I show you, far
superior in almost every respect to anything of the kind I have ever
seen used by civilized man.
    As soon as the salmon fishing is concluded, which lasts two weeks
or so, they occupy their time in various ways: some go to the sea

 388                          Dr. John Bae                     [April 27,
 and along coast in search of walrus, bears, &c, whilst others go to the
 usual feeding grounds of the musk-ox, the skins of which make an
 excellent covering of the snow bed to sleep upon, and the horn of the
 bull is very useful to form into a dish or ladle, one of which may Iks
 seen in the library.
     As to their social habits, they are a cheerful, lively, gossiping
 race, who spend most of their spare time in games of various kinds,
and in concerts, a combination of the vocal and instrumental ; these
frequently taking place in tho night, which in June and July is as
light as day.
     These Eskimos wero cleanly in their persons and dresses, quite as
much so in the winter time as we could be ourselves; for it was almost
impossible to wash in the winter, as the water immediately froze on
tho hair and beard, and the only way in which to get a comb or brush
through it was by holding your head under the blankets. Our usual
wash was a rub of dry snow, in which material our blankets and
flannels were well trampled once or twice a week, with excellent
effect.
     Their domestic relations are praiseworthy, the women being treated
with much kindness and consideration ; and I am sure if there wero
such an institution as a parliament in the far north, they would not
only have a vote, but probably be eligible for a seat in that important
assembly. I am certain that if the Eskimos had a Geographical
Society or a Hydrographic Department, their women, from their know
ledge of the coast, anil the neat manner in which they make a sketch
of it, would be unanimously voted fellows of the one and appointed
officials of the other. A chart of about 200 miles of coast, drawn
by a woman of Ig-loolik for Sir Edward Parry, I found, on my
survey, to be wonderfully accurate.
     They readily accommodated themselves to the ways and customs
of my men, all steady, fine fellows, and at once the men and boys
took to smoking tobacco, although they had never done so before. On
giving one of the women a silver fork to eat some food with, she
handled it as neatly as if she had been accustomed to its use all her
life ; and when taking some tea and biscuit, said she had tasted them
before when a little girl at Ig-loolik, when on board large Oo-miaka-
yukes (ships) there —Parry's vessels of course, which had been at the
Straits of Fury and Hecla about twenty-four years before.
     The Eskimos are said to be very untruthful : I did not find them so,
and I had good opportunities of putting this to the test. I had with
me the narratives of Ross and Parry, the contents of which my very
excellent interpreter did not know ; but through him I got from the
Eskimos information identical with what was to be found in these
books ; and more than this, they mentioned things that had occurred
twenty-four years before, which were not in Sir Edward Parry's narra
tive, but which Sir Edward told me he perfectly remembered to have
occurred, although thought of too little interest to be recorded. They
did tell falsehoods occasionally, which might be in some measure justi
fiable, because they did so to endeavour to prevent us from travelling

1877.]                on Arctic and Sub-Arctic Life.                 389
over their favourite hunting grounds, believing that we would kill or
frighten away the game, or destroy caches of provisions they might
have there, upon which perhaps the lives of these poor people
depended.
    Their delicacy of feeling was shown in a curious way. Whenever
my men were about to take the kettle off the fire at breakfast or dinner
time, any natives then in the tent immediately got up to go away, and
would have done so unless asked to remain; the same thing often
occurred when they saw my servant bring me my dinner.
    Their gratitude for kindness was shown in a refinement of manner
that could not be excelled in the most civilized community. When
going to a distance in spring to kill seals, the young men asked leave
that some three or four old people might be allowed to encamp near us,
so as to be under our protection, which of course was readily granted,
with a promise that we would give them some food if we had any to
spare. For a fortnight or three weeks these old folks lived near us,
and never asked for anything ; and the only way I could learn whether
they had food or not, was by sending over my man Corrigal (who was
as great a favourite with the natives as he was with everyone else) to
find out, and supply them if required.
    When the seal-hunters returned, they thanked me for my kindness ;
and as my men wanted some seal fat to fry their venison with, I told
them to buy some ; but a deputation of the natives came with the inter
preter, and said that as I had been so good to their people, they would
supply us with what fat we required, but would not receive any pay
for it. Every morning a large piece of seal grease was laid at the door
of the men's tent.
    They believe in a good and a bad spirit, and say that the good
spirit is so beneficent that he will not himself hurt them, but he will
leave them to the evil influence of the bad spirit if they do what is
wrong. They therefore propitiate the spirit of evil. They believe
that meteors (falling stars) and the brightly moving aurora are the
spirits of their dead visiting each other in the heavens.
    Whenever the Eskimos come in contact with civilized man they are
found to be docile, and to assimilate themselves to our best qualities ;
such has been the case at Churchill, in Hudson's Bay, among the mis
sionaries at Labrador, and among the Danes in Greenland ; whilst
several of the crews of the American Arctic Expeditions have been in
debted for their lives to them. No braver, more affectionate, or more
trustworthy men were ever seen than Augustus, the interpreter to the
Franklin Overland Expedition ; than Albert, the interpreter of Sir John
Richardson's Searching Expedition of 1848 ; or the Eskimo and his
wife who accompanied the American, Hall, in most of his Arctic
wanderings.
    Surely, people with such good qualities and such beautiful ideas
have a right to a higher rank amongst the uncivilized races than has
hitherto been awarded them.
                                                             [J. R.1

390                               Annual Meeting.                          [May 1,
                          ANNUAL MEETING.
                              Tuesday, May 1, 1877.
         William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Manager, in the Chair.
     The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
1876, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
of the Institution, was read and adopted. The Heal and Funded
Property now amounts to above 84,000Z. entirely derived from the
Contributions and Donations of the Members.
     Seventy-two new Members paid their Admission Fees in 1876.
     Sixty-three Lectures and Nineteen Evening Discourses were
delivered in 1876.
     The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1876 amounted to about
164 volumes, making, with those purchased by the Managers, a total
of 394 volumes added to the Library in the year, exclusive of
periodicals.
     Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the Professors, for
their services to the Institution during the past year.
     The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
for the ensuing year :
     President— The Duke of Northumberland, D.C.L.
     Treasurer—George Busk, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.
     Secretary.—William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Treas. R.S.
                          Corresponding Member of Academy of Sciences, Paris.
               Managers.                                    Visitors.
George Berkley, Esq. C.E.                  John R. Andrews, Esq.
William Bowman, Esq. F.R.S.                John Frederic Bateman, Esq. F.R.S.
Adm. Sir Henry John Codrington, K.C.B.       F.G.S.
Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. Ph.D.        Thomas Boycott, M.D. F.L.S.
  F.R.S. &c.                               John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
Edward Frankland, Esq. D.C.L. Ph.D.        Alexander John Ellis, Esq. F.R.S. F.S.A.
   F.R.S. Cor. M. Inst. France.            William Watkiss Lloyd, Esq.
Francis Galton, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. F.G.S.    Vernon Lushington, Esq. Q.G.
Frederick Du Cane Godman, Esq.             Sir Charles Henry Mills, Bart. M.P.
Caesar H. Hawkins, Esq. F.R.S.             William Newmarch, Esq. F.R.S. Cor. M.
Thomas Hyde Hills, Esq.                       Inst. France.
Alfred Latham, Esq.                        Colonel William Pinney.
John Carrick Moore, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.       The Rer. Arthur Rigg, M.A.
   F.G.S.                                  Basil Woodd Smith, Esq. F.R.A.S.
William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.             Thomas Sopwith, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. F.G.S.
Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.       George Andrew Spottiswoode, Esq.
The Lord Rayleigh, M.A. F.R.S.             Sir Harry Verney, Bart. M.P.
The Lord Arthur Russell, M.P.

1877. 1  Rev. W. H. Dallinger on Minute and Lowly Life-forma.          391
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, May 4, 1877.
          William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Treasurer U.S.
               Secretary and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                The Rev. W. H. Dallingek, F.R.M.S.
Recent Researches into the Origin and Development of Minute and Lowly
    Life-forms : with a Glance at the Bearing of these upon the Origin
    of Bacteria.
Biglogical science to-day presents us with a magnificent generaliza
tion ; one that stands upon so broad and ever-dilating a basis, that
enormous masses of detail, and many interlocking demonstrations, are,
of necessity, still relegated to the quiet workers of the present, and the
earnest labourers of the years to come. But to those whose grasp is
wide enough, and their insight profound enough, it is a generalization
absolutely immovable, because based and pillared upon truth. And
that which lies within it, and forms the fibre of its fabric, is the esta
blishment of a continuity—an un broken chain of unity—running from the
base to the apex of the entire organic series. The plant and the animal,
the lowly organized and the highly organized, melt into each other,
and are one splendid organic whole.
    But does this imposing continuity find its terminus on tho fringe
and border of the organic series, and for ever pause there ? or can wo
see it pushing its way down and onward into tho unorganized and the
not-living, until all nature is an unbroken sequence and a continuous
whole 1
    That 6uch a sublime continuity may be philosophically hypothe
cated I unhesitatingly believe. That its existence is absolutely essen
tial to the existence of nature as we see it, I have no desire to dispute.
That there has been a line of continuity, I believe that the facts pre
sented by the natural and physical sciences may fairly warrant. But
that we have found that line, that data have been presented to us
demonstrating how, and by what path, the inorganic passes to the vital,
the living into the not-living, I with equal fearlessness dispute. " The
properties of living matter distinguish it absolutely from all other
kinds of things ;" and the facts to-day in the hands of the biologist
" furnish us with no link between the living and the not-living."
    That this is an inference which has been fiercely disputed, I need
not remind an audience in this theatre. The data for such dispute,
and the reasonings based upon them, are not now my concern. They

392                         Bet. W. H. Dallinger                  [May 4,
have been carefully examined and weighed by the most competent
biologists in the world ; and it is by them distinctly affirmed that
" spontaneous generation " is no discovered part of nature's processes.
     But we may pause for a moment to consider what was the nature
of the proofs relied upon to establish the " spontaneous," or not-living,
origin of living things. They were chiefly thermal experiments upon
the lowest septic organisms, without an attempt to discover what was
their life-history, and whether they propagated by germs or not. It
 was argued that the udult organism being killed at a given temperature,
much below the boiling point of water, if an infusion were boiled, with
every possible precaution, and, whilst boiling, hermetically sealed ;
then if after a lapse of time on opening the vessel the organisms were
found in a living state, they must have arisen de novo ; that is, the not-
living would have produced the living.
     That this method is useful, and that it must be pursued in an ex
haustive inquiry into the whole subject, must be freely admitted.
But that it is the best, or at least the only method of inquiry for the
biologist, we may gravely doubt. The difficulties which as a method
encumber it are simply without number. They cannot be exaggerated ;
they cannot be too keenly sought for.
     Six months employed in such experiments by a mind trained to
exactness, a mind which will have nothing if it cannot have facts, and
which will admit only inevitable sequences, will be quite enough to
establish a conviction of the almost infinite sources of possible error,
and show bristling ranks of difficult}'.
     I frankly confess my conviction to be that if this method is to yield
a scientific result, it must be in the hands of the highest masters of
precise experiment ; and therefore to my mind the experiments of Pro
fessor Tyndall on this subject have a value entirely their own.
     On the other hand, the biologist is eminently concerned with the
organism proper, its morphological mutations and developmental history.
It will most conserve the science of things that live, to 6tudy, to the
very border of possibility, living things—not as masses of matter to be
manipulated chemically or physically as a whole,—but as individual
life-histories. And this in the case before us was the more important
as in no instance was the complete life-cycle of a septic organism known.
    This fact early and deeply impressed me, and fully ten years since
I was animated with a hope that such a life-history might be worked
out. Four years were spent in accumulating facts, obtaining expe
rience, devising methods, and becoming thoroughly acquainted with the
nature of the problem ; and it then became plain that to do it effectually
it was needful, First, to employ lenses of the highest attainable power,
and the utmost perfection of structure. Second, it was absolutely ne
cessary that the forms studied should bo watched continuously from
the earliest to the last condition. Without continuity of observation
there could be no certainty of continuity of development. A broken
observation is for the end in view a useless observation. The attempt
to infer or deduce developmental changes without unbroken following

  1877.]                on Minute and Lowly Life-forms.                    393
  of these minute forms is a scientific impropriety, of which experience
  has only increased intolerance. There must be unbroken observation.
  Third, in order to accomplish this, means must be devised by which
  a minute drop of a septic fluid under a delicate cover-glass could bo
  kept from evaporating for an indefinite time, and yet be continuously
  examined with the highest magnifying powers constructed. And,
  finally, for the efficient accomplishment of the work two observers
  were needful, to secure at once continuity and confirmation. Happily,
  each of these conditions was met or complied with. The last was
 not the least. Dr. Drysdale, an accomplished physiologist, saw at once
 the force of the position and the broad bearings of the subject, and
 eagerly desired to engage in it ; and when preparation was mature,
 we entered on the work together. Our plan of labour was, never to
 accept what we had not mutually confirmed, and to relieve each other
 in following a metamorphosis from its btginning to its close.
       You are aware that putrefactive organisms present an immense
 variety both in form and size. The Bacteria group themselves, are im
 mensely diverse.* Between this giant, Spirillum volutans, and this
 minute form, Bacterium termo, there is a vast divergence, and yet this
 huge spirillum rarely exceeds on an average, except in cases of exces
 sive development, from the 1500th to the 2000th of an inch in length.
      But you may sec here forms analogous, but not Bacteria. They
 are septic organisms strictly ; usually the accompaniments of a more
 prolonged putrescence, and popularly known as Monads. They are
 larger, and in many ways more amenable than the Bacteria ; and we
 fixed on these as the subject of our earliest work. By quiet persistence
 we worked out six forms, and the continuous history of two of these
 I will now endeavour to present.
      I will not take them in the order of our researches, but shall find
 it best conserve my purposo to examine the largest and the smallest
 of the organisms. The appearance of the former is now before you
 here. It is divergent from the common type when seen in its perfect
 condition, avoiding the oval form ; but it resumes it in metamorphosis.
It is comparatively huge in its proportions ; its average extreme length
being the 1000th of an inch. Its normal form is rigidly adhered to
as that of a Uotifer or a crustacean. Its body-substance is a structure
less sarcode. Its differentiations are a nucleus-like body, not common
to the monads ; generally a pair of dilating vacuoles, which open and
close like the human eyelid, ten to twenty times in every minute ;
and lastly, the unusual number of four flagella. That the power of
motion in these forms and in the Bacteria is dependent upon these
flagella, I believe there can bo no reasonable doubt. In the monads
the versatility, rapidity, and power of movement is always correlated
with the number of these. The one before us could sweep across the
field with majestic slowness, or dart with lightning swiftness and a
     * Transparencies drawn from nature by a simple method devised by Mr. Dal-
linger were exhibited by the oxy-hydrogen microscope.

394                         Bev. W. H. Dallinger                       [May i,
swallow's grace. It could gyrate in a spiral, or spin on its axis in a
rectilinear path like a rifled bullet. It could dart up or down, and
begin, arrest, or change its motion with a grace and power which at
once astonish and entrance. The flagella are extremely fine, and their
number was at first with difficulty determined. Indeed, every observer
has noticed how difficult it is to discover the unknown, but when once
it has been found, how easily in comparison it may be recalled or seen
again. Fixing on one of these monads, then, we followed it doggedly
by a never-ceasing movement of a " mechanical stage ;" never for an
instant losing it, through all its wanderings and gyrations. We found
 that in the course of minutes, or of hours, the sharpness of its outline
slowly vanished, its vacuoles disappeared, and at last, it lost its
sharp caudal extremity, and was sluggishly amoeboid. This condi
 tion intensified, the amoeboid action quickened, the agility of motion
 ceased, the nucleus body became strongly developed, and the whole
sarcode was in a state of vivid and glittering action. If now it be
 sharp'.y and specially looked for, it will be seen that the root of the
 flagella splits, dividing henceforth into two separate pairs. At the
same moment a motion is set up which pulls the divided pairs
asunder, making the interval of sarcode to grow constantly greater
between them. During this time the nuclear body has commenced,
and continued, a process of self-division. From this moment the organ
ism grows rapidly rounder, the flagella swiftly diverge, a bean-like
form is taken, the nucleus divides, and a constriction is suddenly de
veloped. This deepens, the opposite position of the flagella seen hero
ensues, the nearly divided forms now vigorously pull in opposite
directions, the constriction is thus deepened, and the tail formed.
 The fibre of sarcode, to which the constricted part has by tension
been reduced, now snaps, and two organisms go free.
     Now it must be remembered that this body is not a homogeneous
rod of sarcode like a bacterium. That it should by mere growth
elongate and then divide by fission is not so wonderful. But here we
have an organism of distinctive form and some structure ; yet each part
divides to form a counterpart to itself, and the whole process may be
complete in five minutes, and in the separated individual commence
again to divide in twenty minutes more ; so that in a few hours a single
form will in this way have given rise to an almost inconceivable host.
     But it will have struck you that the new organism enters upon its
career with only two flagella, and the normal organism is possessed of
four. But in a few minutes —throe or four at most—the full complement
were always there. How they were acquired it was the work of months
to discover, but at last the mystery was solved. The newly-fissioned
form darted irregularly and rapidly for a brief space, then fixed itself
to the floor, or to a rigid object, by the free ends of its flagella, and with
its body motionless, an intense vibratory action was set up along the
entire length of these exquisite fibres. Bapidly the ends split, one
half being in each fibre set free, and the other remaining fixed ; and in
130 seconds each entire flagellum was divided into a perfect pair.

1877.J              on Minute and Lowly Life-forms.                    395
    Now, the amoeboid state is a notable phenomenon throughout the
monads, as preeursive of striking change. It appears to subserve the
purpose of the more facile acquisition and digestion of food at a crisis.
And this augmented the difficulty of discovering further change ; and
only persistent effort enabled us to discover that with comparative
rareness there appeared a form in an amoeboid state that was unique.
It was a condition chiefly confined to the caudal end ; the sarcode
having become diffluent, hyaline, and intensely rapid in the protru
sion and retraction of its substance, while the nuclear body becomes
enormously enlarged. These never appear alone : forms in a like
condition are diffused throughout the fluid, and may swim in this
state for hours. Meanwhile the diffluence causes a spreading and
flattening of the sarcode, and swimming gives place to creeping ; while
the flagella violently lash. In this condition, two forms meet by appa
rent accident— the protrusions touch, and instant fusion supervenes.
    In the course of two minutes there is no disconnected sarcode
visible ; and in five to seven minutes the organisms are completely
united, the swimming being again resumed, the flagella acting in
apparent concert. This may continue for two or more hours, when
movement begins to flag, and then ceases. Meanwhile the bodies
close together, and the eyespots or vacuoles melt together. The two
nuclei become one, and disappear, and in eighteen hours the entire
body of " either has melted into other," and a motionless, and for a
time irregular sac, is left.
    This now, becomes smooth, spherical, and tight, being fixed and
motionless. This is a typical process ; but the mingled weariness and
pleasure realized in following such a form without a break, through
all the varied changes into this condition, is not easily portrayed.
    But now the utmost power of lenses, the most delicate adjustment
of light, and the keenest powers of eyesight and attention must do
the rest. Before the end of six hours the delicate glossy sac opens
gently at one place, there streams out a glairy fluid densely packed
with semi-opaque granules, just fairly visible when their area was
increased six millions of times ; and this continued until the whole
sac was empty, and its entire contents diffused.
    To follow with our utmost powers these exquisite specks was an
unspeakable pleasure. A group seen to roll from the sac when nearly
empty, were fixed and never left. They soon palpably changed by
apparent swelling or growth, but were perfectly inactive ; but at the
end of three hours a beaked appearance was presented. Rapid growth
set in, and at the end of another hour—how has utterly baffled us —
they acquired flagella and swam freely ; in thirty-five minutes more
they possessed a nucleus, and rapidly developed, until at the end of
nine hours after emission a sporule was followed to the parent con
dition, and left in the act of fission. In this way, with what difficulties
I need not weary you, a complete life-cycle was made out.
    And now I will invite your attention to the dovolopmental history
of the most minute of the six forms we studied. In form it is a long

396                       Rev. W. 11. Dallinger                  [May 4,
oval ; it is without visible structure or differentiation within ; and is
possessed of only a singlo flagellum. Its utmost length is the 4000th
of an inch. Its motion is continuous—in a straight line—and not
intensely rapid nor greatly varied, being wholly wanting in curves
and dartings.
    The copiousness of its increase was, even to our accustomed eyes,
remarkable in the extreme ; but the reason was discovered with com
parative ease. Its fission was not a division into two, but into many.
The first indication of its approach in following this delicate form
was the assumption, rapidly, of a rounder shape. Then followed an
amoeboid and uncertain form with an increased intensity of action,
which lasted for a few moments, when lassitude supervened ; then
perfect stillness of the body, which is now globular in form ; whilo
the flagellum feebly lashed, and then fell upon and fused with the
substance of the sarcode: and the result is a solid, flattened, homo
geneous ball of living jelly.
    To properly study this in its further changes, a power of from
three to four thousand diameters must be used ; and with this, I know
of few things in the whole range of minute beauty more beautiful
than the effect of what is seen.
    In the perfectly motionless flattened sphere, without the shimmer
of a premonition, and with inconceivable suddenness, a white cross
smites itself, as it were, through the sarcode. Then another with
equal suddenness at right angles ; and while with admiration and
amazement one, for the first time, is realizing the shining radii, an
invisible energy seizes the tiny speck, and, fixing its centre, twists its
entire circumference, and endows it with a turbined aspect.
    From that moment intense interior activity became manifest. Now
the sarcode was, as it were, kneading its own substance ; and again an
inner whirling motion was visible, reminding one of the rush of water
round the interior of a hollow sphero on its way to a jet or fountain.
Deep fissures or indentures showed themselves all over the sphere ;
and then, at the end of ten or more minutes all interior action ceased,
and the sphere had segmented into a coiled mass.
    There was no trace of an investing membrane ; the constituent
parts wrere related to each other, simply as tho two separating parts
of an ordinary fission ; and they now commenced a quick writhing
motion like a knot of eels, and then, in the course of from seven
to thirty minutes, separated, and, fully endowed with flagella, swam
freely away, minute but perfect forms, which by the rapid absorption
of pabulum attained speedily to the parent size.
    It is characteristic of this group of organic forms that multipli
cation by self-division is the common and continuous method of
increase. Tho other aud essential method was comparatively rare,
and always obscure. In this instance, on the first occasion the con
tinuous observation of the same " field" for five days failed to disclose
to us any other method of increase but this multiple-fission ; and it
was only the intense snggestivencss of past experience that kept us

1877.J               m Minute and Lowly Life-forms.                  397
still alert, and prevented us from inferring that it was the only
method.
     But eventually we perceived that while this was the prevailing
phenomenon, there were scattered amongst the others, forms of the
same monad larger than the rest, and with a singular granular aspect
towards the flagellate end. Its granulated forepart may be easily
contrasted with the normal or ordinary form. Now by doggedly
following one of these through all its wanderings, a wholly new
phase in the morphology of the oreature was revealed. This rough
ened or granular form seized upon and fastened itself to a form in
the ordinary condition. The two swam freely together, both flagella
being in action ; but it was shortly palpable that the larger one was
absorbing the lesser. The flagellum of the smaller one at length
moved slower, then sluggishly, then fell upon the sarcode, which
rapidly diminished, while the bigger form expanded and became
vividly active until the two bodies had actually fused into one.
     After this its activity diminished ; in a few minutes the body
became quite still, leaving only a feeble motion in the flagellum, which
soon fell upon the body-substance and was lost. All that was left now
was a still, spheroidal, glossy speck, tinted with a brownish yellow.
     A peculiarity of this monad is the extreme uncertainty of the
length of time which may elapse before even the most delicate change
in this sac is visible. Its absolute stillness may continue for ten, or
it may be prolonged for thirty-six hours. During this time it is
absolutely inert ; but at last the sac —for such it is—opens gently, and
there is poured out a brownish glairy fluid ; at first the stream is
small, but at length its flow enlarges the rift in the cyst, and the
cloudy volumo of its contents rolls out, and the hyaline film that
enclosed it is all that is left. The nature of the outflow was like
that produced by the pouring of strong spirit into water. But no
power that we could employ was capable of detecting a granule in it.
To our most delicate manipulation of light, our finest optical appli
ances, and our most riveted attention, it was a homogeneous fluid, and
nothing more.
     This for a while baffled and disturbed us. It lured us off the
scent. We inferred that it might possibly be a fertilizing fluid, and
that we must look in other directions for the issue. But this was
fruitless, and we were driven again to the old point, and having
once more obtained the emitted fluid, determined to fix a lens werked
up to 5000 diameters upon a clear space over which the fluid had
rolled, and near to the exhausted sac, and ply our old trade of watch
ing—unbroken observation.
     The result was a reward indeed. At first the space was clear and
white ; but in the course of a hundred minutes there came suddenly
into view the minutest conceivable specks. I can only compare the
coming of these to the growth of the stars in a starless space upon
the eye of an intense watcher in a summer twilight. You knew but
a few moments since a star was not visible there, and now there is no

398                        Rev. W. H. Dallinger                 [May 4,
mistaking its pale beauty. It was so with these inexpressibly minute
sporules ; they were not there a short time since, but they grew large
enough for our optical aids to reveal them, and there they wero.
And here I would remark that those delicate specks were unlike any
which we saw emerge directly from the sac as granules. In that con
dition they were always semi-opaque ; but here they were transparent,
and a brown yellow, the condition always sequent upon a certain
measure of growth.
    To follow these without the loss of an instant's vision was plea
sure of the highest kind. In an hour and ten minutes from their first
discovery, they had grown to visible specks. In two hours more the
specks had become beaked and long ; and the pointed end was uni
versally the end from which the flagellum emerged, which was drawn
ninety minutes after the last, is perfectly formed.
     With the flagellum comes motion, and with that abundant pabulum,
and therefore rapid growth. But when motion is attained, we are
compelled to abandon the mass and follow one in all its impetuous
travels in its little world ; and by doing so we were enabled to follow
the developed speck into the parent condition and size, and not to
leave it until it had, like its predecessors, entered on and completed
its wonderful self-division by fission.
    In this way its life-history was known, and as it were re-entered.
    It will be seen then that the equivalent of a genetic process of re
production, universal, in some form, throughout the entire range of
biology, is absolutely essential in the monads; and is thus carried
to the very border and fringe of the outermost organized entity.
    Nor is this all. There is no caprice even in this realm. There
would be leaps, nnd halts, and uncertainties here surely if anywhere
in the entire biological series. But it is not so. The cycle of a
monad's life is as unvarying as that of a Batrachian. There is no
unusual, no intense method ; nothing more, indeed, than those resulting
from the secular processes involved in the great Darwinian law.
    I have already told you that we worked out six of these remarkable
forms. They are all fairly represented in the histories I have given
you. Five of them poured out from their genetic cysts, spores or
ova, and one discharged living young. These spores or ova, and
young, were, in every instance, followed from the moment of their
emission from the sac, through all their changes to the parent con
dition or mature state, and each instance was several times repeated.
    It will be manifest then that such a fertilized product— one of
such exquisite minuteness—being found, it would be a matter of deep
interest to ascertain if these spores possessed any power to resist the
action of heat, greater than that possessed by the adult. We deter
mined to conduct experiments so as to discover directly what was the
temperature beyond which the spore would not go through their deve
lopmental processes.
    It was settled to our complete satisfaction that the death-point
of the adult organisms hovered extremely near 1-10° F. We could
thorefore start with this.

 1877.]              on Minute and Lowly Life-forms.                   399
      We took a series of slips of glass, and placed upon them for
 examination drops of the septic fluid containing each of our six
 monads. We carefully examined and watched these with our con
 tinuous stage and high powers, until in every case we had convinced
 ourselves by actual observation that spore had been emitted. This
 was done in every separate investigation with not less than six slips
 for each of the six organisms. These slips of glass— covered of
 course with thin discs of cover-glass — were put into a cold metallic
 box arranged for heating. This was closely covered, and the bulb of
 a long delicate thermometer was so placed as to be in the centre of
the box, while its stalk rose above the cover into the air, and could
easily be read.
      This box of air was now slowly raised to any required tempe
 rature ; and when that was reached, it was maintained for at least
 ten minutes. In this way, with a large series of specimens, we passed
 in the course of months, by a series of successively higher temperatures,
 from 140° F. to 300° F.
      When the glass slips were cool, they were taken out and at once
 examined. I need not say that in every case they presented a dry
 amorphous appearance, in which little structure could be discovered.
      We then took some freshly distilled water, which was again
 boiled in a platinum capsule previously heated red hot, and with a
 red-hot platinum wire plunged into it and allowed to cool, a drop of
 water was taken and placed at the edge of the covering glass ; this
 was at once drawn in by capillarity, and the slide was put into tho
nun- evaporating stage for immediate examination.
      Now it should be observed that even this amount of precaution
 was unnecessary for the end in view; for in our examination, after
heating, we disregarded whatever else might appear but the spore for
 which we were looking, and which we knew existed in the unheated
 fluid, and we confined ourselves to the development of these, with
which we were fully familiar.
      In every case then you will understand that in the instances of
which I shall now speak, the spore were followed after heating, just
as they had been before ; from lie beginning through all their changes
 to the end— the adult condition.
      In one case—the cyst of the monad producing living young — tho
 highest temperature that could at all be borne, and that only feebly,
was 180° F. In other cases the spore were seen repeatedly to become
vital and perfectly develop after exposure for ten minutes to 300° F.
These were the two extremes. In the remaining instances, the highest
temperature which the spore would bear and afterward develop, was
250° F. Thus if we include the young emitted from the cyst in a
living state, the genetic products of these six minute and lowly
organisms, possess a heat-resisting power greater than their parents
in the proportion of 11 to 6. In other words, the minute spore can
resist heat nearly twice as intense as the adult.
     Now in relation to the question of so-called " spontaneous genera
tion " as it has been discussed during the last five years, this is a fact
     Vol. VIII. (No. 67.)                                      2 f

400                       Rev. W. H. Dollinger                     [May 4,
that cannot be ignored. Let it be remembered that all the organisms
whose life-histories I have dealt with, are as entirely septic organisms
as the Bacteria themselves. Let it be further remembered, that the
largest of these monad forms, described to you to-night, does from its
general conformation, and such differentiation as it possesses, point
upwards in the organic series toward such forms as Stylonichia pustu-
lata and the Paramcecia themselves.
    Whilst on the other hand the smallest of these organisms, whose
history we have also examined to-night, is smaller than many Bacteria,
is indeed only three times as large as a large Bacterium termo itself,
and, like it, is absolutely without any differentiation, or discoverable
structure. But both those forms, and all the forms standing between
them, that have been completely studied, arc propagated essentially and
ultimately by spore, ova, or whatever else such a primitive representa
tive of a genetic product may be called. That is to say, nature adopts
the same method substantially in the lowest regions of organic forms
as in the entire series above it.
    As far down as we can reach, as far down as modern optics can
carry us —down indeed to a point which not only touches the Bacteria
themselves, but in some sense overlaps them—it is still true that the
simplest organized being is only capable of deriving existence from
other organized beings—parents, that have lived before it.
    Can it be philosophical then, with the actual life-history of the
Bacteria still unknown, to assume a new method of propagation—other
wise unknown in nature—for them ?
    By means of the monads —the very least and lowest of them—
wo appear to stand as it were in the middle of the Bacterial series.
Why, then, should the Bacteria be thought more likely to grow spon
taneously than these kindred forms that lie so near them ?
    To point to the exceptional results of a few physical or chemical
experiments which future investigation may fully explain, is in reality
no answer. Besides which the light pierces even farther down than
I have carried you. We have been at work upon the Bacteria now for
eighteen months. Whether their life-history or histories will ever
be worked out or not, I cannot toll ; the tangle of varieties is so
great, the difficulties so immense, that it can only be as the fruit
of years of patient work.
    But Professor Tyndall has put new life into us in the study of this
question. If one of the monads shed a spore too fine for our most
powerful glasses to detect, is it not a natural inference that if the Bac
teria propagate ultimately by the same means, that such spore mutt
be invisible to our utmost optical aids ?
    By the electric beam, as used by Dr. Tyndall under conditions
which you know so well, particles indefinitely ultra-microscopic may
be clearly demonstrated.
    In a suitable closed chamber, in which the motes of the air have
time to subside, the electric beam will demonstrate its optical purity
by leaving no trace of its path ; but whilst the most exquisitely minute

   1877.]                on Minute and Lowly Life-forms.                  401
   particles linger in the air, the pale track of the beam will show that
   they are there.
       You further know that Professor Tyndall has shown that if putre
   factive infusions, filtered, be boiled in, and exposed to such a moteless,
   or optically pure air, that Bacteria — putrefactive organisms —do not
   appear ; but if on the other hand the air be charged with the finest of
   ultra-microscopic motes, the same infusion will become at once infected,
   and swarm with Bacteria.
       The inference, backed by what we know of all the organic series
   above, is, that these otherwise invisible motes are Bacteria germs.
       Permit me briefly to test this inference by facts.
       It has been shown that there not only are monad germs, but that
   they vary in size. During these researches, we found that an old
   maceration of fish reduced by putrefactive action to pulp, might be dried,
   and baked in the sun ; and if it were re-moistened, it would soon give
   rise to a prolific host of the monads it might contain. When the mass
   was dry it was light, porous, and friable ; easily indeed reduced to an
   impalpable powder. Clearly this powder must be rich in monad
   germs. Now as soon as I read Professor Tyndall's experiments on the
   behaviour of the mote-laden air as the origin of Bacteria, I at once
   asked myself, " May not the inference that these motes are germs be
   strengthened or otherwise by diffusing the dust from an old fish macera
   tion known to be charged with certain monads, in a suitable chamber
   with a suitable fluid ? Should not the one behave practically as the
   other ? " This I determined to test. I will pass over my earlier ex
   periments, and give you merely the results of the later. A suitable
   chamber was prepared with all the required appliances. A fluid was
   needed known to be free from germs. This was supplied by a compound
   of inorganic elements known as " Cohn's nutritive fluid." It contains
   no albuminous matter, but only mineral salts and tartrate of ammonia.
   While the tartrate of ammonia is kept apart from the fluid no organic
   forms can arise in it, but when mixed with the other ingredients, even
   the Paramascia will live and flourish if placed in it.
       I took then the dried remainder of an old infusion charged im
   mensely with two monads ; the larger—the first I described to you to-
"" night— and another, a smaller one. I exposed it first to a temperaturo
   of 150° F.— 10° higher than the heat needed to kill the adult monads.
   It was then reduced to powder, quite impalpable, and laid upon a plate
   of glass evenly distributed, and once more heated to 146° F. for
   ten minutes—-5° higher than was required to kill the adults.
       This powder was now diffused through a chamber, in the main like
   Professor Tyndall's, and a beam from the lime-light was sent through.
   It was so intensely luminous that time was given for subsidence. Six
   small basins of the fluid were then exposed, and left for twenty-four
   hours ; and then four more basins of fluid were exposed.
       At the end of four days more the air in the chamber was optically
   pure ; all its motes had subsided. The first six basins were then with
   drawn and examined. Fifteen drops were taken from each basin, and
                                                                2 f 2

402           Rev. W. H. Dallinger on Minute Life-forms.          [May 4,
laid upon the microscope. In every drop from every vessel the large
monad appeared, while the smaller monad appeared plentifully in
every vessel.
    Two days after the other four vessels were taken out and examined.
Thirty drops were taken from each vessel, but to my surprise the large
monad was wholly wanting in three of the vessels, and only feebly present
in the fourth.
    But now the air was optically pure ; fivo vessels of fluid were in
serted, and left untouched for five days. They were then carefully
examined, thirty drops being taken from each ; but not a single monad
of any kind was found in any vessel. Only Bacteria were there ; against
which no protection had been provided, and which were expected.
This was repeated three times during four months, and with, on the
average, unvarying results. Thus an atmosphere—the motes of which
were known to be charged with the germs of monads—inevitably
" smote " the nutritious fluid with the monads in question. But in an
atmosphere made optically pure by the subsidence of these mote-germs,
the same fluid was absolutely without the trace of a monad.
    Further, I found that if the comparatively large germ of the largest
monad were intimately mixed with dust containing the smallest monad,
whose germ, as I explained just now, was not visible until it had grown ;
and if these two together were diffused through the air of the chamber,
it was found that whilst the germs of the large monad had all fallen
through the air in thirty hours, the germs of the smaller and lighter
monad would show their presence after sixty, or even seventy hours.
Proving that the lighter the germ the longer it lingers in the air.
    But in no case did a vessel show the presence of any monad after
five days ; that is, when the air was moteless, and free from the diffused
germs. The inference is irresistible. The germs of minute and widely
diffused septic organisms may be present, and be proved to be present,
in the air ; and the presence or absence of these—the proper conditions
being provided—is a determining cause of the presence or absence of
the developed organisms themselves. This is proved with organisms
which" we know arise in germs; that is to say, the monads. It is hy
pothecated in relation to organisms whose life-history we do not per
fectly know, viz. the Bacteria ; because when dealt with in a similar
way they display precisely similar phenomena.
    To me, then, what we hypothecate is sustained almost to absolute
certainty by what we know.
    The motes which determine the monads contain monad germs.
    The motes which determine the Bacteria are Bacteria germs.
                                                         [W. H. D.]

1877.J                      General Monthly Meetina.                         403
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING.
                             Monday, May 7, 1877.
George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
    The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year were
announced :
            Adm. Sir Henry John Codrington, K.C.B.
            Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.
            The Lord Arthur Russell, M.P.
            George Busk, Esq. F.RS. Treasurer.
            William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. F.R.8. Secretary.
            Mrs. Julie Farmer,
            Miss Catherine Aleth^ Fry, A. A.
            Charles James Lacy, jun. Esq.
            Wm. Alexander Mackinnon, Esq.
            Major-General Sir Thomas T. Pears, K.C.B.
            Frederick Ricardo, Esq.
            Arthur Williams, Esq.
were elected Members of tho Royal Institution.
      John Tyndall, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
was re-elected Professor of Natural Philosophy.
     The Managers reported that on April 9th, they appointed James
Dewae, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.E. Jacksonian Professor of Natural Philo
sophy, Cambridge, to be Fullerian Professor of Chemistry for three
years.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
Aecademia dei Lincei, Rorne—Atti, Serie IIL Transunti, Vol. I. Fasc. 4. 4to.
     1877.
Astronomical Society, Royals-Monthly Notice?, Vol. XXXVII. No. 5. 8vo. 1877.
Author—Ambition's Dream. New Edition. l6to. 1877.
British Architecis, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1876-7, Nos. 8, 9. 4to.
Carrere, D.—Journal de l'Analyse. 4to. 1876.
Chemical Society—Journal for March, April, 1877. 8vo.

404                           General Monthly Meeting.                      [May 7,
Editor/—American Journal of Science for April, 1877. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for April, 1877. 4to.
   Chemical News for April, 1877. 4to.
   Engineer for April, 1877. fol.
   Horological Journal for April, 1877. 8vo.
   Journal for Applied Science for April, 1877. fol.
   Nature for April, 1877. 4to.
    Nautical Magazine for April, 1877. 8vo.
    Pharmaceutical Journal for April, 1877. 8vo.
    Telegraphic Journal for April, 1877. 8vo.
 Klaassen, Institute—Journal,
 Franklin     H. M. Esq. (the No.     616. 8vo. 1877.
                                  Translator¦)—Dr.   Daniel Schenkel : Sketch of the
       Character of Jesus. 8vo. 1869.
 Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Part 8. 8vo. 1876-7.
 Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, Jan. 1877. 8vo.
 Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Charts, 1874. Part 4. 4to. 1877.
 Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. I. No. 7. 8vo. 1877.
 Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CLXVI. Part 2. 4to.
       1877.
 Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XL. Part 1. 8vo. 1877.
 Society Hollandaite des Sciences—Archives Neerlandaises : Tome XI. Liv. 4, 5:
       Tome XII. Liv. 1. 8vo. 1876-7.
 Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.—Annual Report for 1875. 8vo. 1876.
 Symons, G. J. Esq. (the Author)—Symons' Monthly Meteorological Magazine,
       April, 1877. 8vo.
  Vereins Service
 United                         Royal—Journal,
                  Institution,des
           zur Beforderung                            89. 8vo. 1877.
                                                 No.Preussen—Verhandelungen.
                                  Gewerbfleisses in                            M¦arz,
       1877.
 Washington Observatory, U.S.—Professor S. Newcomb: On Corrections to Han
       sen's Tables of the Moon. 4to. 1876.
     Professor Eastman : On Difference of Longitude between .Washington and
       Ogden, Utah.
  Wild, H. (the Director)—Annalen des Physicalischen Central Observatoriums
       Russia, Jahrgang 1875. 4 to. 1876.
 Zoological Society—Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 11. 4to. 1877.
     Proceedings, 1876. Part 4. 8vo. 1877.

1 877.]   Mr. D. Mackenzie Wallace on Secret Societies in Russia.  405
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 11, 1877.
       Georgr Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                 D. Mackenzie Wallace, Esq. M.A.
              UMBER OF THE IMPERIAL RUSSIAN OR JORAFUICAL SOCIETY.
                        Secret Societies in Russia.
Mr. Wallace began with a brief sketch of Russian history down to
the reign of Peter the Great, when the political system was entirely
changed, and the rulers began to aim at the civilization and moral
reformation of their subjects, by a bureaucratic centralized system.
The arbitrary Paul, assassinated in 1801, was succeeded by Alex
ander I., educated by a Swiss philosopher, and deeply imbued with
French revolutionary doctrines, which he proposed to put into practice
by establishing a pure federal republic, with virtuous, happy citizens,
and retiring into private life. He soon discovered his mistake ; he
saw insubordination and corruption everywhere ; he lost his faith in
Liberalism, fell a victim to religious melancholy, and became a
devoted adherent of Metternich. The effect upon the young noblesse
was different. It led to a passionate desire for reform, and the con
struction of secret societies to obtain it.
    The first of these Associations was tho " Union of Salvation," in
1816, chiefly composed of officers of the guards. It was reorganized in
1818, as the " Union for Public Welfare," and professed to help the
government in suppressing official malpractices. But as the Emperor
became more reactionary, a new society was formed, with the object of
annihilating the Imperial family and constituting a federal republic.
At the death of Alexander, in 1825, the attempted military insurrec
tion failed. Five officers were hanged, and above a hundred trans
ported to Siberia.
    During the reign of Nicholas we hear of no secret societies, but
they began to reappear through the depression caused by the Crimean
War, and the present reign in some respects resembles that of
Alexander I. It opened with a great enthusiasm for reform, and the
emancipation of the serfs took place in 1863. But the Polish in
surrection produced strong reactionary measures, and secret societies
sprung up, of a very different type to their predecessors, proposing
the abolition of religion, marriage, and private property, and the
substitution of communism for the government. Tho fundamental
principle of the latest of these societies is absolute equality and

406         Mr. D. M. Wallace on Secret Societies in Bussia. [May 11,
mutual responsibility, with much self-negation. Its officers succeed
in rotation, part of them being educated and part uneducated. There
is an active propaganda, by means of conversation, reading, excite
ment of discontent, publication and circulation of books and tracts,
and the establishment of libraries and funds. Agitation is promoted
to terrify the government and the privileged classes, and to raise the
spirit of the people.
    In conclusion, the speaker expressed his opinion that the ex
treme devotion of the mass of the nation to the Czar will prevent
these societies having any more success than Fenianism had in
Great Britain.
                                                                       \

1877.]      Lt.-Gen. Strachey on Causes of Indian Famines.           407
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 18, 1877.
Groroe Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
             Lirut.-Gen. Riohard Strachry, R.E. F.R.S.
                  Physical Causes of Indian Famines.
Life, whatever shape it takes, is passed in a continued struggle
between the forces that tend to preserve and to destroy it. Among
the most active of these forces are the conditions of local climate, and
notably those of atmospheric heat and moisture. Speaking broadly,
the same conditions stimulate at once the conservative and destructive
tendencies by adding to their intensity ; so that where the productive
powers of nature are the greatest, there also the opposite influences
are commonly the most active. Thus, in the warmer parts of the
earth, where the gifts of nature are most profuse, we have to encounter
in their extreme form the devastating forces of tempest, drought, flood,
and disease; a few weeks, or may be hours, sweep away the results
which it has taken years of the labour of man, or the more silent
industry of nature to accumulate. The evidence of the truth of this
is unhappily too close at hand. You will find it in the drought
which is now laying the iron hand of famine on a large part of
southern and western India ; in the similar calamity that fell on parts
of Bengal three years ago ; in the sudden disaster which within the
last few months destroyed perhaps 100,000 human beings in two
or three hours in the delta of the Granges by a flood caused by a
cyclone ; in the ravages of cholera, which sweeps away the survivors
of famine or flood ; and in the long series of past occurrences of
a similar character recorded in the history of India.
     The conclusion is gainfully forced upon us that practical civiliza
tion has gone a very little way when we find that hardly more than a
first step has yet been taken in the successful application of our
knowledge and material resources to warding off calamities such as
these. It is not, however, my intention to dwell on this aspect of
the subject, serious though it be. My present task is a much more
limited one, that of placing before you, to the best of my ability, au
explanation of the physical conditions under which one class of theso
scourges of India arises, namely seasons of drought.
    Before I enter on the more special matters with which I shall
have to deal, I think it desirable to draw attention to certain points

408                    Lieut.-Gen. Bichard Strachey              [May 18,
bearing on the general subject of Indian droughts and famines, and
their consequences, on which it seems to me that erroneous im
pressions are prevalent.
    In the first place, great though the calamity of an Indian famine
be, both to the population directly affected by it, and to the general
community that has to bear the loss it causes, yet its gravity may
easily be exaggerated. There has been not a little declamation to
the effect that the frequent recurrence of Indian famines renders the
permanent improvement and well-being of the country almost hope
less. Let ns compare India in this respect with our own country,
the prosperity of which cannot be questioned. The two last and
severest Indian famines of recent years, that of Bengal, and that
under which a large tract now suffers, may be reckened to cost the
State in all six or seven millions sterling each. Of this sum, in each
case, perhaps one and a half or two millions may represent loss of
revenue, and the remaining four and a half or five millions the cost of
relief. Now the ordinary yearly cost of Poor Law relief in England
is about seven millions sterling, while a few years ago it was eight
millions. Again, at the present time in India the population in receipt
of relief in the British districts is estimated at about one and a
quarter millions in all. The number of persons who receive relief in
England at the present time may be reckened at 700,000 for every
day of the year, permanently, and a few years ago it was as much
as one million.
     Further, it is stated, on good authority, that of the thirty-three
millions of inhabitants of the United Kingdom, eighteen millions are
fed by the produce of our islands, and fifteen millions by imported
food. It is not possible to form any opinion as to the proportion
of food produced locally and that imported for an Indian province
suffering from famine ; but of the country as a whole it may be said
with certainty, that the food supply easily provides for the entire
population under all known circumstances, and that in the late severe
Bengal famine the export of grain continued without very great
diminution in spite of tho local failure of crops.
     Much misconception also exists as to the density of the population
of India. It is no doubt true that in some districts the population is
very great, but this is by no means universal. In the provinces now
suffering, the population in the worst districts is only 150 to the square
mile, and the highest average does not come up to 250 to the square
mile; the average of the British Isles being about 260 per square
mile. In the Bengal famine the density of population was much
greater ; so that it is approximately true, that now the total popula
 tion of the suffering districts is nearly equal to that of the Bengal
districts that suffered, namely, thirty to thirty-three millions ; though
 the area of the latter 75,000 square miles was only half of that
now affected, 150,000 square miles. There is no sort of positive evi
dence that tho population of any part of India has rapidly increased of
late years. On this subject we have no facts at all on which to rely,

1877.]           on Physical Causes of Indian Famines.                409
and the opinions frequently expressed on it are necessarily based on
surmise, and are in my own judgment more likely to be wrong than
right. The first and only census in the province of Bengal was not
taken till 1872, and it will show the utter want of value of guesses on
such subjects, when I mention that the actual enumeration showed
that the population was sixty-seven millions, where previous estimates
had made it forty-two millions.
     I shall now proceed to the main subject of my address.
     Let me ask your attention to the map of India before you. On
the north, you see the mountainous region of Tibet, the southern
border of which is formed by the ranges known as the Himalaya,
extending over a length of about 2000 miles, and rising along the
whole line into the region of perpetual snow ; few of the passes being
at a less altitude than 15,000 or 16,000 feet, peaks of 20,000 feet being
abundant, and the highest summit yet measured reaching 29,000 feet
 above the sea level. On the west, this elevated region is connected
 with the table-land of Afghanistan and Baluchistan, the border of
 which forms the frontier of India along the Indus. On the east, high
 mountains spread out from Tibet southwards, constituting the western
 parts of China, and extending to the sea in Burmah, the Malay pen
 insula, and Cochin-China ; the eastern frontier of British India lies
 along the outer ramifications of these ranges from Assam, by the delta
 of the Ganges and Brahmaputra, to the districts of Arracan and
 Burmah.
      The northern provinces of British India occupy a great plain
 which flanks the Himalaya along its entire length, expanding at both
 extremities to the sea ; on the east over the delta of the Ganges, which
 is roughly coincident with the province of Bengal, and on the west
 through the Punjab and Sindh, along the course of the Indus and
 its great tributaries to the Arabian sea. This plain rises at its
 highest point between the Sutlej and the Jumna to something less
 than 1000 feet above the sea, presenting over its whole extent an
 almost unbroken surface, which has the appearance of perfect hori-
 zoutality.
      What is commonly spoken of as the Indian peninsula is occupied
 by a table-land, roughly triangular in shape, having its broadest end
 immersed, so to speak, in the continent, to the extent of about one-
 third of the distance from its baso to its apex, the immersed portion
 being surrounded by the great northern plain. The southern half of
 the western flank of this table-land forms the line of mountains called
 the Western Ghats, and the northern half the hills that bound Raj-
 pootana on the west, ending at Delhi. The highest points on the
 Western Ghats proper hardly exceed 4000 feet in elevation, though
 the Nilgheri mountains, near the southern end of tho peninsula, riso
 to 8000 feet.
      The eastern margin of the table-land is less sharply defined than
 tho western, and is less in elevation also, having a varying extent of

 410                   Lieut.-Gen. Richard Strachey              [May 18,
 low-lying land between it and the sea. The northern border is still
 less strongly developed; it gradually declines in the north-west, whero
 it can hardly be distinguished, the table-land merging into the plain.
  The average altitude of the plateau is probably about 1500 feet above
  the sea, being most in the south, where it rises in some places to 3000
  foot, and generally greater on the west than on the east, so that with
 two remarkable exceptions, all the more important rivers that carry
 off the drainage, flow off to the eastward.
      These exceptions are due to the occurrence of a line of geological
 disturbance or discontinuity, which crosses the table-land from south
 west to north-east, being marked by the valleys of the Nerbudda river
 on the west, the first of the exceptional rivers just referred to, and of
 the Sone on the east, and the lines of elevation that flank them,
 known as the Vindhya, Satpiira, and Kaimor ranges. The Taptee,
 the second of the exceptional rivers flowing westward, occupies a
 valley, nearly parallel to, and not far removed from that of the
 Nerbudda, and no doubt having its origin in the same physical
 causes.
      The table-land of the peninsula, strictly speaking, should be held
 to terminate at the Nilgheri mountains, immediately south of which a
 complete interruption of the Western Ghats takes place. The moun
 tains which extend from this point to the apex of the peninsula at
 Cape Comorin, rise to a considerable elevation at some places, but
 have no longer any of the characters of a table-land.
      The part of India which is at the present time suffering from the
 effects of drought, includes nearly all that which lies on the summit
 of the table-land, from a line 100 miles south of the Taptee river to
 the Nilgheris, along a band 200 miles wide, measuring from the
 Western Ghats eastward, as well as the low-lying districts on the east
 const between the sea and the foot of the eastern slope of table-land
 south of the Eistna river. The British area affected is about 150,000
 square miles, with a population of more than thirty millions. You
 may compare with this the area and population of Spain, which has
 200,000 square miles and seventeen millions of inhabitants; and
 Italy, with 100,000 square miles and twenty-four millions of inha
 bitants ; you can thus judge of the vast magnitude of the task before
 the Government in dealing with a scarcity spread over such an extent
of country.
      These same regions are always liable to suffer from deficient rain
 fall, and the low-lying coast districts not now affected, north of the
 Kistna, have also on former occasions suffered in an extreme degree.
The Bengal drought of 1873 extended over the part of the great
northern plain immediately contiguous to the Gangetic delta, and the
western border of the delta. It was very exceptional so far as
concerns the portion of the area affected that lay north of the Ganges
and in the delta. The portions of tho great plain lying south of
the Ganges, along the northern border of the table-land, from the
junction of the Sono with the Ganges, as far as the Sutlej, have at

1877.]            on Physical Causes of Indian Famine*.               411
intervals suffered from severe drought, proximity to the Himalaya
being, as a rule, associated with more favourable rainfall.
    The part of the table-land north of the Nerbudda embracing
Rajpootana has suffered very severely within recent times.
    The first point to consider in relation to the matter before us,
will naturally be the ordinary distribution of the rain. This is
shown on the map, on which have been drawn lines indicating ap
proximately the average amount of rain over the whole country.
    With some exceptions, to which special attention will be necessary,
the chief fall of rain in India takes place during the period of the
south-west monsoon, that is from May to October, the remainder of
the year being comparatively dry. These summer rains prevail ovor
the whole of the coasts of southern Asia which are under the influ
ence of the south-west winds, namely, from Arabia to China ; and they
are felt in a more or less marked manner to great distances inland,
being abundant over India generally, and along the wholo of the
southern slope of the Himalaya from tho Brahmaputra to the
Indus.
    The rain at this season is very heavy along tho coast of the Malay
peninsula, through Burmah to Assam and the Himalaya beyond. On
the north its progress is in a great degree arrested by the snowy moun
tains, so that it only just reaches in the slightest manner the southern
borders of Tibet. In the north-west quarter these rains gradually
cease in eastern Afghanistan, the city of Kabul being beyond their
influence, and generally they do not extend in an important degree
beyond the outer ranges of hills that flank tho lower courso of tho
Indus.
    On the west, or Malabar coast of the peninsula, the summer rain
fall is extremely high. On the east, or Coromandel coast, the quantity
at this season is, however, comparatively small, the principal fall there
taking place in October and November after the south-west monsoon
has ceased. To this apparent anomaly I shall again revert.
     Besides the principal season of summer rain, there is clearly deve
loped in the north of India a distinct season of winter rain, which has
its maximum nearly corresponding with the period of greatest cold, in
January and February. This rain becomes less important as we movo
southward, being hardly noticeable in Bombay or Calcutta, or farther
south ; while in Afghanistan, where it is prolonged into the spring, it is
tho heaviest and most valuable of the whole year.
    I need perhaps hardly remark that the source from which tho
summer rains of India are supplied is the continued stream of air
highly charged with vapour, which is poured over the land from the
Indian Ocean by the winds that blow during the season, known as the
south-west monsoon. To apprehend correctly how these winds thus
operate, some explanation of their cause and mode of occurrence will
be requisite.
    It is a common, but erroneous mode of stating the efficient cause

412                    Lieut.-Gen. Richard Straclicy            [May 18,
of wind to refer it to difference of temperature of two contiguous areas ;
namely, that cold air being more dense and heavier, necessarily dis
places hot air, which is lighter, the accompanying motion being wind.
Indirectly, no doubt, the difference of temperature often operates in
this manner. But the true cause of all movements of the atmosphere
which we describe as wind is wholly mechanical, being difference of
pressure at neighbouring places, and the facts cannot be properly dealt
with if this is lost sight of.
     The upper strata of the atmosphere press by their weight on those
at the earth's surface, and the effect is indicated by help of the baro
meter, which measures tho weight or pressure of the air above us at
any moment in inches of mercury ; 30 inches of mercury over any
surface being nearly equal in weight, or producing equal pressure, to
that caused by the whole atmosphere over the same surface. The
pressure of course diminishes as we ascend, there being less and less
air above us, and the barometer falls. Moreover, when the air is at
rest an equal weight or pressure will be found at all places equally
distant from the earth's surface ; or in other words, the planes of
equal pressure will be truly horizontal. If, at any time, this is not
the case, a result follows exactly like that which takes place in a
body of water tho surface of which is not horizontal ; namely, the air
flows from the higher to the lower points, which movement continues
till the planes of equal pressure are restored to horizontality.
     Changes of temperature over any area by causing the expansion or
contraction of the superincumbent body of air disturb the levels of the
planes of equal pressure in the upper strata of the atmosphere, heat
causing them to rise and to separate from one another, and cold bringing
them down and closer together; by reason of which the air flows off on
all sides, above, from a relatively heated area, and flows in on all sides,
above, to a relatively cooled one. The immediate consequence of such
movements in the upper strata will be to reduce the pressure of the
surface over the hot area from which air has been thrown off, and to
increase it over the cold one towards which air has flowed in, and
this will be accompanied by a wind at the surface, blowing from tho
cold area to the hot one. The movements in the upper and lower
parts of the atmosphere are thus the converse one of the other, and
tend to restore tho equilibrium or horizontality of the planes of pres
sure disturbed by changes of temperature. But though this is the
general law which regulates such movements, tho actual conditions
under which the atmosphere is placed, and more particularly the
influence of the rotation of the earth, which is imparted by friction
 to the superincumbent air, are constantly causing disturbances of
 what might otherwise have been comparatively simple movements,
 so that the resulting directions of tho wind as observed are not much
more readily connected with the differences of pressures than with
the differences of temperatures which lead to them. In our own lati
 tudes, for instance, the direction of the wind is commonly more nearly
parallel to the lines of equal pressure at the surface than perpen

1877.]           on Physical Causes of Indian Famines.              413
dicular to them, which would clearly be the case if the winds were
chiefly regulated by direct differences of pressure.
    It is no doubt well known to you that two well-marked seasons of
periodical wind recur regularly year by year along the coasts of
southern Asia and over the neighbouring seas, known as the south
west monsoon of the summer months, and the north-east monsoon of
the winter months. The high summer temperature of the great arid
plateaus of Asia causes a dispersion of the air over them, which is
marked by a very considerable fall of the barometric pressure over the
whole continent, and is accompanied by a less great but perfectly
distinct increase of pressure over the adjoining ocean regions south of
the equator, which then have their winter season. Under the great
difference of pressure thus established the air flows in powerfully
towards the continent of Asia from tho surrounding seas, tho move
ments becoming well marked in April with tho rapid rise of tem
perature that then commences, and attaining their maximum in July,
soon after the summer solstice. This is the south-west monsoon.
When the temperature of Asia falls, which it does in September, as tho
sun goes rapidly south, the barometric pressure begins to be restored,
and it becomes generally equalized over the southern parts of tho
continent in October, when this monsoon ceases.
    The converse action takes places in tho winter. The same causes
which led to the great summer heat in Asia, namely, the great extent
of dry and barren surface, produce excessive winter cold, which is
accompanied by a well-marked increase of barometric pressure, again
to be followed by the development of winds from the land towards the
sea, which give rise to tho north-east monsoon.
    As is well known, tho winds blowing northward from tho equator
bring air which has there acquired a high eastward velocity of rotation
to places where the velocity of surface rotation is less, and therefore
are felt as winds impressed with an eastward movement, and this
being combined with their northward movement produces the south
west winds of the summer monsoon. The movements towards tho
equator in a similar manner lead to the north-east winds of the winter
monsoon.
    But though this supplies the general key to the great changes in
the winds of southern Asia, the local succession of their directions
depends on special local influences, which disguise the general law,
and may even in a great measure counteract it.
    The south-west monsoon begins in the Arabian sea with north
west and westerly winds, which draw round to south-west as tho
summer advances, and again fall back by west to north in the autumn
and winter. In the Bay of Bengal the south-west monsoon blows as a
southerly or south-easterly wind, being succeeded by north-easterly
winds after October, which in turn give place as the winter months
succeed, to winds from north and north-west.
    Again the winds during the south-west monsoon do not generally
blow over the land in a south-westerly direction. Tho current of air

414                     Lieul.-Gen. Bichard Strachey             [May 18,
flowing in from tho sea is gradually diverted towards the area of least
pressure, and at the same time becomes dissipated and loses much of
its original force as it passes from the area of greater pressure and
lower temperature to that of reduced pressuro and higher temperature.
The irregularities of the land surface also operate powerfully in
destroying the uniform character which the winds maintain while
passing over the uniform surface of the ocean. The great mountain
ranges along the north of India act moreover as an effectual barrier
to the movements of the wind in that direction. It is from these
causes that we find the winds which blow over the Arabian sea from
the south-west become southerly winds as they pass up the valley of
the Indus ; the winds of the Bay of Bengal which have already been
diverted to the south, acquire an easterly tendency as they blow over
tho delta of the Ganges, and pass as south-east winds along the foot
of the Himalaya towards the hotter regions in the north-west.
     The body of air which is thus carried by the winds of tho south
west monsoon from tho ocean over India necessarily comes up highly
charged with watery vapour ; the conditions under which this vapour
is released over the land in the form of rain, I next have to explain.
    Tou are all familiar with the facts that water when heated passes
into the condition of an invisible vapour, and that vapour when
cooled is condensed again into water. Watery vapour, like air, being
an elastic fluid, is liable to vary in density and weight, and the greater
the density the larger will be the quantity of water held in suspen
sion. But the quantity of water that can thus be kept in the state of
vapour depends on the temperature, and therefore when the tempera
ture falls below a certain point some of the vapour is restored to the
state of water, and only that part remains in the gaseous form that
tho particular temperature permits. When air contains as much
vapour as is consistent with its temperature, it is said to be saturated
with moisture ; the proportion of actual vapour to the greatest possible
quantity is termed the proportion of saturation.
    The vapour formed by evaporation at the earth's surface is much
less dense than ordinary air, and therefore constantly tends to diffuse
itself upwards, and thus becomes disseminated in the atmosphere.
At the same time, since the temperature of the air falls about 1° Fahr.
for each 300 feet that we rise from the sea lovel, the operation of this
law leads to such a reduction of the heat in the upper strata, as to
cool the ascending vapour, and at length to condense all that is in
excess of what tho reduced temperature of each successive stratum
admits of being retained in the gaseous form.
    The supply of vapour passing upwards is therefore being con
stantly reduced as it ascends, and it thus happens that nine-tenths
of the whole quantity of vapour in the entire atmosphere are to be
found below an altitudo of 20,000 feet. Where the evaporation at the
surface is very copious, as it would be in a tropical sea with an
air temperature for instance of 80° Fahr., if the vapour spread itself up

 1877.]           on Phtjsical Causes of Indian Famines.              415
wards according to the known laws which it obeys, we might commonly
find the air near the surface to contain say four-fifths of the quantity
required for saturation, and it would therefore bo perfectly trans
parent, and no condensation would occur. But these conditions
would at lensth lead to the quantity of vapour that reached an
elevation of 4000 feet being incompatible with its existence there in
a gaseous form, because the air temperature would be only 68°, while
a temperature of about 70° would be necessary to admit of the vapour
retaining its gaseous condition. Condensation would therefore have
taken place below 4000 feet, and a stratum of clouds would have
formed, which according to circumstances might either bo carried
away and dispersed by winds, or discharge downwards the condensed
water as rain. There is thus in tho atmosphere at all times and
places a more or less definite tendency towards the formation of cloud
and the fall of rain, by reason of the conflicting laws of the diffusion
of vapour and of the distribution of temperature in the atmosphere ;
and in strict truth our search might rather be for the causes that
intercept or interfere with this action, than for those under which it
continues to operate.
    There are, however, circumstances which may so greatly add to the
intensity of the condensation of vapour in the upper regions of the air
as to call for special notice. Where a wind charged with vapour blows
over an irregular surface, as from the sea across the face of a mountain,
and the whole body of moving air is thus forced upwards, the expan
sion that follows is accompanied by a fall of temperature analogous to
that which is observed in all the higher strata of the atmosphere ; and
as in this case the wholo body of vapour is cooled down, instead of,
as in the hypothesis I before made, only the portion that rose by
diffusion to the higher level, the condensation is proportionally more
copious and sudden, and takes the form of heavy clouds that rest on
the mountain, or of rain that falls upon its slopes.
    The mixture of cold with hot currents of air highly charged with
vapour is another possible cause of tho condensation of rain ; though
I think a not frequent ono in the countries to which our attention is
now specially directed.
    We are now in a pofiition to consider somewhat more in detail tho
phenomena of the Indian periodical rainy seasons. The primary
agents are tho high summer temperature of tho continent, and tho
consequent influx of a current of air from the south, blowing over a
great expanse of tropical ocean, and consequently highly charged
with vapour. If at first there appears something anomalous in tho
chief rainy season occurring at the hottest part of tho year, whereas
the condensation that causes rain is essentially a result of cold, wo
have to remember that the requisite cold is relative and not absolute,
and that as tho water suspended in the air is greater in proportion as
the temperature is high, the quantity likely to be released by any
disturbances capable of producing condensation will also be greater
in a similar proportion. Moreover, the dispersion upwards, over the
    Vol. VIII. (No. 67.)                                       2 o

416                   Lieut.-Gen. Richard Strachey              [May 18,
heated continent, of the air that flows in from the south, conduces to
the increaso of the quantity of vapour in the upper parts of the
atmosphere, and to the maintenance of a state of unstable equili
brium in which moderate local disturbances of temperature are likely
to cause condensation and produce rain.
    The fall of temperature which follows the commencement of the
rainy season is first, no doubt, an effect of tho fall of rain, which
brings to the surface of the earth the water condensed in the much
cooler higher strata ; but the loss of heat is continued afterwards, in
consequence of the sun's movement southward, and thus the dispo
sition to condensation is maintained as long as the southerly winds
blow. As the change from tho southerly to the northerly monsoon
is concurrent with the rapid fall of temperature which begins in
northern India about the end of September, the close of the rainy
season, like its commencement, is commonly marked by heavy falls of
rain ; the one caused by tho first overthrow of the equilibrium of the
vapour unstably suspended in the highly heated air at the solstice,
and the other by the direct loss of heat which is experienced after
the equinox.
    Tho summer rains make their first appearance on the southern
parts of the west coast in May, where tho southerly winds have then
become established. The region of greatest heat is now to be found
at tho extromity of the peninsula, the winds at Bombay not yet blow
ing from a point south of west. By tho middle of June, as the area
of greatest heat bus advanced northward, and the winds have drawn
well to the southward in the Indian seas, the rains begin to fall at
Bombay, about which time also they become established at Calcutta.
    Tho full on the west coast is very abundant. The scarp of the
table-land, or Western Ghats, which forms an almost continuous ob
stacle in the path of the south-west winds, gives rise to great conden
sation, from causes already explained, the result being excessively
heavy falls of rain along the face of the mountains exposed to the sea,
and on the country between them and the sea, on the more exposed
parts of the former the quantity measured reaching more than 250
inches, and on the latter from 100 to 120 inches. To leeward of this
line of elevation the rain very rapidly diminishes, so that the quantity
measured at Poona, 60 miles from the coast, is only 25 inches. Mani
festly, after any great quantity of rain has been once condensed from
the south-west winds, there remains relatively little to supply the
districts to leeward ; and if, as is here the case, the obstructing range
of heights is considerably more elevated than the surface of the table
land, probability of further condensation after the wind passes that
range is much reduced. The ridge, however, in fact, is a good deal
broken in its outline, and openings occur nt intervals through which
more or less vapour passes, and aids in supplying rain to the table
land.
    Tho gradual extinction of the very heavy rainfall of the Malabar
coast as we approach Cape Comorin, near which we have less than 30

1877.]           on Physical Causes of Indian Famines.              417
inches, and the corresponding diminution at the northern extremity
of the coast, are readily explained by the smaller amount of disturb
ance caused by the more broken character of the mountain ranges,
and by the air being able to pass round the end of the barrier instead
of being forced over it. The fact that during this season the rain
only extends 40 or 50 miles from the coast out to sea plainly depends
on a similar cause.
    Following the coast westward, we find that though the south
west winds blow with great force and regularity over the coast, at the
mouth of the Indus and in Sindh the fall of rain is very small and
irregular. For here this wind meets with no such obstruction as that
of the line of Western Ghats. On the contrary, the air passes from a
comparatively cool sea surface, over a very hot surface of low land,
and any tendency to condensation that might be caused by the slight
rise over the land, is more than compensated by the increased tempera
ture.
    The current, therefore, passes on as a southerly wind, carrying
with it' the uncondonsed vapour over Sindh, to be at length precipi
tated on the outer ranges of the Himalaya in the Punjab, or on the
mountains of eastern Afghanistan. Thoro is no room to doubt, that
had a rango of mountains, such as the Western Ghats, connected the
high land of the Indian peninsula with that of Baluchistan, the whole
of the Punjab must have beon, what the country that lies between it
and the sea is, almost entirely deprived of rain.
    The importance of the great valleys of the Taptee and Nerbudda,
in connection with the rainfall of central India, will now be apparent.
Up these openings the south-west winds pour their vapour-bearing
streams, and furnish to a large area in the heart of the peninsula the
rain which is precipitated by the atmospheric disturbances that occur
around the high lands in the centre of the table-land. This diver
sion of the vapour-bearing currents aids, no doubt, in producing the
diminished fall of rain observed in the northern coast districts around
Guzerat, as compared to those near Bombay and farther south, and
serves to explain the increased fall of between 40 and 50 inches, in
central India, as compared to that, between 20 and 30 inches, in the
Deccan.
   The south-west winds of the west coast do not, properly speaking,
extend across the peninsula. On the Madras coast, during the south
west monsoon, the land and sea breezes continue to be strongly marked,
whereas on the west coast they disappear, and the rainfall between
May and September over the southern and eastern portion of the
peninsula is relatively small.
    On the opposite coast of the Bay of Bengal, and along the Malay
peninsula, excessively heavy rain is the rule during this season, the
quantity being from 100 to 200 inches. Here, too, a continuous line
of mountain follows the coast facing the prevailing winds. On reach
ing the straits of Malacca, and passing under the lee of the island of
Sumatra, the rain diminishes greatly ; and at Singapoor, at the point
                                                          2 a 2

418                    Lietit.-Gen. Bichard Sirachey           [May 18,
of the peninsula, the months between April and September are de
cidedly the least rainy half of the year, the largest fall taking place
in the north-east monsoon, when the winds reach Singapoor blowing
directly from over the sea.
    Phenomena exactly similar to those observed on the Western
Ghats, occur on the mountains east of Bengal. At Chira Piinji, on
the Khasiya hills, which rise abruptly to about 4000 or 5000 feet over
the delta of the Ganges, the rainfall is believed to exceed that known
at any other place on the earth, more than 600 inches being a not
unusual annual amount.
     The difference between Bengal, with a rainfall of from 60 to 70
inches, and Sindh, with hardly any, is very remarkable. It is suffi
 ciently explained by the distribution of the high land that is con
 tiguous to the former, and, indeed, almost surrounds it. The great
 mountains on the north communicate with the ranges on the east
 which separate Bengal from the upper parts of Burmah, and form a
 serious obstacle to atmospheric movements in that direction. Theso
 ranges are all well clothed with forest, and the temperature of the
 whole area over which they extend must be considerably lower than
 that of the country to the west of them. This is accompanied by
a higher barometrical pressure, which leads to the development of
 easterly winds during the summer months blowing from eastern
 Bengal to the far hotter regions of north-western India, where the
 barometric pressure is least. From these causes, the rains begin
 much earlier in Assam and its neighbourhood than in any other
 part of India, viz. in April, soon after the southerly winds are esta
 blished at the head of the Bay of Bengal ; and a tendency towards
 such early rains is discernible in all the Bengal registers. Thus the
 conditions are very different from those of Sindh, the free onward
progress of the winds being arrested in Bengal by the current set
up towards the north-west, and the influx of relatively cool air from
the east preventing any tendency to a rise of temperature in the air
coming up from the Bay of Bengal as it passos over the land, such as
would stand in the way of local condensation.
     The rainy season rapidly develops itself from Bengal towards the
 north-west, the fall gradually decreasing in amount as the rain-bearing
 winds pass on ; a fact readily explained by the consideration, that as
 the condensation of the vapour goes on, less remains to supply the
 more distant localities.
     Concurrently with the reduction of the rainfall in passing from
 east to west in northern India, we find an increase in the quantity as
 we approach the Himalaya, and a diminution as we recede from the
 range, the gradation boing distinctly marked from a distance of 150
 or 200 miles to the foot of the mountains. On the outer slopes of
 the Himalaya the fall is very greatly increased, but it rapidly
 diminishes again in amount as we penetrate among the mountains.
     These results are brought about in a manner that deserves par
 ticular attention. At all times of the year winds blow up the

1877.]           on Physical Causes of Indian Famines.               419
valleys of the Himalaya towards the highest parts of the chain, and
down them at night ; the day winds having their greatest force at the
high passes into Tibet, and the night winds at the debouches of the great
rivers into the plains. Such winds are well known to be characteristic
of all mountain ranges. They are no doubt due to the disturbance of
the planes of atmospheric equilibrium, caused by the alternations of
temperature in the air over the mountains and low lands. A column
of air over the low land, measured from any horizontal plane of
equilibrium, being longer, will expand more and contract more ; one
over the mountain, being shorter, will expand and contract less. As
the day advances, and the heat increases, the pianos of equal pressure
will all rise over the low land, and the air will flow towards the axis
of the elevation ; as the night comes on, and the temperature falls,
the greater contraction of the longor columns over the low land will
bend the planes of equal pressure from the axis of elevation outwards,
and the air will move in that direction.
     Thus a system of aspiration is established over the mountains, by
which the vapour-charged air that comes up from the sea is drawn
up from the plains along the valleys and over the outer ranges, and
is so brought under the operation of that sort of action which we
have already seen to be so efficacious in producing condensation. These
movements serve also to explain what seems peculiar in the gradation
of the rainfall within and without the mountains. It is, I think, also
to the same cause that we may trace the circumstance, that the first
heavy falls of rain in upper India take place on the mountains, and
that the disturbances are thence developed and extended which lead
to a general fall over the plains.
     In northern India the summer rains usually cease before the end
of September ; in Bengal and along the Arracau coast ths>y are pro
longed into October. In western and central India also a little rain
falls in October. Over all this area northerly winds are commonly
established in October, and the rain that falls at this time must bo
regarded as the residual condensation under the increasing cold of
autumn of the vapour previously brought up by the southerly winds.
     With the fall of temperature in September, the region of least
pressure is rapidly transferred to the south, and the northerly winds
begin, first in the north and gradually extend southward ; though
the southerly winds still continue to blow at the end of the peninsula,
till November. These changes load to the establishment of a current
of air from the Bay of Bengal, blowing as a north-easterly wind
towards the Madras coast, along which thero is, in consequence, set
up an autumn season of heavy rain lasting from October to December,
quite analogous in its efficient causes to the summer rainy season of
the western coast. This rain usually extends from about the great
bend in the east coast to Ceylon, though its influence is at times felt
as far north as Cuttack ; and it is of essential importance to all tho
eastern border of southern India, which, as was before explained,
receives but a scanty supply during the south-west monsoon.

420                  Lieut.-Gen. Richard Strachey               [May 18,
    It may here be noticed, that the cyclones that originate in the
Bay of Bengal in October and November appear to be results of
atmospheric movements developed over an area of low pressure that
remains in the bay, after a high pressure area has begun to form
rapidly over eastern Bengal, with the fall of temperature accompany
ing the close of the year ; and that the tendency to the formation of
cyclonic movements is to be seen in the north-easterly winds that
usually prevail in the north and west of the bay, while south-westerly
winds are still blowing in the southern and eastern parts.
    The map which is before you resumes the facts into which I
have been entering in some detail. It shows that the part of
India cast of tho 80th meridian has an average yearly rainfall for
the most part exceeding 40 inches, and that, excepting the country
between the Western Ghats and tho sea, the portion west of that
meridian has a smaller rainfall. Further, we see that the quantity
is extremely small all over Sindh, and that the tract in which tho
fall is less than 30 inches includes all the Punjab excepting the
mountain districts, a considerable part of the North-Western proviuces
extending to half way between Agra and Allahabad, a large part of
Bajpootana, and Kattywar. Again, we observe a large area in the
peninsula, occupying nearly the whole of the Deccan and Mysore, on
which also the rainfall is less than 30 inches.
    Of tho area in which tho rainfall is below 15 or 20 inches, it may
be said in general terms that agriculture is not there possible otherwise
than with artificial irrigation; and thus it has happened, that the
population of the districts where the rain is of all others least
abundant, have made themselves in a very great degree independent
of the local rainfall. On the other hand, it may also be said that
where the average rainfall exceeds 40 or 50 inches, the occurrence of
such drought as will cause serious scarcity is rare, though when it
does occur it may be very severe. It was in a portion of this area
that the Bengal famine of 1873 took place, and also that of Orissa in
1866.
    The region, the average rainfall of which is between 25 and 35
inches, is probably that which suffers most from droughts. Here,
although on the average the supply of rain is sufficient to support an
agricultural population, the fluctuations which reduce the fall below
what is essential are so frequent, as to lead to repeated seasons of
scarcity of greater or less severity. The north-western part of the
North-West provinces, the north-western part of Bajpootana, and the
Deccan, with a small part of the Madras districts at the end of
the peninsula, fall withiu this category. The present scarcity affects
the whole of the dry region of the peninsula. The drought of
 1837-38 was extremely severe in the North-West provinces, as also
.was that of 1860. In Bajpootana, a very severe scarcity, followed
by great destruction of life, occurred in 1870.
     For reasons already suggested, the results of drought have a

  1877.]            on Physical Causes of Indian Famines.             421
  tendency to be more fatal where the average rainfall is abundant, than
  where it is scanty. In the latter case, the population is less likely to
  be dense, and better able by its habits to go in search of subsistence
  elsewhere, and by its sparseness to succeed in procuring it. A more
  dense population will be less easily provided for ; and in proportion
  as experience of drought is small, skill in devising means of re
 sisting its effects will be small also, when once present resources
 are exhausted. Drought also will be more or less fatal, according
 as it follows a season of bad or good rainfall ; and it has commonly
 happened that severe famines have been caused by a severe drought
 following one or two years of indifferent rain. The stocks of food
 become exhausted, and the cattle and the population enfeebled, and
 thus less able to resist the pressure put on them.
      In a country where there is no pasture, like India, the feeding of
 the agricultural cattle is always a difficulty, and their condition is
 commonly extremely poor, viewed in relation to the standard of
 temperate countries. The effect of drought in the destruction of tho
 cattle is one of its surest and most pernicious evil consequences.
     It will be apparent that tho importance of the fall of rain in
 India, for general purposes of agriculture, will be determined by the
 requirements of the principal crops, and particularly on those crops
 on which the food supply of the people depends.
     The people of India subsist for the most part on vegetable food,
 cereal grains, pulses, and vegetables, with milk and butter. Other
 animal food, excepting on the coasts where fish is procurable, is com
 paratively little eaten, even among the Mussulmans, who form about
 one-tenth of the population. The grain crops, therefore, are of un
 usually great importance. The grains most commonly consumed
in three-fourths of India are millets, called, in the Hindee dialects,
jowar and bajra. Rice is the ordinary food of tho people of those regions
 only where the conditions of climate are suitable for the abundant
 production of this grain. This would include Bengal, the coast and
 southern districts of Madras, and the western districts of Bombay, as
 well as British Burmah. Contrary to what is commonly thought to
 be the case, the rice-eating population of India is altogether in a
minority.
     These food grains, and some others which I need not mention
specially, are plants suited to tropical conditions of climate, and they
are all raised in the summer or hot half of the year, the crop of which
season is known in all parts of India as the khurecf. There is, how
ever, a second crop, more particularly characteristic of the parts of
India which have the coldest winter, which is on the ground during
the winter months, and is called rubbee.
     The khureef is usually sown as soon as the rainfall admits of the
ploughing of the land, and it is reaped in September or October.
The rice crop varies somewhat in its time of sowing and of
ripening, according to locality and variety. Tho chief harvest in
Bengal is in December ; on tho Madras coast, farther south, the later

422                    Lieut.-Gen. Bichard Strachey              [May 18,
rains lead to a still later harvest, where there is but one ; but the more
tropical climate of the south admits an almost indefinite succession
of crops, wherever an artificial water supply is available to raise
them.
    It need perhaps hardly be said, that most varieties of rice require
a large quantity of water to raise them ; and aid in some shape or
other is given by artificial means in most parts of India to the natural
rain supply, to ensure the safety of this crop. Particularly in the
south of India, multitudes of reservoirs have been constructed with
this object, in which as large a supply of rain-water is collected as is
practicable, to supplement the direct fall. Larger irrigation works
have been carried out by the British Government, to divert, with a
similar object, the waters of most of the rivers that discharge them
selves on the east coast.
    The grains called jowar and bajra, are commonly sown on the
higher lands, and left to depend entirely on the natural rainfall. Their
requirements in the way of water are very much less than those of
rice, and it is very unusual to supply them with artificial irrigation.
    The rubbeo crop is usually sown in October, and ripens in March
or April. In the north of India it consists chiefly of wheat and
barley, which grains, however, hardly enter into the ordinary food of
the agricultural population, being reserved for the better-to-do classes
and town population. Certain pulses that are largely used for food
also are raised at this season. Excepting on the high lands of central
India and the Deccan, wheat does not thrive much south of the tropic ;
and in the southern parts of the peninsula the reduction of temperature
in the winter months is hardly sufficient to develop any distinctly
temperate agriculture, such as forms a very marked feature of northern
India.
    Great irrigation works exist also in several provinces of northern
India. These probably afford more aid to the rubbce than to the
khureef harvest ; and their chief importance in connection with the
food supply of the country is without doubt due to the security which
they give to the wheat and barley harvests, though their general
utility in adding to agricultural produce of all descriptions is very
great.
    In considering the more special requirements of agriculture in the
matter of rain, and the precise manner in which a partial failure is
likely to be mischievous or otherwise, the critical times have to be
distinguished. First, as the great power of the tropical sun utterly
dries up the soil in the hot months that precede the rainy season,
the first showers are almost essential to admit of the final ploughing,
and the sowing may thus be unduly late in unfavourable seasons.
Where artificial irrigation is available, this delay is avoided. Next,
the thorough saturation of the soil, and its maintenance in a suffi
cient state of moisture, are requisite for the germination of tho seed,
and this is always one of the most critical periods for every crop.
In many cases, thoroughly favourable rain at this stage will secure

1877.]            on Physical Causes of Indian Famines.                   423
a return of some sort, even in an otherwise very bad season ; and a
bad commencement may often be beyond remedy, however good the
subsequent falls may turn out. The next critical stage is that of
flowering, when a great excess of rain may be almost as fatal as a
want of it, by causing the destruction of the parts of the flower
essential for the development of the grain. The period immediately
follows in which the grain is fertilized and takes its ultimate form,
during which the supply of moisture to the plant is not less essential
than in the first stage of its life, and any serious failure of rain is fatal
to the harvest. Thus, even though the average fall in any year may
be fully enough to carry on the ordinary processes of growth, the
failure of rain even for a few days at one of the critical periods may
lead to a complete loss. If I am rightly informed, the drought of
 1873 in northern Bengal arose from the failure of the later rains
alone. The troubles of the present time seem to be duo to a general
failure, both of the south-west monsoon rains on the west coast, and
of those of the succeeding north-east monsoon on the east coast ; a
combination of evil fortune which, it will be seen, necessarily falls
with the greatest weight upon the southern districts of Madras.
     In attempting to give any general account of the phenomena of
Indian rainfall, it has of course been necessary for me to deal with
average quantities. But the departures from these averages in sepa
 rate years are very great ; and it is from the fluctuations that thus
 occur, that the areas of average small and large rainfall may be
transformed, without any considerable derangement of the general
sequence of phenomena that I have described, into areas of abundance
 or absolute drought. Thus the well-marked loops that are formed by
lines of equal rainfall having their points directed to the eastward,
and following generally the line of the Jumna and Ganges from the
 Punjab to Bengal, indicate the probability, which is supported by
actual experience, of areas of drought being formed along this axial
line. I apprehend that the Bengal drought of 1873, which affected,
though with less intensity, the adjacent districts of the north-west
provinces along the Ganges, may be regarded as due to the local
exaggeration of the general causes that lead to the peculiar inflexion
of the lines of rainfall to which I have alluded.
     The great extent of the fluctuations of the rainfall will be shown
by the following figures. The Madras average for sixty-four years is
48 - 5 inches, the greatest excess over the average being 39 - 9 inches,
and the greatest defect below it 30 - 1 inches. At Calcutta, for forty-
seven years, the average is 65-8 inches, with a maximum excess of
27 - 5 inches, and a defect of 22-2 inches. At Bombay, for fifty-two
years, the average between May and October being 76 - 9 inches, tho
maximum excess was 42 -0 inches, and the defect 41"8 inches. At
the three places, the average deviation of a single year from the moan
of all is found to be, for Madras, 12 - 4 inches, for Calcutta, 9 - 0 inches,
and for Bombay, 13 - 4 inches.
     No precise physical connection has hitherto been established

  424                   Lieut.-Gen. Richard Straclwy              [May 18,
  between the local rainfall at any place in India, and the temperature
  or pressure of the surrounding area ; and no certain step has yet been
  made, so far as I know, towards foretelling the character of the
  seasons. In these respects, however, our knowledge is not less as
 regards India, than other countries.
      An opinion has, indeed, been quite recently published by Dr.
 Hunter, to the effect that the rainfall registers at Madras, which
 extend over sixty-four years, supply evidence of a connection between
 the quantity of rain and the sun-spot cycles of eleven years or there
 abouts. This idea is not novel, having been advanced some years
 ago by Mr. Meldrum and others, on the alleged basis of facts collected
 from many different parts of the globe.
      So far as Dr. Hunter's views are concerned, I have no hesitation
 in stating my own conviction, that the facts on which he relies do
 not support his conclusions. He has inferred, from what must be
 held to be altogether insufficient numerical data, that sure indications
 of periodicity exist. He arrives, by an arithmetical process, at
 certain figures, which he regards as the probable mean amount of
 rainfall in the successive years of the eleven-year cycle, and finding
 a maximum and minimum among them, ho infers that this is a proof
 of a true periodical variation. But such a result alone proves nothing.
 To test its value it is necessary to compare the calculated quantities
 of rain for the several years with the quantities actually observed, and
 then to consider whether the differences arc of a character to justify
the belief that the calculated quantities afford a reliable approximation
to the truth, and what sort of approximation. Dr. Hunter does not
seom to have been aware of the necessity for exercising this caution,
though tho extreme variation of the rainfall from year to year, to
which reference has already been made, would appear to have been
likely to suggest it. The only conclusion that seems possible, from
such an examination of tho figures as I have described, is the ne
gative one, that they cannot be accepted as supplying any evidence
in snpport of the views put forward by Dr. Hunter.
     Though this argument is mainly negative, and goes rather to dis
credit the alleged proof of Dr. Hunter's conclusion, than the con
clusion itself, yet much doubt appears to me to be thrown on the
probability of any such direct connection between tho rainfall at
Madras and the sun-spot period as has been spoken of, by a compari
son of the Madras observations with those made during the same period
at Calcutta and Bombay. It is extremely difficult to conceive, that if
such a connection existed at Madras it should not be apparent at the
other two places ; yet the same treatment applied to the Calcutta and
Bombay figures as that adopted for Madras, shows no correspondence
in the results. Neither can any persistent relation be seen to exist
between the quantities of rainfall at the three places. There is an
occasional likeness at one time between one pair, at another between
a second, and again between the third, but no uniformity. And this
is what might have been expected, from what we know of the general

1877.J            on Physical Causes of Indian Famines.              425
manner in which precipitations of rain take place, and the oscillations
of wet and dry weather occur.
     On the whole, our knowledgo of the immediato physical causes of
rainfall is very rudimentary ; and though there be no present appear-
anco of success in solving the intricate problems that an inquiry into
those causes must involve, it can only be by help of a careful examina
tion in detail of all the facts that it can becomo possible at all. Such
a collection of facts has at length been seriously commenced ; but
what I have already said will indicate the great complexity of this
subject, and the many difficulties that will have to be encountered in
grasping it in a satisfactory way.
     Such being the general position of India in respect to the rainfall
necessary for its agriculture and its food supply, and man having no
possible means of exercising any control over the atmospheric changes
which are effectivo in adding to or reducing the quantity of rain, and
having no present power of foreseeing these changes, it may be asked
whether we therefore have no hope of escaping from the terrible con
sequences of drought. In my opinion there can be no doubt of the
possibility of combating successfully its worst results by the progress
of civilization ; by which I mean, that improved social condition in
which the accumulated knowledge and material resources of a com
munity are applied in the most effectual way to meet its requirements.
The result at which we aim in India can be brought about by this,
and this alone ; as this, and this alone, has been able to bring it about
in other countries. But as such progress is necessarily slow, we must
be content for the present to pass through a condition of periodical
suffering of an acute kind, during which the bitter lessons of experi
ence will continue to urge improvement ; and thereby intelligence
will be stimulated, and ways of escape from these evils will be gradu
ally perfected. These ways of escape are indeed already sufficiently
evident, and so far as they have been hitherto applied, have been
found to bo thoroughly efficacious. They are the provision of arti
ficial irrigation, and of improved means of transport ; the first, to
give a certain supply of water for the purposes of agriculture, in
creasing production generally, and supplementing the rainfall so as
 to prevent calamitous drought ; and the second, to provide facilities
for the economical distribution of food, and for the operations of
commerce, by which wealth is increased. Simple as these remedies
may appear, the material difficulties in the way of their being
furnished, to the extent necessary to remove the evils now under
consideration, cannot at present be surmounted. They require tho
application of capital, that is to say, tho accumulated results of
labour, which, to meet the requirements of the present case, may
possibly still have to be prolonged ovor very many years. For India
must perforce supply her own needs from her own material resources.
Nowhere, nor at any time, has the benevolence of others succeeded in
removing tho burden imposed on every community of providing for
its own existence under pain of extinction. Even if it were possible

426          Lt.-Gen. Slrachey on Causes of Indian Famines.       [May 18,
that external aid could be given on an adequate scale to supply the
requisite material appliances, it is certain that the moral qualities
would not have been developed, by which alone those appliances could
be successfully made use of—self-reliance, and, what this quality makes
possible, self-sacrifice.
    And if the people of India have on the one hand specially heavy
burdens to bear, in resisting these and other destructive forces of
nature arising from their climate, which will certainly tax their
strength to the utmost, yet on the other they find ready to their
hands unusual aid in the great reproductive powers of their soil, also
due to the same cause. Neither can we estimate as of small value to
them, the wealth, the knowledge, and the practical skill in all the arts
of life, possessed by their British rulers, and so largely employed to
their advantage. But that the task will in any case bo a very heavy
and tedious one to be got through, no one can doubt, who has passed
a large part of his life, as I have done, in seeking for the means of
extending those essential material allies in the battle of Indian life—
irrigation works and railways.
    True humanity assuredly demands of all Englishmen their co
operation in what will really conduco to the mitigation of the calami
ties caused by Indian droughts. But it is certain that there is only
one possible mode of escape, namely through labour. The fruits of
industry in years of plenty must be made to meet the want in years
of scarcity ; and relief is to be obtained by means of the combined
and continued exertions of the localities immediately concerned, and
no longer by relying on assistance to be supplied from without.
There is no escape from the conclusion, that the conditions of their
existence impose on the people of India severe suffering and periodic
partial destruction, if they submit to these conditions unresisting ;
severe toil, and persistent intelligent effort, if they are to escape their
extreme consequences. The Government and the people must every
where have this practically enforced upon them, and until it is done
the movement will not have fairly set in the right direction. Expe
rience in India leads to exactly the same conclusions as those arrived
at elsewhere, that a system of public relief in timo of distress, not
guarded by the sense of specific local financial responsibility, is a
source of grievous abuse, misery, and demoralization ; and it is my
earnest hope that no temporary impulse of sympathy with present
suffering, no selfish (if I may be allowed so to apply the term), no
selfish effort to escape at any cost the pain of witnessing it, may be
permitted to stand in the way of that real benevolence which is
founded on sound principles, drawn by dispassionate intelligence
from the lessons of experience, principles which I am glad to believe
have been adopted by the highest authorities concerned in the govern
ment of India.
                                                                  [R. S.]

1877.]        Mr. G. J. Romanes on Evolution of Nerves, Ac.          427
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, May 25, 1877.
    George Busk, Esq. F.B.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the
                                   Chair.
                  George J. Bomanes, M.A. F.L.S. &c.
                  Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-Systems.
Nerve-tissue universally consists of two elementary structures, viz.
very minute nerve-cells and very minute nerve-fibres. The nerve-
fibres proceed to and from the nerve-cells, thus (probably) serving to
unite the cells with one another, and also with distant parts of tho
animal body. Moreover, nerve cells and fibres, wherever we meet with
them, present very much the same appearances. Here, for instance, is
a sketch of highly magnified nerve-tissue as we find it in the human
brain, and here is one of my own drawings of nerve-tissue as I have
found it in the jelly-fish ; and you see how similar the drawings are
 — notwithstanding they are taken from the extreme limits of the animal
kingdom within which nerve-tissue is known to occur.
     Nerve-cells are usually found collected together in aggregates
which are called nerve-centres or ganglia, to and from which large
bundles of nerve-fibres come and go. These large bundles of nerve-
fibres are what we see with the naked eye as nerves, permeating the
 body in all directions. When such a bundle of nerve-fibres reaches a
ganglion, or collection of nerve-cells, it splits up like the end of a
rope which has been teased out, and the constituent fibres pass into
and out of the nerve-cells, so interlacing with one another in all
directions, as here diagrammatically represented. More true to nature
is this diagram, which represents a magnified section of human brain
—the human brain being itself nothing more than a collection of very
 large ganglia.
     To explain the function of nerve-cells and nerve-fibres, I must
 begin by explaining what physiologists mean by the word " excita
 bility." Suppose this to represent a muscle cut from the body of a
 freshly killed animal. So long as you do not interfere with it in any
 way, so long will it remain quite passive. But every time you stimu
 late it, either with a pinch, a burn, or, as represented in the diagram,
 with an electrical shock, the muscle will give a single contraction in
response to every stimulation. Now it is this readiness of organic

428                        Mr. George J. Romancs                  [May 2">,
tissues to respond to a stimulus that physiologists designate by the
term excitability.
     Nerves, no less than muscles, present the property of being ex
citable. Suppose, for instance, that this is another muscle prepared in
the same way as the last one, except that together with the muscle there
is cut out the attached nerve. Every time you pinch, burn, or electrify
any part of the nerve, the muscle will contract. But you will care
fully observe there is this great difference between these two cases of
response on the part of the muscle ; viz. that while in the former case
the muscle responded to a stimulus applied directly to its own substance, in
the latter case the muscle responded to a stimulus applied at a distance
from its men substance, which stimulus was then conducted to the
muscle by the nerve. And here we perceive the characteristic func
tion of nerve-fibres, viz. that of conducting stimuli to a distance.
This is the function of nerve-;/J6re« ; but the function of nerve-ceZfo is
 different, viz. that of accumulating nervous energy, and at fitting times
of discharging this energy into the attached nerve-fibres. The nervous
energy when thus discharged from the nerve-cells acts as a stimulus
 to the nerve-fibre ; so that if a muscle is attached to the end of the
fibre it contracts on receiving this stimulus. I may add that when
nerve-cells are collected into ganglia they often appear to discharge
their energy spontaneously, without any observable stimulus to cause
the discharge ; so that in all but the lowest animals, whenever we
meet with apparently spontaneous action, we infer that ganglia are
 probably present. But the point which most of all I desire you to
 keep well in mind this evening is the distinction which I hero draw
between muscle and nerve. A stimulus applied to a nerveless muscle
 can only course through the muscle- by giving rise to a visible wave
 of contraction, which spreads in all directions from the seat of stimu
 lation as from a centre. A nerve, on the other hand, conducts the
 stimulus without undergoing any change of shape. Now in order not
 to forget this all-important distinction, I shall always to-night speak
 of muscle as conducting a visible wave of contraction, and of nerve as
 conducting an invisible or molecular wave of stimulation. Nerve-
 fibres, then, are functionally distinguished from muscle-fibres—and
also, I may add, from protoplasm— by displaying the property of con
ducting invisible or molecular waves of stimulation from one part of
an organism to another—so establishing physiological continuity
between such parts itnthout the necessary passage of contractile waves.
     I will now conclude all that is necessary to say about the function
of nervous tissue by describing the mechanism of reflex action.
Suppose this to represent any peripheral structure, such as a part of
the skin of some animal, this a collection of nerve-cells or ganglion,
and this a muscle. The part of the skin represented is united to the
nerve-cells composing the ganglion by means of this in-coming nerve-
trunk, while the nerve-cells in the ganglion are united to the muscle
by means of this out-going nerve-trunk. Therefore when any stimulus
falls on the skin where this in-coming nerve-trunk takes its origin,

1877.]          on Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-Si/stenig.          429
the nerve-trunk conveys the stimulus to the nerve-cells in the
ganglion. When the nerve-colls receive the stimulus they liberate
one of their characteristic discharges of nervous energy, which dis
charge then passes down this out-going nerve and so causes the muscle
to contract. Now this particular kind of response is called response by
reflex action, because the stimulus wave does not pass in a straight
line from the seat of stimulation to the muscle, but passes in the first
instance to the ganglion, and is from it reflected to the muscle. This,
at first sight, appears to be a roundabout sort of a process, but in
reality it is the most economic process available ; for we must re
member the enormous number and complexity of the stimuli to which
every animal is more or less exposed, and the consequent necessity
that arises, in the case of highly organized animals, of there being
some definite system whereby these stimuli shall be suitably re
sponded to. Or, to adopt a happy illustration of Professor Bain, the
stimuli are systematized on the same principle as the circulation of
letters by post is systematized ; for just as in the caso of the letters
there is no direct communication between one street and another, but
every letter passes first to the central office ; so the transmission of
stimuli from one member of the body to another is effected exclusively
through a centre or ganglion.
    Those among you who are acquainted with Mr. Herbert Spencer's
writings are doubtless well aware how strong a case ho makes out in
favour of his theory respecting the genesis of nerves. This theory,
you will remember, is that which supposes incipient conductile tissues,
or rudimentary nerve-fibres, to be differentiated from the surrounding
contractile tissues, or homogeneous protoplasm, by a process of inte
gration which is due .simply to uso. Thus, beginning with the case
of undifferentiated protoplasm, Mr. Spencer starts from the fact that
every portion of the colloidal mass is equally excitable and equally
contractile. But soon after protoplasm begins to assume definite
shapes, recognized by us as specific forms of life, some of its parts
are habitually exposed to the action of forces different from those to
which other of its parts are exposed. Consequently, as protoplasm
continues to assume more and more varied forms, in some cases it
must happen that parts thus peculiarly situated with reference to
external forces, will be more frequently stimulated to contract than
are other parts of the mass. Now in such cases the relative frequency
with which waves of stimulation radiate from the more exposed parts,
will probably have tho effect of creating a sort of polar arrangement
of the protoplasmic molecules lying in the lino through which these
waves pass, and for other reasons also will tend ever more and more
to convert these lines into passages offering less and less resistance to
the flow of such molecular waves —i.e. waves of stimulation as dis
tinguished from waves of contraction. And lastly, when lines offering
a comparatively low resistance to the passage of molecular impulses
have thus been organically established, they must then continue to grow
more and more definite by constant use, until eventually they become

430                        Mr. George J. Romanes                   [May 25,
the habitual channels of communication between the parts of the con
tractile mass through which they pass. Thus, for instance, if such a
line has been established between the points A and B of a contractile
mass of protoplasm, when a stimulus falls upon A, a molecular wave
of stimulation will course through that line to B, so causing the tissue
at B to contract —and this oven though no contractile wave has passed
through the tissue from A to B. Such is a very meagre epitome of
Mr. Spencer's theory, the most vivid conception of which may perhaps
be conveyed in a few words by employing his own illustration—viz.
that just as water continually widens and deepens the channel through
which it flows, so molecular waves of the kind we are considering, by
always flowing in the same tissue tracts, tend ever more and more to
excavate for themselves functionally differentiated lines of passage.
When such a line of passage becomes fully developed, it is a nerve-
fibre, distinguishable as such by the histologist ; but before it arrives
at this its completed stage—i. e. before it is observable as a distinct
structure—Mr. Spencer calls it a " line of discharge."
     Such being the theory, I will endeavour to show how it is sub
stantiated by facts. And here it becomes necessary to refer to my own
work. You are all, I suppose, acquainted with the general appear
ance of a Medusa, or jelly-fish. The animal presents the general
               .pIG j                form of a mushroom. The organ
                                     which occupies the same position as
                                     the stalk docs in the mushroom
                                    is the mouth and stomach of the
                                     Medusa, and is called the polypite ;
                                    while the organ which resembles in
                                    shape the dome of the mushroom
                                    constitutes the main bulk of the
                                    animal, and is called the swimming-
                                    bell. Both the polypite and the
                                     swimming-bell are almost entirely
                                     composed of a thick, transparent,
                                    and non-contractile jelly ; but the
         W                           whole surface of the polypite, and
                                     the whole concave surface of the
                                     bell, are overlaid by a thin layer
                                     or sheet of contractile tissue. This
       ...       ...
      Aureha aunta, A nat. size.     tissue constitutes
                                                  ,,           earliest
                                                         . the...    .  ap-
                                                                         l„
                                     pearance in the animal kingdom of
true muscular fibres. The thickness of this continuous layer of in
cipient muscle is pretty uniform, and is nowhere greater than that of
very thin paper. The margin of the bell supports a series of highly
contractile tentacles, and also another series of bodies which are of
great importance for us to-night. These are the so-called marginal
bodies, which are here represented, but the structure of which I need
not describe. Lastly, it may not be surperfluous to add that all the
Medusse are locomotive. The mechanism of their locomotion is verv

 1877.]        on Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-Systems.              431
simple, consisting merely of an alternate contraction and relaxation
of the entire muscular sheet which lines the cavity of the bell. At
each contraction of this muscular sheet, the gelatinous walls of the
bell are drawn together ; the capacity of the bell being thus dimi
nished, water is ejected from the open mouth of the bell backwards,
and the consequent reaction propels the animal forwards. In these
swimming movements systole and diastole follow one another with as
perfect a rhythm as they do in the beating of a heart.
     Those of you who were present at my lecture last year will no
doubt remember my having told you, that on merely cutting off the
extreme marginal rim of the bell I was surprised to find that the
previously active motions of the animal suddenly and entirely
ceased ; the paralysis caused by this simple operation was instan
taneous, enduring, and complete. On the other hand, you may re
member, the severed margin which had just been taken from the
 swimming-bell invariably continued its rhythmical motions with a
 vigour and a pertinacity not in the least impaired by its severance
 from the main organism. For hours, and even for days after the
 operation, these motions persisted ; so that the contrast between the
death-like quiescence of the mutilated swimming-bell, and the active
contractions of the thread-like portion which had just been removed
from its margin, was a contrast as striking as it is possible to con
ceive.
     These experiments, then, conclusively proved that in the marginal
rim of the Medusas there is situated an intensely localized system of
nervous centres, or ganglia, to the functional activity of which the
rhythmical motions of the swimming-bell are exclusively due. And
as the Medusas are thus the lowest animals in which a nervous system
has yet been discovered, we have in them the animals upon which we
may experiment with the best hope of being able to elucidate all
questions concerning the origin and endowments of primitive nervous
tissues. I have therefore spent much time and labour, both last year
and this year, in cultivating this field of inquiry ; and as it is a field
whose ground had never before been broken and whose fertility has
proved itself prodigious, it is not surprising that I should have
reaped a rich harvest of results. So far as these results have any
bearing on the general theory of evolution, their character is uni
formly such as that theory would lead us to expect. For if I had
two hours at my disposal instead of one, I might mention a number
of facts which tend to show, in a very striking manner, that the
primitive nervo- muscular tissues of the Medusae, in respect of their
physiological properties, present unmistakable affinities, on the one
hand with the excitable tissues of certain plants, and on the other
hand with the nervo-muscular tissue of higher animals. But not
having time to go into this matter, I shall on the present occasion
restrict myself to describing such of my results as tend to substan
tiate Mr. Herbert Spencer's theory concerning the mode in which
nerves and nervo-systems have been evolved. And I adopt this course,
    Vol. VIII. (No. 67.)                                     2 h

432                       Mr. George J. Romanes                 [May 25,
not only because I feel that any facts bearing on so important a
subject cannot fail to be of interest to all intelligent persons ; but
also because I think that this is a place best suited for publishing
the somewhat speculative inferences which I have drawn from my
facts. If these provisional inferences should by subsequent ex
periments be proved to be correct, their philosophical as well as
their scientific influence will be great and far-reaching ; but until
they shall have been more completely verified I have not thought it
desirable to adduce them in my communications to the Royal Society.
Referring, therefore, those among you who may be interested in the
research as a whole to the ' Philosophical Transactions,' I will now
invite your attention to a connected interpretation of some of the facts
that it has yielded —an interpretation which I here publish for tho
first time.
     To begin, then, with this diagram. It represents Aurelia aurila
with its polypite cut off at the base, and the under, or concave, surfaco
                                  Fig. 2.
of the bell exposed to view. The bell, when fully expanded, as here
represented, is about the size of a soup-plato, and in it all the ganglia
of the margin are collected into the eight marginal bodies ; so that
on cutting out these eight marginal bodies total paralysis of the bell
ensues. But although the bell is thus paralyzed as to its spontaneous
movements, it continues responsive to stimulation ; for every timo
you prick or electrify any part of the contractile sheet, a wave of
contraction starts from the point which you stimulate, and spreads
from that point in all directions as from a centre. Such contractile
waves, at ordinary temperatures, travel at about the rate of a foot
and a half per second ; and the important question with regard to
them which wo shall have to consider to-night is this—Aro they
                                                                          ,

 1877.]         on Evolution of Nerves and Nereo-Systems.             433
merely of the nature of muscle-waves, such as wo see in undiffer
entiated protoplasm, or do they require the presence of ner»e-fibres
to convey them— the stimulus wave in the nert>e-fibres progressively
 causing, as it advances, the contractile wave in the muacfe-fibres ?
      Now the great argument in favour of these contractile waves being
 muscle-waves, and nothing more, is simply this —that the contractile
 tissuo is able to endure immensely severe forms of section without the
 contractile waves in it becoming blocked. For instance, when the
 boll of Aurelia is cut as hero represented, and any part of the circle
 is stimulated, a contractilo wavo radiates from the point of stimulation
just as it did before the cuts were introduced, notwithstanding tho
 wave has now to zig-zag round and round the ends of the overlap
 ping cuts. Similarly, if instead of employing artificial stimulation
 a single ganglion (g) be left in situ while all the other seven aro
                                   Fig. 3.
removed, contractile waves will radiate in rhythmical succession from
the single remaining ganglion, and course all the way round the disc.
Now this experiment seems to prove that the contractile waves depend
for their passage, not on the conductile function of any primitive
nervous network, but on the protoplasmic qualities of the primitivo
muscular tissue. The experiment seems to prove this, because so
severe a form of section would seem of necessity to destroy the func
tional continuity of anything resembling such a nervous network as
we observe in higher animals.
     Here, again, is another form of section. Seven marginal bodies
having been removed as before, the eighth one was made the point of
origin of a circumferential section, which was then carried round and
round the disc in tho form of a continuous spiral—tho result, of
course, being this long ribbon-shapod strip of tissue with the ganglion
(a) at one end, and tho remainder of the swimming-bell at the other.
                                                            2 h 2

434                     Mr. George J. Romanes                  [May 25,
Well, as before, the contractile waves always originated at the gan
glion ; but now they had to course all the way along the strip until
they arrived at its other extremity, and as each wave arrived at that
extremity it delivered its influence into the remainder of the swim
ming-bell, which thereupon contracted. Hence, from this mode of
section as from the last one, the deduction certainly appears to be
that the passage of the contractile waves cannot be dependent on the
presence of a nervous plexus ; for nothing could well be imagined as
more destructive of the continuity of such a plexus than this spiral
mode of section must be.
                                  Fig. 4.
    Nevertheless there is an important body of evidence to be adduced
on the other side ; but as I can only wait to state a few of the chief
points, I shall confine my observations to the spiral mode of section.
First of all, then, I have invariably found it to be the case that if this
mode of section be carried on sufficiently far, a point is sooner or
later sure to come at which the contractile waves cease to pass
forward : they become blocked at that point. Moreover, the point at
which such blocking of the waves takes place is extremely variable in
different individuals of the same species. Sometimes tho waves will
become blocked when the strip is only an inch or less in length,
 while at other times they continue to pass freely from end to end of
a strip that is only an inch broad and more than a yard long ; and
between these two extremes there are all degrees of variation. Now

1877.]           on Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-Systems.                   435
if we suppose that the influence of the ganglion at the end of the
strip is propagated as a mere muscle-wave along the strip, I cannot
see why such a wave should ever become blocked at all, still less that
the point at which it does become blocked should be so variable
in different individuals of the same species. On the other hand, if we
suppose the propagation of the ganglionic influence to be more or less
dependent on the presence of a more or less integrated nerve-plexus,
we encounter no difficulty ; for on the general theory of evolution it
is to be expected that if such fibres are present in such lowly animals
they should not be constant as to position.
     But there is a still stronger argument in favour of nerve-fibres, and
it is this. At whatever point in a spiral strip which is being pro
gressively elongated by section the blocking of the contractile wave
takes place, such blocking is sure to take place completely and
exclusively at that point. Now I cannot explain this invariable fact
in any other way than by supposing that at that point the section has
encountered a line of functionally differentiated tissue—has severed
an incipient nerve.
     Such, some of you may remember, was the state of the evidence
when I last addressed you upon this subject. On the whole I
provisionally adopted the view that all parts of the muscular sheet of
the Medusas are pervaded by a plexus of nerves, or "lines of discharge ;"
and I explained the fact of the tissues in some cases enduring such
severe forms of section without suffering loss of their physiological
continuity, by supposing all the nerve-fibres composing the plexus
to be capable, in an extraordinarily high degree, of vicarious action.
If you were to represent the hypothetical nervous plexus by a sheet of
muslin, it is clear that however much you were to cut the disc of
muslin with such radial or spiral sections as are represented in the
diagrams, you could always trace the threads of the muslin with a
needle round and round the disc without once interrupting the con
tinuity of your tracing ; for on coming to the end of a divided thread
you could always double back on it and choose another thread which
might be running in the required direction. And this is what I
last year stated to be my opinion as to what took place in the fibres
of the hypothetical nervous plexus ; whenever a stimulus wave arrives
at a cut, I imagined it to double back and pass into the neighbouring
lines of discharge, which I thus supposed to act vicariously for the
divided line.
    Such, then, when last I addressed you, was the standing of this
question as to the character of these highly remarkable contractile
waves. On the whole I decided in favour of a nervous plexus,
notwithstanding the improbability that such a plexus should be
capable of vicarious action in all its parts to so almost unlimited
a degree.* I am glad to say that this decision has now been further
   * This antecedent improbability is not so overwhelming as it is at first sight
apt to appear ; for we must remember that in a peripheral nervous plexus as we

436                           Mr. George J. Romanes                      [May 25,
justified by some additional observations which aro of the first
importance. For since my last lecture I have noticed the fact that
reflex action takes place between the marginal ganglia of the Medusas
and all the contractile tissues of the animal. Thus, for instance, if
you seize the polypito with a pair of forceps, the marginal ganglia
almost immediately set the swimming-bell in violent motion, thereby
showing that the stimulus must have coursed up the polypite to its
 point of insertion in the bell, and then down the sides of the bell to
the ganglia, so causing them to discharge by reflex action. Again,
suppose that seven of the eight ganglia have been removed from the
margin of an Aurelia, and that any part of the contractile disc is
stimulated too gently to start a contractile wave from the point
meet with it in the higher animals—i.e. in the fully evolved form of such a
structure—each of the constituent nerve-fibres is provided with an insulating
coat for the very purpose of preventing vicarious action among these fibres, and
the consequent confusion among the reflex mechanisms which such vicarious
action would manifestly occasion. But because insulation of peripheral nerve-
fibres is thus an obvious necessity in the case of a fully evolved nervous plexus,
it by no means follows that any high degree of insulation should be required in
the caso of an incipient nervous plexus. On the contrary, any hypothesis as to
the manner in which nerve-fibres first begin to be differentiated from protoplasm,
must suppose that the oonductile function of the incipient nervous tracts pre
cedes any structure, such as that of nerve-coats, whereby this function is strictly
confined to particular tracts. The antecedent probability being thus in favour
of the view that insulating structures are a product of later evolution than are
the essential nervous structures which they insulate, it would clearly be very
hazardous to draw any analogy between an incipient nervous plexus such as I
suppose to be present in the Medusas, and a fully-evolved peripheral plexus of any
of the higher animals. A less hazardous analogy would be furnished by the
fibres which occur in the central nervous system of the higher animals ; for here
it may be said, both a priori from Mr. Spencer's theory and u posteriori from his
tological indications, that the nerve-fibres occur in various degrees of differen
tiation. And that vicarious action is possible to some considerable extent through
a bridge of the grey matter of the cord, has been shown by the double hemi-section
experiments of Brown-Sequard. Moreover, the admirable experiments of Goltz
would soem to indicate that vicarious action is also possible to some extent
among the ultimate elements of the brain. I may add that recent research has
tended to suggest a novel interpretation of the way in which certain poisons, such
as strychnia, act upon the cord ; for whereas it hus hitherto been supposed that
the abnormal reflex excitability which these poisons engender is due to their
exerting a stimulating influence on the cord, the researches in question have
fairly well proved that the very reverse is true, viz. that the action of these
poisons is to depress the vitality of the cord. For a number of facts go to prove
that the abnormal reflex excitability is due to the impairment of some fuuetion
which has been provisionally termed " resistance of the cord," a function which in
health prevents the undue spread of a stimulus through the substance of the cord,
and the impairment of which by the poison consequently admits of a stimulus
spreading to an undue extent, so giving rise to the abnormal reflex excitability in
question. As bearing on this subject, I may observe that while the action of
strychnia on the Medusa is the same as it is on the higher animals, viz. that of
causing paroxysmal convulsions, it certainly seems to exercise a depressing influ
ence on the tissues; for nn extremely weak sea-water solution has the effect of
blocking contractile waves in any part of a spiral strip that is submitted to its
influence—G. J. B.

1877. J         on Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-Systems.            437
immediately stimulated, a contractile wave will nevertheless shortly
afterwards start from the ganglion, thus showing that a stimulus wave
must have passed through the contractile sheet to the ganglion, and
so caused the ganglion to discharge. Indeed in many cases the
passage of this stimulus wave admits of being actually seen. For
it is a peculiarity of the numberless tentacles which fringe the margin
of this Medusa, that they are more excitable than is the contractile
issue of the bell. Consequently a stimulus may be applied to the
contractile tissue of the bell which is not strong enough to start a
contractile wave in the bell-tissue itself, and is yet strong enough to
start a contractile wave in the tentacles—one tentacle after another
contracting in rapid succession until the wave of stimulation has
passed all the way round the disc. The latter, of course, remains
quite passive until the tentacular wave, or wave of stimulation,
reaches one of the ganglia (or the single remaining ganglion, if the
disc has been prepared by removing seven of tho ganglia), when,
after an interval of half a second for the period of latency, the
ganglion is sure to discharge, and so to cause a general wave of
contraction.
     Now these facts provo in a singularly beautiful manner—for this
optical expression of the passage of a wave of stimulation is a sight
as beautiful as it is unique—these facts, I say, conclusively prove
that the whole contractile sheet of the bell presents, not merely the
protoplasmic qualities of excitability and contractility, but also tho
essentially nervous quality of conducting stimuli to a distance irre
spective of the passage of a contractile wave. So I conclude there can
bo no longer any question that we have hero to deal with a tissue
already so far differentiated from primitive protoplasm, that the
distinguishing function of nerve has become fully established.
    The question, however, remains: Will this conductile function
prove itself as tolerant towards section of the tissue as the contractile
function has already proved itself to bo ? for, if so, any objection to
the view that the passage of the contractile waves is due to vicarious
action of rudimentary nerve-fibres will be removed. Briefly, the
answer to this question is an affirmative ; for I find it is quite as
difficult to block the passage of stimulus waves by means of inter
posing cuts, as we have seen that it is to block the passage of
contractile waves by the same means. For instance, here is an
Aurelia, the bell of which has been cut into the form of a continuous
parallelogram of tissue, and then submitted to the tremendously
severe form of section which is depicted. Yet on very gently
stimulating any point in this expanse of tissue, as at tho end a, a
tentacular wave would course all the way along the margin to b, thus
showing that the wave of stimulation must have passed round and
round the ends of all the intervening cuts. In the diagram the
tentacular wave is represented as having traversed one-half of the
wholo distance from a to b, and near b there is represented a single
remaining ganglion (</). When, therefore, the tentacular wave

338                           Mr. George J. Romanes                       [May 25,
reaches g, this ganglion will shortly afterwards discharge, so giving
rise to a contractile wave, which will course back from g to a in the
opposite direction to that which the stimulus wave had previously
pursued.
     And this, I am not afraid to say, is the most important observation,
both to the physiologist and to the evolutionist, that has ever been
made in the whole range of invertebrate physiology. For to the
physiologist this observation proves that tho distinguishing function
                                        Fir. 5.
of nerve, where it first appears upon tho scene of life, is a function
which admits of being performed vicariously to almost any extent by
all parts of the same tissue mass ; while to the evolutionist the
observation proves the existence of such a state of things as his theory
of nervo-genesis would lead him to expect. In such a symmetrically
formed animal as a Medusa, with all parts of the contractile sheet
precisely resembling one another, we should expect the lines of
discharge composing the hypothetical plexus to be very numerous,
and all very much alike with respect to the degree of their evolution.
 For, as the symmetrical form of the disc does not require that any
 one set of lines should be used much more frequently than any other
set, it follows from Mr. Spencer's theory that all the lines should
 more or less resemble one another as regards the extent of their
 differentiation.* That is to say, they should all be lines presenting
     * Mr. Spencer himself observes, " The average equality of the forces to which
 their bedies (i. e. those of the Medusas) are exposed all round, is unfavourable to
 the formation of distinct muscles, and a distinct nervous system."—('Psychology,'
 vol. i. p. 522.) Although this statement must now be modified so far as the
 ganglionic system of the Medusa is concerned, I do not think that the anticipa
 tion which it embodies should on this account be deemed unwarrantable so far as
 it applies to other parts of the nervous system. For although it is true that a
 Medusa as a whole is " exposed all round " to an " average equality of forces," it

1877.]           on Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-Systems.                       439
about the same degree of resistance to the passage of a stimulus wave,
and therefore it should become a matter of indifference, so to speak,
through which particular set of lines such a wave takes its course.
     There is still another class of facts which to my mind makes very
strongly in favour of Mr. Spencer's theory. Assuming, as I think we
are now entitled to assume, that the contractile waves are not merely
muscle-waves, but depend for their passage on the progressive passage
of the stimulus waves—assuming this, and the following facts become
facts of great significance. When the contractile waves in a spiral
strip have become suddenly blocked by section, in many such blocking
will be permanent—even though the strip be continuously stimulated,
whether artificially or by a single terminal ganglion, as represented in
Fig. 4. But in other cases, after a time that varies from a few minutes
to a day or more, the obstruction is overcome, and the contractile waves
pass forward with perfect freedom. Now, if I had time, I could prove
that these facts are certainly not to be attributed to what physiologists
term shock ; and therefore it seems to me that only one hypothesis
remains. What I have recently said about most of the lines of
discharge in the supposed plexus being very much alike as regards
the degree of their differentiation, does not, of course, mean that all
the linos are exactly alike in this respect ; for on a priori grounds
such a state of things would be in the last degree improbable. Con
sequently, in conducting a spiral section, it must happen that at every
snip the scissors cut through a number of lines of discharge pre
senting various degrees of differentiation ; and, such being the case,
the fact of the sudden and final blocking is presumably due to a well-
differentiated line having been severed in a part of the tissue whero
no other line occurs of a sufficient degree of differentiation to conduct
the stimulus forward. Now in most instances, as we should expect,
the blocking so caused is permanent; for it is manifest that the
formation of nervous channels, in the way suggested by Mr. Spencer,
cannot proceed at so great a rate as to admit of wholly new lines
of discharge being established during the lifetime of a mutilated
Medusa, i. e. during the course of a few days. Nevertheless, according
to the hypothesis, some small percentage of cases might be expected
to occur in which such blocking of the contractile waves would only
be temporary. For some cases would almost certainly occur in which
the relations of the highly differentiated line just destroyed to the
more slightly differentiated lines in the neighbourhood of the section,
is not truo that the excitable portions of a Medusa are thus equally exposed. On
the contrary, the margin of the excitable sheet which lines the cavity of the bell,
occupies a much more exposed position than does any other part of that sheet ;
and whether or not this fact has anything to do with the development of the
ganglia in tho only part of the excitable sheet which is thus peculiarly situated, I
think it is obvious that this part of a Medusa ought to be carefully excepted in
the statement whioh I have quoted. With regard to nil other parts of the
excitable sheet, however, the statement is certainly correct ; and it is only to such
parts that the considerations in the text apply. — G. J. R.

440                          Mr. George J. Romanes                        [May 25,
would happen to be such that the more slightly differentiated lines
would be very nearly, though not quite, able to act vicariously for
the more highly differentiated line which has just been destroyed
(see Fig 4, where the deep line represents the well-differentiated line
which has just been severed, and the dotted line the less differentiated
one which
the           is still intact).
      first instance             The contractile
                       become suddenly                 at thetherefore,
                                            blockedwaves,       end of thewould   in
                                                                              strip.¦
But the molecular, and with them the contractile, waves still con
tinuing to pass quite up to the end of the strip, and being there
always suddenly stopped, a rude conflict of molecular forces will thus
be set up in the area where these waves are impeded, and each of the
forces concerned will seek for itself the line of least resistance.
Hence, as the successive waves beat rhythmically on the area of
obstruction, more or less of the molecular disturbance must every
time be equalized through these lines of discharge which from the
first have been almost sufficient to maintain the physiological con
tinuity of the tissue. Therefore, according to the hypothesis, every wave
that is blocked imposes on these particular lines of discharge a much
higher degree of functional activity than they were ever before
required to exercise ; and this greater activity causing in its turn
greater permeability, a point will sooner or later arrive at which
these lines of discharge from having been almost become quite able to
draft off sufficient molecular motion, or stimulating influence, to carry
on the contractile waves beyond the area of previous blocking. In
such instances, of course, we should expect to find, what I always ob
served to be the case, viz. that the first contractile waves which pass tho
barriers are only very feeble, the next stronger, the next still stronger,
and so on, according as the new passage becomes more and more
permeable by use ; until at last the contractile waves pour over the
original barrier without any perceptible diminution of their force. In
some cases, by exploring with graduated stimuli and needle-point
terminals, I was able to ascertain the precise line through which this
eruption of stimulating influence had taken place ; so that altogether I
think these facts tend very strongly to confirm Mr. Spencer's theory
regarding the genesis of nerves.* I will only add that if this
     * As additional proof that a wave of stimulation may pass over a barrier of
tho kind described in too small a quantity to start a wave of contraction beyond
the barrier, I may mention that in some cases I have observed that the establish
ing of a new line of physiological connection is a more gradual process than stated
in the text. To show this, I may briefly quote one very instructive case. Seven
marginal bodies having been removed, the eighth one continued to originate
contractile waves, which coursed round the swimming-bell as usual. I now
made a radial cut half an inch on one side of the marginal body, and extending
to the centre of the swimming-bell. The contractile waves were immediately
blocked—thus showing, as did a somewhat similar experiment detailed in my
first Royal Society paper (p. 293), " that the influence of the marginal body
had previously been communicated to tho swimming-bell from one side only." But
in tho case wo are now considering, the discharges of the marginal body were
still rendered apparent by very local contractions of a tissue area in the immediate

1877.J            on Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-Systems.                      441
interpretation of the facts is correct, we have in them a striking
instance of tho uniformity with which Nature works. A scientific
theory concerning the evolution of norves, which a year or two ago
it seemed impossible to verify, from the fact that it seemed as though
the observations which would be required to verify it would need to
extend over thousands of years —this theory is now, I believe, being
verified by observations which need only extend over hours and
minutes. The immensely protracted history of nervo-genesis upon
this planet is thus probably reproduced in a greatly foreshortened
manner in the facts which I have explained ; and inconceivable as is
the difference between these two histories of nervo-genesis in respect
vicinity of that body, the area, namely, which in the figure representing one end
of the strip is marked B B. Exploration by stimulus now showed that genoral
contractile waves could only be started outside the area B B. In somewhat moro
than half an hour after the operation (during which time tho area b s continued
to contract rhythmically), the ganglionic influence for the first time extended from
the area rr to the rest of the strip—tho contraction being therefore general.
                                         Fig. 6.
After this first eruption of contractile influence, there succeeded a period of about
a minute, during which the area b b continued to contract independently as before.
Then another eruption took place, followed by another period of restricted con
traction, and so on. Next, these general contractions became progressively
more and more frequent, and as the rhythm always continued tho same, whether
the contractions were local or general, the number of the latter became increased
at the expense of that of tho former. Thus, while at first thore were twenty or
thirty local contractions between every two general contractions, this proportion
gradually fell to fifteen, ten, five, &c, till the numbers became equal, after which
the balance began to incline in favour of tho general contractions. Eventually
the local contractions ceased altogether, and on now excising the marginal body
and exploring by stimulus, I was able to localize very precisely the line through
which physiological continuity had been established between b b and the rest of
the contractile strip. This line was AC, as shown by the fact that while
stimulation of any other part of tho area n b was followed only by a local con
traction of that area, stimulation of the line A 0 was always followed by a general
contraction.—G. J. B.

442                            Mr. George J. Romanes                   [May 25,
of their duration, it is nevertheless most probably in respect of their
duration alone that these two histories differ.
     I will now invite your attention to another species of Medusa,
which is of a somewhat more highly evolved type than Aurelia, and
which I have called Tiaropsis indicans, in allusion to a highly in
teresting and important function which is displayed by its polypite.
This function consists in that organ localizing, with the utmost pre
cision, any point of stimulation situated in the bell. For instance, if
                                          the bell be pricked with a needle
                   Fig. 7.
                                          at this point (a), the polypite im
                                          mediately moves over and touches
                                          that point, as represented in the dia
                                          gram. If immediately afterwards
                                          any other part of the bell be pricked,
                                          the polypite moves over to that part,
                                          and so on. Now this, you will per
                                          ceive, is a highly remarkable func
                                          tion ; for it proves that all parts of
                                          the bell must be pervaded by lines
                                          of discharge, every one of which is
                                          capable of conveying a separate
   Tiaropsis indicans, slightly enlarged.
                                          stimulus to the polypite, and so of
                                          enabling the polypite always to de
termine which of the whole multitude is being stimulated. This
localizing function of the polypite therefore shows that the lines of
discharge must be more differentiated in this species than they are
in Aurelia ; for it shows that vicarious action cannot be possible
among them in so high a degree : every line of discharge must here
have acquired a more specialized character, in order that the message
which it conveys to the polypite when itself directly stimulated may
not be confused with that which is conveyed by any other line.
      Now it is easy to be wise aftor the event ; but the state of things
 we here observe is just such a state of things as I think we should
 expect to constitute the next stage of ncrvo-evolution. It is no doubt
 a benefit to this Medusa that its polypite is able to localize a seat of
 stimulation in the bell ; for the end of the polypite is provided with
 a stinging apparatus, and is besides the mouth of the animal. Con
 sequently, when any living object touches the bell — whether it be an
 enemy or a creature serving as prey—it must alike be an advantage
 to the Medusa that its polypite is ablo to move over quickly to the
right spot, in the one case to sting away the enemy, and in the other
 to capture the prey. Hence I think that natural selection would
probably tend to convert lines of discharge in promiscuous directions,
into lines of discharge in definite directions—thus developing the
function of localization. At first, no doubt, this function would be
performed only in a general and tentative manner (as, indeed, I have
observed in the case of Aurelia) ; but gradually, by the combined action

1877.]          on Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-Systems.                    443
and mutual reaction of use and survival of the fittest, this function
would come to be performed with ever-increasing precision.*
     This, then, I conceive to be an important step in the evolution of
nervous systems—foreshadowing as it does the principle of co
ordination among muscular movements, which in all the higher
animals is effected by reflex mechanisms precisely resembling, as to
their function, the primitive reflex mechanism we are considering.
But now another point of interest arises. As Spencer's theory
supposes a line of discharge to become more and more definite by use,
if, for the maintenance of any particular function such as the one we
are considering, a certain line of discharge habitually serves as a line
of communication between two points of the animal tissues, it follows
that this line will offer less resistance to the passage of a stimulus
between these two points than would any other line in the organism.
Consequently, so long as such a line remains intact, so long we should
expect what we have seen to be the case, viz. that little or no
vicarious action takes place between it and other lines. But let this
line be severed, and let there be a number of closely adjacent lines,
as there must be in this particular instance, and should we not expect,
both from Spencer's theory and from our knowledge of Aurelia, that
at some such grade of nervous evolution as Tiaropsis presents, the
stimulus should be able to escape from the severed to the unsevered
lines ? And this I find to be the case. For if a small cut be intro
duced between the base of the polypite and the seat of injury in the
bell, the polypite is no longer able to localize the seat of injury,
although it still continues to perceive, so to speak, that injury is
being applied somewhere. For instance, if a short cut be introduced
 as here represented at b c, and you prick the bell anywhere below the
cut, as at d, the polypite, instead of immediately applying its extremity
to the exact spot that is being stimulated, now actively dodges about
first to one part and then to another part of the bell, as if seeking in
vain for the offending body, which, however, it cannot succeed in
finding. Now I explain this marked change in the behaviour of the
 polypite by supposing that the wave of stimulation in this case runs
along the habitual line of discharge till it reaches the cut ; but being
 there no longer able to pursue this habitual line of least resistance,
the wave of stimulation escapes into the adjacent lines, and so spreads
all over the bell. Hence a number of conflicting messages are
simultaneously delivered to the polypite, which therefore executes the
random movements I have described—each of these movements being
presumably determined by the relative degree in which now one line
and now another takes part in conveying the scattered stimulus.
     And now for another expectation to be realized. We should
    * It may be here observed that Mr. Spencer, in his theory of nervo-genesis,
expressly supplements his hypothesis as to the direct influence of use, with that
as to the indirect influence of natural selection. (See ' Biology,' § 164.)—
G. J. R.

 444                      Mr. George J. Romanes                   [May 25,
 expect that the higher degree of specialization, which in these lines of
 discharge prevents vicarious action so long as the lines are undivided,
 should have the effect of rendering such vicarious action as wo have
 seen to ensue when the lines are divided, less easy than it is in Aurelia,
 where the specialization of the lines being less pronounced, vicarious
 action among them is presumably more habitual. And such I fmd to
 be the case ; for while in Aurelia, as we have seen, stimulus waves
 continue to zig-zag round and round the ends of almost any number
 of overlapping cuts, in Tiaropsis two or three such cuts are sufficient
 to destroy, not only the localizing, but also the random movements of
 the polypite— the latter then remaining passive, because the stimulus
 waves are wholly blocked.
     And lastly, before leaving the case of Tiaropsis indicans, I should
 like to mention the noteworthy fact, that although the polypite is able
to perform the intricate ganglionic function of localizing any seat of
stimulation in the bell, no signs of ganglionic structure can be
detected with the microscope. Moreover, a portion of any size that
is removed from the polypite continues to perform the localizing
 function, in just the same way as does the entire organ. In other
 words, this localizing function, which is so very efficiently performed
 by tho polypite of this Medusa, and which, if anything resembling it
 occurred in tho higher animals, would certainly have definite ganglia
 for its structural correlative, is here shared equally by all parts of
 the exceedingly tenuous excitable tissue that forms the outer surface
 of the organ. The caso of the incipient ganglia of the polypite thus
 resembles that of the incipient nerves of the bell in this respect—that
 in both cases obvious signs of characteristic function are displayed
 before any corresponding signs of structure can be distinguished.
 Nerve-cells therefore, no less than nerve-fibres, are thus shown to have
 their first beginnings in differentiations of protoplasmic substance
 which are too refined for the microscope to analyze.
     There is one other species of Medusa about which I should like
to say a very few words, because it presents a still higher grade of
nervous evolution than Tiaropsis. This is Sarsia, a Medusa in which
the lines of discharge have in some places become so far differentiated
as to admit of being actually seen, and are therefore entitled to be
called nerves. All round the margin, and likewise along the course
of the radial tubes, these, the earliest visible nerve-fibres in the
animal kingdom, may be traced. And as we might anticipate, the
advance of structure which is implied by an invisible " line of dis
charge" becoming a visible nerve-fibre, entails a corresponding
advance of function. In the first place, the rate at which a stimulus
travels seems to be much greater along these fully-evolved nerve-
fibres than it is in the more rudimentary nerves or lines of discharge
in Aurelia. In tho next place, this greater differentiation of nerve-
tissue renders the nervous connection between any two parts of tho
organism much more definite, and therefore vicarious action less
promiscuous, than wo havo seen it to be in the other jelly-fishes ; so
                                                                        . -J

 1877.]         on Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-Systems.             445
that, for instance, a tentacular wave in this species may be blocked
 by a single short cut through the margin of the bell. Lastly, it is in
this species that I was first able to perceive any unequivocal evidence
 of co-ordination among the marginal ganglia. In all the other
species of Medusas the marginal ganglia appear to act independently
of one another ; but in this species, where
the marginal ganglia are first seen to be               -pIG g
united by a visible nerve-fibre, they always
act in concert. So much, indeed, is this
the case, that the animal is able to steer
itself in any required direction, as proved
by the experiment which I described last
year, whereby individuals of this species
were shown to have the power of following
a moving beam of light round and round
the vessel in which they were contained.
I may also remark that individuals of this
species present much more nervous energy
than those of aDy other species of Medusas
which I have had the opportunity of ob
serving.
    I have now, ladies and gentlemen, com
municated some of the points wherein my
work has tended to elucidate the early
stages in the evolution of nerves and
nervous systems. And these are just the
stages concerning which elucidation is
most required. When once nerve-fibres
and nerve-cells have been fully evolved
and arranged in the form of simple reflex
mechanisms, the subsequent history of
their evolution into compound nervous
systems is readily intelligible. The prin
ciples on which this higher evolution is
effected are throughout the same, and
result essentially in establishing ever more
and more advanced degrees of integration.
Compare, for instance, these diagrams
which represent severally the nervous sys- Sarsia tubulo»a, x three times,
tems of an earth-worm, a centipede, an
insect, and a spider ; and observe tho progressive fusion of ganglia
which has taken place. The progressive centralization which is
thus effected is no doubt ultimately due to natural selection, if
not exclusively, at any rate in large part ; for this increasing
consolidation of the reflex mechanisms must be of great benefit
to the organisms which present it—serving as it does to render
possible muscular movements ever more and more varied and com

 446                     Mr. George J. Romanes                  [May 25,
bined. In the vertebrated series of animals the evolution of central
nervous matter consists chiefly in adding to the size of ganglia
by increasing the number of their ultimate nervous elements, nerve-
cells and nerve-fibres. This progressive increase in the size of
ganglia is especially remarkable in the case of the cerebral hemi
spheres. Now the cerebral hemispheres are the ganglia which we
know to be the exclusive seat of the intellectual faculties ; and their
progressive increase in bulk as we ascend through the animal series,
is undoubtedly to be regarded as the structural correlative of that
progressive advance of the intellectual powers which is so conspicu
ously apparent as we ascend from the lower animals to Man.
     And now, in conclusion, I should like to observe, that even in this
the highest product of nervous evolution—the supreme ganglia or
cerebral hemispheres of Man—not only do we still encounter the
same fundamental constituents of structure as we observe in all
other ganglia ; but the cells and fibres in the brain of a man do
not differ in any marked degree from the cells and fibres in the
ganglion of an Aurelia. There is, however, a prodigious difference
in the product of their operation. When ordinary ganglion cells
discharge their influence, the result is, as we have seen, a mus
cular contraction ; but when cerebral cells discharge their influence,
we of to-day can have no doubt that the result is a mental
change. And although we freely acknowledge that we are here stand
ing on the border-land of insoluble mystery, we are not afraid to
assert with confidence, that in the amazing complexity of the brain's
structure—amid those millions on millions of interlacing cells and
fibres —we have the physical aspect of all those relations, which on
their psychical aspect we know as thoughts and feelings. Do you
think that this sounds like materialism ? I am not here to-night to
discuss that point ; but I may observe, in passing, that even were I
able to tell you the particular cerebral elements which I now use in
expressing this statement to you, I should be just as much or just as
little on the way towards proving materialism, as I am when I tell
you that a blow on the head produces insensibility. Science can
never go farther than common sense in proving any necessary connec
tion to subsist between mind and matter; for all that science can
ever do is to ascertain numerous details with regard to such connec
tion as undoubtedly does exist, and which, as a matter of daily expe
rience, common-sense has already and completely recognized. How
ever, materialism or no materialism, it is manifest that the facts being
what they are, Mr. Spencer's theory as to the genesis of nerves must
not be allowed to stop short just where its presence is most required.
As we have seen that the cerebral hemispheres of man resemble all
other ganglia in structure, we cannot hesitate in concluding, that if
Mr. Spencer's theory is valid in explaining the genesis of nerves in
general, in can be no less valid in explaining the genesis of these
supreme ganglia in particular. And as wo have every reason to
believe that the functional operations of these supreme ganglia are
                                                                       \

1877.J          on Evolution of Nerves and Nervo-Systems.            447
inseparably associated with our thoughts and feelings, wo are driven
to the yet further conclusion, that if Mr. Spencer's theory is of any
validity at all, our possible as well as our actual thoughts and feeling
arc determined by the strictly physical conditions under which mole
cular waves of stimulation course threugh the structure of the brain.
So that in this Spencerian hypothesis of lines of discharge becoming
more and moro definite by use, we have a physical explanation, which
is perhaps as full and as complete as such an explanation can ever be,
of the genesis of Mind. From the time that intelligence first dawned
upon the scene of life, whenever a now relation had to be established
in the region of mind, it could only bo so established in virtue of
some new line of discharge being excavated through the substance of
the brain. The more often this relation had to be repeated in tho
mind, the more often would this discharge require to take place in
the brain, and so the moro easy would every repetition of the process
become ; until at last the line of discharge grows into a nerve-fibre,
and becomes tho inherited property of the race. Thus it is, according
to the theory, that there is always a precise proportion between tho
constancy with which any relations have been joined together during
the history of intelligence, and the difficulty which intelligence now
experiences in trying to conceive of such relations as disjoined.
Thus it is that, even during the history of an individual intelligence,
" practice makes perfect," by frequently repeating tho needful stimu
lations along the same lines of cerebral discharge— so rendering the
latter even more and more permeable by use. Thus it is that a child
learns its lessons by frequently repeating them ; and thus it is that
all our knowledge is accumulated. In a word, if, as has been truly
said, " man is a bundle of habits," we have in Mr. Spencer's theory of
nervo-genesis a physical explanation of the fact. And forasmuch as
it is upon this theory that Mr. Spencer may be said to found that
great monument of modern thought —his " Principles of Psychology,"
I cannot but feel that one of the most important bearings which my
work on the Medusas has had, is that of supplying facts which tend
to substantiate this theory— and this at a time when it seemed as
though the theory could never have other than a priori considerations
for its support. But if my interpretation of these facts is correct, this
important theory is now receiving inductive verification from a most
unexpected source. At first sight no two organic structures could
well seem to have less in common than the swiraming-bell of a
Medusa and the brain of a Man ; nor could anything seem more
unlikely than that a great psychological theory should derive support
from the study of polypes, where the very existence of a nervous
system has only just been discovered. But here again, I believe, wo
may discern the uniformity of Nature ; and while watching tho
passage of the waves of stimulation in the contractile strips of Aurelia
—now passing freely, now stopped by an excess of resistance, and now
again forcing a passage,— I have felt that I was probably witnessing,
on the lowest plain of nervo-genesis, that very same play and counter-
    Vol. VIII. (No. 67.)                                      2 i

448             Mr. G. J. Romanes on Evolution of Nerves, dec.             [May 25,
play of forces, which, on the highest plain of norvo-genesis, invariably
accompanies, if it does not actually cause, the most intricate reasoning
of a Newton, the most sublime emotion of a Shakespeare, the most
imperious will of a Napoleon, and the most transforming thought of a
Darwin.*
                                                                       [G. J. R.]
     * Throughout the lecture of which the above is a pretty full abstract, I have
associated Mr. Herbert Spencer's theory of uervo-genesis with his name exclusively.
To avoid misapprehension, therefore, I append this note to state that I am not
ignorant of the fact that the theory in question has occurred to other thinkers as
well as to the great English philosopher. Moreover, I am quite aware that even
if this theory of nervo-genesis had never been enunciated a priori by any speculative
thinker, some such theory would certainly have been devised ii posteriori by any
working physiologist of moderate capacity who might first happen to observe
such facts as are above detailed. But considering that Mr. Spencer elaborated the
theory deductively, and that lie did so in a much more thorough and painstaking
manner than had ever been done before ; considering, too, that he has given the
theory so elaborated such a prominent place in his system of objective psychology,
I have no hesitation in describing this theory as pre-eminently a product of his
authorship.
    In now concluding this abstract I desire it to be observed, that having had so
much experimental work to accomplish in connection with this research, I have
not as yet had time to conduct any systematic investigation concerning the
histology of tho Medusas ; and that many of the above inferences must therefore
be regarded as premature and uncertain so long as this part of tho work remains
unfinished.—G. J. R.

1877.]     Mr. Oscar Browning on the History of Education.         449
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, June 1, 1877.
  William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Treas. R.S. Secretary and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                         Oscar Browning, Esq.
                       The History of Education.
Up to the present time little attention has been paid in England to
the science of education. In some respects no country in Europe is
better fitted with appliances of instruction. Our universities are
possessed of great wealth; our public schools, in their manliness
and independence, are objects of admiration and envy to our neigh
bours ; the whole country is covered with a network of educational
endowments, old and new, which only require the hand of the
reformer to quicken them into more abundant life. The State has
taken its share in the education of the people. At the same time the
personnel of tho teaching staff in our great schools is probably un
rivalled in Europe. It is true that the elements of which it is com
posed lack that unity and cohesion which are the conditions of a
profession ; teachers of various grades know littlo of, and perhaps
care less for, the efforts of their fellow labourers in tho same field.
But this defect is in a fair way of being remedied ; and whenever tho
profession of teaching is invested with the responsibilities and safe
guards which belong to other learned professions, it will be second to
none of them in ability and numbers. In the face of this rapid and
momentous progress, it becomes of the utmost importance that theory
should accompany practice, and that teachers who claim to rank with
lawyers and doctors, should not commence their operations on human
minds with an entire ignorance of the principles of their art. This
is not a time to show how ignorance of the principles of education
is one of the greatest hindrances to practical educational reform.
The want of such knowledge is beginning to be felt among teachers
themselves ; it is recognized outside their body ; chairs of educa
tion have been founded at tho Scotch universities; instruction in
the science is attainable in London ; our English universities are
being pressed to follow in the same track, and there is a fair
hopo that after another ten years have olapsed no master will be
appointed to a large school who is not acquainted with what tho
                                                           2 i 2

450                       Mr. Oscar Browning                     [June 1,
best minds have thought upon the occupation of his life, and who
has not undergone a formal apprenticeship for his work. In this
respect we are far behind the Continent. In France, Belgium,
Switzerland, Italy, pasdagogics or the science of education is re
cognized as a definite subject of serious study. In Germany the
science has assumed proportions which those who have not investi
gated the matter would find difficult to believe. What then is the
science of education to which our neighbours are so devoted, and
of which we are so ignorant? It consists mainly of two parts;
first, an exposition of the general aims and principles of educa
tion, the means by which children may best be kept in order
and induced to learn, and by which their characters and faculties
may be most successfully developed : secondly, it comprises a history
of education and of educational theories, a view of the education which
has been given in different ages of the world, of the principles laid
down by educational philosophers, of the lives and labours of practical
teachers, showing what they were able to accomplish in their lives,
and still more, what they left to be accomplished by their successors
in happier times and under more toward circumstances. It is to this
history of education that I propose to direct your attention this
evening. I shall attempt to give a very hasty sketch of the main
currents of education which have existed in the world from the earliest
times to the present day. My purpose will have been fully answered
if I succeed in rousing your interest to pursue tho subject farther for
yourselves.
     The earliest education is that of the family. The child must bo
trained not to interfere with its parents' convenience, and to acquire
those little arts which will help in maintaining the economy of tho
household. It was long before any attempt was made to improvo
generations as they succeeded each other. The earliest schools wero
those of the priests. As soon as an educated priesthood had taken
the place of the divines and jugglers who abused the credulity of the
earliest races, schools of the prophets became a necessity.         The
training required for ceremonials, the common life apart from the
family, the accomplishments of reading and singing, afforded a nucleus
for the organization of culture, and an opportunity for the efforts of a
philosopher in advanco of his age. Convenience and gratitude con
firmed the monopoly of the clergy. The schools of Judrea and Egypt
were ecclesiastical. The first had but little effect on the progress of
science, but our obligations to the priests of the Nile valley are great
indeed. Much of their learning is obscure to us ; but we have reason
to conclude that there is no branch of science which they did not
attempt, and in which they did not progress at least so far as observa
tion and careful registration of facts could carry them. They were a
source of enlightenment to surrounding nations. Not only the great
lawgiver of tho Jews, but those who were most active in stimulating the
nascent energies of Hellas, were careful to train themselves in tho
wisdom of the Egyptians. Greece, in giving an undying name to the

  1877.]                 on the History of Education.                   451
  literature of Alexandria, was only repaying the debt which she had
  incurred centuries before. Education became secular in countries
  where the priesthood did not exist as a separate body. At Bome,
  until Greece took the conqueror captive, a child was trained for the
  duties of life in the forum and the senate house. The Greeks were
  the first to develop a science of education distinct from ecclesiastical
  training. They divided their subjects of study into music and gym
 nastics, the one comprising all mental, the other all physical training.
  Music was at first little more than the study of the art of expression.
  But the range of intellectual education which had been developed by
  distinguished musical teachers was thus further widened by the
  Sophists, until it received a new stimulus and direction from the life
  and work of Socrates. Who can forget the picture left us by Plato of
  the Athenian palasstra in which Socrates was sure to find his most
  ready listeners and his most ardent disciples? In the intervals of
  running, wrestling, or the bath, the young Phoedrus or Theaatetus
 discoursed with the philosophers who had come to watch them, on
 the good, the beautiful, and the true. The lowest efforts of their
  teachers were to train them to maintain any view which they might
  adopt, with acuteness, eloquence, readiness, and good taste. Their
 highest efforts were to stimulate a craving for the knowledge of the
 unknowable, to raise a dissatisfaction with received opinions, and to
 excite a curiosity which grew stronger with the revelation of each
 successive mystery. Plato is the author of the first systematic treatise
 upon education. His proposal to entrust education to the State, has
 not been without imitators in our own day. If we are ever governed by
 the rules of the positive philosophy, a large portion of the best intel
 lect of the age will be officially dedicated to the training of our youth.
 Plato lays great stress on the influence of race and blood ; strong and
 worthy children are likely to spring from steady and worthy parents.
 Music and gymnastics are to develop the emotions of the young
 men during their earliest years, the one to strengthen their characters
 for the contest of life, the other to excite in them varying feelings of
 resentment or tenderness. Beverence, tho ornament of youth, is to
 be called forth by well-chosen fictions ; a long and rigid training in
 science is to precede discussion on more maturo subjects. At length
 the goal is reached, and the ripest wisdom is ready to be applied to
 tho most imfioi'tant practice. Tho precepts of the Bepublic existed
in theory alone, and they differ in some respects from the rules which
are expressed in the earlier dialogues. But the same spirit underlies
his wholo teaching. He never forgets that the beautiful is undistin-
guishablo from the true, that the mind is best fitted to solve difficult
problems which has been trained by the enthusiastic contemplation
of art.
     The object of the trcatiso of Quintilian is to show us how to
form that much-abused complex, the practical man. But what a high
conception of practice is his ! He did not write for school-boards or
competitive examinations, but for a race of rulers. It is unfortunato

452                        Mr. Oscar Browning                    [June 1,
that the Romans understood no training except in oratory. In their
eyes every citizen was a born commander, and they knew of no science
of government and political economy. Cicero speaks slightingly even
of jurisprudence. Anyone, he says, can make himself a jurisconsult
in a week, but an orator is the production of a lifetime. No state
ment can be less true than that a perfect orator is a perfect man.
But wisdom and philanthropy broke even through that barrier, and
the training which Quintilian expounds to us as intended only for the
public speaker, would in tho language of Milton fit a man to perform
justly, wisely, and magnanimously all the offices, both public and
private, of peace and war.
     Such are the ideas which the old world has left us. On one
side, man beautiful, active, clever, receptivo, emotional, quick to
feel, to show his feeling, to argue, to refine; greedy of the plea
 sures of the world, perhaps a little neglectful of its duties, fearing
restraint as an unjust stinting of the beauty of nature, inquiring
 eagerly into every secret, strongly attached to the things of this
life, but elevated by an unabated striving after the highest ideal ;
 setting no valuo but upon faultless abstractions, and seeing reality
 only in heaven, on earth mere shadows, phantoms, and copies of the
 unseen. On tho other side, man practical, energetic, eloquent ;
tinged but not imbued with philosophy, trained to spare neither
himself nor others, reading and thinking only witli an apology, best
engaged in defending a political principle, in maintaining with gravity
and solemnity the conservation of ancient freedom, in leading armies
through unexplored deserts, establishing roads, fortresses, settlements,
the results of conquest, or in ordering and superintending the slow,
certain, and utter annihilation of some enemy of Rome. Has the
 Christian world ever surpassed these types ? Can we produce anything
by education in modern times, except by combining, blending, or modi
fying the self-culture of the Greek or the self-sacrifice of the Roman ?
     The education of the middle ages was either that of the cloister
or the castle. They stood in sharp contrast to each other. Tho
object of one was to form tho young monk, of the other the young
knight. We should indeed be ungrateful if we forgot the services of
those illustrious monasteries, Monte Cassino, Fulda, or Tours, which
kept alive the path of learning throughout the dark ages, but it would
bo equally mistaken to attach an exaggerated value to the education
 of that age. Long hours were spent in the duties of the church, and
 in learning to take a part in elaborate and useless ceremonies. A
 most important department of tho monastery was the writing-room,
 where missals, psalters, and breviaries were copied and illuminated,
 and too often a masterpiece of classical literature was effaced to make
 room for a treatise of one of the fathers or the Lenten sermons of an
abbot. The discipline was harsh ; the rod ruled all with indiscrimi-
 nating and impartial soverity. How many generations have had to
 suffer for tho floggings of those times ! Hatred of learning, antago
nism between the teacher and the taught, tho belief that no training
                                                                         Sv

1877.]                on the History of Education.                   453
could be effectual which is not repulsive and distasteful, that no
subject is proper for instruction which is acquired with ease and
pleasure,—all these idols of false education have their root and origin
in monkish cruelty. The joy of human life would have been in
danger of being stamped out if it had not been for the warmth and
colour of a young knight's boyhood. He was equally well broken in
to obedience and hardship, but the obedience was the willing service
to a mistress whom he loved, and the hardship the permission to share
the dangers of a leader whom he emulated. The seven arts of monkish
and scholastic training were grammar, dialectic, rhetoric, music, arith
metic, geometry, astronomy, which together formed the Trivium and
Quadrivium, the seven years' course which so profoundly affected our
modern education. The seven knightly accomplishments were to
ride, to swim, to shoot with the bow, to box, to hawk, to play chess,
and to make verses. The verses thus made were not in Latin—
bald imitations of Ovid or Horace, whoso pagan beauties were
wrested into the service of religion —but sonnets, ballads, and can-
zonots in soft Provencal or melodious Italian. In nothing, perhaps,
is the difference between these two forms of education more clearly
shown than in their relations to the sex who must always be the
instructors of our childhood, and who seem likely to have an in
creasingly greater influence in raising the standard of education in
future ages. A young monk was brought up to regard a woman as
the worst among the many temptations of St. Antony. The page was
trained to receive his best reward and worst punishment from the
smile or frown of the lady of the castle, and as he grew to manhood
to regard an absorbing passion as the strongest stimulus to a noble
life, and the contemplation of female virtue as embodied in an Isolde
or a Beatrice as the truest earnest of future immortality.
     Both these forms of education disappeared before the Benaissance
and the Reformation. But we must not suppose that no efforts were
made to improve upon the narrowness of the schoolmen or the idleness
of chivalry. Perhaps the most distinguished place among these pre
cursors of a higher culture belongs to the Brethren of the Common
Life, who were domiciled in the rich meadows of the Yssel, in the
Northern Netherlands. The metropolis of their organization was
Deventer, the best-known name among them that of Gerhard Groote.
They devoted themselves with all humility and self-sacrifice to the
education of children. Their schools were crowded. Bois-le-duc
numbered 120 pupils, Zwolle 1500. For a hundred years no part of
Europe shone with a brighter lustre. As the Divine Comedy repre
sents for us the learning and piety of the middle ages in Italy, so the
Imitation of Thomas-a-Kempis keeps alive for us the memory of the
purity and sweetness of the Dutch community. They could not
support the glare of the new Italian learning; they obtained, and
I am afraid deserved, the title of obscurantists ; and the wittiest
squib of the middlo ages, which was so true and subtle in its satire
that it was hailed as a blow struck in defence of the ancient learn

454                        Mr. Oscar Brouming                  [June 1,
ing, consists of the lamentations of the brothers of Deventer over
tho new age which they could not either comprehend or withstand.
     The education of the Renaissance is best represented by the
 name of Erasmus, that of the Reformation by tho names of Luther
 aud Melanchthon. Erasmus has left us the most minute account
 of his method of teaching. The child is to be formed into a good
 Greek and Latin scholar, and a pious man. But he fully grasps
 the truth that improvement must be natural and gradual. Letters
are to be taught playing. The rules of grammar are to be few
and short. Every means of arousing interest in the matter of tho
books is to be fully employed. Erasmus is no Ciceronian. Latin
is to be taught so as to be of use, a living language adapted to
modern wants. Childron should learn an art— painting, sculpture, or
architecture. Idleness is, above all things, to be avoided. The educa
tion of girls is as necessary and important as that of boys. Mnch
depends upon home influence. Obedience must be strict, but not too
sovere. We must take account of individual peculiarities, and not
force children into cloisters against their will ; we shall obtain the
best result by following nature. It is easy to see what a contrast
this scheme presented to tho monkish training, to the routine of
useless technicalities enforced amidst the shouts of teachers and the
lamentations of the taught.
     Still this culture was but for the few. Luther brought the school
master into tbe cottage, and laid the foundations of the system which
is tho chief honour and strength of modern Germany— a system by
which the child of the humblest peasant may obtain by slow but
certain gradations the best education which the country can afford.
The precepts of Luther found a way to the hearts of his country
men in short pithy sentences, like the sayings of poor Richard.
Melanchthon, from his editions of school-books and his practical
labours in education, earned the title of Prax:eptor Germanias. Aris
totle had been dethroned from his pre-eminence in the schools, and
Melanchthon attempted to supply his place. He appreciated the im
portance of Greek, tho terror of the obscurantists ; he wrote books on
each department of the Trivium, grammar, dialectic, and rhetoric ; he
even attempted to deal with tho Quadrivium, and wrote a primer of
physical science. Tho schools of the Reformation seldom included
in their curricula more than the studies of the three years' course.
In nothing is the historical method of inquiry more fruitful than in
education, if we wish to ascertain the real reasons for our existing
arrangements. We often attempt to defend our existing institutions
by philosophical arguments as the results of conscious wisdom. Wo
do not care to ascertain that mathematics hold a subordinate placo in
our great schools because they were not studied in the dark ages, and
because Aristotlo did not write a treatise upon them.
     Wo now come to the names of two theoretical and practical
teachers who have exercised, and aro still exercising, a profound
effect over education. John Sturm, of Strassburg, was the friend of

   1877.]                 on the History of Education.                   455
  Ascham, the author of the ' Scholemaster,' and the tutor of Queen
  Elizabeth. It was Ascham who found Lady Jane Grey alone in the
   library at Bradgate bending her neck over the page of Plato when all
  the rest of the company were following the chase. Sturm was the
   first great head-master, the progenitor of Busbys, if not of Arnolds.
  He lived and worked till the age of eighty-two. He was a friend of
  all the most distinguished men of the age, the chosen representative
  of the Protestant cause in Europe, the ambassador to foreign powers.
  He was believed to be better informed than any man of his time of
  the complications of foreign politics. Barely did an envoy pass from
  France to Germany without turning aside to profit by his experience.
. But the chief energies of his life were devoted to teaching. He drew
  his scholars from the whole of Europe. Portugal, Poland, England,
  sent their contingent to his halls. In 1578 his school numbered
  several thousand students; he supplied at once the place of the
  cloister and the castlo. What he most insisted upon was the teaching
  of Latin, not the conversational " lingua franca " of Erasmus, but pure,
  elegant Ciceronian Latinity. He may bo called the introducer of
  " scholarship " into tho schools, a scholarship which as yet took no
  account of Greek. His pupils would write elegant letters, deliver
  elegant Latin speeches, be familiar, if not with the thoughts, at least
  with the language of the ancients, would be scholars in order that
  they might be gentlemen. This is not the occasion to trace the
  courso of his influence, but he is as much answerablo as anyouo for
  the euphuistic refinements which overspread Europe in the sixteenth
  century, and which went far to ruin and corrupt its literatures.
  Nowhere, perhaps, had he more effect than in England ; our older
  public schools, on breaking with the ancient faith, looked to Sturm
  as their model of Protestant education ; and that which was most
  characteristic in his methods remained essentially unchanged in them
  till within the pemory of the present generation.
       John Amos Comenius was the antithesis to Sturm. Born a poor
  Moravian, he passed a wandering life in poverty and obscurity, but his
  ideas were accepted by the most advanced thinkers of his age, notably
  by our own Milton ; his school-books were spread throughout Europe ;
  his works are constantly reprinted at the present day, and the system
  which ho sketched will be found to foreshadow the education of the
  future. He was repelled and disgusted by the long delays and pedan
  tries of the schools. His ardent mind conceived that if teachers
  would but follow naturo, assist the mind in its natural development
  instead of forcing it against its bent, take full advantage of the innate
  desire for activity and growth, all men might be able to learn all things.
  Languages should be taught, as the mother tongue is taught, by con
  versations on ordinary topics ; pictures, object lessons, should bo freely
  used ; teaching should never be unpleasant to the pupil ; improve
  ment should go hand in hand with a cheerful, elegant, and happy life.
  Comenius included in his courso tho teaching of the mother tongue,
  singing, oconomy, and politics, tho history of the world, physical

456                         Mr. Oscar Brouming                  [June 1,
geography, aud a knowledge of arts and handicrafts. Thus he was
one of the first advocates of the teaching of science in schools. His
kindness, gentleness, and sympathy made him the forerunner of Pesta-
lozzi. His general principles of education would not sound strange
in the treatise of Herbert Spencer.
     The Protestant schools were now the best in Europe, and the
monkish institutions were left to the rats which tenanted them.
Catholics would have remained behind in the race if it had not been
for the Jesuits. Ignatius Loyola gave this direction to the order which
he founded, and his programme is in use, with certain modifications, in
English Jesuit schools at the present day. In 1550 the first Jesuit
school was opened in Germany ; in 1700 the order possessed 612 col
leges, 157 normal schools, 59 noviciates, 340 residences, 200 missions,
 29 professed houses, and 24 universities. The college of Clermont
had 3000 students in 1695. It would be unfair to deny the success
of the education of the Jesuits. They were probably the first to bring
the teacher into close connection with the taught. According to their
 ideal, the teacher was neither enclosed in a cloister secluded from his
 pupils, nor did he keep order by stamping, raving, and flogging. He
 was encouraged to apply his mind aud soul to the mind and soul of
his pupil, to study the nature, the disposition, and tho parents of his
scholars, to follow nature as far as possible, or rather to lie in wait
 for it, and discover its weak points, and where it could be most easily
 attacked. Doubtless the Jesuits have shown a love, devotion, and
self-sacrifice in education which is worthy of the highest praise ; no
 teacher who would compete with them can dare do less. On the other
 hand, they are open to grave accusation ; their watchful care dege
 nerated into surveillance, which lay schools have borrowed from
 them ; their study of nature has led them to confession and direction.
 They have tracked out the soul to its recesses that they might slay it
 thore and plant another in its place ; they educated each mind accord
 ing to its powers, that it might be a more subservient tool to their
 own purposes. They taught the accomplishments which the world
 loves, but their chief object was to amuse the mind and stifle inquiry ;
they encouraged Latin verses because they were a convenient play
thing, on which powers might be exercised which could better have
been employed in understanding and discussing higher subjects ; they
were tho patrons of school-plays, of public prizes, declamations, exami
nations, aud other exhibitions in which the parents were more consi
dered than the boys ; they regarded the claims of education not as a
desire to be encouraged, but as a demand to bo played with and
 propitiated ; they gave the best education of their time in order to
acquire confidence, but they became the chief obstacle to the improve
ment of education ; they did not care for enlightenment, but only for
the influence which they could derive from a supposed regard for en
lightenment. Governments have done well on the whole in chock
ing and suppressing the Colleges of Jesuits. They are not so much
to bo feared now-u-days ; thoir plan of education is antiquated aud
difficult to alter. Till 1820 they taught philosophy out of Aristotle

1877.J                 on Qic History of Education.                 457
and Thomas Aquinas; even now they discourage the use of the
vernacular.
    It may be imagined that by this organization both Catholic and
Protestant were apt to degenerate into pedantry both in name and
purpose. The schoolmaster had a great deal too much the best
of it. The Latin school was tabulated and organized until every half-
hour of a boy's time was occupied ; the Jesuit school took possession of
the pupil, body and soul. It was therefore to be expected that a stand
should be made for common sense in the direction of practice instead
of theory, of wisdom instead of learning. Montaigne has left us the
most delightful utterances about education. Ho says that the faults
of modern education lie in over-estimating the intellect and rejecting
morality, in exaggerating memory and depreciating useful knowledge.
He recommends a tutor who is to draw out the pupil's own power
and originality, to teach how to live well and to die well, to enforce
a lesson by practice, to put the mother tongue before foreign tongues,
to teach all manly exercises, to educate the perfect man. Away with
force and compulsion, with severity and the rod !
    John Locke, more than a hundred years afterwards, made a more
powerful and systematic attack upon useless knowledge. His theory
of tho origin of ideas led him to assign great importance to education,
while his knowledge of the operations of the mind lends a special
value to his advice. His treatise is so well known that I need say
little about it. Part of his advice is useless now, part it would bo
well to accept, especially his condemnation of repetition by heart and
Latin themes and verses. He also sets before himself tho production
of the man— a sound mind in a sound body. His knowledge of
medicine gives great value to his advice on the earliest education.
He recommends home education without harshness or severity.
Emulation is to be the chief spring of action. He considers know
ledge far less valuable than a well-trained mind. Ho prizes that
knowledge most which fits a man for the duties of the world—speaking
languages, accounts, history, law, logic, rhetoric, natural philosojshy.
He inculcates tho importance of drawing, music, dancing, riding,
fencing, and trades. He is a strong advocate for home education
under a private tutor, and his bitterness against public schools is as
violent as that of Cowper.
     Far more important in my opinion than the treatise of Locke is
tho ' Tractate of Education ' by Milton, " the few observations," as
he tells us, " which havo flowered off, and are as it were the burnish
ing of many studious and contemplative years spent in the search of
religious and civil knowledge." " I will point ye out," he says, " tho
right path of a virtuous and noble education, laborious indeed at first
ascent, but else so smooth and green and full of godly prospect and
melodious sounds on every side that the harp of Orpheus is not moro
 charming." This is to be done between twelve and one-and-twenty,
in an academy containing about a hundred and thirty scholars, which
 shall bo at once school and university, " not needing a remove to any
 other house of scholarship, except it be some peculiar college of law

 458                         Mr. Oscar Browning                    [Juno 1,
 and physics where they mean to be practitioners." The learning of
 things and words is to go hand in hand. The curriculum is very
 large. Latin, Greek, arithmetic, geometry, agriculture, geography,
 physiology, physics, trigonometry, fortification, architecture, engi
 neering, navigation, anatomy, medicine, poetry, ethics, Italian, law,
 both Roman and English, Hebrew with Chaldee and Syriac, history,
 oratory, poetics. But the scholars are not to be bookworms. They are
 to be trained for war both on foot and on horseback, to be " practised in
 all the locks and gripes of wrastling," they are to " recreate and com
 pare their travailed spirits with the divine harmonies of music heard or
 learnt." " In those vernal seasons of the year, when the air is calm and
 pleasant, it were an injury and a sullenness against nature not to go
 out and see her riches, and partake in her rejoicing with heaven and
 earth. I should not then be a persuader to them of studying much
 then after two or three years that they have well laid their grounds,
 but to ride out in companies with prudent and staid guides to all the
 quarters of the land." There is more wisdom in these few pages about
 education than in any other treatise of similar length upon the subject
 with which I am acquainted. Visionary as it appears at first sight, if
 translated into the language of our day, it will be found to bo full of
 sound, practical advice. "Only," as Milton says in conclusion, " I believe
 that this is not a bow for every man to shoot in who counts himself
 a teacher, but will require sinews almost equal to those which Homer
 gavo Ulysses ; yet I am persuaded that it may prove much more easy
 in the essay than it now seems at a distance, and much more illus
 trious if God have so decided, and this ago have spirit and capacity
 enough to apprehend."
     While Milton was writing he might have seen an attempt to
rcalizo his ideal in Port Royal. What a charm does this name
awaken ! Yet how few of us have mado a pilgrimage to that secluded
 valley. Here we find for the first time in the modern world the
highest gifts of tho greatest men of a country applied to the promotion
of education. Arnauld, Lancelot, Nicole, Hamon did not commence
by being educational philosophers ; they began with a small school,
and developed their method as they proceeded. Their success has
seldom been surpassed. But a more lasting memorial than their
pupils are tho books which they sent out, and which bear the name of
their cloister. The Port-Royal Logic, General Grammar, Greek,
Latin, Italian, and Spanish Grammars, the Garden of Greek Boots
put into French verso, which taught Greek to Gibbon, the Port-Boyal
Geometry, and tho translations of the classics, held the first place
among school-books for moro than a century. The success of the
Janseuists was too much for the jealousy, of the Jesuits. Neither
pioty, nor wit, nor virtue could save them. A light was quenched
which would have given an entirely different direction to the edu
cation of Franco and of Europe. No ono can visit without emotion
that retired nook which lies hidden among tho forests of Versailles,
where the old brick dove-cot, the pillars of tho church, tho trees of
tho desert alono remain to speak to us of Pascal, Bacine, and the

1877.]                  on the History of Education.                 459
Mere Angelique. The principles of Port Royal found worse sup
porters in a later time in the better days of French education beforo
monarchism and militarism had sucked the life out of tho nation.
Rollin is never mentioned without the epithet bon, a testimony
to his wisdom, virtuo, and simplicity. Fenelon may be reckened as
belonging to the same school, but he was more fitted to mix and
grapple with mankind. We must pass rapidly over succeeding years
until wo come to tho book which has had- more influence than any
other on the education of the last century.
     The ' Emile ' of Rousseau was published in 1762, just a hundred
years before the appointment of the first Public Schools Commission.
It produced an astounding effect throughout Europe. Those woro
days when the whole cultivated world vibrated to any touch of new
philosophy. French had superseded Latin as the general medium of
thought. French learning stood in the samo relation to the rest of
Europe as German learning does now, and any discovery of D'Alem-
bert, Rousseau, or Maupertuis travelled with inconceivable speed from
Versailles to Schonbrunn, from the Spree to the Neva. Kant, in his
distant home of Konigsbcrg, for one day broke through his habits,
more regular than the town clock, and stayed at home to study tho
new revelation. Those were happy days for philosophers and philan
thropists ; the enthusiasm of discovery and hope had not been checked
by the disappointments of experience. The light of reason had not been
 quenched in blood. The burthen of Rousseau's message was nature,
 such a nature as never did and never will exist, but still a namo for an
ideal worthy of our struggles. He revolted against the false civiliza
 tion which he saw around him ; he was penetrated with sorrow at tho
shams of government and society, at the misery of tho poor existing
 side by side with the heartlessness of the rich. The child should
be the pupil of nature: he lays the greatest stress on tho earliest
education ; the first year of life is in every respect the most im
portant. Nature must be closely followed. Tho child's tears aro
petitions which should be granted. The naughtiness of children
comes from weakness ; make the child strong and he will be good.
 Children's destructivoness is a form of activity. Do not be too
 anxious to make children talk ; be satisfied with a small vocabulary.
 Lay aside all padded caps and baby jumpers. Let children learn to
 walk, by learning that it hurts them to fall. Do not insist so much
 on the duty of obedience as on the necessity of submission to natural
 laws. Do not argue too much with children ; educate the heart to
 wish for right actions; beforo all things study nature. The chief
 moral principle is, do no one harm. Emile is to be taught by the real
 things of life, by observation and experience. At twelve years old
 he is scarcely to know what a book is ; to bo able to read and write
 at fifteen is quite enough. We must first make him a man, and that
 chiefly by athletic exercises. Educate his sight to measure, count,
 and weigh accurately ; teach him to draw ; tune his ear to time and
 harmony ; give him simple food, but let him eat as much as he likes.
 Thus at twelve years old Emilo is a real child of nature. His

4G0                        Mr. Oscar Browning                  [June 1,
carriage and bearing arc firm and confident, his nature open and
candid, his speech simple and to the point ; his ideas are few, but
clear ; he knows nothing by learning, much by experience. He has
read deeply in the book of nature. His mind is not on his tongue,
but in his head. He speaks only one language, but knows what he
is saying, and can do what he cannot describe. Routine and custom
are unknown to him ; authority and example affect him not ; he does
what he thinks right. He understands nothing of duty and obedience,
but he will do what you ask him, and will expect a similar service
from you. His strength and body are fully developed ; he is first-
rate at running, jumping, and judging distances. Should he die at
this age, he will so far have lived his life. From twelve to fifteen
Emile's practical education is to continue. He is still to avoid books,
which teach not learning itself but to appear learned. He is to be
taught and to practise some handicraft. Half the value of education
 is to waste time wisely, to tide over dangerous years with safety,
until the character is better able to stand temptation. At fifteen a
new epoch commences. The passions are awakened. The care of
the teacher should now redouble ; he should never leave the helm.
Emilc, having gradually acquired the love of himself and of those
immediately about him, will begin to love his kind. Now is the
time to teach him history and the machinery of society ; the world as
it is and as it might be. Still an encumbrance of useless and burden
some knowledge is to be avoided. Between this age and manhood
 Emile learns all that it is necessary for him to know.
    It is perhaps strange that a book in many respects so wild and
fantastic should have produced so great a practical effect. In pur
suance of its precepts children went about naked, were not suffered to
read, and when they grew up wore the simplest clothes, and cared
for little learning except the study of nature and Plutarch. The
catastrophe of the French Revolution has made the effect of ' Emile '
less apparent to us. Much of the heroism of that time is doubtless
due to the exaltation produced by a sweeping away of abuses and tho
approach of a brighter age. But we must not forget that the first
generation of Emiles was just thirty years old in 1792, that many of
tho Girondists, the Marseillais, tho soldiers and generals of Carnot
and Napoleon had been bred in that hardy school. There is no more
interesting chapter in the history of education than to trace back
epochs of special activity to the obscure source from which they arose.
Thus the Whigs of tho Reform Bill sprang from tho wits of Edin
burgh, tho heroes of the Rebellion from the divines who translated tho
Bible, tho martyrs of the Revolution from the philosophers of tho
Encyclopasdia.
     The teaching of Rousseau found its practical expression in tho
philanthropin of Dessau, a school foundod by Basedow, the friend of
Goethe and Lavater, one of the prophets between whom the world-child
sat bodkin. Tho principles of the teaching were very much those of
Comenius, the combination of words and things. An amusing account
of the instruction given in this school, which at tho time consisted of

 1877.]                on the History of Education.                   461
 only thirteen pupils, has come down to us. I am indebted for the
 translation to the excellent work of Mr. Quick on Educational Re
formers. The little ones have gone through the oddest performances.
 They play at " word of command."             Eight or ten stand in a
 line like soldiers, and Herr Wolke is officer. He gives the word
 in Latin, and they must do whatever he says. For instance, when
 ho says Claudite oculos, they all shut their eyes ; when he says
 Circumspicitc, they look about them ; Imitamini sartorem, they
 all sew like tailors ; Imitamini sutorem, they draw the waxed
 thread like cobblers. Herr Wolke gives a thousand different
 commands in the drollest fashion.          Another game, " the hiding
 game," I will also teach you. Some one writes a name, and hides
 it from the children ; the name of some part of the body, or of a
 plant, or animal, or metal, and the children guess what it is. Who
 ever guesses right, gets an apple or a piece of cake. One of the
 visitors wrote Intcstina, and told tho children it was a part of the
 body. Then the guessing began : one guessed caput, another nasus,
 another os, another manus, pes, digiti, pectus, and so forth, for a long
 time ; but one of them hits it at last. Next Herr Wolke wrote the name
 of a beast, a quadruped. Then came the guesses : leo, ursus, camelus,
 elophas, and so on, till one guessed right—it was mus. Then a town
 was written, and they guessed Lisbon, Madrid, Paris, London, till a
 child was with St. Petersburg. They had another game, which was
 this. Herr Wolke gave the command in Latin, and they imitated tho
 noises of different animals, and made us laugh till we were tired.
 They roared like lions, crowed like cocks, mewed like cats, just as
 they were bid. Yet Kant found a great deal to praise in this school,
 and spoke of its influence as one of the best hopes of the future, and
 as " the only school where the teachers had liberty to work according
 to their own methods and schemes, and where they were in free com
 munication both among themselves and with all learned men throughout
 Germany."
     The work of Rousseau is tho point of departure for an awakened
interest in educational theories which has continued unto the present
day. Few thinkers of eminence during the latter part of the last and
the beginning of the present century have not written more or less
directly on this subject. Poets, like Richtor, Herder, and Goethe ;
philosophers, such as Kant, Fichte, Hegel, Schleiermacher, and even
8chopenhauer ; psychologists, such as Herbart and Beneke, have left
directions for our guidance. Jean Paul called his book Levana, after
tho Roman goddess to whom the father dedicated his new-born child,
in token that he intended to rear it to manhood. The second part of
Wilhelm Meister is in the main a treatise upon education. Many of
those whom I address must remember the mysteries of the pasdagogic
province, the solemn gestures of the three reverences, tho long
cloisters which contain the history of God's dealings with the human
race, a mine of wisdom for schoolmasters, unexhausted, and I fear,
alas ! unworked. Perhaps tho more characteristic passage is that
which describes tho father's return to tho country of education after

4G2                       Mr. Oscar Browning                  [June 1,
a year's absence. As he is riding alone, wondering in what gnise
he will meet his son, a multitude of horses rush by at full gallop.
The monstrous hurly-burly whirls past the wanderer, a fair boy
among the keepers looks at him with surprise, pulls in, leaps down,
and embraces his father. He then learns that an agricultural life
had not suited his son, that the superiors had found that he was fond
of animals, and had set him to that occupation for which nature had
dostined him.
    I must pass over the names of Pestalozzi and Jacotot, of whom
you will find a good account in Mr. Quick's book, and I must confine
myself to mentioning the name of James Mill, whose treatise on
education deserves to be reprinted. The last English writers on the
subject are Mr. Herbert Spencer and Mr. Alexander Bain, the study
of whose works will land us in those regions of pasdagogics which
have been most recently explored. The point most insisted upon by
Mr. Spencer is that we shall obtain the best results in education
by closely studying the development of the mind, and availing our
selves of the whole amount of force which nature puts at our disposal.
The mind of every being is naturally active and desirous of exercise ;
indeed it is never at rest. But for its healthy exercise and growth it
must have something to work upon, and therefore the teacher must
watch its workings with the most sympathetic caro in order to supply
exactly that food which it requires at that particular time. In this
way a much larger cycle of attainments can be compassed than by
the adoption of any programme or curriculum, however carefully
drawn up. It is no good teaching what is not remembered; the
strength of memory depends upon attention, and attention depends
upon interest. To teach without interest is to work like Sisyphus
and the Danaides. Arouse interest, if you can, rather by high means
than by low means. But it is a saving of power to make use of the
interest which you have already existing, and which, unless dried up
or distorted by injudicious violence, would naturally lead the mind
into all the knowledge which it is capable of receiving. Therefore
never from the first force a child's attention ; leave off a study the
moment it becomes wearisome ; never let the child do what it does not
like ; only take care that when its liking is in activity, a choice of
good as well as evil should bo given to it.
    Mr. Bain's writings on education, which are extremely valuable,
aro chiefly concerned with what may be called the " correlation of
forces in man." He shows how emotion may be transformed into
intellect, and how sensation may exhaust the brain as much as
thought, and he lays down as the whole duty of a schoolmaster to
stimulate the powers of each brain under his charge to the fullest
activity, and to apportion them in that ratio which will best conduce
to the most complete and harmonious development of the individual.
    I havo now come to the end of what has been of necessity a very
imperfect sketch of the subject on which I proposed to discourse to
you. I havo bean obliged to leave many important matters entirely
out. I havo said nothing about that magnificent system of public

1877.]                 on the History of Education.                  463
education in modern Germany, which must be closely studied by any
nation that wishes to solve the same problem for itself. But I have
said enough to make it obvious to all who hear me, that in spite of
the great advances which have been mado of late years, the science
of education is now far in advance of the art. Our schoolmasters are
still spending their best energies in teaching subjects which have
been universally condemned by educational reformers for tho last two
hundred years. The education of every public school is a farrago of
rules, principles, and customs derived from every age of teaching,
from the most modern to the most remote. The philosophy of educa
tion in England may be compared to the terminal moraine of a glacier
which receives upon its unsightly heaps every useless burden or defile
ment which has been rejected by the great central stream in its
 onward movement, or to the currency of those unfortunate countries
 who have no coinage of their own, and who pass from hand to hand
 the disused and depreciated tokens of the more progressive nations
 of the world. Legislation only too often serves to make the
 matter worse. It orders new subjects to be taught, but does not
 forbid the teaching of old subjects which have been proved to be
 mischievous ; it loads the teacher with new duties, but does nothing
 to train or invigorate him for the task which it imposes. Much
 may be done by adopting this or that expedient, by holding confer
 ences of teachers, by the inspection of schools, by universities or by
 government, by following the example of other countries who have
 been stimulated to improve their system of culture by their conscious
 ness of the inferiority of their material. Still it is plain to me that
 the science and art of education can never truly be said to exist until
 it is organized on the model of the sister art of medicine. We must
 pursue the patient methods of induction by which other sciences have
 reached the stature of maturity. We must invent some means of
 registering and tabulating results ; we must invent a phraseology and
 nomenclature which will enable results to be accurately recorded ; we
 must place education in its proper position among the sciences of
 observation. A philosophor who should succeed in doing this, would
 bo venerated by future ages as the creator of the art of teaching. For
 the avatar of such a reformer we must look to the present generation
 of schoolmasters. We must exhort them to keep their minds free
 from prejudice, and accessible to new ideas ; to make themselves well
 acquainted with the practice of contemporary education at home and
 abroad ; to interchange as fully as possible information about methods
 and results ; to put every new principle to the test of careful exami
 nation ; and, as part of the necessary training for their profession, in
 order to correct and enlarge their experience, and to keep before them
 a high standard of what their labours may effect, we must urge them
 to study with zeal and enthusiasm the lessons which are recorded in
 the history of education.
                                                               [O.B.]
      Vol. VIII.   (No. 67.)                                  2 k

                                    (     464     )                   [June 1,
                       CHKONOLOGICAL LIST
       THEOEETICAL AND PEACTICAL TEACHEES.
        Socrates                                  b.c. 468   B.c. 399
        Plato                                          428        327
        Aristotle                                      384        322
        Quintilian                               a.d. 42     AD. 118
        Alcuin                                         725        804
        Gerhard Groote                                1340       1384
        Erasmus                                       1467       1536
        Luther                                        1483       1546
        Ignatius Loyola                               1491       1556
        Melanchthon        .. ..       ..    ..       1497       1560
        John Sturm                                    1507       1589
        Montaigne                                     1533       1592
        John Amos Comenius                            1592       1671
        Dr. Busby                                     1606       1695
        Milton                                        1608       1674
        Lancelot                                      1615       1695
        Loeke
        Fe¦nelon                                      1632
                                                      1651       1704
                                                                 1715
        Rollin                                        KJ61       1741
        Rousseau                                      1712       1778
        Basedow                                       1723       1790
        Pestalozzi                                    1746       1827
        Goethe                                        1749       1832
        Jean Paul.. Richter
       Jacotot        ..¦                             1763
                                                      ]770       1825
                                                                 1840
       James Mill ..                                  1773       1836
        Dr. Arnold                                    1795       1842
                    TEIVIUM AND QUADEIVIUM.
 GRAMM(atica) loquitur, DIA(lectica) verba docet, RHE(torica) verba colorat ;
MUS(icn) eanit, AR(ithmetica) numerat, GEO(metria) ponderat ; AS(tronomia)
                                      colit astra.
   THE SEVEN STUDIES OF KNIGHTLY EDUCATION.
PROBITATES hae sunt : equitare, natare, sagittare, cestibus certare, aucupare,
                             scacis ludere, versificare.
                                                                    ^

1877.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                          465
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, June 4, 1877.
George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                Mrs. Warren De la Rue,
                Lord Gordon of Drumcarn, Lord of Appeal,
                William Alexander Tooke Hallowes, Esq. M.A.
                Charles Rogers Heap, Esq.
                Loftus Sidney Long, Esq.
                Mrs. John Fletcher Moulton,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Mombers returned for the same, viz. :—
Academia dei Lineei, Borne—Atti, Serie III. Transunti, Vol. I. Fuse. 5. 4to.
     1877.
Actuiiriet, Institute of—Journal, No. 106. 8vo. 1877.
Agricultural Society, Royal—Journal ; Second Series, Vol. XIII. Part 1. 8vo.
      1877.
American rhilotophical Society, Philadelphia -Vol. XV. Vol. XVI. No. 98. 8vo.
     1876.
Agronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVII. No. 6. 8vo. 1877.
Bavarian Academy of Science*, Rnyal—Abliandlungen, Band XII. 3te Abtli.
     4to. 1876.
   Sitzungsberichte, 1876: Heft 3. 8vo. 1876.
Board of Trade—Report ou Weights and Minsurcs : Canada. 8vo. 1877.
llritith Architect!, Royal Inntitute of—Sessional Papers, 1870-7. Nog. 10, 11. 4to.
Carpenter, Dr. IP. B. C.B. F.R.S. (the A uthor)—Mesmerism, Spiritualism, &o.
     Historically and Scientifically considered. 16to. 1877.
Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1877. 8vo.
Ihmvall Polytechnic Society—Forty-fourth Annual Report. 1876. 8vo.
Cvrnu, M. A. (the Author)— Determination de la Vitesse de la Lumiere d'upres
     <lrs Experiences executees en 1874 entre l'Observatoire et Montlhery. 4to.
      1876.
Cvutt: John, Etq. (the Author)—Brain ami Intellect. 16to. 1877.
liditort— American Journal of Science for May, 1877. 8to.
   Athenreum for May, 1877. 4to.
   Chemical News for May, 1877. 4to.
   Engineer for May, 1877. fol.
   Journal for Applied Science for May, 1877. fol.
   Nature for May, 1877. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for May, 1877. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for May, 1877. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for May, 1877. 8vo.
Franklin Inttitute—Journal, No. 617. 8to. 1877.
                                                                   2 i 2

466                          General Monthly Meeting.                  [June 4,
Geological Survey of India—Palseontologia Indica : Ser. X. 2, Ser. XI. 1. fol.
     1876.
   Memoirs, Vol. XII. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1876.
InttitiUion of Civil Engineers—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. XLVIII. 8vo.
     1877.
Kerslake, Thomas, Esq. (the Author)—A Primaeval British Metropolis (K 101).
     8vo. 1877.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, No. 68. 8vo. 1877.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Parts 9, 10.          8vo.
     1876-7.
Mann, R. J. M.D. M.R.I, (the Editor)—Natal : a History and Description of the
     Colony. By Henry BrookB. 8vo. 1876.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. VHI. No. 3. 8vo.
     1877.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 22. 8vo. 1877.
Mieheli, M. Marc (the Author)—Note sut lea Onagrariees du Bresil (from Archives
     des Sciences, 1874).
   Progres de la Physiologic Vegetele, 1874-6. 8vo. 1874-7.
Munich Royal Observatory—Annalen, Band XXI. 8vo. 1876.
   Meteorologische und Magnetische. Bebachtungen : 1876. 8vo. 1 877.
Norfolk and Norwich Naturalists' Society—Transactions, Vol. n. Part 3. 8vo.
     1877.
Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences—Proceedings. 1876. 8vo.
Photographic Society--Journal, New Series, Vol. I. No. 8. 8vo. 1877.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberiehte : Dec. 1876 ; Jan.
     Feb. 1877. 8vo.
Royal Irish Academy—Transactions, Vol. XXVI. Science: Parts 1-5. 4to.
   1876. Proceedings: Series H. Vol. H. Nos. 4, 5, 6. 8vo. 1875.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 179. 8vo. 1877.
Royal Society of Tasmania—Papers and Proceedings for 1875. 8vo. 1876.
St. Petersburg, Academic des Sciences—Bulletins, Tome XXIII. No. 3. 4to. 1877.
Sandys, R. H. (the Author)—"In the Beginning." Part 3. 8vo. 1877.
United States Naval Observatory—Observations in 1874. 4to. 1877.
 United Service Institution, Rayal—Journal, No. 90. 8vo. 1877.
Van Voorst, M. /.—Laboratory Guide for Agricultural Students: bv A. H.
     Church. 4th ed. 16to. 1877.
Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandelungen, Nov.
     Dec. 1876; April, 1877.
Yorkshire Archaeological Association—Journal, Part 16. 8vo. 1877.

1877.]    Prof. Tyndall on Putrefactive and Infective Organisms.               467
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, June 8, 1877.
       Gkoegr Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                     in the Chair.
                    John Tyndall, LL.D. D.C.L. F.R.S.
                 Professor of Natural Philosophy In the Royal Institution.
Researches on the P/eportment and Vital Resistance of Putrefactive and
          Infective Organisms, from a Physical Point of View.
    (This Abstract includes a notice of the discourse given on Jan. 19, 1877.)
Portions of the autumn of 1875, and of the winter and spring of
1875-76, were devoted to the first section of these researches, and on
the 21st of January, 1876, its main results were communicated orally
to the Royal Institution.* The completed memoir was handed in to
the Royal Society on the 6th of April: it is published in vol. 166 of
the ' Philosophical Transactions.'
    Many of the "closed chambers" employed in the inquiry were
submitted on the 21st of January to the inspection of the Members.
There had been over fifty of them in all, and several of them had been
used more than once. The air in these chambers had been permitted
to free itself from floating matter by self-subsidence, no artificial
means of cleansing it being employed. Sterilized organic liquids
and infusions of the most varied kinds freely exposed to air thus
spontaneously purified were found, when tested by the microscope,
to remain absolutely free from organisms of all kinds, and equally
free from the turbidity, scum, and mould which to the naked eye
are the infallible signs of the generation and multiplication of such
organisms.
    These experiments embraced, among others, the following organic
liquids :—urine in its natural condition ;- infusions of mutton, beef,
pork, hay, turnip, sole, haddock, codfish, salmon, turbot, mullet,
herring, eel, oyster, whiting, liver, kidney, hare, rabbit, barndoor fowl,
pheasant, and grouse.
    The number of separate vessels containing these liquids which
were exposed to spontaneously purified air amounted to several
     * See p. 6 of this volume of the ' Proceedings of the Royal Institution.'

468          Professor Tyndall on the Physical Deportment of    [June 8,
hundreds, and the consensus of their testimony, in the sense just
indicated, was complete.
    Five minutes' Soiling was found in all cases sufficient to sterilize
the infusions.
    When, after remaining sterile for months, the doors of the chambers
were opened so as to admit the uncleansed air of the laboratory, the
contact of such air, or, more correctly, of the matter mechanically
floating in it, infallibly produced organisms in abundance—sometimes
exclusively Bacterial, sometimes exclusively fungoid, and sometimes
a combination of both.
    Infusions of the substances above referred to were afterwards ex
posed in succession to air which had been freed of its floating matter
by filtration through cotton wool, also to air from which the floating
matter had been removed by calcination, and finally to vacua obtained
by exhausting as far as possible with an air-pump large receivers
which had been previously filled with filtered air.
     Boiled for five minutes and exposed to air thus treated, or to vacua
thus produced, none of the infusions showed subsequently any altera
tion of colour or transparency to the naked eye, or to the microscope
any manifestation of life.
     Thus far I have summed up the results obtained with self-purified
air, filtered air, calcined air, and air-pump vacua, the liquids in all
cases being exposed in open test-tubes. Small retort-flasks were
afterwards resorted to. Charged with the infusions, they were boiled
in heated oil or brine, and sealed with exceeding care during ebulli
tion. At the Royal Institution on January 21st, 1876, one hundred
and thirty such flasks were submitted to the Members, free alike from
putrefaction and from life. They embraced specimens of all the
substances above mentioned and some others.
     Briefly expressed, then, the evidence furnished by six months
assiduous work during the autumn, winter, and spring of 1875-76,
proved conclusively that in the atmospheric conditions then existing in
the laboratory of the Royal Institution, not one of the many hundred
flasks and tubes experimented on failed to be sterilized by five
minutes' boiling, and no countenance was given to the notion that any
of these once sterilized infusions possessed the power of spontaneously
generating life.
    The investigation now submitted to the Members was opened in the
summer of 1876 by a series of tentative experiments on turnip in"
fusions, to which were added varying quantities of bruised or pounded
cheese. Seven different kinds of cheese were employed, fifty-seven test-
tubes being charged with the mixture and exposed to the self-purified
air of closed chambers.
    The majority of these mixtures remained unchanged ; a minority
became charged with organisms, which are, in my opinion, completely
accounted for by reference to the protective action of the cheese.
In the memoir of which this is an abstract such protective action is
illustrated by the fact that when ordinary mustard seeds were tied

1877.]            Putrefactive and Infective Organisms.                469
together in a calico bag, they resisted the boiling temperature for a
considerable multiple of the time which sufficed to kill them when
no bag enveloped them. The bag and outside seeds protected the
interior ones.
     Not temperature alone, but the ability to diffuse its juices or salts,
appears to be a condition of importance in the destruction of the
integrity and life of a germ by boiling water. Without diffusion a
germ may withstand temperatures competent to destroy it where
diffusion is free. I need not remark on the imperviousncss of cheese
to water, and its consequent power to prevent diffusion.
     These summer experiments on turnip-cheese infusions were, how
ever, merely tentative, and I purpose completing them hereafter.
     In the autumn I resumed experiments on infusions of hay, which
had been purposely postponed. With this substance no difficulty
was encountered in my first inquiry. Boiled for five minutes, and
exposed to air purified spontaneously, or freed from its floating
matter by calcination or filtration, hay infusion, though employed
in multiplied experiments at various times, never showed the least
competence to kindle into life. After months of transparency, I
have, in a great number of cases, inoculated this infusion with
minute specks of animal and vegetable liquids containing Bacteria,
and observed twenty-four hours afterwards its colour lightened
and its mass rendered opaque by the multiplication of these or
ganisms.
     But in the autumn of 1876, the substance with which I had ex
perimented so easily and successfully a year previously appeared to
have changed its nature. The infusions extracted from it bore, in
some cases, not only five minutes' but fifteen minutes' boiling with
impunity. On changing the hay a different result was often ob
tained. Many of the infusions extracted from samples of hay
purchased in the autumn of 1876 behaved exactly like those extracted
from the hay of 1875, being completely sterilized by five minutes'
boiling.
     The possible influence of age and dryness soon suggested itself, and
 I tested the surmise to the uttermost. Numerous and laborious ex
periments were executed with hay derived from different localities ;
and by this means, in the earlier days of the inquiry, it was revealed
 that the infusions which manifested this previously unobserved resist
 ance to sterilization were, one and all, extracted from old hay, while
 the readily sterilized infusions were extracted from new hay, the
 germs adhering to which had not been subjected to long-continued
 desiccation.
     As the inquiry proceeded the distinction between old and new hay
 became mere and more blurred, while prolonged experiment with hay
 of various kinds failed to rescue the question from uncertainty. I
 therefore turned to substances of a succulent nature —to fungi,
 cucumber, melon, beetroot, and artichoke, for example, whose para
 sitic or epiphytic germs were unlikely to have suffered desiccation.

 470          Professor Tyndall on the Physical Deportment of     [June 8,
      Boiled for periods varying from five to fifteen minntes and ex
 posed afterwards to moteless air, in numberless experiments these
 infusions broke down, charging themselves throughout with organ
 isms, and loading themselves, almost in all cases, with a soapy cor
 rugated scum.
     I then fell back upon infusions whose deportment had been pre
 viously familiar to me, and in the sterilization of which I had never
 experienced any difficulty. Fish, flesh, and vegetables were resub-
 jeeted to trial. Though the precautions taken to avoid contamination
 were far more stringent than those observed in my first inquiry, and
 though the period of boiling was sometimes tripled in duration,
 these infusions, in almost every instance, broke down. Spontaneously
 purified air, filtered air, and calcined air (calcined, I may add, with
 far greater severity than was found necessary a year previously) failed,
 in almost all cases, to protect the infusions from putrefaction.
     I was sometimes cheered by a success which, at the time of its
 occurrence, would seem to be the result of increased severity in the
 methods of experiment. But the success was subsequently so opposed
 by failure that it finally stood out rather as an accident than as the
 normal result of the inquiry.
     I had the most implicit confidence in the correctness of my earlier
 experiments ; indeed incorrectness would have led to consequences
 exactly opposite to those arrived at. Errors of manipulation would
 have filled my tubes and flasks with organisms, instead of leaving
 them transparent and void of life. By the unsuccessful experiments
 above referred to a clear issue was therefore raised :— Either infusions
 of fish, flesh, and vegetables had become endowed in 1876 with an
 inherent generative energy which they did not possess in 1875, or
 some new contagion external to the infusions, and of a far more
 obstinate character than that of 1875, had been brought to bear upon
 them at the later date. The scientific mind will not halt in its
 decision between these two alternatives.
     For my own part the gradual but irresistible interaction of thought
 and experiment made it in the first instance probable, and at last
 certain, that the atmosphere in which I worked had become so viru
 lently infective as to render utterly impotent precautions against con
 tamination and modes of sterilization which had been found uniformly
 successful in a less contaminated air. I therefore removed from the
 laboratory, first to the top, and afterwards to the basement of the
 Royal Institution, but found that even here, in a multitude of cases,
 failure was predominant, if not uniform. This hard discipline of
 defeat was needed to render me acquainted with all the possibilities
 of infection involved in the construction of my chambers and the
 treatment of my infusions.
     I finally resolved to break away from the Royal Institution, and
to seek at a distance from it a less infective atmosphere. In Kew
Gardens, thanks to Sir Joseph Hooker, the requisite conditions were
found. I chose for exposure in the Jodrell laboratory the special

 1877.J            Putrefactive and Infective Organisms.             471
 infusions which had proved most intractable in the laboratory of the
 Royal Institution. The result was that liquids which in Albemarle
 Street resisted two hundred minutes' boiling, becoming afterwards
 crowded with organisms, were utterly sterilized by five minutes' boil
 ing at Eew.
     A second clear issue is thus placed before us: —Either the in
 fusions had lost in Kew Gardens an inherent generative energy
 which they possessed in our laboratory, or the remarkable instances
 of life development, after long - continued boiling, nbserved in the
 laboratory are to be referred to the contagium of its vessels or of
 its air.
     With a view to making nearer home experiments similar to thoso
 executed at Kew, I had a shed erected on the roof of the Royal Insti
 tution. In this shed infusions were prepared and introduced into
 new chambers of burnished tin, which had never been permitted to
 enter our laboratory. After their introduction the liquids were boiled
 for five minutes in an oil-bath.
     The first experiment in this shed resulted in complete failure.
 Not one of the infusions exposed to the moteless air of tho shed
 escaped putrefaction.
     Either of two causes, or both of them combined, might, from my
point of view, have produced this result. First, a flue from the
laboratory was in free communication with the atmosphere not far
from the shed ; secondly, and this was the real cause of the infection,
my assistants in preparing the infusions had freely passed between
the laboratory to the shed. They had thus incautiously carried tho
contagium by a mode of transfer known to every physician.
     The infected shed was disinfected ; the infusions were again pre
pared, and care was taken by the use of proper clothes, to avoid tho
former causes of contamination. The result was similar to that
obtained at Kew, viz. organic liquids which in the laboratory withstood
two hundred minutes' boiling, were rendered permanently barren by
five minutes' boiling in the shed.
     A third clear issue is thus placed before us, which I should hardly
think of formulating, were it not for the incredible confusion which
apparently besets this subject in the public mind. A rod thirty feet
in length would stretch from the infusions in the shed to the same
infusions in the laboratory. At one end of this rod the infusions
were sterilized by five minutes' boiling, at the other end they with
stood two hundred minutes' boiling. As before, the choice rests
between two inferences:—Either we infer that at one end of tho
rod animal and vegetable infusions possess a generative power which
at the other end they do not possess, or we are driven to the conclu
sion that at the one end of the rod we have infected and at the other
end disinfected air.
     The second inference is that which will be accepted by the scien
tific mind. To what, then, is the inferred difference at tho two ends
of tho rod to be ascribed ? In one obvious particular the laboratory

472         Professor Tyndall on the Physical Deportment of   [June 8,
this year differed from that in which my first experiments were made.
On its floor were various bundles of old and desiccated hay, from
which, when stirred, clouds of fine dust ascended into the atmosphere.
This dust proved to be both fruitful and, in the highest degree, resis
tant. Prior to the introduction of the hay which produced the
dust, no difficulty as regards sterilization had ever been experi
enced ; subsequent to its introduction my difficulties and defeats
began.
     I have twice glanced at periods of boiling amounting to two
hundred minutes ; for,- after long and laborious trials of shorter
periods I advanced to longer ones, subjecting turnip and cucumber
infusions to the boiling temperature for intervals varying from five
minutes to three hundred and sixty minutes. Up to a certain point
these liquids maintained their power of developing life, but beyond
this point complete sterility was the result. In the preliminary
experiments bearing upon this question the point of sterilization lay
between 180 and 240 minutes. Boiled for the former period the
infusions continued fruitful; boiled for the latter period they re
mained permanently barren.
     In these and numerous other experiments a method was followed
which had been substantially employed by Spallanzani and Needham,
and more recently by Wyman and Roberts, the method having been
greatly refined by the philosopher last named. The flasks were
partially filled with the infusions, the portions unoccupied by the
liquids being taken up with ordinary unfiltered air. Now, as regards
the death-point of contagia we know that in air it may be much
higher than in water, the self-same temperature being fatal in the
latter and sensibly harmless in the former ; hence my doubt whether,
in my recent experiments, the resistance of the contagium did not
arise from the fact of its being surrounded, not by water but by
air.
     I changed the method, and made a long series of experiments
with filtered air. They were almost as unsuccessful as those made
with ordinary air. From time to time I succeeded in producing
complete sterility by five minutes' boiling ; but these successes were
so checked by failures that, similar to other cases referred to, they
 appeared in the light of accidents. They were, however, by no means
 uninstructive, for they revealed the existence of breaks in the preva
 lence of the contagium, which, under the circumstances, might have
 been foreseen.
     A rapid glance at the means employed to improve the method of
experiment, and at the results of their employment, may be permitted
 here. Bulbs, exhausted by an air-pump and afterwards heated almost
 to redness, were filled when cool with filtered air. While being
 charged with the infusions the bulbs were warmed, so as to produce a
 gentle outflow of air, and their necks were sealed while the outflow
 continued. It was thus sought to avoid the contamination consequent
 on an indraught.

1877.]             Putrefactive and Infective Organisms.             473
     The failures resulting from this mode of experiment greatly pre
dominated over the successes.
     Employing similar bulbs, their necks in the first instance were
drawn out at the ends to tubes of capillary fineness. The bulbs were
 then filled with one-third of an atmosphere of filtered air, and, while
 connected with the air-pump, were heated almost to redness. The
 capillary tubes were then sealed with the lamp ; tho sealed ends were
 afterwards broken off in the body of the liquid, two-thirds of each
 bulb being thus filled with the infusion. By great care it was found
 possible to reseal the capillary tubes without removing them from
 the liquid. The infusions were afterwards boiled from five to fifteen
 minutes.
     Here also the fruitfulness of the boiled infusion was the rule, and
 its barrenness the exception.
      One source of discomfort clung persistently to my mind through
 out these experiments. I was by no means certain that the observed
 development of life was not due to germs entangled in the film of
 liquid adherent to the necks and higher interior surfaces of the bulbs.
 This film might have evaporated, and its germs, surrounded by air
 and vapour, instead of by water, might, on this account, have been
 able to withstand an ordeal to which they would have succumbed if
 submerged.
      A plan was therefore resorted to by which the infusions were
 driven by atmospheric pressure through lateral channels issuing from
 the centres of the bulbs. As before, each bulb was filled with one-
 third of an atmosphere of filtered air, and afterwards heated nearly
 to redness. When fully charged, the infusion rose higher than the
 central orifice, and no portion of the internal surface was wetted save
 that against which the liquid permanently rested. The lateral
 channel was then closed with a lamp without an instant's contact
 being permitted to occur between any part of the infusion and the
 external air. It was thus rendered absolutely certain that the
  contagia exposed subsequently to the action of heat were to be
  sought, neither in the superjacent air nor on the interior surfaces of
 the flasks, but in the body of the infusions themselves.
      By this method I tested in the first place the substance which, at
 an early stage of the inquiry, had excited my suspicion—without
 reference to which the discrepancy between the behaviour of infusions
 examined in the winter of 1875-76 and those examined in the winter
 of 1876-1877 is inexplicable, but by reference to which the explana
 tion of the observed discrepancy is complete ; I mean, the old hay
  which cumbered our laboratory floor.
      Four hours' continuous boiling failed to sterilize bulbs charged
  with infusions of this hay. In special cases, moreover, germs were
 found so indurated and resistant, that five, six, and in one case even
  eight hours' boiling failed to deprive them of life.
      All the difficulties encountered in this long and laborious inquiry
 were traced to the germs which exhibited the extraordinary powers

474         Professor Tyndall on the Physical Deportment of      [June 8,
of resistance here described. They introduced a plague into out
atmosphero— the other infusions, those of fresh hay included, like a
smitten population, becoming the victims of a contagium foreign to
themselves.*
    It is a question of obvious interest to the scientific surgeon
whether those powerfully resistent germs are amenable to the
ordinary processes of disinfection. It is perfectly certain that they
resist to an extraordinary extent the action of heat. They have been
proved competent to cause infusions, both animal and vegetable, to
putrefy. How would they behave in the wards of an hospital?
There are, moreover, establishments devoted to the preserving
of meats and vegetables. Do they ever experience inexplicable
reverses ? I think it certain that the mere shaking of a bunch of
desiccated hay in the air of an establishment of this character might
render the ordinary process of boiling for a few minutes utterly
nugatory, thus possibly entailing serious loss. They have, as will
subsequently appear, one great safeguard in the complete purgation
of their sealed tins of air.
     A remarkable application of the germ theory is now to be men
tioned. Keeping these germs and the phases through which they pass
to reach the developed organism clearly in view, I have been able to
sterilize the most obstinate infusions encountered in this inquiry, by
heating them for a small fraction of the time above referred to as
insufficient to sterilize them. The fully developed Bacterium is
demonstrably killed by a temperature of 140° F. Fixing the mind's
eye upon the germ during its passage from the hard and resistant to
the plastic and sensitive state, it will appear in the highest degree
probable that the plastic stage will be reached by different germs in
different times. Some are more indurated than others, and require a
longer immersion to soften and germinate. For all known germs
there exists a period of incubation during which they prepare them
selves for emergence as the finished organisms which have been
proved so sensitive to heat. If during this period, and well within it,
the infusion be boiled for even the fraction of a minute, the softened
germs which are then approaching their phase of final development
will be destroyed. Repeating the process of heating every ten or
twelve hours, before the least sensible change has occurred in the
infusions, tach successive heating will destroy the germs then
softened, until, after a sufficient number of heatings, the last living
germ will disappear.
     Guided by the principle here laid down, and applying the heat
discontinuously, infusions have been sterilized by an aggregate
period of heating, which, fifty times multiplied, would fail to sterilize
them if applied continuously. Four minutes in the one case can
accomplish what four hours fail to accomplish in the other.
    * A hard and wiry hay from Guildford, which I have no reason to consider
old, was found extremely difficult to sterilize.

 1877.]              Putrefactive and Infective Organisms.                    475
      If properly followed out, the method of sterilization here de
 scribed is infallible. A temperature, moreover, far below the boiling
 point Eunices for sterilization.*
      Another mode of sterilization, equally certain and remarkable,
 was forced upon me, so to speak, in the following way. In a
 multitude of cases a thick and folded layer of fatty scum, made up of
 matted Bacteria, gathered upon the surfaces of the infusions, the
 liquid underneath becoming sometimes cloudy throughout, but fre
 quently maintaining a transparency equal to that of distilled water.
 The living scum-layer, as Pasteur has shown in other cases, appeared
 to possess the power of completely intercepting the atmospheric
 oxygen, appropriating the gas and depriving the germs in the liquid
 underneath of an element necessary to their development.
     Placing the infusions in flasks, with large air-spaces above the
 liquids, corking the flasks, and exposing them for a few days to a
 temperature of 80° or 90° F., at the end of this time the oxygen of
 the superjacent air seems completely consumed. A lighted taper
 plunged into the flask is immediately extinguished. Above the
 scum, moreover, the interior surfaces of the bulbs used in my
 experiments were commonly moistened by the water of condensation.
 Into it the Bacteria sometimes rose, forming a kind of gauzy film to
 a height of an inch or more above the liquid. In fact, wherever air
 was to be found, the Bacteria followed it. It seemed a necessity of
 their existence. Hence the question, What will occur when the
 infusions are deprived of air ?
     I was by no means entitled to rest satisfied with an inference as an
answer to this question ; for Pasteur, in his masterly researches, has
abundantly demonstrated that the process of alcoholic fermentation
depends on the continuance of life without air—other organisms than
 Torula being also alleged to be competent to live without oxygen.
Experiment alone could determine the effect of exhaustion upon the
particular organisms here under review.
     Air-pump vacua were first employed, and with a considerable
measure of success. Life was demonstrably enfeebled in such vacua.
     Sprengel pumps were afterwards used to remove more effectually
both the air dissolved in the infusions and that diffused in the spaces
above them. The periods of exhaustion varied from one to eight
hours, and the results of the experiments may be thus summed up :—
Could the air be completely removed from the infusions, there is
every reason to believe that sterilization without boiling would in
most, if not in all, cases be the result. But, passing from proba
bilities to certainties, it is a proved fact that in numerous cases
    * On reading my paper, previous to its presentation to the Royal Society, Mr.
Huxley suggested a continuous exposure to a temperature not much above tlie
death-temperature of tho adult Bacterium. I had also noted the experiment for
execution myself. It was made some weeks ago with perfect success. The most
obstinate infusions, maintained for a few days at a temperature of 160° F., are
sterilized—[June 21.]

 47G         Professor Tyndall on the Physical Deportment of    [June 8,
unboiled infusions deprived of air by five or six hours' action of the
Sprengel pump are reduced to permanent barrenness. In a great
number of cases, moreover, where the unboiled infusion would have
become cloudy, exposure to the boiling temperature for a single
minute sufficed completely to destroy the life already on the point of
being extinguished through defect of air. With a single exception, I
am not sure that any infusion escaped sterilization by five minutes'
boiling after it had been deprived of air by the Sprengel pump.
These five minutes accomplished what five hours sometimes failed to
accomplish in the presence of air.
    The exception here referred to is old-hay infusion, which, though
sterilized in less than half the time needed to kill its germs where air
is present, maintained a power of developing a feeble but distinct life
after having been boiled for a large multiple of the time found
sufficient to render infusions of mutton, beef, pork, cucumber, turnip,
beetroot, shaddock, and artichoke permanently barren.
     These experiments gave me the clue to many others which might
have readily become subjects of permanent misinterpretation. In the
midst of a most virulently infective atmosphere, where, even after
some hours' boiling, there was no escape for infusions supplied with
air, the expulsion of the air by less than five minutes' boiling in
properly shaped retort-flasks, and the proper sealing of the flasks
during ebullition, ensured the sterility of the infusions.
    The meaning of a former remark regarding the part played by
boiling in establishments devoted to the preserving of meats and
vegetables will be now understood.
    The inertness of the germs in liquids deprived of air is not due to
a mere suspension of their powers. The germs are killed by being
deprived of oxygen. For when the air which has been removed by
the Sprengel pump is, after some time, carefully restored to the
infusion, unaccompanied by germs from without, there is no revival
of life. By removing the air we stifle the life which the returning air
is incompetent to restore.
    These experiments on the mortality arising from a defect of
oxygen are in a certain sense complementary to the beautiful results
of M. Paul Bert. Applying his method to my infusions, I find them
sterilized in oxygen possessing a pressure of ten atmospheres or more.
Like higher organisms, our Bacterial germs arc poisoned by the
excess and asphyxied by the defect of oxygen. A mechanical action
may also come into play.
    I hardly think it necessary to summarize what has been here
brought before you. In fact, the whole discourse is but a summing
up of eight months of incessant labour. From the beginning to the
end of the inquiry there is not, as you have seen, a shadow of evidence
in favour of the doctrine of spontaneous generation. There is, on the
contrary, overwhelming evidence against it ; but do not cany away
with you the notion sometimes erroneously ascribed to me, that I

1877.]       '     Putrefactive and Infective Organisms.                     477
deem spontaneous generation " impossible," or that I wish to limit the
power of matter in relation to life. My views on this subject ought
to be well known. But possibility is one thing and proof is another,
and when in our day I seek for experimental evidence of the trans
formation of the non-living into the living, I am led inexorably to the
conclusion that no such evidence exists, and that in the lowest, as in
the highest of organized creatures, the method of nature is that life
shall be the issue of antecedent life.*
                                                                      [J. T.]
    * Throughout these laborious researches I have been aided, with his accus
tomed zeal and ability, by my excellent senior assistant, Mr. John Cottrell. He
has been worthily seconded by Mr. Frank Valter, and, in a humbler but still
effectual way, by William Card.

478                         General Monthly Meeting.                    [July
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday July 2, 1877.
George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the Chair.
                        Walter Deeble Boger, Esq.
                        Henry Alexander Bruce, M.D.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The Presents recoived since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. : —
AccaAemia dei Lincei, Rome—Atti, Serie III. Transunti, Vol. I. Fasc. 6. 4to.
      1877.
 Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVII. No. 7. 8vo. 1877.
    Memoirs, Vol. XL. 4to. 1874.
 Betsels, Dr. Emits (the Autlu>r)—Scientific Results of the United States Arctic
      Expedition : Steamer Polaris. Vol. I. Physical Observations. 4to. Wash
      ington, 1876.
British Architect*, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1876-7. Nos. 12, 13. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Illustrations of Lepidoptera Heterocerca. Part 1.
      8vo. 1877.
   Guide to Exhibition Rooms. 8vo. 1877.
   Descriptive Catalogue of Playing and other Curds. 8vo. 1876.
   Catalogue of British Fossil Crustacea. 8vo. 1877.
Cave, Mrs. L. T.—Colonel G. Greenwood : River Terraces. 8vo. 1877.
Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1877. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for June, 1877. 4to.
   Chemical News for June, 1877. 4to.
   Engineer for June, 1877. fol.
   Horological Journal for Juno, 1877. 8vo.
   Journal for Applied Science for June, 1877. fol.
   Nature for June, 1877. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for June, 1877. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1877. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for June, 1877. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 618. 8vo. 1877.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 130. 8vo. 1877.
Geological Survey of India—Records, Vol. X. Part 2. 8vo. 1877.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. X. No. 2. 8vo. 1876-7.
LinneaH Society—Proceedings, Nos. 69, 89. 8vo. 1877.

1877.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                        479
New Church Missionary and Tract Society—Rev. Chauncey Giles : The Spiritual
     World and our Children there. 16to. 1875.
   Dr. Theophilus Parsons : Outlines of the Religion and Philosophy of Sweden-
     borg. 16to. 1876.
   Rev. Samuel Noble : Appeal on behalf of the Views of the Eternal World and
     State and the Doctrines of Faith and Life held by the Body of Christians
     who believe that a New Church is signified (in the Revelation, chap, xxi.)
     by the New Jerusalem. 9th ed. 12mo. 1876.
   Emanuel Swedenborg, the Spiritual Columbus.         A Sketch by U. S. E.
     2nded. 16to. 1877.
   Rev. Dr. Bayley: Great Truths on Great Subjects: Six Lectures. 16to.
     1877.
Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. I. No. 9. 8vo. 1877.
Rayleigh, The Lord, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)-The Theory of Sound,
     Vol. I. 8vo. 1877.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 180. 8vo. 1877.
Sims, J. M. M.D. (the Author)- The Discovery of Anaesthesia. (K 101) 8vo.
     1877.
Symons, G. J.—Monthly Meteorological Magazine, June, 1877. 8vo.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandeluugen, Mai,
     1877.
Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 41. 8vo. 1877.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. X. Part 1. 4to. 1877.
   Proceedings, 1877, Part 1. 8vo. 1877.
     Vol. VIII.      (No. 67.)                                     2 l

  480                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [Nov.
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, November 5, 1877.
          George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                      in the Chair.
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
 table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
       FROM
 Acadentia dei Lincei, Rome—Atti, Seric Seconda, Vol. III. Parte 1,2, 3. 4to
       1870.
    Atti, Serie III. Transunti, Vol. I. Fasc. 1, 2, 7. 4to. 1877.
 Actuaries, Institute o/— Journal, Nos. 107, 108. 8vo. 1877.
 American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 99. 8vo. 1877.
 Antiquaries, Society vf—Archieologin, Vol. XLV. Part 1. 4to. 1877.
    Proceedings, Second Series, Vol. VII. No. 2. 8vo. 1877.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, New Series, Vol. IX. Part 2. 8vo. 1877.
Asiatic Society, Royal, Bombay Branch—Journal, No. 34. 8vo. 1877.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1870, Part I. No. 3; Part II. No. 4.
       1877, Part I. No. 1 ; Part II. No. 1. 8vo.
   Proceedings, 1870, Nos. 9, 10; 1877, Nos. 1-5. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVII. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo
      1877.
Bagster & Co. Messrs. (the Publishers)— W. R. Cooper : Short History of Egyptian
      Obelisks. 16to. 1877.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal — Sitzungsberichte, 1877, Heft 1. 8vo
      1877.
Bertier, F. M.J), {the Author)— Tho Spas of Aix-les-Bains and Marlioz, Savoy
      12mo. 1877.
Boston Society of Natural History—Memoirs, Vol. II. Part 4, No. 5. 4to. 1877
   Proceedings, Vol. XHI. Nos. 24-27 ; Vol. XIV. Nos. 1-14 ; Vol. XVIII. Parts
      3, 4. 8vo. 1871-6.
   Occasional Papers, I. H. T. W. Harris: Entomological Correspondence
      8vo. 1809.
British Association for the Advancement of Science—Report of the 40th Meeting •
      Glasgow, Sept. 1870. 8vo. 1877.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Chinese Books. 4to. 1877.
   Catalogue of Birds. Vol. III. 8vo. 1877.
   Facsimiles of Ancient Charters. Part IH. fol. 1877.
Buckler, George, Esq. (the Author)—Colchester Castle a Roman Building, &c
      8vo. 1876-7.
   Colchester Castle, &c. By Rev. H. Jenkins. 8vo. 1809.
   Royal Archaeological Institute, Colchester Meeting. 12mo. 1870.
Cambridge Philosophical Society—Transactions, Vol. XI. Part 3 ; Vol. XII. Parts
      1,2. 4to. 1871-7.
   Proceedings, Vol. III. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1876-7.
Canada Meteorological Office—Reports. 8vo. 1877.
Chemical Society—Journal, July, Aug. Sept. Oct. 1877. 8vo.

1877.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         4.81
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. XLIX. 8vo. 1877.
Clermont, tlie Lord—Supplement to Life and Works of Sir John Fortcscuo. 4to.
      1877.
Dawson, Alfre/I, Esq. F.R.A.S. (the Author)—English Landscape Art in 1877.
      (O 17) 12mo. 1877.
Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Literature, Science, and Art—Report
      and Transactions, Vol. IX. 8vo. 1877.
Editors—American Journal of Science for July-Oct. 1877. 8vo.
   Analyst for July-Oct. 1877. 8vo.
   Athcnmum for Oct. 1877. 4to.
   Chemical News for July-Oct. 1877. 4to.
   Engineer for July-Oct. 1877. fol.
   Horological Journal for July-Oct. 1877. 8vo.
   Journal for Applied Science for July-Oct. 1S77. fol.
   Nature for July-Oct. 1877. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for July-Oct. 1877. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for July-Oct. 1877. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for July-Oct. 1877. 8vo.
Franklin Institute--Journal, Nos. 619-621. 8vo. 1877.
Gem/raphical Society, Itoyal—Proceedings, Vol. XXI. Nos. 4, 5, 0; and Charter.
      870. 1877.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Jahrbuch, 1877, Nos. 1, 2. 8v<>. 1S77.
   Verhandlungen, 1877, Nos. 1-10. 8vo. 1877.
   Ahhandlungen, Band VII. 4; IX. 4to. 1877.
Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 131. 8vo. 1877.
Geological Survey of India —Memoirs, Vol. XIII. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1877.
   Paluxmtologia Indica, Series II. 2. fol. 1877.
   Records, Vol. X. Part 3. 8vo. 1877.
 GyneciHogical Society — Transactions, Vol. I. 8vo. 1877.
Barrison, Mr. W. B. (the Publisher)—Animal Magnetism, or Mesmerism and its
     Phenomena. By Wm. Gregory, M.D. Second Edition. 8vo. 1877.
Bean, C. Rogers, Esq. M.R.I. (Uie Author)—The Indian Famine-: Water is tho
     Best Remedy. (K 102.) 8vo. 1877.
Ilild'brandsson, B. Bildebrand (the Aullmr) —Atlas des Mouvemcnts Supericurs
     de l'Atmosphero. (M 8) 4to. 1877.
Bull Literary and Philosophical Sacitty— Annual Report. 8vo. 1876-7.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1877, No. 1. 8vo. 1877.
Kershaw, 8. W. Esq. (the Author)- Notes on Croydon Palace. 8vo. 1877.
Leeds Philosophical Societu— Report for 1876-7. 8vo.
Linnean Society -Proceedings, Nos. 70, 71, 73, 90-92. 8vo. 1877.
Ixmdon Corporation—Cataloguo of Library. Fourteenth Supplement. 8vo. 1877.
Lunacy Commissioners—Thirty-first Report. 8vo. 1877.
Manchetler Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Parts 11, 12, 13. 8vo.
     1877.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, May and July, 1877. 8vo.
Metliral and Chirurgical Society, Itoyal— Proceedings. Purt 45. 8vo. 1877.
Meteorological OJKce—Quarterly Weather Report, 1S74, Part 4. 4to. 1877.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 23. 8vo. 1876.
Musical Association—Proceedings, Third Session, 1876-7. 8vo. 1877.
ttallak, Muley R. Esq. (the Author)—El Restate de Cervantes. (K 102.) 8vo.
     1877
Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. II. No. 1. 8vo. 1877.
Physical Society of Ixmdon—Proceedings, Vol. II. Part 3. 8vo. 1877.
Polocki, Albert, Esq. (the Author)— Nosce te ipsum: Etudes d'aprcs Nature.
     (L 17.) 8vo. IS77.
Preussirche Akndcmie der Wistenscluiflen — Monatsbenchtc : Mai, Juni, Juli,
     1877. 8vo.
()anritrh, Mr. It. (the Publisher)— (icncral Catalogue of Books : Supplement.
     Sy>. 1 87.1-7.
                                                                    2i^

482                        General Monthly Meeting.                     [Nov. 5,
Radcliffe Trustees, Oxford — Catalogue of Books on Natural Science in the
      Radcliffe Library. 4to. 1877.
RoycU Society of London—Proceedings, No. 181, 182. 8vo. 1877.
   Catalogue of Scientific Papers, Vol. VII. (1864-73). 4to. 1877.
St. Bartholomeufs Hospital—Statistical Tables, 1876. 8vo. 1877.
     Petersburg, Academie
St.Me¦moires.    7" Sene. des      XXII. Nos. 11,Tome
                              Sciences—Bulletins,
                            Tome                    12; XXIII. No. 4. 4to.
                                                         Tome XXIII.    Nos. 1877.
                                                                              2-8,
      1875 ; Tome XXIV. Nos. 1-3, 1876-7.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XL. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1877.
Swedenborg Society—Swedenborg's Works, 37 vols. 8vo. 1845-76.
Symons, G. J.—Monthly Meteorological Magazine, July-Oct. 1877. 8vo.
 Trafford, F. W. C—Amphiorama. New edition. (K 102.) 8vo. 1877
 Trinity House Corporation—Correspondence and Reports on Electric Lights at
      the South Foreland. (P 12.) fol. 1877.
 Tyndall. Professor, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. (the Author)—On the Action of Rays oi
      High Refrangibility upon Gaseous Matter. (Phil. Trans. 1870.)
    On the Optical Deportment of the Atmosphere in relation to the Phenomena
      of Putrefaction and Infection. (Phil. Trans. 1876.)
    Further Researches on the Deportment and Vital Persistence of Putrefactive
       and Infective Organisms from a Physical Point of View. (Phil. Trans.
       1877.)
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, Appendix to Vol. XX. Nos. 91, 92.
       8vo. 1877.
 Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 42. 8vo. 1877.
 Vincent, Chas. W. F.R.S.E. F.C.S. (the Editor)—Chemistry, Theoretical, Practical,
       and Analytical, as applied to the Arts and Manufactures. By Writers of
       Eminence. Division I. Second edition. Division V. 4to. 1877.
  Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandelungen. Juni,
       1877. 4to.
  Warden of the Standards—Eleventh Annual Report. 8vo. 1877.
 Yorkshire Philosophical Society—Communications, 1876. 8vo. 1877.
 Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. X. Part 2. 4to. 1877.
    Proceedings, 1877, Part 2. 8vo. 1877.

1877.]                      General Monthly Meejing.                          483
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, December 3, 1877.
      George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
                   The Earl Stanhope,
                   Mn=. Robert S. Faulconer,
                   Colonel Henry Macfarlane Norris,
                   Mrs. Henry Pollock,
                   J. Lyons Sampson, Esq.
                   Miss Elizabeth M. Steedman,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
  FROM
The Lords of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac for 1881. 8vo. 1877.
The Lords of the Committee of Council on Education— Catalogue of the Special
     Loan Collection of Scientific Apparatus at the South Kensington Museum.
     3rd ed. 8vo. 1877.
Asiatic Society, Royal, Bombay Branch—Journal, Nos. 22, 23. 1865-7.
British Architects, Royal Institute of— Sessional Papers, 1877-8, Nos. 1, 2. 4to.
British Museum, Trustees—Catalogue of Additions to the MSS. 1854-75, Vol. II.
     8vo. 1877.
  Catalogue of the Ethiopio MSS. acquired since 1847. 4to. 1877.
Carpenter, W. B. — Temperature of the Deep-Sea Bottom. (R. Geog. Soc.
     Proceedings, Vol. XXI.)
Chemical Society—Journal, Nov. 1877. 8vo.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. X. 8vo. 1877.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Nov. 1877. 8vo.
   Analyst for Nov. 1877. 8vo.
   Athenseum for Nov. 1877. 4to.
   Chemical News for Nov. 1877. 4to.
   Engineer for Nov. 1877. fol.
   Horological Journal for Nov. 1877. 8vo.
  Journal for Applied Science for Nov. 1877. fol.
  Nature for Nov. 1877. 4to.
  Nautical Magazine for Nov. 1877. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Nov. 1877. Svo.
  Telegraphic Journal for Nov. 1877. 8vo.
Franklin Institute- Journal, Nos. 622, 623. 8vo. 1877.
Gairdner, W. T. M.I). —Two Lectures: 1. Lectures, ISooks, and Practical Teach
           2. Clinical
     ing;Societe
Geneve,                Teaching. Svo. 1877.
                 de Physique—Me¦moires,   Tome XXV. Purtie 1. 4to. 1877.

484                       General Monthly Meeting.                [Dec. 3, 1877.
Geological Society of Ireland, Royal— Journal, New Series, Vol. IV. Parts 3, 4.
      8vo. 1875-7.
Goodeee, T. M. Esq. M.A. (the Author)—The Whitworth Measuring Machine. By
      T. M. Goodevo and C. B. P. Shelley. 8vo. 1877.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, No. 93. 8vo. 1877.
   Transactions : Second Series : Zoology, Vol. I. Parts 5, 6. 4to. 1877.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Part 14. 8vo. 1877.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Transactions, Vol. LX. 8vo. 1877.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichto : Aug. 1877. 8vo.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 183. 8vo. 1877.
Russell, The Lord Arthur, M.P.—Report on the State of the Eoyal Observatory,
      Edinburgh. (P 12.) fol. 1877.
   Papers on the Bengal Cyclone, 31 Oct.-l Nov. 1876; and the subsequent
      Cholera Epidemic. (P 12.) 1877.
Stockholm, Royal Academy of Sciences—Handlingar, Bandet XIII. and XIV. 1.
      1874-5. Bihang, Bandet III. Hafte 2. 8vo. 1876.
   Ofversigt, 1876. 8vo.
Symont, G. J.—Monthly Meteorological Magazine, Nov. 1877. 8vo.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Pre.ussen—Verhandelungen. Hefte
      7,8. 1877. 4to.
 Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 43. 8vo. 1877.
 Vincent, Benjamin, Lib. R.I. (the Editor)—Dictionary of Biography, Past and
      Present, brought down to September, 1877. (Haydn Series.) 8vo. 1877.
      The following arrangements of the Lectures before Easter, 1878,
were announced :—
                               Christmas Lectures.
   Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. F.R.S.—Six Lectures adapted to a Juvenile
Auditory, on Heat, Visible and Invisible ; on Dec. 27 (Thursday), 29, 1877 ;
Jan. 1, 3, 5, 8, 1878.
   Professor Alfred H. Garrod, M.A. F.R.S. — Twelve Lectures on the
 Protoplasmic Theory of Life and its Bearing on Physiology ; on Tuesdays,
 Jan. 22 to April 9.
   James Dewar, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.— Twelve Lectures on the Chemistry of the
 Organic World; on Thursdays, Jan. 24 to April 11.
    R. Bosworth Smith, Esq. M.A.—Seven Lectures on Carthage and the Cartha
 ginians ; on Saturdays, Jan. 26 to March 9.
    Rev. W. Houohton.—Three Lectures on tho Natural History of the Ancients ;
 on Saturdays, March 16, 23, 30.
    Ernst Pauer, Esq.—Two Lectures on the Clavecinistcs and their Works
 (England and Italy; France aud Germany); with Musical Illustrations; on
 Saturdays, April 6, 13.

           i&ogal Institution of ffireat Britain.
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, January 25, 1878.
   Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Manager, in the Chair.
                     Frofessor Huxley, LL.D. F.B.S.
                                 William Harvey.*
On the coming First of April, three hundred years will have elapsed
sinco the birth of William Harvey, who is popularly known as the
discoverer of the circulation of the blood.
    Many opinions have been held respecting the exact nature and
value of Harvey's contributions to the elucidation of the fundamental
problem of the physiology of the higher animals ; from those which
deny him any merit at all—indeed, roundly charge him with the
demerit of plagiarism—to those which enthrone him in a position of
supreme honour among great discoverers in science. Nor has there
been less controversy as to tho method by which Harvey obtained
the results which have made his name famous. I think it is desir
able that no obscurity should hang around these questions ; and I
add my mite to the store of disquisitions on Harvey which this year
is likely to bring forth, in the hope that it may help to throw light
upon several points about which darkness has accumulated, partly
by accident and partly by design.
          *                •             »               »               •
     Aristotle's description of the heart is often cited as an examplo of
his ignorance, but I think unjustly. However this may bo, it is
 certain that, not long after his time, great additions were mado to
 anatomical and physiological science. The Greek anatomists, ex
 ploring tho structure of tho heart, found that it contained two
 principal cavities, which we now call the ventricles, separated by a
 longitudinal partition, or septum : the one ventricle is on its left,
 the other on its right side. It was to tho fleshy body which contains
 the ventricles that tho ancients restricted the title of " heart."
 Moreover, there is another respect in which their terminology was so
 differont from that of the moderns, that, unless we recollect that tho
 facts may be just as accurately stated in their fashion as in ours, wo
    * This discourse is printed in full in the ' Fortnightly Review,' for Februarv,
 1878, vol. xxiii. N. S. p. 167.
     Vol. VIIL (No. 68.)                                               2 m

486                           Professor Huxley                        [Jan. 25,
are liable to fall into the mistake of supposing that they are blunder
ing.* What they speak of as the auricles of the heart, wo term the
appendices of the auricles ; and what we call the auricles are, for
the ancients, on the right side, a part of the great vein or vena cava,
and, on the left side, a part of the arterial system—the root, in fact,
of what they termed the arteria venosa. Thus they speak of the
auricles as mere appendages, or dilatations, situated upon the arterial
and venous trunks respectively, close to the heart ; and they always say
that the vena cava and the arteria venosa open into the right and left
ventricles respectively. And this was the basis of their classification
of the vessels, for they held all those vessels which, in this sense, open
into the right ventricle to be veins, and all those which open into the
left ventricle to be arteries. But here a difficulty arose. They
observed that the aorta, or stem of the arteries, and all the con
spicuous branches which proceed from it to the body in general, are
very different from tho veins ; that they have much thicker walls and
stand open when they are cut, while the thin-wallod veins collapse.
But the " voin " which connected the right ventricle and the lungs
had the thick coat of an artery, while the " artery " which connected
the left ventricle and tho lungs had the thin coat of a vein. Hence
they called the former the vena arteriosa, or artery-like vein, and the
latter the arteria venosa, or vein-like artery.
     Tho vena arteriosa is what we call the pulmonary artery, the
arteria venosa is our pulmonary vein ; but in trying to understand
the old anatomists it is essential to forget our nomenclature and to
adopt theirs. With this precaution, and with the facts before our
mind's eye, their statements will be found to be, in the main, exceed
ingly accurate.
     About the year 300 r.o. a great discovery, that of the valves of
 the heart, was made by Erasistratus. This anatomist found around
the opening by which the vena cava communicates with the right
ventricle, three triangular membranous folds, disposed in such a
manner as to allow any fluid contained in the vein to pass into the
ventricle, but not back again. The opening of the vena arteriosa into
 the right ventricle is quite distinct from that of the vena cava ; and
 Erasistratus observed that it is provided with three pouch-like, half-
 moon-shapod valves ; the arrangement of which is such that a fluid
 can pass out of the ventricle into the vena arteriosa, but not back
 again. Three similar valves were found at tho opening of the aorta
 into the left ventricle. Tho arteria venosa had a distinct opening
 into the same ventricle, and this was provided with triangular mem
 branous valves, like those on the right side, but only two in number.
     * We say that tho heart, in man and tho higher animals, consists of two
 anricles and two ventricles; and that each auricle lias an appendix in the form
 of a pouch. Wo term the vessel which arises from the right ventricle the pul
 monary artery, because it supplies the lungs with blood. Those vessels which
 bring away the blood from the lungs to the left auricle, we call the pulmonary
 veins.

1878.]                       on William Harvey.                        487
Thus the ventricles had four openings, two for each ; and there were
altogether eleven valves, disposed in such a manner as to permit
fluids to enter the ventricles from the vena cava and the arteria
venosa respectively, and to pass out of the ventrioles by the vena
arteriosa and the aorta respectively, but not to go the other way.
     It followed from this capital discovery, that, if the contents of the
heart are fluid, and if they move at all, they can only move in one
.way ; namely, from the veua cava, through the ventricle and towards
the lungs, by the vena arteriosa, on the right side ; and, from the
lungs, by way of the arteria venosa, through the ventricle, and out by
the aorta for distribution in the body, on the left side.
     Erasistratus thus, in a manner, laid the foundations of the theory
of the motion of the blood. But it was not given to him to get any
further. What the contents of the heart were, and whether they
moved or not, was a point which could be determined only by experi
ment. And, for want of sufficiently careful experimentation, Erasis
tratus strayed into a hopelessly misleading path. Observing that
the arteries are usually empty of blood after death, he adopted the
unlucky hypothesis that this is their normal condition, and that during
life, also, they are filled with air. And, it will be observed, that it is
not improbable that Erasistratus' discovery of the valves of the heart
and of their mechanical action strengthened him in this view. For,
as the arteria venosa branches out in the lungs, what more likely
than that its ultimate ramifications absorb the air which is inspired ;
and that this air, passing into the left ventricle, is then pumped all
over the body through the aorta, in order to supply the vivifying
principle which evidently resides in the air ; or, it may be, of cooling
the too great heat of the blood ? How easy to explain the elastic
bounding feel of a pulsating artery by the hypothesis that it is full of
air. Had Erasistratus only been acquainted with the structure of
insects, the analogy of their tracheal system would have been a tower
of strength to him. There was no prima, facie absurdity in his
hypothesis—and experiment was the sole means of demonstrating its
truth or falsity.
     More than four hundred years elapsed before the theory of the
motion of the blood returned once more to the strait road which
leads truthwards ; and it was brought back by the only possible
method, that of experiment. A man of extraordinary genius, Claudius
Galenus, of Pergamos (born in 131 a.d., died in or about 201), was
trained to anatomical and physiological investigation in the great
schools of Alexandria, and spent a long life in incessant research,
teaching, and medical practice. More than one hundred and fifty
treatises from his pen, on philosophical, literary, scientific, and practi
cal topics, are extant ; and there is reason to believe that they con
stitute not more than a third of his works. No former anatomist had
reached his excellence, while he may be regarded as the founder
of experimental physiology. And, it is precisely because he was a
master of the experimental method, that he was able to learn more
                                                             2 h 2

488                          Professor Huxley                  [Jan. 25,
about the motions of the heart and of the blood than any of his
predecessors ; and to leave to posterity a legacy of knowledge, which
was not substantially increased for more than thirteen hundred
years.
     The conceptions of the structure of the heart and vessels, of their
actions, and of the motion of the blood in them, which Galen enter
tained, are not stated in a complete shape in any one of his numerous
works. But a careful collation of the various passages in which these
conceptions are expressed, leaves no doubt upon my mind, that
Galen's views respecting the structure of Ihe organs concerned were,
for the most part, as accurate as the means of anatomical analysis at
his command permitted ; and that he had exact and consistent, though
by no means equally just, notions of the actions of these organs, and
of the movements of the blood.
     Starting from the fundamental facts established by Erasistratus
respecting the structure of the heart and the working of its valves,
Galen's great service was the proof, by the only evidence which could
possess demonstrative value, namely, by that derived from experi
ments upon living animals, that the arteries are as much full of blood
during life as the veins are, and that the left cavity of the heart, like
the right, is also filled with blood.
     Galen, moreover, correctly asserted, though the means of investi
gation at his disposition did not allow him to prove the fact, that the
ramifications of the vena arteriosa in the substance of the lungs
communicate with those of the arteria venosa, by direct, though
invisible, passages, which he terms anastomoses ; and that, by means
of these communications, a certain portion of the blood of the right
ventricle of the heart passes through the lungs into the left ventricle.
In fact, Galen is quite clear as to the existence of a current of blood
through the lungs, though not of such a current as we now know
traverses them. For, while he believed that a part of the blood of the
right ventricle passes through the lungs, and even, as I shall show,
described at length the mechanical arrangements by which he sup
poses this passage to bo effected, he considered that the greater part of
the blood in tho right ventricle passes directly, through certain pores
in the septum, into the left ventricle. And this was where Galen got
 upon his wrong track, without which divergence a man of his
 scientific insight must infallibly have discovered the true character
 of the pulmonary current, and not improbably have been led to
anticipate Harvey.
     But, even in propounding this erroneous hypothesis of the poro
 sity of the septum, it is interesting to observe with what care Galen
 distinguishes between observation and speculation. He expressly
 says that he has never seen the openings which he supposes to exist,
 and that he imagines them to be invisible, by reason of their small
 size and their closuro by tho refrigeration of the heart, after death.
 Nevertheless, ho cannot doubt their existence, partly because tho
 septum presents a great number of pits which obviously lead into its

1878.]                      on William Harvey.                       489
substance as they narrow, and, as he is so fond of saying, " Nature
makes nothing in vain ; " and, partly, because the vena cava is so
large, in comparison with the vena arteriosa, that he does not see
how all the blood poured into the ventricle could be got rid of, if the
latter were its only channel.
    Thus, for Galen, the course of the blood through the heart was—
on the right side, in by the vena cava, out by the vena arteriosa and
the pores of the septum ; on tho left side, in by tho pores of the
septum and by the arteria venosa, out by the aorta. What now
becomes of- tho blood which, filling the vena arteriosa, reaches the
lungs? Galen's views are perfectly definite about this point. The
vena arteriosa communicates with the arteria vonosa in the lungs
by numerous connecting channels. During expiration the blood
which is in the lungs, being compressed, tends to flow back into the
heart by way of the vena arteriosa ; but it is prevented from doing
so, in consequence of the closure of tho semilunar valves. Hence a
portion of it is forced tho other way, through the anastomoses into
the arteria venosa ; and then, mixed with " pneuma," it is carried to
the left ventricle, whence it is propelled, through tho aorta and its
branches, all over tho body.
    Galen not only took great pains to obtain experimental proof that,
during life, all the arteries contain blood and not air, as Erasistratus
supposed ; but ho distinctly affirms that the blood in the loft ventriclo
and in the arteria venosa is different from that in the right ventricle
and in tho veins, including the vena arteriosa ; and that tho differ
ence between the two lies in colour, heat, and the greater quantity
of " pneuma " contained in arterial blood. Now this " pneuma " is
something acquired by the blood in the lungs. Tho air which is
inspired into these organs is a kind of aliment. It is not taken
bodily into the arteria venosa and thence carried to the left ventricle
to fill the arterial system, as Erasistratus thought. On the contrary,
Galen repeatedly argues that this cannot be the caso, and often
refers to his experimental proofs that the whole arterial system
is full of blood during life. But the air supplies a material kindred
to the " pneuma," out of which and the blood tho " pneuma " is
concocted. Hence the contents of the arteria venosa aro largely
composed of " pneuma," and it is out of tho mixture of this with tho
blood which filters through the septum, that the bright " pneumatic "
blood found in the arteries, and by them distributed over the body,
is formed. The arteria venosa is a channel by which " pneuma "
reaches the heart, but this is not its exclusivo function ; for it has,
at the same time, to allow of the passage of certain fuliginous and
impure matters which the blood contains, in the opposite direction ;
and it is for this reason that there are only two valves where
the arteria venosa enters the ventricle. These not fitting quite
tightly, allow of tho exit of the fuliginous matters in question.
    Modern commentators are fond of pouring scorn upon Galen,
because ho holds that the hoart is not a muscle. But if what he

490                          Professor Huxley                    [Jan. 25,
 says on this subject is studied with care and impartiality, and with
 due recollection of the fact that Galen was not obliged to use the ter
 minology of the nineteenth century, it will be seen that he by no
 means deserves blame, but rather praise for his critical discrimination
 of things which are really unlike.
     All that Galen affirms is that the heart is totally unlike one of the
 ordinary muscles of the body, not only in structure, but in being
 independent of the control of the will ; and, so far from doubting
 that the walls of the heart are made up of active fibres, he expressly
 describes these fibres and what he supposes to be their arrangement
 and their mode of action. The fibres are of three kinds, longitudinal,
 transverse, and oblique. The action of the longitudinal fibres is to
 draw in, that of the circular fibres to expel, and that of the oblique
 fibres to retain the contents of the heart. How Galen supposed the
 oblique fibres could execute the function ascribed to them I do not
 know ; but it is clear that he thought that the activity of the circular
fibres increased, and that of the longitudinal fibres diminished, the
size of the cavities which they surrounded. Nowadays we term an
active fibre muscular ; Galen did not, unless, in addition, it possessed
the characters of voluntary muscle.
     According to Galen, the arteries have a systole and diastole (that
is, a state of contraction and a state of dilatation), which alternate
with those of the ventricles, and depend upon active contractions and
dilatations of their walls. This active faculty of the arteries is
inherent in them, because they are, as it were, productions of the
substance of the ventricles which possess these faculties ; and it is
destroyed when the vital continuity of the arteries with the heart is
destroyed by section or ligature. The arteries fill, therefore, as
bellows fill, not as bags are blown full.
     The ultimate ramifications of the arteries open by anastomoses
into those of the veins all over the body ; and the vivifying arterial
blood thus communicates its properties to the great mass of blood in
the veins. Under certain conditions, however, the blood may flow
from the veins to the arteries, in proof of which Galen adduces
the fact that the whole vascular system may be emptied by opening
an artery.
     The two ventricles, the auricles, the pulmonary vessels, and the
aorta with its branches, are conceived by the Greek anatomist to be an
apparatus superadded to the veins, which he regards as the essential
foundation and the most important part of the whole vascular system.
No portion of Galen's doctrines has been more sharply criticised
than his persistent refusal to admit that the veins, like the arteries,
take their origin in the heart, and his advocacy of the view that
the fons et origo of the whole venous system is to be sought in
the liver. Here, however, I must remark that it is only those who
are practically ignorant of the facts who can fail to see that Galen's
way of stating the matter is not only anatomically justifiable, but that,
until the true nature of the circulation was understood, and physio

1878.]                     on William Harvey.                        491
logical considerations overrode those based upon mere structure, there
was much more to be said for it than for the opposite fashion.
    Remembering that what we call the right auricle was for Galen a
mere part of the vena cava, it is impossible not to be struck by the
justice of his striking comparison of the vena cava to the trunk of a
tree, the roots of which enter the liver as their soil, while the
branches spread all over the body. Galen remarks that the existence
of the vena portae>, which gathers blood from the alimentary canal, and
then distributes it to the liver without coming near the heart, is a
fatal objection to the view of his opponents, that all the veins take
their rise in the heart ; and the argument is unanswerable so far as
the mere anatomical facts are concerned.
     Nothing could have appeared mor6 obvious to the early anato
mists than that the store of nutriment carried by the vena portas
to the liver was there elaborated into blood ; and then, being absorbed
by the roots of the venous system, was conveyed by its^'nanches all
over the body. The veins were thus the great distributors of the
blood ; the heart and arteries were a superadded apparatus for the
dispersion of a " pneumatized," or vivified portion of the blood
through the arteries ; and this addition of " pneuma," or vivification,
took place in the gills of water-breathing animals and in the lungs
of air-breathers. But in the latter case the mechanism of respira
tion involved the addition of a new apparatus, the right ventricle,
to ensure the constant flow of blood through these organs of
" pneumatization."
     Every statement in the preceding paragraphs can be justified by
citations from Galen's works ; and, therefore, it must bo admitted
that he had a wonderfully correct conception of the structure and
 disposition of the heart and vessels, and of the mode in which the
 ultimate ramifications of the latter communicate, both in the body
 generally and in the lungs ; that his general view of the functions of
 the heart was just ; and that he knew that blood passes from the right
 side of the heart, through the lungs, to the left side, and undergoes a
 great change in quality, brought about by its relation with the air in
 the lungs, in its course. It is unquestionable, therefore, that Galen,
 so far, divined the existence of a " pulmonary circulation," and that
 he came near to a just conception of the process of respiration ; but
 he had no inkling even of the systemic circulation; he was quite
 wrong about the perforation of the septum ; and his theory of the
 mechanical causes of the systole and diastole of the heart and arteries
 was erroneous. Nevertheless, for more than thirteen centuries, Galen
 was immeasurably in advance of all other anatomists ; and some of
 his notions, such as that about the active dilatation of the walls of the
 vessels, have been debated by physiologists of the present generation.
 No one can read Galen's works without being impressed by the
 marvellous extent and diversity of his knowledge, and by his clear
  grasp of those experimental methods by which, alone, physiology can
 be advanced.

 492                           Professor Huxley                   [Jan. 25,
      The student of the works of the anatomists and physiologists of
 modern Europe in the fifteenth and the beginning of the sixteenth
  centuries, will find that they were chiefly occupied in learning of
 their own knowledge what Galen knew. It is not strange, therefore,
 that they were overpowered by so vast a genius, and that they allowed
 themselves to be enslaved by his authority, in a manner which he
 would have been the first to reprove. Vesalius, the great reformer of
 anatomy, had a bitter struggle to carry on Galen's work, by showing
 where he had erred in expounding the structure of the human body,
 on the faith of observations made on the lower animals ; but it was
 not till tho middle of the sixteenth century, that anything was done
 to improve on Galen's physiology, and especially to amend his
 doctrines concerning the movements of the heart and of the blood.
      The first step in this direction is very generally ascribed to
 Michael Servetus, * * * who was undoubtedly well acquainted with
 anatomy, inasmuch as he was demonstrator to Joannes Guinterus in the
 School of Paris, where he had Vesalius for his colleague ; and, in his
 later years, he practised as a physician. Hence it is not wonderful to
 find that the ' Christianismi Restitutio,' although essentially a farrago
 of scatterbrained theological speculations, contains much physiological
 mutter. And it is in developing his conception of the relations
 between God and man, that Servetus wrote the well-known passages
 on which many have asserted his claim to the discovery of the course
 of the blood from the heart, through the lungs, and back to the heart ;
 or what is now termed the pulmonary circulation. I have studied
 the passages in question with great care, and with every desire to
 give Servetus his due, but I confess I cannot see that he made much
 advance upon Galen. As we have seen, Galen said that some blood
 goes to the left side of the heart from the right side through the lungs,
 but that the greater part traverses the septum. Servetus appears, at
 first, to declare that all the blood of the right side goes through the
 lungs to tho left side, and that the septum is imperforate. But he
 qualifies his assertion by admitting that some of the blood of the right
 ventricle may transude through the septum, and thus the question
between him and Galen becomes merely one of degree. Servetus
 cites neither observation nor experiment in favour of the impervious-
 ness of the septum ; and the impression upon my mind is that he
really knew no more than Vesalius had already published, but that
the tendency to headlong speculation, which is so characteristic of tho
man, led him to rush in where his more thoughtful colleague held
back.
           *            *             »            *             •
      The first author who declared, without any qualification, that the
septum of the ventricles is imperforate, and that all the blood of tho
right ventricle traverses the lungs and (except so much as may bo
retained for the nutrition of these organs) passes to the left ventricle,
was Realdus Columbus, professor of anatomy in the famous school of
Padua. The remarkable treatise, 'De Re Anatomica,' of this able

1878.]                     on William Harvey.                        493
anatomist, was published in 1559, or only six years after the death of
Servetus, of whose notions there is no evidence that Columbus had
any cognizance. Moreover, Columbus, as able an experimenter as he
was a skilful dissector, deals with the question in a very different way
from Servetus ; s0 that, from his time, the existence of the pulmonary
circulation, in the modern sense, may be said to have become esta
blished. Ambrose Pare, the great surgeon, writing in 1579, refers to
the course of the blood through the lungs as notoriously the discovery
of Columbus. And I think not only that Realdus Columbus is
entitled to the whole credit of this very considerable advance upon
Galen's views ; but that he is the only physiologist, between the time
of Galen and that of Harvey, who made any important addition to the
theory of the circulation.
     The claim which is put forward on behalf of the celebrated
botanist, Caesalpinus, appears to me to be devoid of any foundation.
Many years after the publication of the work of Bealdus Columbus,
who was professor at the most famous and most frequented anatomical
school of the time, and who assuredly was the last man to hide his
 light under a bushel, Caesalpinus incidentally describes the pulmonary
circulation in terms which simply embody a statement of Columbus's
doctrine; adding nothing, and, to his credit be it said, claiming
nothing. Like all the rest of the world since venesection was in
vented, Cassalpinus noticed that the vein swells on the side of the
ligature away from the heart ; and he observes that this is incon
sistent with the received views of the motion of the blood in the veins.
If he had followed up the suggestion thus made to him by the needful
experimental investigation, he might have anticipated Harvey ; but
he did not.
    Again, Cannani discovered the existence of valves in some of the
veins in 1547; and Fabricius rediscovered them, and prominently
drew attention to their mechanism, in 1574. Nevertheless, this dis
covery, important as it was, and widely as it became known, had
absolutely no effect in leading either the discoverers or their con
temporaries to a correct view of the general circulation. In common
with all the anatomists of the sixteenth century, Fabricius believed
that the blood proceeded from the main trunk, or vena cava, outwards
to the smallest ramifications of the veins, in order to subserve the
nutrition of the parts in which they are distributed ; and, instead of
being led by the mechanical action of the valves to reverse his theory
of the course of the venous blood, he was led by the dominant theory
of the course of the blood to interpret the meaning of the valvular
mechanism. Fabricius, in fact, considered that the office of the valves
was to break the impetus of the venous blood, and to prevent its
congestion in the organs to which it was sent; and, until the true
course of the blood was demonstrated, this was as likely an hypothesis
as any other.
    The best evidence of the state of knowledge respecting the motions
of the heart and blood in Harvey's time is afforded by those works of

494                             "Professor Huxley                      [Jan. 25,
his contemporaries which immediately preceded the publication of the
'Exercitatio Anatomica,' in 1628.* And none can be more fitly cited
for this purpose than the ' De Humani Corporis Fabrica, Libri decem,'
of Adrian van den Spieghel, who, like Harvey, was a pupil of Fabri-
cius of Aquapendente, and was of such distinguished ability and
learning that he succeeded his master in the chair of anatomy of
Padua.
     Van den Spieghel, or Spigelius, as he called himself, in accordance
with the fashion of those days, died comparatively young in 1625,
and his work was edited by his friend Daniel Bucretius, whose
preface is dated 1627. The accounts of the heart and vessels, and
of the motion of the blood, which it contains, are full and clear ;
but, beyond matters of detail, they go further than Galen in only two
points ; and with respect to one of these, Spigelius was in error.
The first point is the "pulmonary circulation," which is taught as
Columbus taught it nearly eighty years before. The second point
is, so far as I know, peculiar in Spigelius himself. He thinks that
the pulsation of the arteries has an effect in promoting the motion of
the blood contained in the veins which accompany them. Of the
true course of the blood as a whole, Spigelius has no more suspicion
than had any other physiologist of that age, except William Harvey ;
no rumour of whose lectures at the College of Physicians, commenced
six years before Spieghel's death, was likely in those days of slow
communication and in the absence of periodical publications to have
reached Italy.
     Mow let anyone familiar with the pages of Spigelius take up
Harvey's treatise and mark the contrast. The main object of the
' Exercitatio ' is to put forth and demonstrate, by direct experimental
and other accessory evidence, a proposition which is far from being
even hinted at, either by Spigelius or by any of his contemporaries or
predecessors ; and which is in diametrical contradiction to the views
respecting the course of the blood in the veins which are expounded
in their works. From Galen to Spigelius, they one and all believed
that the blood in the vena cava and its branches flows from the main
trunk towards the smallest ramifications. There is a similar con
sensus in the doctrine, that the greater part, if not the whole, of the
blood thus distributed by the veins is derived from the liver ; in
which organ it is generated out of the materials brought from the
alimentary canal by means of the vena portas. And all Harvey's pre
decessors further agree in the belief that only a small fraction of tho
    * The whole title of the copy of the rare first edition in the library of the
College of Physicians runs, " Exercitatio Anatomiia de Motu Cordis et Sanguinis
in Auimalibus. Gulielmi Harvasi, Angli Medici Regii et Professoria Anutomiaa
in Collegio Medicorum Londimnsi. Francofurti, sumptibus Uulielmi Fitzeri.
Anno MDCXXVIII." The dedications, of which that to Charles I. is pasted in,
as if it had been an afterthought, extend to p. 9; the Prooamium to p. 19; while
the Exercitatio itself occupies pp. 20 to 72 inclusively. There are two plates
illustrative of experiments on the veins of the arm.

1878.J                        on William Harvey.                           495
total mass of the venous blood is conveyed by the vena arteriosa to
the lungs and passes by the arteria venosa to the left ventricle, thence
to be distributed over the body by the arteries. Whether some
portion of the refined and " pneumatic " arterial blood traversed the
anastomotic channels, the existence of which was assumed, and so
reached the systemic veins ; or whether, on the contrary, some portion
of the venous blood made its entrance by the same passages into the
arteries, depended upon circumstances. Sometimes the current might
 set one way, sometimes the other.
     In direct opposition to these universally received views, Harvey
assorts that the natural course of the blood in the veins is from the
peripheral ramifications towards the main trunk ; that the mass of
the blood to be found in the veins at any moment was, a short time
before, contained in the arteries, and has simply flowed out of the
latter into the veins ; and, finally, that the stream of blood which
runs from the arteries into the veins is constant, continuous, and
rapid.
     According to the view of Harvey's predecessors * the veins may
be compared to larger and smaller canals, fed by a spring which
trickles into the chief canals, whence the water flows to the rest. The
heart and lungs represent an engine set up in the principal canal to
aerate some of the water and scatter it all over the garden. Whether
any of this identical water came back to the engine or not would be a
matter of chance, and it would certainly have no sensible effect on
the motion of the water in the canals. In Harvey's conception of
the matter, on the other hand, the garden is watered by channels
so arranged as to form a circle, two points of which are occupied by
propulsive engines. The water is kept moving in a continual round
within its channels, as much entering the engines on one side, as
leaves them on the other ; and the motion of the water is entirely
due to the engines.
     It is in conceiving the motion of the blood, as a whole, to be
circular, and in ascribing that circular motion simply and solely to
the contractions of the walls of the heart, that Harvey is so com
pletely original. Before him, no one, that I can discover, had ever
so much as dreamed that a given portion of the blood contained, for
example, in the right ventricle of the heart may, by the mere
mechanical operation of the working of that organ, be made to
return to the very place from which it started, after a long journey
through the lungs and through tho body generally. And, it should
be remembered, that it is to this complete circuit of the blood alone,
that the term " circulation " can, in strictness, be applied. It is of
the essence of a circular motion that that which moves returns to
the place from whence it started. Hence, the discovery of the course
of the blood from the right ventricle, through the lungs to the left
    * See the comparison of the veins to the canals for irrigating a garden in
Galen, ' De Naturulibus Facilitations,' lib. iii. cap. xv.

496                          Professor Huxley                     [Jan. 25,
ventricle was in nowise an anticipation of the discovery of the circula
tion of the blood. For the blood which traverses this part of its
course no more describes a circle, than the dweller in a street who
goes out of his own house and enters his next-door neighbour's does
so. Although there may be nothing but a party wall between him
and the room he has just left, it constitutes an efficient defense de
circuler. Thus, whatever they may have known of the so-called
pulmonary circulation, to say that Servetus, or Columbus, or Caesal-
pinus, deserves any share of the credit which attaches to Harvey,
appears to me to be to mistake the question at issue.
    It must further be borne in mind, that the determination of the
true course taken by the whole mass of the blood is only the most
conspicuous of the discoveries of Harvey ; and that his analysis of the
mechanism by which the circulation is brought about is far in advance
of anything which had previously been published. For the first
time it is shown that the walls of the heart are active only during its
systole or contraction, and that the dilatation of the heart in the diastole
is purely passive. Whence it follows, that the impulse by which the
blood is propelled is a vis d lergo, and that the blood is not drawn
into the heart by any such inhalent or suctorial action, as not only
the predecessors, but many of the successors of Harvey imagined it
to possess.
    Harvey is no less original in his view of the cause of the arterial
pulse. In contravention of Galen and of all other anatomists up to
his own time, he affirms that the stretching of the arteries which
gives rise to the pulse is not due to the active dilatation of their walls,
but to their passive distension by the blood which is forced into
them at each beat of the heart ; reversing Galen's dictum, he says
that they dilate as bags and not as bellows. This point of funda
mental, practical, as well as theoretical, importance is most admirably
demonstrated, not only by experiment, but by pathological illus
trations.
    One of the weightiest arguments in Harvey's demonstration of the
circulation is based upon the comparison of the quantity of blood
driven out of the heart, at each beat, with the total quantity of blood
in the body. This, so far as I know, is the first time that quanti
tative considerations are taken into account in the discussion of a
physiological problem. But one of the most striking differences
between ancient and modern physiological science, and one of the
chief reasons of the rapid progress of physiology in the last half
century, lies in the introduction of exact quantitative determination
into physiological experimentation and observation. The moderns
use means of accurate measurement, which their forefathers neither
possessed nor could conceive, inasmuch as they are products of
mechanical skill of the last hundred years, and of the advance of
branches of science which hardly existed, even in germ, in the seven
teenth century.
    Having attained to a knowledge of the circulation of the blood,

1878.]                      on William Harvey.                       497
and of the conditions on which its motion depends, Harvey had a
ready deductive solution for problems which had puzzled the older
physiologists. Thus the true significance of the valves in the veins
became at once apparent. Of no importance while the blood is
flowing in its normal course towards the heart, they at once oppose
any accidental reversal of its current, which may arise from the pressure
of adjacent muscles, or the like. And, in like manner, the swelling
of the veins on the further side of the ligature, which so much
troubled Caesalpinus, became at once intelligible, as the natural result
of tho damming up of the returning current.
     In addition to the great positive results which are contained in the
treatise which Harvey modestly calls an ' Exercise,' and which is, in
truth, not so long as many a pamphlet about some wholly insignificant
affair, its pages are characterized by such precision and simplicity of
statement, such force of reasoning, and such a clear comprehension of
the methods of inquiry and of the logic of physical science, that it
holds a unique rank among physiological monographs. Under this
aspect, I think I may fairly say that it has rarely been equalled and
never surpassed.
     Such being the state of knowledge among his contemporaries, and
such the immense progress effected by Harvey, it is not wonderful
that the publication of tho ' Exercitatio ' produced a profound sensa
tion. And the best indirect evidence of the originality of its author,
and of the revolutionary character of his views, is to be found in the
multiplicity and the virulence of the attacks to which they were at
 once subjected.
     Kiolan, of Paris, had the greatest reputation of any anatomist of
those days, and he followed the course which is usually adopted by
the men of temporary notoriety towards those of enduring famo.
According to Riolan, Harvey's theory of the circulation was not
 true ; and besides that, it was not new ; and, furthermore, he invented
 a mongrel doctrine of his own, composed of the old views with as
 much of Harvey's as it was safe to borrow, and tried therewith to fish
 credit for himself out of the business.
          •            *              •            •            •
     Even those who gave Harvey their general approbation and
 support sometimes failed to apprehend the value of some of those parts
 of his doctrine which are, indeed, merely auxiliary to the theory
 of the circulation, but are only a little less important than it.
 Harvey's great friend and champion, Sir George Ent, is in this case ;
 and I am sorry to be obliged to admit that Descartes falls under the
 same reprehension.      This great philosopher, mathematician, and
physiologist, whose conception of the phenomena of life as the results
of mechanism is now playing as great a part in physiological science
as Harvey's own discovery, nover fails to speak with admiration, as
 Harvey gratefully acknowledges, of the new theory of the circulation.
 And it is astonishing, I had almost said humiliating, to find that even
 ho is unable to grasp Harvey's profoundly true view of the nature of

498                            Professor Huxley                     [Jan. 25,
the systole and the diastole, or to see the force of the quantitative
argument. He adduces experimental evidence against the former
position, and is even further from the truth than Galen was in his
ideas of the physical cause of the circulation.
     In spite of all opposition, the doctrine of the circulation pro
pounded by Harvey was, in its essential features, universally adopted
within thirty years of the time of its publication. Harvey's friend,
Thomas Hobbes, remarked that he was the only man, in his experience,
who had the good fortune to live long enough to see a new doctrine
accepted by the world at large.
      I proposed at the outset of this discourse to say something about
the method of inquiry which Harvey pursued, and which guided him
throughout his successful career of discovery.
           •             •              •              •            •
      On the faith of a conversation reported by Robert Boyle, Harvey
is said to have declared that he discovered the circulation of the
blood by reasoning deductively from the disposition of the valves of
the veins. On this I may remark, firstly, that the words imputed to
Harvey by no means warrant this conclusion ; secondly, that if they
did, the statement could not be true, because we have Harvey's
own evidence to the contrary; and thirdly, that if the conclusion
were warranted by the words reported, and were not contradicted
by Harvey himself, it would still be worthless, because it is im
possible to prove the circulation of the blood from any such data.
What Robert Boyle says is this :—" And I remember, that when I
asked our famous Harvey, in the only discourse I had with him
(which was but a while before he died), what were the things that
induced him to think of a circulation of the blood ? he answered
me, that when he took notice that the valves in the veins of so many
parts of the body were so placed, that they gave free passage to tho
blood towards the heart, but opposed the passago of the venal blood
the contrary way : he was invited to imagine that so provident a
 cause as nature had not so placed so many valves without design ;
 and no design seemed more probable, than that since the blood
 could not well, because of tho interposing valves, be sent by the veins
 to the limbs, it should be sent through the arteries and return through
 the veins, whose valves did not oppose its course that way."*
      I have no doubt that it may be quite true, that Harvey was
" induced " to " think of a circulation of the blood " by considering
the disposition of the valves of the veins ; just as Cassalpinus might
have been led to the same thought ; and then might have found out
the true state of. the case, if he had taken the hints which nature gave
him, and had used the proper means of investigation in order to
     * A Disquisition about the Final Causes of Natural Things.—Boyle's Works,
 vol. v. p. 427.

1878.]                          on William Harvey.                              499
discover whether those hints were valuable or worthless. Harvey
must have learned the views of his master Fabricjus ; and it is
likely enough that to his acute mind Fabricius's explanation of the
functions of the valves seemed rather lame. But, as a matter of
fact, Harvey did not reason out the circulation from the datum of the
valves. On this point his own words, in the passage which contains
the fullest account of the considerations which led him to the doctrine
of the circulation, leave no doubt whatever: —
     Thus far I have spoken of the passage of the blond from the veins into the
arteries,* and of the manner in which it is transmitted and distributed by the
action of the heart ; nnd thus far some, perhaps, moved by the authority of Galen,
or of Columbus, or by the reasonings of other authors, will agree with me. But
when I proceed to what remains to be said concerning the quantity and the
origin of the blood thus trnnsmitted (though it is highly worthy of considera
tion) it will seem so new and unheard of, that I not only fear injury to myself
from the envy of a few ; but I dread lest I miike all mankind my enemies. So
much does custom, or teaching once accepted and fixed by deep roots, weigh with
 all ; and such is the influence of the venerable opinion of antiquity. However
this may be, now that the die is cast, my hope lies in the candour of lovers of
truth and of learned minds. Indeed, when I thought often and seriously upon
 how lar^'e the quantity [of transmitted blood] is ; upon my dissections of living
animals (for the purposes of experiment) and the opening of arteries and the
 many considerations arising therefrom ; as well as upon the magnitude and the
symmetry of the ventricles of the heart and of the vessels which enter and leave
 tnem (since nature makes nothing in vain, so great a size proportionally would
not be given to these vessels without an object) ; and upon the elaborate
 mechanism of the valves and fibres, and of the rest of the structure of the heart ;
as well as of many other things ; and when I long turned over in my mind, what
 might be the quantity of the transmitted blood ; in how short a time its trans
 mission might be eflected ; whether that quantity could be supplied by the juices
 of the food ingested ; I came at length to the conclusion that the veins would
 become collapsed and empty, while the arteries, on the other hand, would be
 ruptured, by the excess of blood poured in them ; unless there were some
 road by which the blood could at length run back from the arteries into the
 veins and return to the right ventricle of the heart. So I began to think
 whether there was a kind of motion as it were in a circle ; this I afterwards
 found to be true.t
       In all this very full and interesting account of the course of
Harvey's inquiry, it will be observed that not one word is said about
 the valves of the veins. The valves of which he speaks are those of
 the heart, which had been known, as I have pointed out, ever since
 the days of Erasistratus.
      Finally, I venture to affirm that Harvey did not deduce the circu
lation from the disposition of the valves of the veins, because it is
logically impossible that any such conclusion should be deduced from
     * In the preceding chapter (vii.) Harvey has been discussing the passage of
the blood through the lungs, supporting his views, among other arguments, by
the authority of Galen and of Columbus; and it must bo remembered that he
termed the pulmonary artery veni artcriosa, and the pulmonary vein artcria venosa.
Wherefore lie properly speaks of the passage of the blood " from the veins into the
arteries."
     t (Julielmi Harveji. ' Exercitationes Anatomica2.' Exercitatio I. cap. viii. ed.
 1660.

500               Professor Huxley on William Harvey.             [Jan. 25,
such premises. The only conclusion which is warranted by the
presence of valves in the veins is, that such valves will tend to place
a certain amount of obstacle in the way of a liquid flowing in a direc
tion opposite to that in which the valves are inclined. The amount
of obstacle, from mere impediment to absolute barring of the way,
will depend upon the form and disposition of the valves ; upon their
inertia, or stillness of motion, in relation to the force of the current of
liquid ; and, above all, upon the firmness or yieldingness of the walls
of the tube to which they arc attached. The valve which hermetically
closes the passage through an iron pipe may be of no use in an india-
rubber tube. Therefore, unless the action of such valves as exist in
the veins were carefully tested by experiment on the living animal,
any conclusions that might be based upon their presence would be
of doubtful valuo, and might be interpreted either in tho sense of
Fabricius, or in that of Harvey.
    Moreover, supposing that it could be proved that, in those veins in
which valves exist, the blood can move only in one way, what is to
be said about the numerous veins which have no valves ? And,
unless we already know upon experimental grounds that the walls of
the cavities of the heart contract in a certain definite order ; that the
arteries are full of blood and not of air ; and a number of other
important facts which can only be experimentally determined ; what
good is it to know that there are valves in the veins ? There are
valves in the lymphatics as well as in the veins, and yet anyone who
concluded therefrom that tho lymph circulates after the manner of
the blood would make a woeful mistake.
    The fact is that neither in this, nor in any, physiological problem
can mere deductive reasoning from dead structure tell us what
part that structure plays when it is a living component of a living
body. Physiology attempts to discover the laws of vital activity,
and these laws are obviously ascertainable only by observation and
experiment upon living things.
    In tho case of the circulation of the blood, as in that of all other
great physiological doctrines, take away the truths which have been
learned by observation and experiment on living structures, and
the whole fabric crumbles away. Galen, Columbus, Harvey, were
all great vivisectors. And the final ocular demonstration of the
circulation of the blood by Malpighi, seven years after Harvey's
death—the keystone of the fabric he raised—involved an experiment
on a living frog.

  1878.]            Mr. W. H. Preece on the Telephone.               501
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, February 1, 1878.
        Warren Dr la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
       William Henry Prreoe, Memb. Inst. C.E. M.RJ. &c. &c.
                              The Telephone.
 The telephone is an instrument constructed for the transmission of
 sound to a distance. The art of conveying sound to a distance is as
 old as the ancient Sphinx. That marvellous people the Greeks
 practised it ; and doubtless it has served to inspire awe in many a
 poor pagan of simple faith as he reverently kneeled before his idol of
 stone or of bronze. The earliest authentic account of the germ
 of the telephone was within the historical period of science
 shadowed forth by Robert Hooke in 1667, who said:—
     " 'Tis not impossible to hear a whisper at a furlong's distance, it
 having been already done ; and perhaps the nature of the thing
 would not make it more impossible, though that furlong should be
ten times multiply'd. And though some famous Authors have
affirm'd it impossible to hear through the thinnest plate of Muscovy
glass ; yet I know a way, by which 'tis easie enough to hear one
speak through a wall a yard thick. It has not yet been thoroughly
examin'd how far Otacousticons may be improv'd, nor what other
wayes there may be of quickning our hearing, or conveying sound
through other bodies than the Air : for that that is not the only
medium I can assure the Beader, that I have, by the help of a
distended wire, propagated the sound to a very considerable distance
in an instant, or with as seemingly quick a motion as that of light,
at least incomparably quicker than that which at the same time was
propagated through the Air ; and this not only in a straight line, or
direct, but in one bended in many angles."
     This fancy remained an idea until 1819, when Wheatstone pro
duced his " magic lyre," which was exhibited to delighted crowds at
the Adelaide Gallery, which was often used by Professor Faraday
and which has frequently since been produced by Professor Tyndall
at the Royal Institution. A large musical box was placed in one of
the cellars of the Institution, and a light rod of deal rested upon it.
No sound was heard in the theatre until a light tray or other sounding-
box was placed by the writer on the rod, when its music pealed forth
    Vol. VIII. (No. 68.)                                     2 N

502                         Mr. W. H. Preete                     [Feb. 1,
over the whole place. This was the first telephone, and was the
precursor of those elegant toy-telephones which are now sold in the
streets for a penny.
     The vibrations of the musical box, with all their complexity and
beauty, are imparted to the rod of wood, and are thence given up to
the sounding-box. The sounding-box impresses them upon the air,
and the air conveys them to the ear, whence they are transmitted to
the brain, imparting those agreeable sensations called music. Sono
rous vibrations, whether the result of music, of the human voice, or
of mere noise, vary in pitch, in loudness, and in clangtint. The
pitch of a note is dependent on the length of its sonorous vibration,
or on the number of sound-waves which enter the ear per second ; the
loudness of a note depends on the amplitude of the air-wave, or on
the length of swing to and fro of the particles of air in vibration ; the
clangtint, or quality of the note, depends upon the form or rate of
motion of these particles. The limits of the ear to the reception of
notes are between 16 and 38,000 vibrations per second, and the limits
of the human voice are between 65 and 1044 vibrations per second.
The amplitude of vibrations is very small. Lord Rayleigh has shown
that a motion of only ago nWtnr^1 of ttn inen *8 sufficient to produce
audible sounds.
     Vibrations of matter are essential to the production of sound, and
the presence of air is essential to convey it to our cars.
     It is possible to catch up these sonorous vibrations by placing
elastic matter in their path. Thus glasses can be cracked by a loud
bass voice ; bodies are made to rattle in a room where music is going
on ; and it is only necessary to sing into a piano to receive back
responsive sounds. A thin copper disc held before the mouth vibrates
to each sound uttered, and if a hard metallic point be adjusted near
it, sounds loud enough to fill the theatre are emitted. Acting upon
this, Mr. W. H. Barlow, C.E., produced before the Royal Society in
1874 his logograph, which recorded in varying lines and curves spoken
language. Here is such a line, which records the pitch, loudness,
and form of the sounds emitted by the lips of the speaker, and
reproducing all the elements of the voice. See Fig. 1.
     The transmission of sonorous vibrations by Wheatstone's tele
phone is very limited—the distance traversed can be measured by
yards. To transmit or reproduce them at distances beyond the
reach of the ear or the eye, measured by miles, we call in the aid of
electricity.
     An electric curront when transmitted around a bar of iron converts
that bar of iron for the time being into a magnet. When a momentary
current is sent around the iron it is magnetized, and then demag
netized. Page, in 1837, showed that these operations, when repeated
with sufficient rapidity, produced sounds which he called " galvanic
music." The bar of iron alters its form, it in fact vibrates, and
these vibrations are imparted to the air.
     Again, this bar of iron, when magnetized, will attract another piece

 1878.]                      on the Telephone.                     503
 of iron in its neighbourhood, and if this second bar be an armature
 with a certain amount of resilience or elasticity, it can be made to
 vibrate in a similar way and give forth musical sounds, when the
 currents are sent with the necessary rapidity. This was done by
 Elisha Gray and Alexander Graham Bell, in 1873. But electricity
exerts attraction in another way. The inside and outside coating of
                                   Fig. 1.
                  The minstrel boy to the war is gone,
                  In the ranks of death you'll find him ;
                  His father's sword he has girded on,
                  And his wild harp slung behind him.
a Leyden jar, for instance, attract each other when they are charged
with electricity, but they are prevented from moving by the rigid
glass between them. If this glass be supplanted by dry paper and
the two coatings lie flat against the paper, one on each side, then
they will move, and if the charges and discharges be rapid enough
the tin -foil will vibrate and give forth sounds. This was done
by Cromwell Varley, in 1870. Again, an electric current when it
passes through a liquid, or an electrolyte, decomposes it into its
constituent parts. If it passes through water it decomposes it into
oxygen and hydrogen. If paper be damped with water, or better,
with a solution of sulphate of soda^ and the paper be drawn between
two springs, pressing it with a certain pressure, then every time a
current passes a layer of hydrogen will be deposited on one spring,
the friction between that spring and the paper will be reduced, and
the paper will be jerked forward. If the currents follow each other
with proper rapidity these jerks will become sonorous vibrations, and
loud sounds will be produced if the spring be connected with a
sounding-board. This was done by Edison in 1877. Elisha Gray,
                                                          2 n 2

504                          Mr. W. E. Preece                     [Feb. 1,
as early as 1873, showed that similar sounds could bo produced by
the finger when pressed against a revolving tin disc, if currents were
sent through the body in proper order. Hence sounds can be
produced by the electric current in various ways.
    It has already been shown how a copper disc, or, indeed, any elastic
diaphragm, can be made to vibrate under the influence of sonorous
vibrations, and if these vibrations be simply made to complete an
electric circuit, then currents of electricity can be sent to any distance
for every excursion to and fro made by the diaphragm. If these
currents be sent through the primary wire of an induction coil, and
the secondary wire be in connection with a vacuum tube, rotating
with regular velocity, then for each note that is sounded a different
figure will be found by the tube, and it will be seen that every note
is distinguished by a different number of currents or by a different
pitch.* On this principle Riess constructed the first electric telephone
in 1861. A vibrating diaphragm transmitted its currents of electricity
                                     Fig. 2.
                 0             Siess's Telephone.
                                                                S
for each note sounded, and a magnetized and demagnetized knitting-
needle repeated these notes on Page's principle. Varley in 1870,
and Gray in 1873, repeated these experiments with vibrating tuning-
forks and vibrating reeds. Both Edison and Bell have also produced
musical telephones, but all these instruments reproduce the pitch of
the note only. Something more was required to produce loudness
and clangtint, and this was done by Alexander Graham Bell. He
succeeded in producing currents of electricity which varied in dura
tion, intensity, and form exactly with the length, amplitude, and form
                This experiment is due to Mr. H. Edmunds, jun.

1878.J                      on the Telephone.                        505
of the sonorous vibrations, and thus he succeeded in reproducing the
tones of the human voice, with all their variations and peculiarities.
    In nearly all the applications of electricity to useful purposes, we
have to fall back upon one or other of the grand discoveries made in
this very Institution by the immortal Faraday. He showed in 1831
how motion in a magnetic field produces currents of electricity. If a
coil of wire be suddenly lifted off the poles of a permanent magnet, a
current of electricity will be inducod in that coil which can ring a
bell or do other useful work. If the wire be wound permanently
around the poles of the magnet, and a disc or bar of iron be moved in
front of that magnet, not only will a current of electricity be induced
for every motion of that disc, but the form and strength of that
current will vary with the motion of the disc. This is beautifully
shown with a Thomson's reflecting galvanometer. Every motion of
that disc, however rapid and however minute, will call forth its
corresponding current.
    We have now all the requisites for what the Germans call the
Fernsprecher or " far-speaker," or for what we know as the " articu-
                                  Fig. 3.
                               LINE
       Q
                              Delta Telephone.
                                                                0
lating telephone," an instrument constructed for the reproduction of
human speech at a distance. All that is needed is a permanent
magnet, surrounded at one pole by a coil of wire and fixed in front of
an elastic disc of thin soft iron. The coil of wire has one end in
connection with the earth and the other in connection with the line

506                        Mr. W. H. Preece                       [Feb. 1,
wire which is connected at the distant station with an exactly similar
coil surrounding a similar magnet placed before a similar disc.
There is no battery, there are no accessory apparatus; all that is
needed to speak is there. The two instruments are exactly reversible
—the same instrument may be used either for speaking or for listen
ing. The one disc is held before the mouth of the speaker at one
station, the other disc is held to the ear of the listener at the other
station. The voice throws the air into vibration. These vibrations
are imparted to the iron disc. The motion of the iron disc, by
changing the strength of magnetism of the magnet, produces cur
rents of electricity. These currents of electricity traverse the line
and the coil at the distant station, and vary the strength of the mag
netism of the magnet at that station. This variation of magnetism
varies the attraction between the magnet and the disc. The disc is
thrown into vibration, and the vibrations of the disc are imparted to
the air, which conveys them to the ear and thence to the brain. Now
the vibrations of the first disc, the currents of electricity, the attrac
tions between the second magnet and the second disc, and the vibra
tions of the second disc, all vary exactly in a similar ratio and in a
similar way. The vibrations of the second disc become an exact
reproduction of the first disc—the one is in fact an echo of the other—-
so that whatever sound is produced in front of the first disc is exactly
reproduced at the other, but with diminished power only. The first
disc is only able to take up a portion of the sonorous vibrations of the
speaker, and much of the actual energy of the voice is lost in over
coming the resistance of the disc and in heating the wires. Hence
the sounds emitted at the second station are weaker than those at the
first, but they possess the same articulation, the same tone, and the
same peculiarities. The currents that perform this work are of
microscopic strength. It has been calculated that they must be less
than TBoooao^ of the ordinary working currents employed in tele
graphy. Indeed we have no instruments at present capable of
measuring them. Nevertheless the distances through which conversa
tion has been maintained are marvellous. Professor Bell spoke from
New York to Boston, 260 miles. The writer has spoken between
Holyhead and Dublin, 70 miles. Conversation between Dover and
Calais was maintained by Mr. Bordeaux with great ease. Captain
Turner, B.E., whispered between London and Ipswich, 68 miles. But
this assumes the lines to be clear and free from working wires. If the
telephonic circuit be carried on the same poles or in the same pipes
as working wires, the instrument is so delicate that it is disturbed by
the induction currents that are set up in the telephonic wire by the
primary currents in the working wires. This limits the distance to
which conversation is possible. On busy trunk lines it has been
found impossible to speak to greater distances than five miles.
     It has been shown that discs vibrate under the influence of
sonorous vibrations, and that these vibrations can be recorded. If

1878.J                       on the Telephone.                       507
these records be made on some yielding inelastic mass like tin-foil,
they not only become permanent records, but they can be made to
cause a similar disc at any future time to repeat or reproduce similar
 vibrations. Mr. T. A. Edison, of New York, has succeeded on this
 principle in constructing a " Phonograph," which repeats the voice
of the speaker. He has crystallized into a fact the ideal of the poet
 who longed " for the sound of a voice that is stilL"
     The Phonograph is the outcome of the articulating telephone.
 Though several have added their share in perfecting the " far-
speaker," there is no name in connection with it that will shine with
 greater brilliancy than that of Alexander Graham Bell. His father's
 occupation of a vocal physiologist led him to study the vocal organs
 and the production of sound. Helmholtz's researches led him to
 investigate electricity and its application to telegraphy. The desire
 to increase the capacity of wires for the conveyance of messages led
him to devise systems of multiplex telegraphy, and this by steady
and sensible degrees led him to articulate telephony. We have here
a notable example of the modern method of research where imagina
tion suggests experiment, and experiment by evolution produces
growth and perfection. Things that are new are not always accepted
as true. The accounts of the telephone were received in this country
with great scepticism. Many even now doubt its truth until they
actually test its reality. When once, however, a new thing is shown
to be true, a host of detractors delight in proving that it is not new.
The inventor has to pass through the ordeal of abuse. He is shown
to be a plagiarist or a purloiner, or something worse. Others are
instanced as having done the same thing years ago, though perhaps
their own existence apart from their ideas have never before been
heard of. Professor fiell will have to go through all this ; never
theless the telephone will always be associated with his name, and it
will remain one of the marvels of this marvellous age, while its
chief marvel will be its beautiful and exquisite simplicity.
                                                           [W. H. P.]

508                        General Monthly Meeting.                   [Feb. 4,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, February 4, 1878.
      Warrbn Db la Hue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                  Col. George Sligo Alexander Anderson,
                  Henry Sanders Carpenter, Esq.
                  Robert Burgoyne, Esq.
                  Lieut.-Col. Edmund Bentley Frith,
                  The Lord Claud Hamilton,
                  Edmund Haynes, Esq.
                  Charles Mallet, Esq.
                  Josiah Pierce, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were given to William
Bowman, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, for his Present of an Ivory Bust of
Professor Faraday, by the late Matthew Norle, M.RI.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
The India Office—F. Day : The Fishes of India, Vol. I. 4to. 1876.
The Lords of the Admiralty (through the Astronomer Royal)—Greenwich Observa
     tions for 1875. 4to. 1877.
  Col. J. F. Tennant : Report on the Transit of "Venus, as seen at Roorkee and
     Lahore, Dec. 8, 1874. 4to. 1877.
  E. J. Stone : Eesults of Astronomical Observations at the Cape of Good Hope
     in 1874. 8vo. 1877.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, New Series, Vol. IV. ; Old
     Series, Vol. XIV. 8vo. 1877.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 69. 8vo. 1863.
Asiatic Society, Eoyal—Journal, New Series, Vol. X. No. 1. 8vo. 1877.
Asiatic Society, Royal, Bombay Branch—Journal, No. 34a. 8vo. 1877.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, 1877, Part II. No. 2. 8vo.
  Proceedings, 1877, No. 6. 8vo.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVIII. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
     1877-8.
  Memoirs, Vol. XLIII. 4to. 1877.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal — Sitzungsberichte, 1877, Heft 2. 8vo.
     1877.
Briggs, R. Esq. (t/ie Author)—On the Relation of Moisture in the Air to Health
     and Comfort. (Franklin Inst. Journal, Vol. CV. 1878.) 8vo.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1877-8, Nos. 3, 4, 5, 6.
     4to.

1878.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                        ¦ 609
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Oriental Coins, Vol. III. 8vo. 1877.
   Catalogue of Greek Coins: Tauric, Cliersonese, Thrace, &c. 8vo. 1877.
   Catalogue of Prints and Drawings: Division 1, Satires, Vol. III. 1734-60.
     2 Parts. 8vo. 1877.
Brussels Royal Observatory—Annales Meteorologiques, 1874-5-6. 4to. 1875-7.
Chemical Society—Journal, Dec. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 8vo.
Church, Professor A. H. M.A. M.R.I, {the Author)—Plain Words about Water.
     (K 102) 8vo. 1877.
Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. X. 8vo. 1877.
Coutis, John, Esq. (the Author)—Philosophy of the Seven Principles found iu
     Creation : by which Revelation and Science are found to be in Complete
     Harmony. 12uio. 1877.
Editors—American Journal of Science for Dec. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 8vo.
   AnnlyBt for Deo. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for Dec. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 4to.
   Chemical News for Deo. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 4to.
   Engineer for Dec. 1877 and Jan. 1878. fol.
   Horological Journal for Dec. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 8vo.
   Journal for Applied Science for Dec. 1877 and Jan. 1878. fol.
   Nature for Dec. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Dec. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Deo. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for Dec. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 8vo.
 Frankland, Professor, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author) — Experimental
     Researches in Pure, Applied, and Physical Chemistry. 8vo. 1877.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 624, 625. 8vo. 1877.
Geographical Society, Royal— Proceedings, Vol. XXII. No. 1. 8vo. 1877.
 Geological Survey of India—Records, Vol. X. Part 4. 8vo. 1877.
Gladstone, J. H. Ph.D. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Spelling Reform from an
     Educational
Harlem,            Point of View.
          Societe Hollandaise       16to. 1878.
                               des Sciences — Archives Ne¦erlandaises, Tome XII.
     Liv. 2, 3, 4, 5. 8vo. 1877.
   Natuurkundige Verhandelingen, 3de Verz. Deel II. No. 6. 4to. 1877.
Harrison, W. H. Esq. (the Author)—The Lazy Lays and Prose Imaginings. 16to.
     1877.
Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society—The Archbishop of York's Address :
     " The Worth of Life." (L 17) 8vo. 1877.
Lindsay, The Lord, M.P. M.R.I.—Dun Echt Publications, Vol. II. Mauritius
     Expedition, Division 1. 4to. 1877.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, No. 94. 8vo. 1877.
London Institution—Journal, Nos. 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 29, 30 ; and Selected Notes
     of Lectures, 1876-7. 8vo. 1873-7.
Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XrV. Parts 15, 16. 8vo.
     1877-8.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, November, 1877. 8vo.
Melsens, M. (the Author)—Des Paratonnerres. 8vo. 1877.
Meteorological Office—Quarterly Weather Report, 1875, Parts 1, 2. 4to. 1877.
New Zealand Government—Statistics for 1876. fol. 1877.
North of England Institute of Mining Engineers—Transactions, Vol. XXVI. 8vo.
     1877.
Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. II. Nos. 2, 3. 8vo. 1877.
Plateau, J. Hon. M.R.I, (the Author)— Bibliographie Analytique des Principalix
     Phenomenes Subjectifs de la Vision. (M 8) 4to. 1877.
 Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Sept. Oct. 1877. 8vo.
Reynolds, J. Emerson, M.D. (the Author)—Influence of Chemical Constitution on
     Physiological Activity. (K 102) 8vo. 1877.
   Trin. Coll. Laboratory Reports, 4, 5 (Royal Dublin Society, Proceedings).
     8vo. 1877.

510                           Weekly Evening Meeting.                    [Feb. 8,
llossflti, Signor Care. F. (the Author)—Di Alcuni Progress! nelle Scienze Fisiclie.
      (K 102) 8vo. 1878.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XXVIII. Part 1. 4to. 1876-7.
   Proceedings, Nos. 96-99. 8vo. 1876-7.
Royal Society of London— Proceedings, No. 184. 8vo. 1877.
Royal Society of New South Walee—H. C. Bussell : Climate of New South Wales.
      8vo. 1877.
    Railways of New South Wales, 1872-5. fol. 1876.
   Annual Report on Department of Mines for 1876. 4to. 1877.
    0. Robinson: Progress and Resources of New South Wales. (K 102) 8vo.
       1877.
   Journal of Proceedings of the Royal Society of New South Wales, Vol. X. 8vo.
      1877.
 Russell, The Lord Arthur, M.P. M.R.I.—G. von Buquoy: Skizzen zu einem
      Gesetzbuche der Natur. Neu Auflnge, Leipzig. 1 825.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Reports, Vol. XII. 8vo. 1877.
St. Petersburg, Acadimie dee Sciences—Bulletins, Tome XXIV. Nos. 2, 3. 4to.
      1877.
Sheplierd, A. B. M.D. M.A. M.R.I, (the Author)—Goulstonian Lectures on the
      Natural History of Pulmonary Consumption. 8vo. 1877.
Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.—Annual Report for 1876. 8vo. 1877.
Symons, G. J.—Monthly Meteorological Magazine, Dec. 1877 and Jan. 1878. 8vo.
 Tennant, Professor—D. Jeffries : Treatise on Diamonds and Pearls. 4tli edition.
      16to. 1871.
 Twining, Thomas, Esq. M.R.I.—Reference Catalogue of Current Literature. 8vo.
      1875.
 United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 93. 8vo. 1877.
 United Siates Geological Survey—Ninth Annual Report: by F. V. Hayden, for
      1875. 8vo. 1877.
 United States Government Survey—Elliott Coues : Fur-bearing Animals. 8vo.
      1877.
 Upsal Royal Society of Sciences—Nova Acta : In Memoriam Quattuor Seculorum
      ab Universitate Upsalieusi peractorum. Volumen Extra Ordinem. 4to. 1877.
 Vaux, W. 8. W. Esq. M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Greek Cities and Islands
      of Asia Minor. 16to. 1877.
 Vereins zur Befvrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandelungen, 1877 :
      Heft 9, 10. 4to.
 Wilde, M. H.—Repertorium fiir Meteorologie, Band V. Heft 2, and Supple-
      mentband, Erste Halfte. 4to. 1877.
 Woods, Edward, Esq. C.E. M.R.I, (the Author)—On Adequate Brake-power for
      Railway-trains. (K 102) 8vo. 1877.
 Yorkshire Archaeological and Topographical Association—Journal, Parts 17, 18.
      8vo. 1877.
                      WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, February 8, 1878.
     The Lord Aethur Ktjbsell, M.P. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                              Matthew Abnold, Esq.
                                     Equality.
    [This Discourse is printed in full in the 'Fortnightly Review' for March,
1878, vol. xxiii. n.s. p. 313.]

1878.]        Mr. P. L. Sclaler on Zoological Distribution.         511
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 15, 1878.
William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Tr. B.S. Secretary and
                      Vice-President, in the Chair.
                P. L. Solater, Esq. M.A. Ph.D. F.R.S.
           Zoological Distribution, and some of its Difficulties.
Aftkr pointing out that " locality " is quite as much a part of the
proper characters of natural groups of animals as form and structure,
the lecturer spoke of " specific " and " generic " areas, and of the
doctrine of their continuity. He then treated of "representative
species," and showed that, while insular representative species are
usually distinct, continental representative species are not unfre-
quently found to be connected together by intermediate forms. The
only hypothesis that would explain these and other phenomena of
" distribution " was that of the derivative origin of species. But the
question was, were there not exceptional cases of distribution which
threw difficulties in the way of the universal adoption of this hypo
thesis ? It must be admitted by all who had studied distribution in
any group of animals that there were many such difficult cases. The
lecturer then proceeded to call attention to six cases of abnormal
distribution in the classes of mammals, birds, and reptiles, namely :—
     1. The Little Blue Magpie of Spain.—The general character of
the birds of Spain did not differ materially from that of the rest of
Southern Europe, although a few North African species intruded into
its limits. One little bird only seemed to have been introduced from
afar, and disturbed the general uniformity. The little blue magpie
of Spain {Cyanopica cooki) had not only no near relatives in the rest of
Europe, but we must go to the farthest part of Siberia and Northern
China before we met with its true allies. Here was found the Cyano
pica cyanea, so closely allied to the Spanish bird as to be barely
distinguishable. This was, therefore, an undoubted instance of a
discontinuous generic, if not specific, area, and in order to bring it
within ordinary rules it was necessary to suppose that the parent-
form had been formerly existent throughout Europe and Central Asia,
but had for some reason become extinct in those countries.
    2. Oxyrhamphus and Neomorphus.—These two South American
genera of birds offered somewhat parallel cases of broken distribution.
Of the peculiar Passerine form Oxyrhamphus, only two very closely
allied species were known, one CO, fiammiceps) in South-eastern
Brazil, and the other (0. frater) in Central America, the genus being
quite unrepresented in the intermediate countries. In the Cuculine
genus Neomorphus, the Central American form (N. salvini) was again

512                         Mr. P. L. Sclater                  [Feb. 15,
very nearly similar to the Brazilian (N. geoffroyi), whereas in the
intermediate countries three other quite distinct species were known
to occur.
    3. Pitta angolensis. —Not less than from thirty to forty species of
the brilliantly coloured birds of the genus Pitta were known to
science, distributed from India, on the north, through the great Asiatic
islands into Northern Australia. But one single Pitta, in every way
typical in structure, and closely allied to an Indian species, occurred
in a limited district of Western Africa, the genus being quite unknown
in intermediate localities. This was a clear instance of a discon
tinuous generic area.
     4. The Solenodon of the Antilles.—The insectivorous mammals,
according to the best authorities, constituted ten different families,
which were mostly restricted to the Palearctic, Indian, and Ethiopian
regions, and were entirely unrepresented in Australia and South
America. Two families only extended into the nortion portion of the
New World, the moles (Talpicke) and the shrews (Sorecidce). But
there was one vory exceptional case. The genus Solenodon, two
species of which were known from two islands in the West Indies,
belonged not to the shrews or moles, but to the family Centetidat,
otherwise entirely confined to Madagascar. If, therefore, the descent
of Solenodon and Centetes from a common ancestor were assumed, the
following assumptions must also bo made. First, that the West
India Islands had been united by land to Africa ; and secondly, that
the Centetidce had formerly extended all through Africa, where there
were now no traces of them.
     5. The Distribution of Lemurs.—Recalling Solenodon to our minds,
we might well have expected that the Lemurs, one of the most pre
valent and characteristic mammal groups of Madagascar, would have
had allies in America, but such was not the case. The only members
of this group not found in Madagascar wore met with in Africa and
parts of the Indian region. It was therefore manifest that, assuming
 the origin of the Lemurs from a common source, a continent must
have formerly existed in the Indian Ocean, and formed the ancient
home of the Lemurine family, of which the fragments were now so
widely sundered. It would, however, be difficult to reconcile this
hypothesis with that of the former land-connection of Madagascar
with the Antilles through Africa, previously adverted to.
     6. The Giant Land Tortoises.—The giant land tortoises, which
had lately formed the subject of the elaborate studies of Dr. Giinther,
presented a still more extraordinary instance of anomalous distribution.
 These animals now only existed in the Galapagos Islands and on the
coral reef of Aldabra, north-west of Madagascar, but a third group,
 which formerly inhabited the Mascarene Islands, had only recently
 become extinct. In order to derive these three groups of allied
 species from the same stock, it would be necessary to assume first that
 Giant Land Tortoises were formerly distributed all over South
 America and Africa, where no traces of them now existed ; secondly,

1878.]                 on Zoological Distribution.                   513
to suppose that the Galapagos were formerly united to America ; and,
thirdly, that the Aldabra reef had once formed part of land that
was joined to the African coast. But even then all the difficulties
would not have been surmounted, for it appeared that the Mascarene
form of these tortoises was moro nearly allied to that of the Gala
pagos than to that of Aldabra. It would further have to be assumed
therefore, in order to bring these facts into harmony with the usual
theory, that the Mascarene Islands had remained united to the African
coast after the Aldabra reef had been separated from it.
     These six cases were only selected instances of the many diffi
culties met with in endeavouring to account for all the known facts
of distribution by the hypothesis of the derivative origin of species.
It would be easy for those who had studied distribution in any group
of animals to add to them almost indefinitely. Two other more
general phenomena of distribution, which it appeared to be difficult to
reconcile with the derivative hypothesis, were also briefly adverted to,
these were the existence of " tropicopolitan " forms, that is, of forms
common to the tropics of both hemispheres, and the presence of several
closely allied species in the same area. In the first case, it was
difficult to understand where the continent could have formerly
existed which afforded a home to the ancestors of the similar species
now so widely separated. In the second place, it never appeared to
have been explained satisfactorily how more than one form could have
succeeded to a pre-existing one in the same area, and the hypothesis
that allied forms had always originated in separate areas, and had
come together into the same area by immigration, appeared, in some
cases to be almost untenable.
     These and other minor difficulties had led the author rather to
question whether identity of structure must be taken, without exception,
as an indication of immediate descent from a common parentage. At
any rate, the subject seemed to be one still open for discussion, and
not, as some recent writers had appeared to assume, a matter which
must be regarded as fully and incontrovertibly set at rest.
                                                            [P. L. S.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                      Friday, February 22, 1878.
       Warren dr la Kue, Esq. D.C.L. F.K.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                Professor Odling, M.A. F.R.S. M.B.I.
                       The New Metal, Gallium.
                           [Abstract deferred.]

514                          Dr. B Liebreich                  [March 1,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 1, 1878.
      Geokge Bcsk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                 B. Ltjsrrbch, M.D. M.B.C.S. JLRL
                   The Deterioration of Oil Paintings.
Oil paintings are subject to various kinds of changes, which may
be considered as diseases, requiring different treatment according to
their different nature. A science needs to be formed, a pathology and
therapeutics of oil paintings. The pathology would have to describe
and explain those diseases and their progress, and to develop the
methods by which a correct diagnosis could be arrived at in each in
dividual case. The therapeutics would teach the remedies which
might be applied either to cure or to alleviate the disease, or at least
to stop its progress. A hygiene would follow, which would have to
teach how to avoid pernicious, influences, and which, besides, while
giving precepts for the technical process of painting, would have to
forestall those constitutional diseases which, even in cases where no
noxious influences can be traced, are the causes of decay, after a com
paratively short period of existence. As medical science is above all
things based on Anatomy and Physiology, so the exact knowledge of
the structure of a picture would have to be acquired previously to
any study of its disease. Unfortunately, direct investigation alone can
procure no such exact knowledge : on the contrary, we are obliged to
enter upon a minute historical investigation of the material as well as
of the technical methods adopted by artists of different schools and
different periods.
    The excellent works of Cennino Cennini, Merimee, Sir Charles
Eastlake, Mrs. Merrifield, and others, have already furnished most
valuable material ; but still the field for investigation remains
unlimited; for, in order to enable us to secure the conservation of
each valuable painting, we ought to know exactly how it was made.
The artists of the present time would spare infinite trouble to the in
vestigators of future times, if, along with their works, they would
leave the account of their practice in the case of each picture. A
treatment without exact knowledge of the normal condition, as well
as of the nature of the disease, is, as we shall see, as dangerous for
the picture as it would be in the case of living beings.
    Professional restorers of pictures admit this danger in a general
way ; each of them, however, is convinced that he himself, by his

 1878.]             on the Deterioration of Oil Paintings.           515
personal knowledge, skill, and care knows how to avoid it. The
public pays too little attention to the subject, and therefore it
occurred to me that it might be useful to give a short account of
what we know about this question, of the changes to which oil
paintings are exposed, as well as of the means either to avoid or to
cure them.
     We have to consider, first, the material on which the artist has
painted, that is, as far as oil painting is concerned, principally wood
 and canvas.
     Secondly, the priming, that is, the substance with which the
 surface was prepared in order to be made fit for painting.
     Thirdly, the painting itself, that is, the pigments and vehicles
used for it, and the liquids that were added during the painting, the
 mediums, meguilp, siccative, varnish, essential oils, &c.
     Fourthly, the coat or coats of varnish spread over the picture.
     The wood on which a picture has been painted may either warp,
 or get chinks in it, or become worm-eaten, or even altogether rotten.
 Against warping, the remedy usually applied is moisture. If the
 panel is very thick, it is first made somewhat thinner ; then the back
 is moistened, and the picture is left to lie on its back for twelve to
twenty-four hours, after which time it will be found to have become
 straight. Of course this must not be continued longer than necessary,
otherwise the convex surface, instead of becoming plane, would become
 concave. When straight, the picture is kept so by beads which have
 to be adapted in a particular way, a certain degree of shifting being
 allowed for the expansion and contraction of the wood.
     Cracks in the wood are drawn together by inserting pieces of
wood of a special shape.
     Sublimate solutions are employed to destroy worms.
     Trifling losses of substance are replaced by cement. Small por
tions of rotten wood, not extending too near the painting, are cut out
and replaced by wedge-shaped pieces. If, however, the greater part,
or the whole substance of the panel, is rotten, the picture must be
separated from it and transferred to new wood, or rather to canvas.
     This was first tried by Hacquin in Paris, and was performed
 successfully upon many pictures, and, among others, upon one of
Raphael's Madonnas, in the Gallery du Louvre, and upon Sebastian
del Piombo's ' Resurrection of Lazarus,' now in the National Gallery.
The process no longer appears so very marvellous ; it is generally
executed in the following way :—
     First of all, the surface of the picture is pasted over with gauze
and paper. After that the wood is made straight by moistening, or,
if necessary, by making incisions with the saw, into which cuneiform
pieces of wood are driven. By means of a tenon-saw the panel is to
be sawn into little squares, which must be removed by a chisel, and
in this way the thickness of the wood is reduced to half an inch ; it is
then planed until it becomes no thicker than paper, and the rest is
removed by means of a knife and with the fingers. The painting

 516                          Dr. R Liebreich                 [March 1,
 being thus severed from its basis, it can be fixed on canvas, if the
 priming is sufficiently preserved. In the opposite case, a mixture
 made of chalk and glue, or something of the kind, must be put
 on first, and very evenly smoothed after being dry. This done, the
 new canvas has to be fixed upon it by means of a mixture of glue,
 varnish, and turpentine, and the substance of the picture pressed
tightly and evenly against it by means of warm irons.
     In order to avoid deterioration, the most minute precepts have
 been given for preparing the panel. It has to be taken from the best
 oak, or nut-trees, or cedars. The wood is to be cut into boards
 during winter-time, and kept till autumn before being dried ; it can
 then be prepared only in the following spring, &c. It would certainly
 be preferable to give up wood panels altogether for large pictures,
 and only to think of means to make the canvas stronger. For small
 piotures, panels offer certain advantages, and can be more easily pre
 served from decay.
     In the canvas we meet with the results of injuries or spontaneous
decay. A rent may be mended by rags of linen stuck at the back of
the picture. Even a hole may be filled up by pieces taken from other
decayed paintings. If the picture is considerably damaged, it will be
best to line it. But if the whole canvas is rotten and tattered, it will
 be preferable to sacrifice it by pulling off the threads one by one,
after having secured the painting itself by pasting paper on the front
 of it. This done, the painting is transferred to another canvas in the
same way as those removed from wood.
     There are different modes of priming, which may be brought
under two principal heads : the distemper and the oil priming.
     1. The canvas is distempered by a mixture of chalk or plaster
and paste, or glue, which may be laid on raw, unbleached canvas, or
this latter may be beforehand prepared with glue or paste. Several
coats of this mixture must be put on in succession, one being perfectly
dry before the next can be applied. Many of the older oil paintings
are painted on such ground. It has the advantage of being quicker
prepared, of absorbing the excess of oil, of permitting the colour to
enter into the priming, and to dry quicker, and, moreover, of con
taining a white absolutely innocuous to the other colours.
     The inconveniences, on the other hand, are : that it more easily
breaks, and under the influence of humidity separates from the
canvas.
     2. The oil priming consists of several coats of oil colours. As
each of these must be perfectly dry before the next is laid on, and as,
moreover, time must be given to the whole to dry completely before
painting upon, in order to avoid the sinking in of the colours, the
whole preparation is much slower than the distemper. Nevertheless
it is now generally adopted.
     Key, in France, has pointed out a process which is a compromise
between the two methods : he begins by distempering, and after
several coats of distemper, having dried one after the other, he puts a

1878.]            on the Deterioration of Oil Paintings.            517
coat of oil which, as it were, changes the distempered ground into an
oil-colour ground.
     With oil priming it is of importance that the principal colour be
white-lead, to which are added comparatively small quantities of
yellow, black, or other colours. For a whole century a school,
that of Bologna, predominated in Italy, which abandoned this
principle. During the second half of the 17th and the first half
of the 18th century, most of the Italian masters of other schools
followed its example. Probably for the purpose of obtaining more
easily the desired effect of the chiaroscuro they painted on a
brownish-red priming, which consisted of bolus mixed with umber.
Not one of those pictures has kept its original colouring. Not only
has the priming caused all the dark parts to grow much darker, but
it has destroyed, or nearly so, all the glazing, so that only those
colours can be recognized which either contain white, or are glazed
on white. I can show you numerous instances of this, for, on
account of the extreme fertility of this school, there is little
difficulty in procuring pictures of masters of that time or of their
pupils.
     Wood priming does not require the same elasticity as that of the
canvas, which ought to be capable of being rolled. Therefore the
priming of the wood shows less variations. It is generally composed
of chalk or plaster, tempered with starch, paste, size, or glue, and
more or less thickly laid on. In some pictures of different centuries
we find, either between the wood and the priming, or between the
priming and the painting, canvas, and exceptionally even paper.
     The diseases of the priming aro not of a very complicated nature.
They manifest themselves principally in three different ways : 1, by
cracks in the priming itself : 2, by the severance of the priming from
the painting ; 3, by the severance of the priming from the wood or
the canvas. The third disease is by far the most frequent, especially
among pictures on canvas distempered with paste. If small pieces
only are scaling off or blistering, they are fixed again to the ground
by letting a solution of size pass between the detached part and the
canvas, and pressing both gently togethor. If the deterioration extends
over a considerable surface, the picture has to be lined. While this
is being done, and while the gluing substance penetrates into the
picture, the detached parts are pressed on again with slightly heated
irons. If the whole priming threatens to come off, it will be better
to take the picture entirely from tho panel or canvas, and to transfer
it to a new canvas.
     I shall show you examples illustrating the before-mentioned
points, and among them two pictures ; one in oil, taken off from
canvas, the other in tempera, taken off from wood. Both of them,
strange to say, have escaped destruction without having been trans
ferred to a new canvas, and without being covered with paper, as is
usually deue, before taking them off. Thoy show you the painting
by ;tself from both sides. I have, of course, used every precaution
      "m.. VIII. (No. 68.)                                  2 o

  518                          Dr. B. Liebreich                     [March 1,
  in bringing thom safely over from Florence, where I happened to
  discover them carelessly stowed away among heaps of old pictures.
       We come now to tho most important part of the picture, the paint
  ing itself. We meet very often with the idea that the old masters
  had been in possession of colours, that is pigments, the knowledge
  of which has been lost, and that this accounts principally for the
  difference between tho oil painting of the 15th and 16th centuries, on
  the one hand, and that of the 18th and 19th on the other. But this
  is a great mistake. We know perfectly well the pigments used by
  the old masters ; wo possess the same, and a considerable number of
  new ones, good as woll as bad, in addition. In using the expres
  sion of good and bad, I am principally thinking of their durability.
  From this point of viow the pigments can bo placed under three
  headings : —
      1. Those which are durable in themselves, and also agree well with
  the other pigments with which they have to be mixed.
      2. Such as when sufficiently isolated remain unaltered ; but when
  in contact with certain other pigments change colour, or alter the
 others, or produce a reciprocal modification.
      3. Those which are so little durable that, even when isolated from
 other pigments, the mere contact of tho vehicle, the air, or the light,
 makes them in time fade, darken, or disappear altogether.
      Tho old masters used, without reserve, only those belonging to
 the first of these three categories. For those belonging to the second
 they imposed on themselves certain limits and precautions. Those
 belonging to tho third they did not use at all.
     That some of the modern masters have not followed these prin
 ciples is not owing to a lost secret, but to the fact that they disregarded
 thoso well-known principles, and even consciously acted against them.
 In Sir Joshua Reynolds' diary, for instance, we read that in order to
 produce certain tints of flesh, he mixed orpiment, carmine-lake, and
 blue-black together. Now, orpiment is one of the colours of tho
 second category, carmine-lake one of the third. That is to say :
 orpiment, as long as it remains isolated, keeps its brilliant yellow or
 reddish-orange colour ; but when mixed with white-lead it decom
 poses, because it consists of sulphur and arsenic, and it, moreover,
 blackens the white-lead, because the sulphur combines with it.
 Carmine-lake, even if loft isolated, does not stand as an oil colour,
and therefore has been superseded by madder-lake.
     Unfortunately some of the most brilliant colours arc perishable to
such a degree that they ought never to be used ; yet, it seems to me,
that just in one branch of art in which of late remarkable progress
has been made, I mean landscape painting, the artists, in order to
obtain certain effects of colour not easily to be realized, do not always
resist the temptation to make use of a number of pigments the nr j-
durability of which is proved beyond doubt. However that may la, I
think it pretty certain that the pigments in themselves play c ily a
subordinate part in the deterioration of oil paintings, and that. the

1878.]             on the Deterioration of Oil Paintings.                 519
principal part belongs to the vehicle with which the colours are
ground, and to the liquids which are added during the painting.
I hope, therefore, you will excuse my making some elementary
explanations about these liquids.
    Oil and fat are bodies consisting of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen.
They may be considered as salts in which glycerine, as a basis, is com
bined with different acids, stearic acid, palmic acid, oleic acid. If
oil is exposed to the air, it changes ; certain kinds of oil remain
liquid; others become thicker and darker, and are gradually trans
formed into hard and opaque bodies. The drying of oils is based
upon a chemical process, during which the oil oxidizes by absorbing
oxygen from the air, and combining a part of it with carbon to form
carbonic acid, and another part with hydrogen to form water. The
different oils dry with different rapidity, but this rapidity may be
modified by the presence of certain substances, or by certain treatment.
Linseed oil, for instance, according to the way in which it has been
pressed out of the seed, contains more or less mucilaginous substances.
These latter impede the drying of the oil, and have therefore to be
removed by a refining process. If linseed oil in a shallow vessel is
exposed to the air and light, and especially to a green light, it soon
begins to dry, and is transformed first into a kind of varnish and
gradually into a solid opaque substance. The drying may be quick
ened by boiling, and more particularly by the addition of lead, zinc,
or manganese. In this way a quick-drying oil varnish may be pre
pared and used as a siccative. It follows that there are certain
substances which impede the drying of oils, and others which facilitate
it. Amongst the pigments are some which belong to this category
of bodies, white-lead, zinc-white, minium, vermilion, for instance,
facilitate the drying ; others, such as ivory-black, bitumen, madder-
lake, will impede it. Supposing now we should add to each of the
different pigments the same quantity of oil, the drying of it would
progress at different rates. But in reality this difference is very
greatly increased by the fact that the different pigments require very
different quantities of oil, in order to be ground to the consistency
requisite for painting.
    Pettenkefer quotes the following figures, given to him by one of
the colour manufacturers :—
       100 parte (we: ght) White-lead            require 12 parte of oil.
                           Zinc-white                    14
                           Green chrome                  15
                           Chrome-yellow . .             It)
                           Vermilion                     25
                           Light red                     81
                           Madder-lake                   62
                           Yellow ochre                  66
                           Light ochre . .               75
                           Camel's-brown . .             75
                           Brown manganese               87
                           Terre verte ..               100
                                                               2 o 2

520                            Dr. B. Liebreich                      [March 1,
       100 parts (weight) Parisian-blue . .  . . require 106 parts of oil.
                          Burnt terre verto  ..      ,,112        „
                          Berlin-blue                „ 112        „
                          Ivory-black                „ 112         „
                          Cobalt                         125
                          Florentine-brown           „ 150        „
                          Burnt terra sienna  ..     „ 181        „
                          Baw terra sienna    ..     „ 240        „
     According to this table a hundred parts of the quick-drying
white-lead are ground with twelve parts of oil, and on the other
hand, the slow-drying ivory-black requires one hundred and twelve
parts of oil.
     It is very important that artists should have an exact knowledge of
these matters. But it seems to mo that they are insufficiently known
to most of them. All, of course, know perfectly how different the
drying quality of different colours is. But that these different colours
introduce into the picture so different a quantity of oil, and how largo
 this quantity is in the colours they buy, and further, that the oil
 as well as the mediums or siccatives they add to dry the colours, are
 gradually transformed into a caoutchouc-like opaque substance, which
 envelops and darkens the pigments ; and moreover, that the oil
 undergoes—not in the beginning, but much later on when it is
 already completely dry—changes of volume, and so impairs the
 continuity of the picture, — all this is not sufficiently known.
 Otherwise, the custom of painting with the ordinary oil colours
 to bo bought at any colourman's, would not have been going on for
 nearly a hundred years in spite of all the clearly shown evil results ;
results due, chiefly, to the principal enemy of oil painting, that
IS TO BAY, THE OIL.
     That the masters of the 15th and 16th centuries did not use
colours prepared in this way, you may consider as absolutely certain ;
and if we hear the lost secret spoken of, and if we read that the pupils
of the old masters had to pledge themselves to keep the secret, we may
be sure that it is neither tho method of painting nor the pigment used
for it which is concerned in that secret, but exclusively the way of
preparing the colours. The preparation was a very complicated one,
varying with the different pigments ; and we know that tho pupils
passed six years, that is half of the apprenticeship, in grinding the
colours for tho master.
    And therefore it is to this very point that everyone who wishes to
study the method of the old masters must first of all direct his
attention. I, too, was led by the study of this question, to analyze
aud restore old pictures. The possibility of making such analysis we
owe to the relation between the old masters and their pupils. Of
course we could not dissect or chemically analyzo works of Titian
or Raphael. But fortunately tho pupils painted with tho same
material and by tho same method as the masters, and thousands of
pictures by the pupils, well preserved or in different stages of decay,
may be easily procured. .

1878.]             on the Deterioration of Oil Paintings.              521
     I have myself, from among a very great number of such pictures,
selected about one hundred specimens, part of which I have brought
before you. As their artistic value is not, as you perceive, of the
highest description, we need not feel any scruple in experimenting
upon or even destroying them, if we can thereby gain any valuable
information.
     If we compare the pictures of the Italian and Dutch schools of
the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries, with those of the French and
English schools of the last hundred years, we are struck by the great
difference in the nature of their diseases. Wo may divide those
diseases into constitutional ones—that is to say, such as are based on
the method and the material used for painting, and into those pro
duced by external influences.
     The Dutch pictures of the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries, and the
Italian pictures of the 15th and 16th centuries, seem to me perfectly
free from constitutional diseases. It is only in the 17th century that
the Italian pictures show a special constitutional alteration, caused by
 the practice of the Bologna school.
     Tho pictures of the last hundred years of the French school, of a
 part of the English school, and some painters of other schools, have
 been attacked by a constitutional disease perfectly defined and charac
 teristic of this period.
     Among external influences injurious to oil painting, we have to
 consider dampness, heat, bad air, dust, smoke, mechanical injuries,
 and last, not least, the destructive, or " altering " hand of the picture-
 restorer.
      Pettenkefer's scientific researches first clearly defined the influ
 ence of humidity on oil paintings, showing that it produced a discon
 tinuity of the molecules of the vehicle and the resinous substances.
 As glass, when pulverized and thereby mixed with air, loses its
 transparency, and water, when mixed with oil, becomes of a milky
 aspect, so the oily and resinous substances contained in paintings
 will become dim as soon as air penetrates between their particles.
 The picture thus assumes a greyish, dim appearance, and the pigments
 seem to have been fading. That this is not really the case has been
 proved by tho influence of a process invented by Pettenkefer, which
 he calls regeneration. In a flat box the picture is exposed to air
 impregnated with alcohol. Of this latter, the resinous elements of
 the picture absorb a certain quantity, swell and fill up the interstices
 between the separated particles so as to reunite them into an optically
 homogeneous, transparent substance.
      The alcohol does not affect in the same way the hardened oil.
 If the interstices between its particles are not filled up by tho
 swelling resin, it becomes necessary to introduce a new substance
 into the picture, and this is called nourishing a picture.
      Pettenkefer has the great merit of having clearly proved that the
 nourishing of a picture with oils, as the custom was formerly, and
 still is to some degree, is a very objr ctionable proceeding, as it has

  522                          Dr. B. Liebreich                   [March 1,
  the effect of darkening the colours for ever. He recommends, instead
  of oil, balsam of copaiva, which has since become an invalnable
  means for preserving and restoring oil paintings, and will be more and
  more extensively used.
      I have frequently applied Pettenkefer's method, and with very
  beneficial effect ; but whenever I mentioned it to professional picture-
  restorers, here as well as on the Continent, I always found them to
  reject it, either a priori, or after experiments incorrectly made.
      In Munich, it seems, the pictures of all periods and of all schools
  have had to suffer under local influences and through the changes in
  the humidity of the air. This accounts for Pettenkefer having
  principally described this, so to say, endemical disease. In other
  galleries this affection does not appear so frequently, and Petten
  kofer's method, therefore, will not find everywhere the same exten
  sive application as at Munich. I think, however, that with some
  modifications it may be employed against some other alterations.
  I have, for instance, found it efficacious with paintings which had
  been injured by exposure to great heat. I shall show yon a small
  picture which had been hanging for a long time so near a gas flame
  that it was almost completely scaling off, and so entirely faded that
  it scarcely looked like an oil painting at all. In that state it was
  exposed to alcoholized air, then nourished with balsam, and its back
  slightly varnished ; and the scales starting from the canvas were
  refixed by pressure. And now it appears fresh in colour, firm in
  substance, and perfectly smooth on its surface. The old, cracked
  varnish, melted together by the alcohol, looks as if fresh laid on.
      Humidity sometimes favours the development of fungus. The
  round, black, small spots which pass through the canvas and the
  painting of these two pictures are produced by the same little plant
  which Professor Tyndall showed you when he spoke on the highly
  interesting subject of spontaneous generation.
      Oil and water, so injurious to oil paintings, enter both into the
  material used for lining. Anxious to exclude these sources of danger,
  and to simplify the whole process, I have endeavoured to replace it
  by a new method which I shall submit to you this evening.
      How paintings may be disfigured by restorers you see in this
  picture, which was renovated with oil colours according to the practice
  only abandoned about thirty years ago, when it was advantageously
  replaced by the use of varnish colours.
      The amount of external injury oil paintings sometimes endure
  and stand is perfectly amazing. Pictures in the course of centuries,
  during the destructive fury of wars and revolutions, may have been
  torn out of their frames, rescued from below the ruins of burned
  monasteries, may subsequently have passed from one bric-a-brac shop
  to another, where they have been piled up, to be pulled about at each
  new inspection, and literally trodden under foot, whereby they have
  finally boen reduced to a state of colourless, greyish, or black rags.
  Still such pictures may not unfrequently be awakened, as it were, to
\

 1878.]            on the Deterioration of OH Paintings.               523
 new life, to their original brilliancy of colour ; if, with all necessary
 care, their injured limbs are put together again, their wounds are
 healed, and fresh nourishment, air, and thorough cleansing, are
 administered to their lacerated bodies.
     A sound constitution is, of course, a necessary condition for
 obtaining any such result, without it we can only obtain a partial
 cure. We see this with reference to the Bologna school of the
 17th century. The pictures which you see here are instances of this.
 From the state of rags to which they were reduced they have passed,
 by appropriate treatment, into the state of firm, even, well-conditioned,
 and clean pictures. The constitutional alteration characteristic of
 their time and school, however, could not be cured. You will, there
 fore, perceive that the contrast is too great between light and shade,
 that the half tones are too weak, and that the glazings spread on dark
 ground, which certainly existed formerly, have been destroyed by the
 growing of bolus and umber of the priming. That this is not the
 fault of the method of restoration is clearly proved by the state in
 which you will find all the pictures of this school, even those best
 preserved in the best galleries of all countries.
     The constitutional diseases of pictures belonging to the French
and to the English school of the last hundred years are of still more
serious nature, and much more difficult to cure. Many of them,
though they were never exposed to any injury whatever, nor are
likely ever to be so in our present state of civilization, cannot be
 guarded from premature decay in spite of all possible care with
which they are kept.
     The principal symptoms of their bad constitution are :—
     1. Darkening of the opaque bright colours.
     2. Fading of the transparent brilliant colours.
     3. Darkening, and above all, cracking of the transparent dark
colours.
     The best opportunity to study these several appearances is given
us in the Museum of the Louvro, which contains a great number
of such pictures in the section occupied by the French school. I
have paid particular attention to the cracks in these pictures, as I find
that in shape, in size, in position, as well as in relation to the various
colours, they differ distinctly from the cracks in older pictures and in
those of other schools. This, of course, is of importance, not only for
the explanation of the reasons which produced them, but as a symptom
which, in a given case, might determine the diagnosis, whether a
picture be an original or only a copy. The special characteristics of
these cracks are the following :—
     They are all but exclusively found in the thickly laid on trans
parent dark colours, and they are the deeper and the more gaping in
proportion to the thickness of the layer of the colour and the extent
of the dark surface. The chief cracks run parallel to the outlines of
surfaces painted with bright opaque colours, such, for instance, as are
used for the flesh tints, and which are more or less thickly laid on.

524                           Dr. B. Liehreich                  [March 1,
But there is generally a slight distance between the bright colours and
the cracks.
     Lateral branches of these cracks pass into the white, but they do
not gapo, provided the white colours had been laid on directly upon
 tho priming, and not upon a layer of dark transparent and not
sufficiently dried colour.
     This examination of the cracks of pictures has sometimes afforded
me a peculiar insight into the practice used for the picture. In the
well-known picture, for instance, by Guericault, of " The Wreck of
 the Medusa," in tho Gallery of the Louvre, tho cracks follow exactly
 the outlines of the bright flesh-tints. The arm of one of the dead
 bodies hanging in the water is so covered by planks and water that
 uothing of the forearm is to be seen. It is, however, very easy to
 prove that originally that arm was painted in all its length, for the
 cracks do not only follow tho outline of the visible upper arm, but
 also the no longer visible forearm, and all the five fingers. This
 proves that the fore-part of the arm and the hand were originally
 painted in flesh tints before they were covered over by the planks, and
 tho water painted afterwards. In Ingres' portrait of Cherubini, tho
 face of the latter is beautifully preserved, whilst that of the Muse, as
 well as her drapery, is covered with cracks. In the depth of the cracks
 of the white drapery, an intense blue tint is to be seen. Mr. Henri
 Lchmann, of Paris, the favourito pupil of Ingres, who knows the history
 of this picture as an eye-witness, and whom I consulted about this
 very striking appearance, gave me tho following information :—Ingres
painted the head of Cherubini in Paris, and then took it with him to
 Rome. There it was pieced into a new canvas and lined. Then tho
 Muse was painted, and before the colours were perfectly dry, another
 model was chosen, and a new Muse painted over tho old one. The
colour of tho drapery was likewise altered, and this explains the
cracks in the white colour, and explains also why tho blue appears in
the depth of tho cracks of the drapery.
     Among the English artists of the last hundred years, some have
painted with tho same material and by the samo process as their
French contemporaries, and consequently with the same unfortunate
results. Others avoided these by using the same material with more
precautions. Others, again, and among them Sir Joshua Reynolds, have
in their different werks followed various practices, and consequently
had varied results. Thus some of Sir Joshua's pictures have kept
perfectly sound. Others aro cracked in the characteristic way just
mentioned. Others, again, are cracked in an absolutely irregular
way. We can easily form an idea of it, if we read in his ' Diary
Notes,' for instance, the way in which he painted the portrait of
Miss Kirkman, which ho began with whiting and gum tragacanth,
then covered it successively with wax, then white of eggs, and then
varnished it.
     The study of tho alterations already fully developed in pictures
painted within the last hundred years only, and their comparison with

1878.]            on the Deterioration of Oil Paintings.              525
the works of the old masters, would suggest the following rules for
the process of painting :—
    1. The oil should in all colours be reduced to a minimum, and
under no form should more of it than absolutely necessary be intro
duced into a picture.
    2. All transparent colours which dry very slowly, should be
ground not with oil at all, but with a resinous vehicle.
    3. No colour should be put on any part of a picture which is not
yet perfectly dry ; and, above all, never a quick-drying colour upon a
slowly drying one, which is not yet perfectly dry.
    4. White and other quick-drying opaque colours may be put on
thickly. On the contrary, transparent and slowly drying colours
should always be put on in thin layers.
    If the effect of a thick layer of these latter is required, it must be
produced by laying one thin layer over another, taking care to have
one completely dry before the next is laid on. If transparent colours
are mixed with sufficient quantity of white-lead, they may be treated
like opaque ones.
     We come now to the last layer of the picture, to that one which is
spread over its surface in order to equalize optical irregularities, and
to protect it at the same time from the air. I mean the varnish.
    The varnish may crack or get dim, then it should be treated by
Pettenkefer's method ; but it may become dark yellow, brown and
dirty, and so hide the picture that it becomes necessary to take it off
and to replace it by a thin layer of new varnish. It is here that pic-
turo restorers, or we may say picture cleaners, display their beneficial
skill, and also their very destructive activity.
    If a picture is throughout painted in oil, if its substance has
remained sound and even, and varnished with an easily soluble
mastich or dammar varnish, then there will be neither difficulty
nor danger in removing the varnish. This can, in such a case, be
done either by a dry process, that is, by rubbing the surface with
the tips of the fingers, and thus reducing the varnish by degrees to
a fine dust, or by dissolving the varnish by application of liquids,
 which, when brought only for a short time into contact with the oil
painting, will not endanger it. We have, however, seen that the
 works of the old masters are not painted with oil colours like those
 used by modern painters, but, on the contrary, that certain pigments,
 and especially the transparent colours used for glazing, were ground
 only with resinous substances. These latter have, in the course of
 time, been so thoroughly united with the layer of varnish spread over
 the surface of the picture, that there no longer exists any decided
 limit between the picture and the varnish. It is in such pictures
 that a great amount of experience, and knowledge of the process used
 for the picture, as well as precaution, are required in order to take
 away from the varnish as much only as is indispensable, and without
 interfering with the picture itself. Numberless works of art have
 boon irreparably injured by restorers, who, in their eagerness to

 526     Dr. Liebreich on the Deterioration of Oil Paintings.  [March 1,
 remove dirt and varnish, attacked the painting itself. They then
 destroyed just that last finishing touch of the painting, without which
 it is no longer a masterpiece.
      The difficulty and danger are much greater in cleaning tlioso
 pictures which have not been varnished with the ordinary easily-
dissolved mastich or dammar varnish, but have been painted over
with oil, oil-varnish, or oleo-resinous varnish. It seems incredible
that these substances should ever be* used for such purposes ; it is,
however, a fact that there are still people who fancy that it will
contribute to the good preservation of their pictures to brush from
time to time a little of those liquids over their surface. They re
cognize too late that the varnish becomes more and more dark, of
a brownish colour, and opaque. If such varnish has afterwards to
be removed, then we meet with the great difficulty, that this can bo
done only with substances which would just as easily dissolve the
whole picture as the hardened layers spread over it.
     This shows what can be the value of those universal remedies
which from time to time appear, and are praised for the innocuous
way in which pictures by their means may bo cleaned.
     There is at this moment a great discussion going on in Italy about
Luporini's method. Luporini is a painter and picture-restorer in Pisa,
who believes himself to have invented a new means of cleaning pictures
without any danger. Some months ago, in Florence, I examined a large
number of pictures cleaned by him. Those of the Gallery of St. Donato,
belonging to Prince Demidoff, mostly Flemish and Dutch landscapes,
are cleaned very well and without any injury to the painting. On
the contrary, the St. John, by Andrea del Sarto, one of the finest pic
tures of the Palazzo Pitti, I found very much altered by the restoration
of Luporini. I had studied that picture very closely the year before,
and should now sooner believe it to be a modern copy than the cleaned
original. It has lost all softness of outline, and the characteristic
expression of the face. The change in the flesh tints can scarcoly be
explained otherwise than by an entire removal of the glazing.
     I think it is taking a heavy responsibility to allow a new experi
ment to be tried upon such an invaluable work of art. Even private
persons, who are fortunate enough to be in possession of such treasures,
ought to feel responsible for the good preservation of masterpieces,
which are, it is true, their material property, but which intellectually
belong to the whole civilized world of the present and of the future.
                                                               [R. L.]

1878.]                    General Monthly Meeting.                           527
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, March 4, 1878.
      George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                    The Earl of Denbigh,
                    The Lady Louisa Mills,
                    Charles Aldin, Esq.
                    William Aldin, Esq.
                    John Ashby, Esq.
                    The Lady Belcher,
                    Mrs. Burton Borough,
                    Henry Edmunds, jun. Esq.
                    Joseph Findlater, Esq.
                    Mrs. Goodall,
                    Thomas Gregory, Esq.
                    Francis Harris, M.D. F.L.S.
                    Adolphus F. Janvrin, Esq.
                    Mrs. W. S. Kirkes,
                    Charles J. Longman, Esq.
                    Charles Marett, Esq.
                    William Henry Michael, Esq.
                    Mrs. Richard Cornwallis Moore,
                    Thomas Morson, Esq.
                    Rudolf Neele, Esq.
                    Mrs. Charlotte May Norman,
                    William Robert Phelips, Esq.
                    Arthur Rokeby Price, Esq.
                    Rev. Alexander Taylor, M.A
                    Walter Weldon, Esq. F.R.S.E. F.C.S.
                    Miss Florence Caroline Wheatstone,
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The Special Thanks of the Members were given to Warbbn De
la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. for his Donation of Fifty Pounds for the
benefit of the Chemical Laboratory, and of Apparatus for the Lique
faction of Gases for the Physical Laboratory.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
    FROM
Lords of the Committee of CounMl on Education—Conferences held in connection
     with the Special Loan Cullectiou of Scientific Apparatus, 1876. 2 vols. 8vo.
    1877.

528                        General Monthly Meeting.                   [March 4,
Academia dei Lincei, Rome—Atti, Serie III. Transmit!, Vol. II. Fasc. 1, 2. 4to.
     1878.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal—Journal, Second Scries, Vol. XIII.
     Part 2. 8vo. 1877.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 88. 8vo. 1872.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVIII. No. 3. Sto.
     1878.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1878. No. 7. 4to.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Spanish MSS. Vol. II. 8vo. 1877.
   Catalogue of Gigantic Land Tortoises. 4to. 1877.
Cox, Edioard W. Esq. S.L. M.R.I, (the Author)—Monograph on Sleep and Dream.
     8vo. 1878.
Editors—American Journal of Science for 1878. 8vo.
   Analyst for Feb. 1878. 8vo.
   Athenamm for Feb. 1878. 4to.
   Chemical News for Feb. 1878. 4to.
   Kngineer for Feb. 1878. fol.
   Horological Journal for Feb. 1878. 8vo.
   Iron for Feb. 1878. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for Feb. 1878. fol.
   Nature for Feb. 1878. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for Feb. 1878. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb. 1878. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for Feb. 1878. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 626. 8vo. 1877.
Gray's Inn, Honourable Society of—Supplement to Catalogue of the Library. 8vo»
     1878.
Harrison, W. H. Esq. (the Editor)—' Rifts in the Veil ' : Inspinitional Poemj
     and Essays ; by Spiritualists. 12mo. 1878.
Meteorological Society— Quarterly Journal, No. 24. 8vo. 1878.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Catalogue of Museum, 1878. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, No. 4. 8vo. 1878.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Nov. 1878. 8vo.
Royal Observatory, Edinburgh—Astronomical Observations, Vol. XIV. 1870-7.
     4to. 1877.
Royal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions for 1877. Vol. CLXVIL
     Parti. 4to. 1877.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XL. Part 4. 8vo. 1877.
 Telegraph Engineers, Society of—The Telegraph Pocket-Book for 1878. 12mo.
 United States Coast Survey—Meteorological Researches, Part 1. 4to. 1877.
 Vereins zht BefBrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandelungen, 1878 :
     Heft 1. 4to.

1878.]       Professor Goldtoin Smith on Political Character.         529
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 8, 1878.
          The Duke of Northumrerland, D.C.L. President,
                                in the Chair.
                       Professor Goldwin Smith.
   The Influence of Geographical Circumstances on Political Character.
 Two instances were taken as illustrations, one from ancient and the
 other from modern history— from ancient history Rome, and from
 modern history England.
     In the case of Bome, the influence of geographical circumstance
 was traced in her selection by nature as the principal seat of military
 power, of political organization and of law. The speaker then pro
 ceeded to England.
     We have two large islands close to a continent, and that continent
 which hitherto by natural election has been the chief seat of civiliza
 tion. One island is much larger than the other, and the larger island
 lies between the continent and the smaller. The larger island is so
 placed as to receive primseval immigration from three quarters : from
 France ; from the coast of Northern Germany and tho Low Countries ;
 and from Scandinavia, tho transit being rendered easier in the last
 case by the prevailing winds and by the position of the Shetlands and
 the Orkneys. The smaller island can hardly receive immigrants
 except through the larger. The western parts of the larger island
 are mountainous, and it is divided into two very unequal parts by the
 Cheviots and the mosses of the Border. The larger island has extensive
 districts well adapted for grain : the climate of a great part of tho
 smaller island is too wet for grain, and good only for pasture. The
 larger island is full of minerals and coal : of which the smaller island
 is almost destitute. These are the most salient features of the scene
 of English history.
      What, politically speaking, are the special attributes of an island ?
  In the first place it is likely to be settled by a bold and enterprising
  race. Migration by land, under the pressure of hunger, calls for no
  great effort of courage or intelligence on the part of the nomad.
  Migration by sea does : we can hardly realize now the daring which
  was needed to put forth on a strange element, and especially to go out
  of sight of land. Of the two elements which make up our nationality

530            Professor Goldwin Smith on the Influence of    [March 8,
the Celtic had only to pass the Channel which you can see across ; but
the Teutonic, which is the dominant element and the basis of our
character and institutions, had to pass an ocean which you cannot see
across. From Scandinavia especially England received, under the
form of freebooters, who afterwards became conquerors and settlers,
the very core and sinews of her maritime population, the progenitors
of the Blakes and Nelsons. The Northman, like the Phoenician, had
a country too narrow for him, and timber for ship-building at hand.
But the land of the Phoenician was a lovely land which bound him to
itself ; and wherever he roved, his heart was still in the pleasant
abodes of Lebanon and the sunlit quays of Tyre. Thus he became a
merchant, and the father of all who have made the estranging sea a
bond and highway between nations. The land of the Scandinavian
was not a lovely land ; he was glad to exchange it for a sunnier
dwelling place, and he became tho founder of Norman kingdoms.
One can hardly help lingering over these primasval mariners, for there
is no romance in history equal to theirs. In our days science has
gone before the most adventurous keel, limiting possibilities, and dis
enchanting the universe of Ulysses and Sindbad ; but the Phoenician
and the Northman put off into a really unknown world. Not only is
a race which comes by sea likely to bo peculiarly vigorous, but the very
process of maritime migration would intensify the spirit of freedom and
independence. Timur or Genghis Khan, sweeping from land to land
with the vast human herd under his command, becomes more despotic
as the herd becomes larger and the area of its conquests is increased.
But a maritime migration is a number of little jointstock enterprises,
implying common councils and a good deal of equality. It naturally
results also in a number of small and separate settlements, which
again is favourable to local self-government.
    Another attribute of an island is freedom from invasion, which
brings with it comparative immunity from standing armies. And
perhaps we have owed more politically to this comparative immunity,
than it is flattering to our self-esteem to suppose. Charles I. had no
standing army, and the nation was then able to hold its own against
the Crown ; but the later Stuarts had learned wisdom from Charles's
example ; they had a standing army, and then the nation had to call
in the Prince of Orange. To go back to an earlier period, John and
his mercenaries would have beaten the Barons and annulled the Great
Charter, if England had not been rescued at the critical moment by
the ambition of the French prince., Navies are not political, they do
not overturn constitutions.
    A third consequence of insular position is isolation, especially in
early times. An extreme case of isolation is Egypt, which is in fact
a great oasis or island in the desert. The extraordinary fertility of
the valley of the Nile produced an early development which was
afterwards arrested by its isolation, artificially intensified by the
jealousy of a powerful priesthood ; and the great monuments of the
early development remained unapproached, enigmatic, and mysterious

1878.]     Geographical Circumstances on Political Character.       531
for ever. England, by her insularity, escaped all permanent trace of
Boman conquest ; Scotland and Ireland escaped the conquest alto
gether, for the tide of invasion, which for a moment flowed to the foot
of the Grampians, soon ebbed to the line of the great wall, the western
wing of a system of defences which once guarded civilization from the
Sol way to the Euphrates. Instead of being a land of Roman provincials
with a ruling Teutonic race, like France or Spain, England became
purely Teutonic, and for a time was lost to Christendom and civiliza
tion. The missionary monk recovered what the legionary had lost.
When Ethelbert advanced to meet Augustine on the beach of Kent,
Teutonism was united to Christendom, to ecclesiastical, and to what
remained of ancient Rome. The fifth great element of our political
character, classical republicanism, came in at a later day. Still after
the conversion, the English Church remained national, and to the eye
of a Roman High Churchman half schismatic: to bring her into
perfect union and obedience was the object of Rome in seconding the
enterprise of the Norman Conqueror. Into much closer union and
much stricter obedience she was brought ; but she did not lose her
insular character ; and the Reformation, as a national, though not as a
doctrinal revolt from Rome, commenced in England as early as the
thirteenth century. In the sixteenth century the breaking up of the
great federation of Christendom threw England back into an isolation
tempered by her connection with the Protestant party on the Con
tinent. Since that time the growth of European interests, of com
merce, of international law, of international intercourse of every
kind, of the community of intellect and science, have been building
up again, on a sounder foundation than that of the Latin Church, the
federation of Europe, or rather the federation of mankind. Of late
the sympathy of England with European politics has been increasing
in a marked way. But, in the past, England, while too close to the
continent of Europe not to be a part of the European system, has
been a peculiar and semi-independent part of it. She has acted as a
sort of balancing and moderating power. She has been the asylum of
vanquished parties and ideas. In the seventeenth century, when the
Catholic and absolutist reaction provailed on the Continent, she was
the chief refuge of Protestantism and political freedom. When the
French Revolution swept over the Continent, she threw herself into
the reactionary scale. The tricolor has gone nearly round the world,
at least nearly round Europe ; but on the flag of England still
remains the religious symbol of the pre-revolutionary era.
    There are certain features of the insular character which we hear
of sometimes from our neighbours. Their influence may be traced all
through the history of our international relations—notably in the
desperate effort to be rid of us which has immortalized Joan of Arc.
They have made enemies to us even of those who have received liber
ation or other benefits at our hands. Among them is an insular
incapacity, very unfortunate in the case of an imperial nation, for
mingling with people of other races, Or even for living on kindly

 532           Professor Goldwin Smith on the Influence of     [March 8,
terms with them. We have been the most beneficent of conquerors,
and the least beloved.
     It is needless to point out the effect of our insular position in
developing maritime enterprise and trade with the corresponding
 elements of political character. We shall touch on this point pre
sently in another connection. These islands lie most favourably for
maritime enterprise and trade, not only with respect to Europe and
the East, but also with respect to the Western hemisphere. It may
be said that from its cradle the English race looked unconsciously
across the Atlantic to an immense heritage in a then unknown world.
     Let us now look at the divisions of the islands. The hills of
Devon and Cornwall, the mountains of Wales, those of Westmoreland
and Cumberland, thoso of the Highlands of Scotland, in the age of
the steam engine are the asylum of natural beauty, poetry, and the
hearts which seek repose from the din and turmoil of commercial life.
In earlier days they, with seagirt Ireland, were the asylum of the
weaker race. Here the Celt found refuge when Saxon invasion
swept him from England and the Scotch Lowlands. Here he was
preserved, with his own language, with his own Church—the Church
of Britain before Augustine—with his un-Teutonic gifts and weak
nesses, his quickness of intellect, his lively, social, sympathetic
nature, his religious enthusiasm, his superstition, his clannishness,
his devotion to personal leaders, his comparative indifference to insti
tutions, and want of natural aptitude for self-government.
     We always talk of Anglo-Saxons, and identify the extension of
our empire with that of the Anglo-Saxon race. But taking all the
elements of Celtic population in the two islands together, they must
bear a very considerable proportion to the Teutonio element. That
large Irish settlements are being formed in the cities of Northern
England is seen from election addresses, to which we allude only
in an ethnological point of view. In the competition of races on the
American continent the Irish more than holds its own ; and it is
but fair to it to say that it owes its large increase not merely, as its
detractors say, to economic recklessness, but to its morality and to the
qualities of its women as mothers.
    The Teutonic element has been the governing and moulding
element, and has supplied, as I said before, the basis of our character
and institutions ; but the Celtic element is not to be left out of sight,
especially since political enfranchisement has called it to the active
exercise of power. The Celts of Devon and Cornwall were soon
subdued, and were then gradually assimilated. The Celts of Wales
have not yet been assimilated, and it was not till the reign of
Edward I. that they wero subdued. In their independent state, as
enemies of the English monarchy, they allied themselves with all
insurrections in England, and thus unintentionally rendered some
service to English liberty in its perilous struggles with the power of
the Crown. They lont aid to the Barons of Bunnymede, and the
Great Charter accordingly contains an article in their favour. In

1878.]      Geographical Circumstances on Political Character.       533
another form tho influenco of their separate action may even yet be
felt in English politics. The Teutonic monarchy of England was
powerful enough to subjugate the Celts of Wales; the Teutonic
monarchy of Scotland was not strong enough to subjugate, or even to
make any serious attempt to subjugate, the Celts of tho Scotch High
lands. Beyond the Grampians the dominion of the Celt, with his
language, habits, and institutions, remained unimpaired. The clan
retained its pristine form. The isolation of the glens preserved its
separate existence, and the naturo of tho country precluded the uso of
the horse, which by giving birth to a mounted class would have led to
the growth of a nobility and destroyed the fraternal equality of
the clansmen. The horse is an animal whose political significance is
embodied in the terms for aristocracy, both ancient and modern. To
show how this preservation of the clans has affected the course of
English history wo have only to mention the names of Montrose,
Dundee, and tho Pretender. As Macaulay truly says, theso were
clan movements, not dynastic rebellions, so far, at least, as the masses
were concerned. Like all clan movements, they were little more than
raids, and their effect was consequently transient and superficial.
     Far deeper and more abiding has been the effect produced by tho
geographical boundary which ultimately cut off the Saxon settlements
in the Lowlands of Scotland from the kindred settlements in England.
One direct consequence of this was the weakness of the Scotch
monarchy, which made the history of Scotland a perpetual tale
of feudal anarchy, and, though Scotch historians do not much like to
 confess it, precluded tho real development of Parliamentary institu
tions. Another was border war, which retarded civilization in tho
whole of Scotland and over the northern part of England, whence
 issued, in the Wars of the Roses, the host of barbarous marauders
brought down upon the more civilized South by the partisans of
Margaret of Anjou. But the most momentous consequence was a
separate Scotch Reformation. In England, the Reformation being
 made by tho Crown, Episcopacy was retained as congenial to
 monarchy. In Scotland, the monarchy being at that moment
 practically in abeyanco, the Reformation was made by the people.
 Hence it assumed the more republican form of Presbyterianism. In
 Scotland, being made by the people, it had, together with a certain
 intellectual narrowness, the force and intensity of popular conviction.
 In England it was far weaker, and might have succumbed, with tho
 political principles which were bound up with it, to the reaction
 under Charles and Laud. But Scotland stood firm and turned the
 day. The resistance of her Covenanting peasantry to the later
 Stuarts again largely contributed to tho victory of Protestantism and
 liberty in 1688. Even down to the present day she has retained
 a political as well as a religious character of her own, and has
 exercised a special and a very marked influence on the courso of
 political events.
     Then as to the influence of the geographical position of England
     Vol. VIII. (No. 68.)                                      2 p

534            Professor Goldwin Smith on the Influence of      [March 8,
and of its productions on the pursuits of the people and on their
political character as it is formed by their pursuits. Commercial and
manufacturing cities, as a rule, are proverbially the homes of the
activity of mind and the quickness of sympathy which supply the
element of progress. Even in the country men who work in gangs
show something of the same spirit. Agriculture, on the other hand,
is conservative, especially where the estates are large. Now, the mari
time position and the mineral products of England have together called
into existence, notably within the last century, great masses of com
mercial and manufacturing population with the progressive tendencies
in politics which belong to it. On the other hand, we have also a
large agricultural country, not, as Pericles called Attica, a mere
garden and pleasure-ground of the commercial city, but sufficient to
constitute not only a substantial but a preponderating interest ; and
this, as a rule, has laid its weight in the other scale. Thus there
has been, not an equilibrium, but an alternate action of political
forces which has kept the country, on the whole, in the line of sure
and steady progress. In the great feudal kingdoms of Europe, where
the cities were weak, the element of progress was wanting. In the
commercial cities of Italy the conservative element failed ; popular
liberty sprang up like a gourd, and like a gourd it withered. In
 English politics ground has been slowly gained, but it has seldom
 been lost again ; there have been violent oscillations, especially when
political and religious struggles have come together ; but there has
 been no final victory of reaction. We are speaking only of the past ;
as to the present and future, if we were not afraid of approaching any
 controverted question, we might perhaps be able to show that agencies
 are at work which will probably change the scene.
     The very obvious facts just stated might be copiously illus
trated, if illustration were needful, by reference to the history of party
struggles in England. In the Middle Ages London was the heart of
the reforming and progressive party. At the time of the Wars of the
Roses, though there was not much principle on either side, of the
two parties the Yorkists were the popular reformers, while Margaret
of Anjou and her favourites were absolutists and reactionists ; the
banners of all the great cities were in the Yorkist ranks, while the
Lancastrians drew their forces mainly from the North, which was then,
economically and socially, the very opposite of what it is now. In
the time of Charles I. the South and East were still the great seats of
commerce, manufacturing industry, and wealth ; and these districts
were on the side of the Parliament. The King was strong in the North
and West. The North was under the influence of the Royalist
Marquis of Newcastle, in whom the powerful feudal lord of the
Middle Ages was blended with the elegant grandee of the Renaissance,
who raised regiments among his own retainers, and whose depart
ment was rather that of an independent prince than that of a subject.
But Bradford and one or two other towns, in which manufactures wero
just beginning to rise, were Parliamentarian, and followed the standard

1878.]      Geographical Circumstances on Political Character.       535
of the Fairfaxes. In the West also commercial cities, such as Gloucester
and Bristol, though completely within the King's country, were Parlia
mentarian. If a city was Royalist, it was under ecclesiastical
influence. It is true that the most ardent supporters and the best
soldiers of the Parliament were farmers ; but those men were not
tenants at will, they were small freeholders or leaseholders, called into
existence to a great extent by the great territorial revolution which
accompanied the Reformation ; and moreover they, like their leader,
were set in motion not so much by political zeal as by religion. Men of
all classes indeed, even wealthy and titled landowners, were in that age
raised to a remarkable extent by religions enthusiasm above material
and social interests. There was here an important limitation to the
range of physical influences, at all events to the range of physical
influences of a direct kind ; and it is the more to be noted, because
the colony, the production of which was to humanity at large the most
momentous result of the Revolution, was distinctly a religious colony,
and succeeded on that very account, when gold-seeking and com
mercial colonies, notwithstanding all that maritime enterprise and
everything which we can directly trace to physical influences could do
for them, had failed.
     It is needless to say how completely the political topography of
England had been changed between the reign of Charles I. and the
reign of William IV., or how great a part in that change had been
played by coal.
     The speaker concluded with an application of the same principles
to the case of Ireland, showing that the calamities of her history were
traceable to nature as much as to man.
                                                                [G.S.]
                                                            2 p 2

536                        The Lord Bayleigh                    [March 15,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                        Friday, March 15, 1878.
 The Duke of Northumrerland, D.C.L. President, in the Chair.
              The Lord Ratleigh, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I.
            The Explanation of certain Acoustical Phenomena.
Musical sounds have their origin in the vibrations of material systems.
In many cases, e. g. tho pianoforte, the vibrations are free, and are
then necessarily of short duration. In other cases, e. g. organ pipes
and instruments of the violin class, the vibrations are maintained,
which can only happen when the vibrating body is in connection with
a source of energy, capable of compensating tho loss caused by friction
and generation of aerial waves. The theory of free vibrations is
tolerably complete, but the explanations hitherto given of maintained
vibrations are generally inadequate, and in most cases altogether
illusory.
    In consequenco of its connection with a source of energy, a
vibrating body is subject to certain forces, whose nature and effects
aro to be estimated. These forces are divisible into two groups.
The first group operate upon the periodic time of the vibration, i. e.
upon the pitch of tho resulting note, and their effect may be in either
direction. The second group of forces do not alter the pitch, but
either encourage or discourage the vibration. In the first case only
can the vibration be maintained ; so that for the explanation of any
maintained vibration, it is necessary to examine the character of the
second group of forces sufficiently to discover whether their effect is
favourable or unfavourable. In illustration of these remarks, the
simple case of a common pendulum was considered. The effect of a
small periodic horizontal impulse is in general both to alter the
periodic time and the amplitude of vibration. If the impulse (sup
posed to be always in tho same direction) acts when the pendulum
passes through its lowest position, the force belongs to the second group.
It leaves the periodic time unaltered, and encourages or discourages
the vibration according as the direction of the pendulum's motion is
the same or the opposite of that of the impulse. If, on the other
hand, the impulse acts when the pendulum is at one or other of the
limits of its swing, the effect is solely on the periodic time, and the
vibration is neither encouraged nor discouraged. In order to en

1878.J     on the Explanation of certain Acoustical Phenomena.        537
courage, i. e. practically in order to maintain a vibration, it is neces
sary that the forces should not depend solely upon the position of the
vibrating body. Thus, in the case of the pendulum, if a small im
pulse in a given direction acts upon it every time that it passes
through its lowest position, the vibration is not maintained, the ad
vantage gained as the pendulum makes a passage in the same direction
as that in which the impulse acts being exactly neutralized on the
return passage, when the motion is in the opposite direction.
    As an example of the application of these principles the mainte
nance of an electric tuning fork was discussed. If the magnetic
forces depended only upon the position of the fork, the vibration
could not bo maintained. It appears therefore that the explanations
usually given do not touch the real point at all. The fact that the
vibrations are maintained is a proof that the forces do not depend
solely upon the position of the fork. The causes of deviation are
two—the self-induction of the electric currents, and the adhesion of
the mercury to the wire whose motion makes and breaks the contact.
On both accounts the magnetic forces are more powerful in the latter
than in the earlier part of the contact, although tho position of the
fork is the same ; and it is on this difference that the possibility of
maintenance depends. Of course the arrangement must be such that
the retardation of force encourages the vibration, and the arrangement
which in fact encourages the vibration would have had the opposite
effect, if the nature of electric currents had been such that they were
more powerful during the earlier than during the later stages of a
contact.
     In order to bring the subject within tho limits of a lecture, one
class of maintained vibrations was selected for discussion, that,
namely, of which heat is the motive power. The best understood
examplo of this kind of maintenance is that afforded by Trevelyan's
bars, or rockers. A heated brass or copper bar, so shaped as to rock
readily from one point of support to another, is laid upon a cold
 block of lead. The communication of heat through tho point of
 support expands the lead lying immediately below in such a manner
 that the rocker receives a small impulse. During the interruption of
 the contact the communicated heat has time to disperse itself in some
 degree into the mass of lead, and it is not difficult to see that the im
 pulse is of a kind to encourage the motion. But the most interesting
 vibrations of this class are those in which tho vibrating body consists
 of a mass of air more or less completely confined.
     If heat be periodically communicated to, and abstracted from, a
 mass of air vibrating (for example) in a cylinder bounded by a piston,
 the effect produced will depend upon the phase of the vibration at
which tho transfer of heat takes place. If heat be given to the air
at the moment of greatest condensation, or taken from it at the
moment of greatest rarefaction, the vibration is encouraged. On the
 other hand, if heat be given at the moment of greatest rarefaction, or
abstracted at the moment of greatest condensation, tho vibration is

538                         Tlie Lord Rayleigh                 [March 15,
discouraged. The latter effect takes place of itself, when the rapidity
of alternation is neither very great nor very small, in consequence of
radiation ; for when air is condensed it becomes hotter, and commu
nicates heat to surrounding bodies. The two extreme cases are
exceptional, though for different reasons. In the first, which corre
sponds to the suppositions of Laplace's theory of the propagation of
sound, there is not sufficient time for a sensible transfer to be effected.
In the second, the temperature remains nearly constant, and the loss
of heat occurs during the process of condensation, and not when the
condensation is effected. This case corresponds to Newton's theory
of the velocity of sound. "When the transfer of heat takes place at the
moments of greatest condensation or of greatest rarefaction, the pitch
is not affected.
    If the air be at its normal density at the moment when the transfer
of heat takes place, the vibration is neither encouraged nor discouraged,
but the pitch is altered. Thus the pitch is raised, if heat bo com
municated to the air a quarter period before the phase of greatest con
densation, and the pitch is lowered if the heat be communicated
a quarter period after the phase of greatest condensation.
    In general both kinds of effects are produced by a periodic
transfer of heat.      The pitch is altered, and the vibrations aro
either encouraged or discouraged. But there is no effect of the
second kind if tho air concerned be at a loop, i. e. a place where the
density does not vary, nor if the communication of heat be the same
at any stage of rarefaction, as in the corresponding stage of con
densation.
    The first examplo of aerial vibrations maintained by heat was
found in a phenomenon which has often been observed by glass-
blowers, and was made the subject of a systematic investigation by Dr.
Sondhauss. When a bulb about three-quarters of an inch in diameter
is blown at the end of a somewhat narrow tube, 5 or 6 inches in length,
a sound is sometimes heard proceeding from the heated glass. It was
proved by Sondhauss that a vibration of the glass itself is no essential
part of the phenomenon, and the same observer was very successful in
discovering tho connection between the pitch of the note and the
dimensions of tho apparatus. But no explanation (worthy of tho
namo) of tho production of sound has been given.
    For the sake of simplicity, a simple tube, hot at the closed end
and getting gradually cooler towards the open end, was first con
sidered. At a quarter of a period before the phase of greatest con
densation (which occurs almost simultaneously at all parts of the
column) the air is moving inwards, i. e. towards the closed end, and
therefore is passing from colder to hotter parts of the tube ; but the
heat received at this moment (of normal density) has no effect either in
encouraging or discouraging the vibration. The same would be true
of the entire operation of the heat, if tho adjustment of temperature
were instantaneous, so that there was never any sensible difference
between tho temperatures of the air and of the neighbouring parts of

1878.]     on the Explanation of certain Acoustical Phenomena.        539
the tube. But in fact the adjustment of temperature takes time, and
thus the temperature of the air deviates from that of the neighbouring
parts of the tube, inclining towards the temperature of that part
of the tube from which the air has just come. From this it follows
that at the phase of greatest condensation heat is received by the air,
and at the phase of greatest rarefaction is given up from it, and thus
there is a tendency to maintain the vibrations. It must not be
forgotten, however, that apart from transfer of heat altogether, the
condensed air is hotter than the rarefied air, and that in order that
the whole effect of heat may be on the side of encouragement, it is
necessary that previous to condensation the air should pass not merely
towards a hotter part of the tube, but towards a part of the tube
 which is hotter than the air will be when it arrives there. On this
 account a great range of temperature is necessary for the maintenance
 of vibration, and even with a great range the influence of the transfer
 of heat is necessarily unfavourable at the closed end, where the
 motion is very small. This is probably the reason of the advantage
 of a bulb. It is obvious that if the open end of the tube were heated,
 the effect of the transfer of heat would be even more unfavourable
 than in the case of a temperature uniform throughout.
     The sounds emitted by a jet of hydrogen, burning in an open tube,
were noticed soon after the discovery of the gas, and have been the
subject of several elaborate inquiries. The fact that the notes are
substantially the same as those which may bo elicited from the tube in
other ways, e. g. by blowing, was announced by Chladni. Faraday
proved that other gases were competent to take the place of hydrogen,
though not without disadvantage. But it is to Sondhauss that we
owe the most detailed examination of the circumstances under which
 the sound is produced. His experiments prove the importance of the
 part taken by the column of gas in the tube which supplies the jet.
For example, sound cannot be obtained with a supply tube which is
plugged with cotton in the neighbourhood of the jet, although no
difference can be detected by the eye between the flame thus obtained
and others which are competent to excite sound. When the supply
tube is unobstructed, the sounds obtainable are limited as to pitch,
 often dividing themselves into detached groups. In the intervals
between the groups no coaxing will induce a maintained sound, and it
may be added that, for a part of the interval at any rate, the influence
of the flame is inimical, so that a vibration started by a blow is
damped more rapidly than if the jet were not ignited.
     Partly in consequence of the peculiar behaviour of flames and
 partly for other reasons, the thorough explanation of these phenomena
 is a matter of some difficulty ; but there can be no doubt that they
fall under the head of vibrations maintained by heat, the heat being
communicated periodically to the mass of air confined in the sounding
 tube at a place where, in the course of a vibration, the pressure varies.
 Although some authors have shown an inclination to lay stress upon
the effects of the current of air passing through the tube, the sounds

    540                        The Lord Bayleigh                  [March 15,
    can readily be produced, not only when there is no through draught,
   but even when the flame is so situated that there is no sensible
   periodic motion of the air in its neighbourhood. In the course of the
   lecture a globe intended for burning phosphorus in oxygen gas was
   used as a resonator, and, when excited by a hydrogen flame well
   removed from the neck, gave a pure tone of about 95 vibrations per
   second.
       In consequence of the variable pressure within the resonator,
   the issue of gas, and therefore the development of heat, varies during
   the vibration. The question is under what circumstances the varia
   tion is of the kind necessary for the maintenance of the vibra
   tion. If wo were to suppose, as we might at first be inclined to do,
   that the issue of gas is greatest when the pressure in the resonator is
   least, and that the phase of greatest development of heat coincides with
   that of the greatest issue of gas, we should have the condition of
   things the most unfavourable of all to the persistence of the vibration.
   It is not difficult, however, to see that both suppositions are incorrect.
   In the supply tube (supposed to be unplugged, and of not too small
   bore) stationary, or approximately stationary, vibrations are excited,
   whose phase is either the same or the opposite of that of the vibra
   tion in the resonator. If tho length of the supply tube from the
   burner to the open end in the gas-generating flask be less than a
  quarter of the wave length in hydrogen of the actual vibration, the
  greatest issue of gas precedes by a quarter period the phase of greatest
  condensation ; so that, if the development of heat is retarded somewhat
  in comparison with the issue of gas, a state of things exists favourable
  to the maintenance of the sound. Some such retardation is inevitable,
  because a jet of inflammable gas can burn only at the outside ; but in
  many cases a still more potent cause may be found, in the fact that
  during the retreat of the gas in the supply tube small quantities of
  air may enter from the interior of tho resonator, whose expulsion
  must be effected before the inflammable gas can again begin to escape.
      If the length of the supply tube amounts to exactly one quarter
  of the wave length, the stationary vibration within it will bo of
 such a character that a node is formed at the burner, the variable
 part of the pressure just inside the burner being the same as in
 the interior of tho resonator. Under these circumstances there is
 nothing to make the flow of gas, or the development of heat, variable,
 and therefore the vibration cannot be maintained. This particular
 case is free from some of the difficulties which attach themselves to
 the general problem, and the conclusion is in accordance with Sond-
 hauss' observations.
      When the supply tube is somewhat longer than a quarter of the
 wave, the motion of the gas is materially different from that first
described. Instead of preceding, tho greatest outward flow of gas
follows at a quarter period interval the phase of greatest condensation,
and therefore if tho development of heat be somewhat retarded, the
whole effect is unfavourable. This state of things continues to

 1878.]    on the Explanation of certain Acoustical Phenomena.          541
 prevail, as the supply tube is lengthened, until the length of half a
 wave is reached, after which the motion again changos sign, so as to
 restore the possibility of maintenance. Although the size of the flame
 and its position in the tube (or neck of resonator) are not without
 influence, this sketch of the theory is sufficient to explain the fact,
 formulated by Dr. Sondhauss, that the principal element in the
 question is the length of the supply tube.
     The next example of the production of sound by heat, shown in
 the lecture, was a very interesting phenomenon discovered by Bijke.
 When a piece of fine metallic gauze, stretching across the lower part
 of a tube, open at both ends and held vertically, is heated by a gas flame
 placed under it, a sound of considerable power, and lasting for several
 seconds, is observed almost immediately after the removal of the flame.
 Differing in this respect from the case of sonorous flames, the genera
 tion of sound was found by Rijke to be closely connected with the
 formation of a through draught, which impinges upon the heated
 gauze. In this form of the experiment the heat is soon abstracted,
 and then the sound ceases; but by keeping the gauze hot by tho
 current from a powerful galvanic battery, Rijke was able to obtain
 the prolongation of the sound for an indefinite period. In any case
 from the point of view of the lecture the sound is to be regarded as a
 maintained sound.
     In accordance with the general views already explained, we have
to examine the character of the variable communication of heat from
 tho gauze to the air. So far as the communication is affected directly
by variations of pressure or density, the influence is unfavourable,
 inasmuch as the air will receive less heat from the gauze when its own
 temperature is raised by condensation. The maintenance depends
 upon the variable transfer of heat due to tho varying motions of the
air through the gauze, this motion being compounded of a uniform
motion upwards with a motion, alternately upwards and downwards,
due to the vibration. In the lower half of the tube these motions
conspire a quarter period before the phase of greatest condensation, and
oppose one another a quarter period after that phase. The rate of
transfer of heat will depend mainly upon the temperature of the air
in contact with the gauze, being greatest when that temperaturo is
lowest. Perhaps the easiest way to trace the mode of action is to
begin with the case of a simple vibration without a steady current.
Under these circumstances tho whole of the air which comos in contact
with the metal, in the course of a complete period, becomes heated ; and
after this state of things is established, there is comparatively little
further transfer of heat. The effect of superposing a small steady
upwards current is now easily recognized. At the limit of the inwards
motion, i. e. at the phase of greatest condensation, a small quantity of
air comes into contact with the metal, which has not done so before,
and is accordingly cool ; and the heat communicated to this quantity
of air acts in the most favourable manner for the maintenance of tho
vibration.

542          The Lord Bayleigh on Acoustical Phenomena. [March 15,
    A quite different result ensues if the gauze be placed in the upper
half of the tube. In this case the fresh air will come into the field
at the moment of greatest rarefaction, when the communication of
heat has an unfavourable instead of a favourable effect. The principal
note of the tube therefore cannot bo sounded.
    A complementary phenomenon discovered by Bosscha and Eiess
may be explained upon the same principles. If a current of hoi air
impinge upon cold gauze, sound is produced ; but in order to obtain
the principal note of the tube the gauze must be in the upper, and not
as before in the lower, half of the tube. An experiment due to Riess
was shown in which the sound is maintained indefinitely. The upper
part of a brass tube is kept cool by water contained in a tin vessel,
through the bottom of which the tube passes. In this way the gauze
remains comparatively cool, although exposed to the heat of a gas
flame situated an inch or two below it. The experiment sometimes
succeeds better when the draught is checked by a plate of wood placed
somewhat closely over the top of the tube.
    Both in Bijke's and Riess' experiments the variable transfer of
heat depends upon the motion of vibration, while the effect of the
transfer depends upon the variation of pressure. The gauze must
therefore be placed whero both effects are sensible, i. e. neither near a
node nor near a loop. About a quarter of tho length of the tube, from
the lower or upper end, as the case may be, appears to be the most
favourable position.
                                                          [Batleiqh.]

1878.]               Professor Tyndall on Fog-signals.               543
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 22, 1878.
Wakkkn De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President, in the Chair.
          Profkssor Tyndall, D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S. M.B.I.
                   Recent Experiments on Fog-signals.
The care of its sailors is one of the first duties of a maritime people,
and one of the sailor's greatest dangers is his proximity to the coast
at night. Hence the idea of warning him of such proximity by
beacon-fires placed sometimes on natural eminences and sometimes
on towers built expressly for the purpose. Close to Dover Castle,
for example, stands an ancient Pharos of this description.
    As our marine increased greater skill was invoked, and lamps
reinforced by parabolic reflectors poured their light upon the sea.
Several of these lamps were sometimes grouped together so as to
intensify the light, which at a little distance appeared as if it ema
nated from a single source. This " catoptric " form of apparatus is
still to some extent employed in our lighthouse-service, but for a
long timo past it has been more and more displaced by the great
lenses devised by the illustrious Frenchman, Frosnel.
     In a first-class " dioptric " apparatus the light emanates from a
lamp with several concentric wicks, the flame of which, being kindled
by a very active draught, attains to great intensity. In fixed lights
the lenses refract the rays issuing from the lamp so as to cause them
to form a luminous sheet which grazes the sea-horizon. In revolving
lights the lenses gather up the rays into distinct beams, resembling
the spokes of a wheel, which sweep over the sea and strike the eye of
the mariner in succession.
     It is not for clear weather that the greatest strengthening of the
light is intended, for here it is not needed. Nor is it for densely
foggy weather, for here it is ineffectual. But it is for the inter
mediate stages of hazy, snowy, or rainy weather, in which a powerful
light can assert itself, while a feeble one is extinguished. The usual
first-order lamp is one of four wicks, but Mr. Douglass, the able and
indefatigable engineer of the Trinity House, has recontly raised the
number of the wicks to six, which produce a very noble flame. To
Mr. Wigham, of Dublin, we are indebted for the successful applica
tion of gas to lighthouse illumination. In some lighthouses his
power varies from 28 jets to 108 jets, while in the lighthouse of Galley
Head three burners of the largest size can be employed, the maximum

544                         Professor Tyndall                 [March 22,
number of jots being 324. These largor powers aro invoked only in case
of fog, the 28-jet burner being amply sufficient for clear weather. The
passage from tho small burner to the large, and from the large burner
to the small, is made with ease, rapidity, and certainty. This employ
ment of gas is indigenous to Ireland, and the Board of Trade has
exercised a wise liberality in allowing every facility to Mr. Wigham
for tho development of his invention.
     The last great agent employed in lighthouse illumination is
electricity. It was in this Institution, beginning in 1831, that
Faraday proved the existence and illustrated the laws of those
induced currents which in our day have received such astounding
development. In relation to this subject Faraday's words have a
prophetic ring. " I have rather," he writes in 1831, " been desirous
of discovering new facts and new relations dependent on magneto-
electric induction than of exalting the force of those already
obtained, being assured that the latter would find their full develop
ment hereafter." The labours of Holmes, of the Paris Alliance
Company, of Wilde, and of Gramme, constitute a brilliant fulfilment
of this prediction.
     But, as regards the augmentation of power, the greatest step
hitherto made was independently taken a few years ago by Dr. Werner
Siemens and Sir Charles Wlieatstone. Through the application of
their discovery a machine endowed with an infinitesimal charge of
magnetism may, by a process of accumulation at compound interest,
be caused so to enrich itself magnetically as to cast by its performance
all the older machines into the shade. The light now before you is
that of a small machine placed downstairs, and worked there by a
minute steam-engine. It is a light of about 1000 candles ; and for
it, and for the steam-engine that works it, our members are indebted
to the liberality of Dr. William Siemens, who in the most generous
manner has presented the machine to this Institution. After an
exhaustive trial at the South Foreland, machines on the principle of
Siemens, but of far greater power than this one, have been recently
chosen by the Elder Brethren of the Trinity House for the two light
houses at the Lizard Point.
     Our most intense lights, including the six-wick lamp, the Wigham
gas-light, and the electric light, being intended to aid the mariner in
heavy weather, may bo regarded, in a certain sense, as fog-signals. But
fog, when thick, is intractable to light. The sun cannot penetrate it,
much less any terrestrial source of illumination. Hence the necessity
of employing sound-signals in dense fogs. Bells, gongs, horns, whistles,
guns, and syrens have been used for this purpose ; but it is mainly, if
not wholly, with explosive signals that we have now to deal. The gun
has been employed with useful effect at the North Stack, near Holy
head, on the Kish Bank near Dublin, at Lundy Island, and at other
points on our coasts. During tho long, laborious, and I venture to
think memorable series of observations conducted under tho auspices
of the Elder Brethren of the Trinity House at the South Foreland in

 1878.]                 on Recent Experiments on Fog-signals.                                545
 1872 and 1873, it was proved that a short 5^-inch howitzer, firing 3 lbs.
 of powder, yielded a louder report than a long 18-pounder firing
 the samo charge. Here was a hint to be acted on by the Elder
 Brethren. The effectiveness of the sound depended on the shape of
 the gun, and as it could not bo assumed that in the howitzer we had
 hit accidentally upon tho best possible shape, arrangements wero
 made with the War Office for the construction of a gun specially
 calculated to produce the loudest sound attainable from the combus
 tion of 3 lbs. of powder. To prevent the unnecessary landward waste
 of the sound, the gun was furnished with a parabolic muzzle, intended
 to project the sound over tho sea, where it was most needed. Tho
 construction of this gun was based on a searching sorics of experi
 ments executed at Woolwich with small models, provided with
 muzzles of various kinds. A drawing of the gun is before you. It
 was constructed on the principle of the revolver, its various chambers
 being loaded and brought in rapid succession into tho firing position.
 The performance of the gun proved the correctness of the principles
 on which its construction was based.
Breech-loading Fog-signal Gun, with Bell Mouth,* proposed by Major Maitland,
                               B.A. Assistant Superintendent.
     * The carriage of this gun has been modiBcd in construction since this drawing was ma*.
    An incidental point of some interest was decided by the earliest
Woolwich experiments. It had been a widely spread opinion among
artillerists, that a bronze gun produces a specially loud report. I
doubted from the outset whether this would help us ; and in a letter
dated 22nd April, 1874, I ventured to express myself thus :— " The
report of a gun, as affecting an observer close at hand, is mado up of

546                             Professor Tyndall                   [March 22,
two factors—tho sound duo to the shock of the air by the -violently
expanding gas, and the sound derived from the vibrations of the gun,
which, to some extent, rings like a bell. This latter, I apprehend,
will disappear at considerable distances." The result of subsequent
trial, as reported by General Campbell, is, " that the sonorous quali
ties of bronze are greatly superior to those of cast iron at short
distances, but that the advantage lies with the baser metal at long
ranges." *
     Coincident with these trials of guns at Woolwich, gun-cotton was
thought of as a probably effective sound-producer. From the first,
indeed, theoretic considerations caused me to fix my attention per
sistently on this substance ; for the remarkable experiments of Mr.
Abel, whereby its rapidity of combustion and violently explosive
energy are demonstrated, seemed to single it out as a substance
eminently calculated to fulfil the conditions necessary to the produc
tion of an intense wave of sound. What those conditions are we shall
now more particularly inquire, calling to our aid a brief but very
 remarkable paper, published by Professor Stokes in the ' Philosophical
 Magazine ' for 1868.
      The explosive force of gunpowder is known to depend on the
sudden conversion of a solid body into an intensely heated gas. Now
tho work which the artillerist requires the expanding gas to perform
 is the displacement of the projectile, besides which it has to displace
 the air in front of the projectile, which is backed by the whole
 pressure of the atmosphere. Such, however, is not the work that we
 want our gunpowder to perform. We wish to transmute its energy
 not into the mere mechanical translation of either shot or air, but into
 vibratory motion. We want pulses to be formed which shall propa
 gate themselves to vast distances through tho atmosphere, and this
 requires a certain choice and management of the oxplosive material.
      A sound-wave consists essentially of two parts—a condensation
 and a rarefaction. Now air is a very mobile fluid, and if tho shock
imparted to it lack due promptness, tho wave is not produced. Con
 sider the case of a common clock pendulum, which oscillates to and
 fro, and which might be expected to generate corresponding pulses
 in the air. When, for example, the bob moves to the right, the air
 to the right of it might be supposed to be condensed, while a partial
 vacuum might be supposed to follow the bob. As a matter of
fact, we have nothing of this kind. The air particles in front of
 the bob retreat so rapidly, and those behind it close so rapidly in,
 that no sound-pulse is formed. The mobility of hydrogen, more
over, being far greater than that of air, a prompter action is essential
to the formation of sonorous waves in hydrogen than in air. It is to
     * General Campbell assigns a true cause for this difference. The ring of the
 bronze gun represents so much energy withdrawn from the explosive force of
 the gunpowder. Further experiments would, however, be needed to place the
 superiority of the cast-iron gun at a distance beyond question.

1878.]            on Becent Experiments on Fog-signals.            547
this rapid power of readjustment, this refusal, so to speak, to allow
its atoms to be crowded together or to be drawn apart, that Professor
Stokes, with admirable penetration, refers the damping power, first
described by Sir John Leslie, of hydrogen upon sound.
    A tuning-fork which executes 256 complete vibrations in a second,
if struck gently on a pad and held in free air, emits a scarcely
audible note. It behaves to some extent like the pendulum bob
just referred to. This feebleness is due to the prompt " recipro
cating flow " of the air between the incipient condensations and
rarefactions, whereby the formation of sound-pulses is forestalled.
Stokes, however, has taught us that this flow may be intercepted by
placing the edge of a card in close proximity to one of the corners of
the fork. An immediate augmentation of the sound of the fork is the
consequence.
    The more rapid the shock imparted to the air, the greater is the
fractional part of the energy of the shock converted into wave motion.
And as different kinds of gunpowder vary considerably in their
rapidity of combustion, it may be expected that they will also vary as
producers of sound. This theoretic inference is completely verified
by experiment. In a series of preliminary trials conducted at Wool
wich on the 4th of June, 1875, the sound-producing powers of four
different kinds of powder were determined. In the order of the size
of their grains they bear the names respectively of Fine-grain (P. G.),
Large-grain (L. G.), Rifle Large-grain (R. L. G.), and Pebble-powder
(P.). (See annexed figures.) Tho charge in each case amounted to
   Us              i&            <U+2666>'•ft
     v. a.
4£ lbs. ; four 24-lb. howitzers being employed to fire the respective
charges. There were eleven observers, all of whom, without a single
dissentient, pronounced the sound of the fine-grain powder loudest of
alL In the opinion of seven of the eleven the large-grain powder-came
next ; seven also of the eleven placed the rifle large-grain third on
the list ; while they were again unanimous in pronouncing the pebble-
powder the worst sound-producer. These differences are entirely due
to differences in the rapidity of combustion. All who have witnessed
the performance of the 80-ton gun must have been surprised at the
mildness of its thunder. To avoid the strain resulting from quick
combustion, the powder employed is composed of lumps far larger
than those of tho pebble-powder above referred to. In the long tube
of the gun these lumps of solid matter gradually resolve themselves

548                           Professor Tyndall                     [March 22,
into gas, which on issuing from the muzzle imparts a kind of push to
the air, instead of the sharp shock necossary to form the condensation
of an intensely sonorous wave.
     These are somo of the physical reasons why gun-cotton might be
regarded as a promising fog-signal. Firing it as we have been
taught to do by Mr. Abel, its explosion is more rapid than that of
gunpowder. In its case the air particles, alert as they are, will not,
it might be presumed, be able to slip from condensation to rarefaction
with a rapidity sufficient to forestall the formation of the wave. On
a priori grounds then, we are entitled to infer the effectiveness of gun-
cotton, while in a great number of comparative experiments, stretch
ing from 1874 to the present time, this inference has been verified in
the most conclusive manner.
     As regards explosive material, and zealous and accomplished help
in the use of it, tho resources of Woolwich Arsenal have been freely
placed at the disposal of the Elder Brethren. General Campbell,
General Younghusband, Colonel Frascr, Colonel Maitland, and other
officers, have taken an active personal part in the investigation, and in
most cases havo incurred the labour of reducing and reporting on
tho observations. Guns of various forms and sizos havo been invoked
for gunpowder, while gun-cotton has been fired in freo air and in
the foci of parabolic reflectors.
     On tho 22nd of February, 1875, a number of small guns, cast
specially for the purpose—some with plain, somo with conical, and
some with parabolic muzzles—firing 4 oz. of fine-grain powder, were
pitted against 4 oz. of gun-cotton detonated both in tho open, and in
the focus of a parabolic reflector.* The sound produced by the gun-
cotton, reinforced by the reflector, was unanimously pronounced
loudest of all. With equal unanimity, the gun-cotton detonated in
free air was placed second in intensity. Though the same charge was
used throughout, tho guns differed notably among themselves, but
none of them came up to the gun-cotton, either with or without tho
reflector. A second series, observed from a different distance on the
same day, confirmed to the letter the foregoing result.
     As a practical point, however, the comparative cost of gun-cotton
and gunpowder has to be taken into account, though considerations
of cost ought not to be stretched too far in cases involving tho
safety of human life. In the earlier experiments, where quantities
of equal prico were pitted against each other, the results were
somewhat fluctuating. Indeed, the perfect manipulation of the gun-
cotton required some preliminary discipline—promptness, certainty,
and effectiveness of firing, augmenting as experience increased.
As 1 lb. of gun-cotton costs as much as 3 lbs. of gunpowder, these
quantities were compared together on tho 22nd of February. The
guns employed to discharge the gunpowder wero a 12-lb. brass
    * For charges of this weight the reflector is of moderate size, and may be
employed without fear of fracture.

 1878.]             on Recent Experiments on Fog-signals.                      549
 howitzer, a 24-lb. cast-iron howitzer, and the long 18-pounder
 employed at tho South Foreland. The result was, that the 24-lb.
 howitzer, firing 3 lbs. of gunpowder, had a slight advantage over
 1 lb. of gun-cotton detonated in the open ; while the 12-lb. howitzer
and the 18-pounder were both beaten by the gun-cotton. On the
2nd of May, on the other hand, the gun-cotton is reported as having
been heaten by all the guns.
     Meanwhile, the parabolic-muzzle gun, expressly intended for fog-
signalling, was pushed rapidly forward, and on tho 22nd and 23rd of
 March, 1876, its power was tested at Shoeburyness. Pitted against
 it were a 16-pounder, a 5J-inch howitzer, 1£ lb. of gun-cotton deto
 nated in the focus of a reflector (see annexed figure), and 1£ lb. of
     Gun-cotton Slab (1J lb.) Dotonated in the Focus of a Cast-iron Reflector.
gun-cotton detonated in free air. On this occasion nineteen different
series of experiments were made, when the new experimental gun,
firing a 3-lb. chargo, demonstrated its superiority over all guns
previously employed to fire the same chargo. As regards the com
parative merits of the gun-cotton fired in tho open, and the gun
powder fired from the new gun, the mean values of their sounds were
the same. Fired in the focus of the reflector, the gun-cotton clearly
dominated over all the other sound-producers.*
* The reflector was fractured by the explosion, but it did good service afterwards-
     Vol. VIII. (No. 68.)                                             2 q

550                          Professor Tyndall                 [March 22,
    The whole of the observations here referred to were embraced by
an angle of about 70°, of which 50° lay on the one side and 20° on the
other side of the line of fire. The shots were heard by eleven observers
on board the ' Galatea,' which took up positions varying from 2 miles to
13£ miles from the firing-point. In all these observations, the rein
forcing action of the reflector, and of the parabolic muzzle of the gun,
came into play. But the reinforcement of the sound in one direction
implies its withdrawal from some other direction, and accordingly it
was found that at a distance of 5J miles from the firing-point, and on a
line, including nearly an angle of 90°, with the line of fire, the gun-
cotton in the open beat the new gun ; while behind the station, at
distances of 8^ miles and 13J miles respectively, the gun-cotton in the
open beat both the gun and the gun-cotton in the reflector. This result
is rendered more important by the fact that the sound reached the
Mucking Light, a distance of 13J miles, against a light wind which
was blowing at the time.
    Most, if not all, of our ordinary sound-producers send forth waves
which are not of uniform intensity throughout. A trumpet is loudest
in the direction of its axis. The same is true of a gun. A bell, with
its mouth pointed upwards or downwards, sends forth waves far denser
in the horizontal plane passing through the bell than at an angular
distance of 90° from that plane. The oldest bellhangers must have
been aware of the fact that the sides of the bell, and not its mouth,
emitted the strongest sound, their practice being probably deter
mined by this knowledge. Our slabs of gun-cotton also emit waves
of different densities in different parts. It has occurred in the experi
ments at Shoeburyness that when the broad side of a slab was turned
towards the suspending wire of a second slab six feet distant, the wire
was cut by the explosion, while when the edge of the slab was turned
to the wire this never occurred. To the circumstance that the
broadsides of the slabs faced the sea is probably to be ascribed the
remarkable fact observed on the 23rd of March, that in two direc
tions, not far removed from the line of fire, the gun-cotton detonated
in the open had a slight advantage over the new gun.
     Theoretic considerations rendered it probable that the shape and
size of the exploding mass would affect the constitution of the wave of
sound. I did not think large rectangular slabs the most favourable
shape, and accordingly proposed cutting a large slab into fragments of
different sizes, and pitting them against each other. The differences
between the sounds were by no means so great as the differences in
the quantities of explosive material might lead one to expect. The
mean values of eighteen series of observations made on board the
' Galatea,' at distances varying from If mile to 4 - 8 miles, were as
follows: —
           Weights                 4-oz.   6-oz.  9-oz.   12-oz.
           Vulue of sound .. .. 3-12       3-34   4-0     4-03
     These charges were cut from a slab of dry gun-cotton about

 1878.J           on Recent Experiments on Fog-signals.              551
 If inch thick: they were squares and rectangles of the following
dimensions : —4 oz., 2 inches by 2 inches ; 6 oz., 2 inches by 3 inches ;
 9 oz., 3 inches by 3 inches ; 12 oz., 2 inches by 6 inches.
     The numbers under the respective weights express the recorded
value of the sounds. They must be simply taken as a ready means of
expressing the approximate relative intensity of the sounds as
estimated by the ear. When we find a 9-oz. charge marked 4, and a
 12-oz. charge marked 4"03, the two sounds may be regarded as
practically equal in intensity, thus proving that an addition of 30 per
cent, in the larger charges produces no sensible difference in the
sound. Were the sounds estimated by some physical means, instead
of by the ear, the values of the souuds would not, in my opinion, show
a greater advance with the increase of material than that indicated
by the foregoing numbers. Subsequent experiments rendered still
more certain the effectiveness, as well as the economy, of the smaller
charges of gun-cotton.
     It is an obvious corollary from the foregoing experiments that on
our "nesses" and promontories, where the land is clasped on both
sides for a considerable distance by the sea—where, therefore, the
sound has to propagate itself rearward as well as forward—the
nse of the parabolic gun, or of the parabolic reflector might be a
disadvantage rather than an advantage. Here gun-cotton, exploded
in the open, forms the most appropriate source of sound. This
remark is especially applicable to such lightships as are intended
to spread the sound all round them as from central foci. As a signal
in rock lighthouses, where neither syren, steam-whistlo, nor gun
could be mounted ; and as a handy fleet-signal, dispensing with
the lumber of special signal-guns, the gun-cotton will prove invalu
able. But in most of these cases we have the drawback that local
damage may bo done by the explosion. The lantern of the rock
lighthouse might suffer from concussion near at hand, and though
mechanical arrangements might be devised, both in the case of the
lighthouse and of the ship's deck, to place the firing-point of the
gun-cotton at a safe distance, no such arrangement could compete, as
regards simplicity and effectiveness, with the expedient of a gun-
cotton rocket. Had such a means of signalling existed at the Bishop's
Rock lighthouse, the ill-fated 'Schiller' might have beon warned of her
approach to danger ten, or it may be twenty, miles before she reached
the rock which wrecked her. Had the fleet possessed such a signal,
instead of the ubiquitous but ineffectual whistle, the ' Iron Duke ' and
' Vanguard ' need never have come into collision.
     It was the necessity of providing a suitable signal for rock light
houses, and of clearing obstacles which cast an acoustic shadow,
that suggested the idea of the gun-cotton rocket to Sir Richard
Collinson, Deputy Master of tho Trinity House. His idea was to
place a disk or short cylinder of gun-cotton in the head of a rocket,
the ascensional force of which should be employed to carry the disk
to an elevation of 1000 feet or thereabouts, where by the ignition of a
                                                            2 q 2

552                           Professor Tyndall               [March 22,
fuse associated with a detonator, the gun-cotton should be fired, send
ing its sound in all directions vertically and obliquely down upon
earth and sea. The first attempt to realize this idea was made on the
18th of July, 1876, at the fire-work manufactory of the Messrs. Brock,
at Nunhead. Eight rockets were then fired, four being charged with
5 oz. and four with 1\ oz. of gun-cotton. They ascended to a great
height, and exploded with a very loud report in the air. On the 27th
of July, the rockets were tried at Shoeburyness. The most noteworthy
result on this occasion was the hearing of the sounds at the Mouse
Lighthouse, 8£ miles E. by S., and at the Chapman Lighthouse, 8£
miles W. by N. ; that is to say, at opposite sides of the firing-point.
It is worthy of remark that, in the case of the Chapman Lighthouse,
land and trees intervened between the firing-point and the place of
observation. " This," as General Younghusband justly remarked at
the time, " may prove to be a valuable consideration if it should
be found necessary to place a signal station in a position whence
the sea could not be freely observed." Indeed, the clearing of such
obstacles was one of the objects which the inventor of the rocket had
in view.
    With reference to tho action of tho wind, it was thought desirable
to compare" the range of explosions produced near tho surface of the
earth with others produced at the elevation attainable by the gun-
cotton rockets. Wind and weather, however, are not at our command ;
and hence one of tho objects of a series of experiments conducted
on the 13th of December, 1876, was not fulfilled. It is worthy, how
ever, of note that on this day, with smooth water and a calm atmosphere,
tho rockets were distinctly heard at a distance of 1 1 - 2 miles from the
firing-point. Tho quantity of gun-cotton employed was 1\ oz. On
Thursday the 8th of March, 1877, these comparative experiments of
firing at high and low elevations were pushed still further. The gun-
cotton near the ground consisted of ^-lb. disks, suspended from a
horizontal iron bar about i^ feet above the ground. The rockets
carried the same quantity of gun-cotton in their heads, and tho height
to which they attained, as determined by a theodolite, was from 800
to 900 feet. The day was cold, with occasional squalls of snow and
hail, the direction of the sound being at right angles to that of the
wind. Five series of observations were made on board the ' Vestal,'
at distances varying from 3 to 6 miles. The mean value of tho
explosions in the air exceeded that of the explosions near the ground
by a small but sensible quantity. At Windmill Hill, Gravesend,
however, which was nearly to leeward, and 5£ miles from the firing-
point, in nineteen cases out of twenty-four the disk fired near the
ground was loudest ; while in the remaining five the rocket had the
advantage.
    Towards the close of the day the atmosphere became very serene.
A few distant cumuli sailed near the horizon, but the zenith and a
vast angular space all round it were absolutely free from cloud. From
the deck of the ' Galatea ' a rocket was discharged, which reached a
great elevation, and exploded with a loud report. Following this solid

1878.]             on Recent Experiments on Fog-signals.               553
nucleus of sound was a continuous train of echoes, which retreated to
a continually greater distance, dying gradually off into silence after
seven seconds' duration. These echoes were of the same character as
those so frequently noticed at the South Foreland in 1872-73, and
called by mo " aerial echoes."
      On tho 23rd of March the experiments were resumed, the most
noteworthy results of that day's observations being that tho sounds
wero heard at Tillingham, 10 miles to tho N.E. ; at West Mersea,
 15J miles to the N.E. by E. ; at Brightlingsea, 17£ miles to the
N.E. ; and at Clacton Wash, 20£ miles to the N.E. by £ E. The
wind was blowing at the time from the 8.E. Some of these sounds
were produced by rockets, some by a 24-lb. howitzer, and some by an
 8-inch Maroon.
      In December, 1876, Mr. Gardiner, tho managing director of the
 Cotton-powder Company, had proposed a trial of this material against
 the gun-cotton. The density of the cotton he urged was only 1 - 03,
 while that of the powder was 1-70. A greater quantity of explosive
 material being thus compressed into the same volume, Mr. Gardiner
 thought that a greater sonorous effect must be produced by the
 powder. At the instance of Mr. Mackie, who had previously gone
 very thoroughly into the subject, a Committee of the Elder Brethren
 visited the cotton-powder manufactory, on the banks of the Swale,
 near Faversham, on the 16th of June, 1877. The weights of cotton-
 powder employed were 2 oz., 8 oz., 1 lb., and 2 lbs., in the form of
 rockets and of signals fired a few feet above tho ground. The experi
 ments throughout were arranged and conducted by Mr. Mackie. Our
 desire on this occasion was to get as near to windward as possible,
 but the Swale and other obstacles limited our distance to 1£ mile.
 We stood here E.S.E. from the firing-point while the wind blew fresh
 from the N.E.
       Tho cotton-powder yielded a very effective report. The rockets
  in general had a slight advantago over the same quantities of material
  fired near the ground. Tho loudness of the sound was by no means
  proportional to the quantity of the material exploded, 8 oz. yielding
  very nearly as loud a report as 1 lb. The " aerial echoes," which
  invariably followed the explosion of the rockets, were loud and long-
  continued.
       On tho 17th of October, 1877, another series of experiments with
  howitzers and rockets was carried out at Shoeburyness. The charge
  of the howitzer was 3 lbs. of L. G. powder. The charges of the
  rockets were 12 oz., 8 oz., 4 oz., and 2 oz. of gun-cotton respectively.
  The gun and the four rockets constituted a series, and eight series
  were fired during the afternoon of the 17th. The observations were
  made from the ' Vestal ' and the ' Galatea,' positions being successively
  assumed which permitted the sound to reach the observers with the
  wind, against the wind, and across tho wind. The distance of the
  ' Galatea ' varied from 3 to 7 miles, that of the ' Vestal,' which was
 more restricted in her movements, being 2 to 3 miles. Briefly
  summed up, tho result is that the howitzer, firing a 3-lb. charge,

 554                           Professor Tyndall                 [March 22,
 which it will he remembered was our best gun at the South Foreland,
 was beaten by the 12-oz. rocket, by the 8-oz. rocket, and by the 4-oz.
 rocket. The 2-oz. rocket alone fell behind the howitzer.
      It is worth while recording the distances to which some of the
 sounds were heard on the day now referred to :—
   1.  Leigh                 6J miles W.N.W... 24 out of 40 sounds heard.
   2.  Girdler Light-vessel 12 „ S.E. by B. 5                „
   3.  Reculvers     .. ..  17J „ S.E. by S. 18
   4.  St. Nicholas .. ..   20 „ S.E.        ..8
   5.  EppleBay .. ..       22 „ S.E. by E. 19               „
   6.  Westgate             23 „ S.E. by E. 9
   7.  Kingsgate .. ..      25 „ S.E. by E. 8                „
      The day was cloudy, with occasional showers of drizzling rain ;
 the wind about N.W. by N. all day ; at times squally, rising to a
force of 6 or 7 and sometimes dropping to a force of 2 or 3. The
station at Leigh excepted, all these places were to leeward of
Shoeburyness. At four other stations to leeward, varying in distance
from 15£ to 24£ miles, nothing was heard, while at eleven stations to
windward, varying from 8 to 26 miles, the sounds were also inaudible.
It was found, indeed, that the sounds proceeding directly against tho
wind did not penetrate much beyond 3 miles.
      On the following day, viz. the 18th October, we proceeded to
Dungeness with the view of making a series of strict comparative
experiments with gun-cotton and cotton-powder. Bockets containing
8 oz., 4 oz., and 2 oz. of gun-cotton had been prepared at the Royal
Arsenal ; while others, containing similar quantities of cotton-powder,
had been supplied by the cotton-powder company at Faversham.
With these were compared the ordinary 18-pounder gun, which
happened to be mounted at Dungeness, firing the usual charge of
3 lbs. of powder, and a syren.
     From these experiments it appeared that tho gun-cotton and
cotton-powder were practically equal as producers of sound.
     The effectiveness of small charges was illustrated in a very
striking manner, only a single unit separating the numerical value
of the 8-oz. rocket from that of the 2-oz. rocket. The former was
recorded as 6 - 9 and the latter as 5 - 9, the value of the 4-oz. rocket
being intermediate between them. These results were recorded by a
number of very practised observers on board the 'Galatea.' They
were completely borne out by the observations of the Coastguard,
who marked the value of the 8-oz, rocket 6"1, and that of the 2-oz.
rocket 5 - 2. The 18-pounder gun fell far behind all the rockets, a
result, probably, to be in part ascribed to the imperfection of the powder.
The performance of the syren was, on the whole, less satisfactory
than that of the rocket. The instrument was worked, not by steam
of ? 0 lbs. pressure, as at the South Foreland, but by compressed air,
beginning with 40 lbs. and ending with 30 lbs. pressure. The
trumpet was pointed to windward, and in the axis of the instrument
the sound was about as effective as that of tho 8-oz. rocket. But in a

 1878.]             on Recent Experiments on Fog-signah.                     555
direction at right angles to the axis, and still more in the rear of this
direction, the syren fell very sensibly behind even the 2-oz. rocket.
     These are the principal comparative trials made between the gun-
cotton rocket and other fog-signals ; but they are not the only ones.
On the 2nd of August, 1877, for example, experiments were made at
Lundy Island with the following results. At 2 miles distant from the
firing-point, with land intervening, the 18-pounder, firing a 3-lb. charge,
was quite unheard. Both the 4-oz. rocket and the 8-oz. rocket, how
ever, reached an elevation which commanded the acoustic shadow,
and yielded loud reports. When both were in view, and heard, the
rockets were still superior to the gun. On the 6th of August, at
St. Ann's, the 4-oz. and 8-oz. rockets proved superior to the syren.
On the Shambles Light-vessel, when a pressure of 13 lbs. was em
ployed to sound the syren, the rockets proved greatly superior to that
instrument. Proceeding along the sea margin at Flamboro Head,
Mr. Edwards states that at a distance of 1 j mile, with the 18-pounder
previously used as a fog-signal hidden behind the cliifs, its report was
quite unheard, while the 4-oz. rocket, rising to an elevation which
brought it clearly into view, yielded a powerful sound in the face of
an opposing wind.
    On the evening of February 9th, 1877, a remarkable series of
experiments were made by Mr. Prentice at Stowmarket with the gun-
cotton rocket. From the report with which he has kindly furnished
me I extract the following particulars. The first column in the
annexed statement contains the name of the place of observation, the
second its distance from the firing-point, and the third the result
observed :—
Stoke Hill, Ipswich . . 10 miles Rockets clearly seen and sounds distinctly heard
                                   53 seconds after the flash.
Melton                   15 „ Signals distinctly heard. Thought at first that
                                   sounds were reverberated from the sea.
Framlingham .. ..18 „ Signals very distinctly heard, both in the open
                                   air and in a closed room. Wind in favour of
                                   sound.
Stratford. St. Andrews 19 „ Reports loud; startled pheasants in a cover
                                   close by.
Tuddenham. St. Martin 10 „ Reports very loud ; rolled away like thunder.
Christ Church Park . . 11 „ Report arrived a little more than a minute after
                                   flash.
Nettlestead Hall . . .. 6 „ Distinct in every part of observer's house. Very
                                   loud in the open air.
Bildestone                6 „ Explosion very loud, wind against sound.
Nacton                   14 „ Reports quite distinct—mistaken by inhabitants
                                   for claps of thunder.
Aldboro                  25 „ Rockets seen through a very hazy atmosphere ;
                                   a rumbling detonation heard.
Cupel Mills              11 „ Reports heard within and without the observer's
                                   house. Wind opposed to sound.
Lawford                  15J „ Reports distinct : attributed to distant thunder.
    In the great majority of these cases, the direction of the sound
enclosed a large angle with the direction of the wind. In some cases,
indeed, the two directions were at right angles to each other. It is

556                            Professor Tyndall                     [March 22,
needless to dwell for a moment on the advantage of possessing a
signal commanding ranges such as these.
     The explosion of substances in the air, after having been carried
to a considerable elevation by rockets, is a familiar performance. In
1873, moreover, the Board of Trade proposed a light-and-sonnd
rocket as a signal of distress, which proposal was subsequently
realized, but in a form too elaborato and expensive for practical use.
The idea of a gun-cotton rocket fit for signalling in fogs is, I
believe, wholly due to the Deputy Master of the Trinity House.
Thanks to the skilful aid given by the authorities of Woolwich, by
Mr. Prentice, and Mr. Brock, that idea is now an accomplished fact ;
a signal of great power, handiness, and economy, being thus placed at
the service of our mariners. Not only may the rocket be applied in
association with lighthouses and lightships, but in tho Navy also it
may be turned to important account. Soon after the loss of the
' Vanguard ' I ventured to urge upon an eminent naval officer the
desirability of having an organized code of fog-signals for the fleet.
He shook his head doubtingly, and referred to the difficulty of finding
room for signal guns. The gun-cotton rocket completely surmounts
 this difficulty. It is manipulated with ease and rapidity, while its
 discharges may be so grouped and combined as to give a most im
 portant extension to tho voice of the admiral in oommand. It is
 needless to add that at any point upon our coasts, or upon any other
 coast, where its establishment might be desirable, a fog-signal station
 might be extemporised without difficulty.
      I have referred more than onco to the train of echoes which
 accompanied the explosion of gun-cotton in free air, speaking of
 them as similar in all respects to those which were described for
 tho first time in my Iteport on Tog-signals, addressed to the Corpo
 ration of Trinity House in 1874.* To these echoes I attached a
 fundamental significance. There was no visible reflecting surface
 from which they could come. On some days, with hardly a cloud
  in the air and hardly a ripple on the sea, they reached a magical
  intensity. As far as the sense of hearing could judge, they came
 from the body of the air in front of the great trumpet which pro
  duced them. The trumpet blasts were five seconds in duration, but
 long before the blast had ceased the echoes struck in, adding their
  strength to the primitive note of the trumpet. After the blast had
  ended the echoes continued, retreating further and further from the
  point of observation, and finally dying away at great distances. The
  echoes were perfectly continuous as long as tho sea was clear of
  ships, " tapering " by imperceptible gradations into absolute silence.
   But when a ship happened to throw itself athwart the courso of the
  sound, the echo from the broadside of the vessel was returned as a
  shock which rudely interrupted the continuity of the dying atmo
  spheric music.
              * See also 'Philosophical Transactions' for 1874, p. 183.

1878.]            on Becent Experiments on Fog-»ignals.              557
    These echoes have been ascribed to reflection from the crests of the
sea-waves. But this hypothesis is negatived by the fact, that the echoes
were produced in great intensity and duration when no waves existed
—when the sea, in fact, was of glassy smoothness. It has been also
shown that the direction of the echoes depended not on that of
waves, real or assumed, but on the direction of the axis of the trumpet.
Causing that axis to traverse an arc of 210°, and the trumpet to sound
at various points of the arc, the echoes were always, at all events in
calm weather, returned from that portion of the atmosphere towards
which the trumpet was directed. They could not, under the cir
cumstances, come from the glassy sea ; while both their variation of
direction and their perfectly continuous fall into silence, are irre
concilable with the notion that they came from fixed objects on the
land. They came from that portion of the atmosphere into which
the trumpet poured its maximum sound, and fell in intensity as the
direct sound penetrated to greater atmospheric distances.
    The day on which our latest observations were made was particu
larly fine. Before reaching Dungeness, the smoothness of the sea
and the serenity of the air caused me to test the echoing power of the
atmosphere. A single ship lay about half a mile distant between us
and the land. The result of the proposed experiment was clearly
foreseon. It was this. The rocket being sent up, it exploded at a
great height ; the echoes retreated in their usual fashion, becoming
less and less intense as the distance of the surfaces of reflection from
the observers increased. About five seconds aftor the explosion, a
single loud shock was sent back to us from the side of tho vessel
lying between us and the land. Obliterated for a moment by this
more intense echo, the aerial reverberation continued its retreat, dying
away into silence in two or three seconds afterwards.
     I have referred to the firing of an 8-oz. rocket from the deck of
the ' Galatea ' on the 8th of March, 1877, stating the duration of its
 echoes to be 7 seconds. Mr. Prentice, who was present at the time,
 assured me that in his experiments similar echoes had been frequently
 heard of more than twice this duration. Tbe ranges of his sounds
 alone would render this result in the highest degree probable.
     To attempt to interpret an experiment which I have not had an
 opportunity of repeating, is an operation of some risk ; and it is not
 without a consciousness of this that I refer hero to a result announced
 by Professor Joseph Henry, which he considers adverse to the notion
 of aerial echoes. He took the trouble to point the trumpet of a
 syren towards the zenith, and found that when the syren was sounded
 no echo was returned. Now the reflecting surfaces which give rise
 to these echoes are for the most part due to differences of temperaturo
 between sea and air. If, through any cause, the air above be chilled,
 we have descending streams —if tho air below be warmed, we_uay©—
 ascending streams as the initial cause of atmospheric flocculence. A
 sound proceeding vertically does not cross the streams, nor impinge
 upon the reflecting surfaces, as does a sound proceeding horizontally
 across them. Aerial echoes, thorefore, will not accompany the vertical

 558                Professor Tijndall on Fog-signals.             [March 22,
 sound as they accompany the horizontal one. The experiment, as I
 interpret it, is not opposed to the theory of these echoes which I
 have ventured to enunciate. But, as I have indicated, not only to
 see but to vary such an experiment is a necessary prelude to grasping
 its full significance.
      In a paper published in the 'Philosophical Transactions' for
  1876, Professor Osborne Reynolds refers to these echoes in the
 following terms : —"Without attempting to explain the reverberations
 and echoes which have been observed, I will merely call attention to
 tho fact that in no case have I heard any attending the reports of the
 rockets,* although they seem to have been invariable with the guns
 and pistols. These facts suggest that the echoes are in some way
 connected with the direction given to the sound. They are caused by
 the voice, trumpets, and the syren, all of which give direction to the
 sound ; but I am not aware that they have ever been observed in the
 case of a sound which has no direction of greatest intensity." The
 reference to the voice, and other references, cause me to think that in
 speaking of echoes, Professor Osborne Reynolds and myself are deal
 ing with different phenomena. Be that as it may, the foregoing
 observations render it perfectly certain that the condition as to direc
 tion here laid down is not necessary to the production of the echoes.
      There is not a feature connected with the aerial echoes which
 cannot be brought out by experiments in the open air of the
 laboratory. I have recently made the following experiment:—A
 rectangle, 22 inches by 12, is crossed by twenty-three brass tubes,
 each having a slit along it from which gas can issue. In this way
 twenty-three low flat flames are obtained. A sounding reed fixed in
 a short tube is placed at one end of the rectangle, and a " sensitive
 flame" at some distance beyond the other end. When the reed sounds,
 the flame in front of it is violently agitated, and roars boisterously.
  Turning on the gas, and lighting it as it issues from the slits, the air
 above the flames becomes so heterogeneous that the sensitive flame is
instantly stilled by the aerial reflection, rising from a height of
 6 inches to a height of 18 inches. Here we have the acoustic opacity
 of the air in front of the South Foreland strikingly imitated. Turning
 off the gas, and removing the sensitive flame to some distance behind
 the reed, it burns there tranquilly, though the reed may be sounding.
Again lighting the gas as it issues from the brass tubes, the sound
 reflected from the heterogeneous air throws the sensitive flame into
 violent agitation. Here we have imitated the aerial echoes heard
 when standing behind the syren-trumpet at the South Foreland.
 Tho experiment is extremely simple, and in the highest degree
impressive.
                                                                    [J. T.]
    * These carried 12 oz. of gunpowder, which has been found by Col. Fiasor to
require an iron case to produce an effective explosion.

1878.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         559
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 29, 1878.
    Warren De la Rue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President, in
                                     the Chair.
                        Professor Dewar, M.A. F.R.S.
       The Chemical Actions of Light and their Electrical Relations.
                                 [Abstract deferred.]
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, April 1, 1878.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
               Francis Maule Camphell, Esq.
               Alfred Wing Everest, Esq.
               Lancelot Fielding Everest, Esq.
                Charles Cubitt Goocb, Esq.
                Charles Hawksley, Esq.
               Tom Simpson Jay, Esq.
               Hugh Parnell, Esq. M.A.
               George W. Smalley, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Special Thanks of the Members were given to Lord Arthur
Russell, M.P. M.R.I, for his present of Eighty Volumes of Ersch and
Gruber's " Encyclopadie der Wissenschaften," and to Dr. William
Siemens, D.C.L. F.R.S. M.R.I, for his present of a Dynamo-Magneto-
Electric Machine, and a small Steam-engine.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
American Academy of Artt and Sciences, Boston—Proceedings, Vol. XIII. Part 1.
     8vo. 1877.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVIII. No. 4. 8vo.
     1878.
Basel Naturforschender Gesellschaft—Verhandlungen, 6te Theil, 3tes Heft. 8vo.
     1878.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1878. Nos. 8, 9. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for Feb. and March, 1878. 8vo.
De la Rue, Warren, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. &c. M.R.I, (the Author)—Experimental
     Researches on the Electrical Discharge with the Chloride of Silver Battery.
     Part 1. (Phil. Trans. R.S. Vol. 169.)

560                         General Monthly Meeting.                   [April 1,
Editors—American Journal of Science for March, 1878. 8vo.
   Analyst for March, 1878. 8m
   Athenaeum for March, 1878. 4to.
   Chemical News for March, 1878. 4to.
   Engineer for March, 1878. fol.
   Horological Journal for March, 1878. 8vo.
   Iron for March, 1878. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for March, 1878. fol.
   Nature for March, 1878. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for March, 1878. 8vo.
   Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1878. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for March, 1878. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 627. 8vo. 1877.
Godman, Frederick Du Cane, Esq. F.L.S. F.Z.S. M.R.I, (the Author)— Natural
      History of the Azores or Western Islands. 8vo. 1870.
Harrison, W. H. #sg.—Psychography : By "M. A. Oxon." 12mo. 1878.
Linnean Society—Proceedings, Nos. 72, 95. 8vo. 1878.
Liverpool Literary and Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XXXI. 8vo.
       1876-7.
Perry, Rev. S. J. F.R.S. (the Editor)—Results of Meteorological and Magnetical
       Observations at Stonyhurst, 1877. 16to. 1878.
Preussische Aliademie der Wissenschuften—Monatsberichte : Dec. 1878. 8vo.
Rossetti, Professor F.—Various Papers. 8vo. 1877.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 185. 8vo. 1878.
Russell, Lord Arthur, M.P. M.R.I.—Ersch und Gruber: Allgemeine Encyclopadie
       der Wissenschaften :
    1st Series, A to G. 40 vols. 4to. 1818-44.
    2nd Series, H to N. 23 vols. 4to. 1827-44.
    3rd Series, 0 to Z. 19 vols. 4to. 1830-44.
 Scott, R. B. Esq. F.R.S. (the Editor)—The American Storm Warnings. (K 102)
       8vo. 1878.
 Tuson, Professor R. V. (the Editor)—Cooley's Cyclopaedia of Practical Receipts.
       Sixth edition. Part 1. 8vo. 1878.
 Victoria Institute—Transactions, No. 45. 8vo. 1878.
 Vincent, Chas. W. F.R.S.E. F.C.S. (the Editor)—Chemistry, Theoretical, Practical,
       and Analytical, as applied to the Arts and Manufactures. By Writers of
       Eminence. Division I. Second edition. Division VI. 4to. 1878.
 Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. X. Parts 3, 4, 5. 4to. 1877.
    Proceedings, 1877, Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1877.
       The following Arrangements for tho Lectures after Easter were
 announced :—
      W. T. Thiselton Dver, M.A. B.Sc F.L.S. Assistant Director, Royal Gardens,
 Kew.—Five Lectures on Some Points in Vegetable Morphology; on Tuesday,
 April 30 to May 28.
      Lobd Rayleigh, M.A. F.R.S.—Four Lectures on Colour; on Thursdays,
 May 2 to 23.
      Professor Henry Morley.—Four Lectures on Richard Steele ; on Saturdays,
 May 4, 11, 18, 25.
      Rev. W. H. Dallinger, F.R.M.S.—Threo Lectures on Researches in Minute
 and Low Forms of Life ; on Tuesdays, June 4, 11, 18.
 Physics"; on Thursdays, May 30, June 6, and June 13.
      T me8 Sully, Esq. —Three Lectures on the Psychology of Art ; on Saturdays
  June 1, 8, 15¦

1878.]                Dr. W. Spottiswoode on Quartz.                 501
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, April 5, 1878.
       George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
      William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Tr.R.S. Sec.R.I.
                    Quartz : an Old Chapter re-urritten.
It is well known that difficult subjects are often made much more
intelligible by being presented to the mind in more than one way.
Under such a category the operation of rock crystal, or quartz, upon
polarised light may be fairly classed. And although its fundamental
laws are well known to students of optics, they are perhaps sufficiently
intricate to justify their being brought undor a new experimental form
before the members of the Royal Institution.
     If a Nicol's prism be used as a polariser and a sphere of Iceland
spar as an analyser : then, when the sphere is so placed that its axis
coincides with that of the beam of incident light, two images are
formed on the screen. If the aperture be a circle, or a circular ring,
the two images will be concentric circles ; the ordinary image being
the larger, and the extraordinary the smaller. The light in both
images is polarised, but the polarisation in one is radial, in the other
tangential. Hence each ring will be broken by two dark intervals
opposite to one another, viz. at points where the vibrations would be
perpendicular to those transmitted by the polariser ; and as the
vibrations at each point of one ring are perpendicular to those at the
corresponding point of the other, the dark intervals in one ring are in
quadrants at right angles to those in the other. If, however, the
sphere be turned round (say about a vertical axis), various results
will be noticed ; first, the large, or ordinary, image will remain
fixed, and consequently the rays forming it follow the ordinary laws
of refraction ; secondly, the smaller, or extraordinary, image will
shift both its position and form, showing that the rays forming
it follow a more complicated law ; thirdly, when the angle of
turning has reached 90°, the polarisation which was radial for the
first position of the sphere, will now be plane. The change of figure
depends upon the fact that the angle of refraction in the extra
ordinary image varies with the angle of inclination of the incident
ray to the axis of the crystal, and is greatest when that angle is 90° :
while the change in the polarisation is a result of the general law that
the plane of polarisation in the ordinary ray passes through, whilo
that of the extraordinary is perpendicular to the axis of the crystal.

 562                        Dr. W. Spottiswoode                  [April 5,
     Returning to the original position of the sphere, if mono
 chromatic light be used, the same effect is seen as with white light ;
 but if a plate of quartz cut perpendicularly to the axis be inserted
 between the Nicol and the sphere, the dark interval will be shifted
 to the right or to the left according as a right-handed or a left-
 handed quartz is used. The amount of displacement will depend,
 for light of a given colour, on the thickness of the quartz ; and, for a
 given thickness of quartz, on the colour, or, more strictly speaking, on
 the wave length. In this way the rotation of tho piano of polarisa
 tion by the quartz plate is brought visibly before the eye.
     In this experiment, however, the various stages of rotation for
 the rays of various colours are brought successively into view*; but
 by the following arrangement they may be all exhibited simultane
 ously. If, while white light is used, and spectra of the ring images
 be formed, then, on re-introducing the quartz plate, the spectrum
 of one ring (the ordinary, or the extraordinary, according to the
 position of the polariser) will be seen to be crossed by a spiral band
 of darkness, sweeping obliquely from red to blue, or vice versa,
 according as the quartz is right-handed or left-handed. This shows
that the various prismatic colours in continuous succession, are
extinguished at various points of the ring ; or, in other words, that the
plane of polarisation varies continuously in angular position with
the wave length. This fact explains the effect seen when the image
is formed on the screen without dispersion ; viz. the complete image
consists of two concentric rings coloured with the residual tints
(arising from the extinction of the prismatic colours in succession).
These tints run through their cycle once in each semi-circumference ;
and the tints in each semicircle of one image are complementary to
those in the corresponding semicircle of the other. If a biquartz be
used, and the line of division between .the right-handed and left-
handed portions pass through the junction of the red and violet parts
of either of the rings, the order of colours in the two semicircles will
be reverse to one another.
    If with the same arrangement as last described the sphere be
turned round through an axis parallel to the line of division of tho
biquartz, the following results may be observed : first, each of the
two images will be tinted by the biquartz in two compartments,
the tints of which depend upon the position of the Nicol ; secondly,
the two images will, as usual, present tints complementary to one
another ; thirdly, tho parts where the complementary tints overlap
will, as usual, appear white ; fourthly, the parts where the same tints
overlap will be more brightly illuminated than tho parts which do
not so overlap. Tho interest of the last feature consists in showing,
as first noticed by Helmholtz, that the low-tint colours, russet,
brown, drab, &c, are really subjective effects duo to red, orange,
yellow, &c, when feebly illuminated in comparison with some other
brighter part of the field.
    The effect of right and left-handed quartz in combination is

1878.]            on Quartz : an Old Chapter re-writlen.              563
ordinarily shown, and turned to useful account, by a combination of
plates, as in Savart's bands, or of wedges, as in Babinet's compensator ;
but it may also be well illustrated by the following arrangement. A
solid cone, having a very obtuse vertical angle, and its axis parallel to
that of the crystal, is cut from a right-handed quartz ; a second cone,
in all other respects similar to the first excepting that it is hollow, is
cut from a loft-handed quartz ; and the two are cemented, one insido
the other, by balsam, so as to form a compound plate. When the
polariser and analyser are crossed, the following phenomena are
observed: The coloured bands are arranged in circles about the
centre. Midway between the centre and circumference, where the
thicknesses of right-hand and left-hand quartz are equal, a black ring is
seen. Inside this the colours are arranged in the order duo to right-
handed quartz ; outside it they are arranged in the order due to left-
handed quartz. On turning the analyser round, the middle ring
changes from black to white, and the other rings, within and without
the middle ring respectively, change their colours in opposite orders.
But owing to the fact that the colours are originally ranged in opposite
orders, the last-mentioned change gives rise to an optical illusion,
in virtue of which the coloured rings seem to flow inwards or out
wards throughout, according to the direction in which the analyser
is turned.
    Another useful combination of quartz may be mentioned. Two
series of plates cut perpendicularly to the axis, and in the form of
sectors, of various thicknesses, were arranged so as to form circular
discs. One of the discs was cut from right-handed, the other from
left-handed quartz, and one which was placed in front of the other,
was capable of revolving about its centre. "When sectors of equal
thickness coincided in position, they neutralized one another, and no
colour was seen. When, however, by the revolution of the movable
disc, plates of different thickness were brought opposite one another,
colours were seen due to plates whose thickness was equal to that
difference. The vividness of the colours increased to a maximum
when the revolution amounted to a right angle, after which it
diminished until at two right angles, or half an entire revolution, it
again disappeared.
                                                                [W. 8.]


          Uogal Institution of <£reat Britain.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.
                       Friday, March 29, 1878.
  Warrkn de La Kite, Esq. M.A. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                Professor James Dewar, M.A. F.R.S.
                  -Experiments in Electro-Photometry.
                               (Abstract.}
Edmund Becquerel, in the year 1839, opened up a new field of
chemical research through the discovery that electric currents may
be developed during the production of chemical inter-actions excited
by solar agency.
    Hunt, in the year 1840, repeated, with many modifications, Bec-
querel's experiments, and confirmed his results.
    Grove, in 1858, examined the influence of light on the polarized
electrode, and concluded that the effect of light was simply an
augmentation of the chemical action taking place at the surface of
the electrodes.
    Becquerel, in his well-known work, ' La Lumiere,' published in
1868, gives details regarding the construction of an electro-chemical
actinometer formed by coating plates of silver with a thin film of the
sub-chloride, and subsequent heating for many hours to a temperature
of 150° C.
    Egeroff, in 1877, suggested the use of a double apparatus of Bec-
querel's form, acting as a differential combination, the plates of silver
being coated with iodide instead of chloride.
    The modifications of the halogen salts of silver when subjected to
the action of light have up to the present time been used most suc
cessfully in the production of electric currents, and although mixtures
of photographically sensitive salts have been shown by Smee to
produce currents of a similar kind, yet no attempt has been mado
to examino the proper form of instrument required for the general
investigation of the electrical actions induced by light on fluid sub
stances.
    This subject has occupied my attention for somo time, and when the
investigation is completed I shall deal with the results in greater
    Vol. VIII. (No. G9.)                                      2 r

 566                          Professor Dewar                   [March 29,
 detail. In the meantime the following description will give an idea
 of the method of investigation.
     A little consideration shows that the amount of current produced
by a definite intensity and quality of light acting during a short
period of time on a given sensitive substance in solution, is primarily
a function of the nature, form, and position of the poles in the cell
relatively to the direction in which the light enters, and the selectivo
absorption, concentration, and conductivity of the fluid.
     The diffusive action taking place in such cells complicates the
effects and is especially intricate when insoluble substances are
formed. In order to simplify the investigation in the first instance,
poles that aro not chemically acted upon, and a sensitive substance
yielding only solublo products on the action of light, were employed.
For this purpose platinum poles and chlorous acid or peroxide of
chlorine were selected.
     The best form of cell had one of the poles made of fine platinum
wire fixed as closely as possible to the inner surface where the light
enters, the other pole being mado of thicker wire placed deeper in the
fluid.
     As the action is confined to a very fine film where the light enters,
the maximum amount of current is obtained when the composition of
the fluid is modified deep enough to isolate temporarily the front pole
in the modified medium. Under these conditions the formation of
local currents is avoided, and the maximum electromotive force
obtained.
     In cells of this construction the amount of current is independent
of the surface of the fluid acted upon by light, so that a mere slit,
sufficient to expose the front poles, acts as efficiently as a larger sur
face. This prevents the unnecessary exhaustion of material and enables
the cell to be made of very small dimensions. By means of such
an apparatus the chemical actions of light and their electrical rela
tions may be traced in many new directions.
     The amount and direction of the current in the caso of chlorous
acid is readily modified by the addition of certain salts and acids, and
thus electrical variations may be produced, resembling the effects
observed during the action of light on the eye.
     Certain modifications taking place in the chlorous acid by expo
sure to light increase its sensibility, and as a general result it is
found that the fluid through these alterations increases in resistance.
We have thus an anomalous kind of battery where tho availablo
electromotive force increases with the resistance. The addition of
neutral substances which increase the resistance without producing
new decompositions improves the action of the cell.
     Care has to be taken in these experiments to use the same apparatus
in a series of comparative experiments, as infinitesimal differences in
the contact of the active pole render it difficult to make two instru
ments giving exactly the same results. Cells have been constructed
with two, three, and four poles, and their individual and combined

1878.]            on Experiments in Electro-Photometry.             567
action examined. Quartz surfaces have also been employed instead
of glass, thus enabling the chemical opacity of different substances to
be determined.
    The electrical currents derived through the action of light on
definite salts are strong in the case of ferro- and ferri-cyanido of
potassium, but remarkably so in the case of nitroprusside of sodium.
    Of organic acids the tartrate of uranium is one of the most active.
A mixture of selenious acid and sulphurous acid in presence of hydro
chloric acid yields strong currents when subjected to light in the
form of cell described. The list of substances that may be proved to
undergo chemical decomposition by the action of light is very exten
sive ; full details will be found in the completed paper.
                                                              [J. D.]

568                    Sir Joseph D. Ilooker on the              [April 12,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, April 12, 1878.
    The Duke of Northumrerland, D.C.L. LL.D. Lord Privy Seal,
                          President, in the Chair.
    Sir Joseph D. IIooker, C.B. K.S.I. M.D. D.C.L. President R.S.
                                M.B.I. &c.
              The Distribution of the North American Flora.
Whatever countries beyond tho seas we may visit, in the temperate
regions of the globe, we find that their vegotation has been invaded,
and in many cases profoundly modified, by immigrant-plants from other
countries, and these are in almost all cases natives of North-western
Europe. Nearly forty years ago I arrived at night at the Falkland
Islands, when a beat was sent ashore to communicate the ship's
arrival to the Governor ; and, being eager to know something of the
vegetation of the islands, I asked the officer in charge of the boat to
pluck for me any plants he could feel for, as it was too dark to see
anything, and the armful he brought to me consisted of nothing but
tho English shepherds1 purse. On another occasion, landing on a
small uninhabited island,* nearly at the Antipodes, the first evidence
I met with of its having been previously visited by man, was the
English chickweed ; and this I traced to a mound that marked tho
grave of a British sailor, and that was covered with tho plant, doubt
less tho offspring of seed that had adhered to the spade or mattock
 with which the grave had been dug.
      It was hence no surprise to me to find myself, on landing at
Boston last summer, greeted by Western European plants that hail
established themselves as colonists in New England. Of those tho
 first was the wild chicory, growing far more luxuriantly than I ever
saw it do elsewhere, forming a tangled mass of stems and branches,
studded with turquoise-blue blossoms, and covering acres of ground ;
tho very next plants that attracted my attention were the Ox-eye
 daisy and Mayweed, which together whitened the banks in some
 places, and which I subsequently tracked more than half-way across
 the continent.
      These, and more than 250 other Old England plants, which are
 now peopling New England, were for the most part fellow emigrants
                * Lord Auckland's I.-lnnd, south of New Zealand.

 1878.]          Distribution of the North American Flora.               569
 and fellow colonists with the Anglo-Saxon, having (as seeds) accom
panied him across the Atlantic, and having, like him, asserted their
supremacy over and displaced a certain number of natives of the soil.
    Turning to the hotter parts of North America, the same process
of invasion by natives of the old world is going on ; a British-Indian
plant * has established itself in the streets of Savannah, and so entirely
simulated the habit of a native weed, that American botanists gave it
a new name, regarding it as indigenous ; and one of the most curious
cases of plant invasion known to me is that of the mango tree in
Jamaica, which reminds one of the accounts of captured tribes, which
after being carried into their conqueror's country, have so increased
and multiplied, as eventually to dispossess and supplant their captors.
 In 1782 Admiral Rodney took a French ship, bound for St. Domingo
from Bourbon, with living plants of the cinnamon, jack-fruit, and
mango, sent to the Botanical Gardens of the former island by that of
the latter. These undistinguished prizes the Admiral presented to
the Jamaica Botanical Gardens. There the cinnamon was carefully
fostered, but proved to be (as it is to this day) difficult of culture in
the island ; whilst tho mango, which was neglected, became in eleven
years as common as the orange, spreading over lowlands and moun
tains from the sea level to 5000 feet above it. On the abolition of
slavery immense tracts of land, especially coffee estates, relapsed to a
state of nature, and the mango being a favourite fruit with tho blacks,
its stones were flung about everywhere, giving rise to groves along
the roadsides and settlements ; and the fruit of these again, rolling
down hill, gave rise to forests in the valloys and on their slopes. Tho
effect of this spread of the mango has been to cover hundreds of
thousands of acres, and to ameliorate the climate of what were dry
and barren districts, by producing moisture and shade, and by re
taining the rainfalls that had previously evaporated ; besides tho
affording food for several months of the year to both negroes and
horses. It may well be, that by future generations in Jamaica, Admiral
Rodney will bo known less for his victory over Count Grasse, and
being the first to " break the enemy's line," than as the capturer of
tho mango tree in the Spanish Main.
    And it is the same in all countries colonized by the Anglo-Saxon,
so firmly have the plants ho has brought with him established their
foot- or rather root-hold in the soil, that were he and all other
evidenco of his occupation to disappear from North America, these his
fellow emigrants would remain as witnesses of his former presenco,
not only on tho shores and in the forests of tho older States, but in the
interior prairie and the newly settled valleys of the Rocky Mountains
themselves.
    Time does not permit me to dwell longer upon this subject of
immigration during the historic period. I must now hasten to con
sider the flora of North America, as it was for an indefinite period
           * Fragaria indicj, Andr. (Potcntilla Durandii, Torr. and Gr.)

570                    Sir Joseph D. Hooker on lhe                [April 12,
before the arrival of the Anglo-Saxon, embracing prehistoric and
geological epochs : wo have to regard this flora as a whole, and as
subdivisible into local floras, characterized by tho prevalence of
certain assemblages of plants ; to connect these local floras with the
geographical features of the areas they occupy ; to account for their
position and composition by a reference to the countries from which
their components may have been derived, and to the means of com
munication which exist, or may in former times have existed with
these countries.
    Before proceeding with this inquiry I will indicate, with the aid
of the map, those prominent features of North American geography,
which have regulated the distribution of its plants.
    In the Arctic regions the three northern continents approach, and
tho hydrography and geography of those regions favour the assump
tion that in former times they may have been connected. Next we
observe that in the American continent (unlike the European and
Asiatic), the great obstacles to tho intermingling of floras, the
mountain chains, are longitudinal ; as are the principal valleys,
which are the great aids to their diffusion. If we now run a section
across the continent along its principal parallel (that near 40°), which
approximately coincides with the isotherm of 55°, we find that such a
section represents tolerably well any other parallel to it in those
meridians in which there is the greatest development of a temperate
vegetation. Commencing on the east, there is first tho Atlantic sea
board, bounded to the westward by mountain ranges of modorate eleva
tion (rarely attaining 6000 feet), which under various names extend from
New Brunswick, in lat. 48°, to Alabama and Georgia, in lat. 34° (and
which have been collectively called the Appalachian chain). Westward
of this chain are tho broad, low, well-watered valleys of tho Ohio,
Mississippi, and Missouri, the latter at its intersection with our principal
parallel being nearly midway across the continent and 1300 miles from
the Atlantic From the Missouri the ascent is very gradual to the
elevated region of tho Rocky Mountains, which consist of a com
plicated series of rocky ridges rarely exceeding 14,000 feet elevation,
occupying a belt 300 miles broad from east to west. These ridges
enclose very large, well-watered, open grassy valleys, called Parks, tho
rivers from which usually discharge from the range through narrow
gorges, called Canons.
    The parks and valleys to the east of the mountainous belt present
the grey-green (grassy) vegetation of tho prairie, those on the west,
the hoary sage-bush (Artemisia) vegetation of the dry country to tho
westward ; and these often intersect, so that a transverse ridgo may
separate a green and well-watered park from a hoary and dry one.
    The descent from the Rocky Mountains on the west, is on to a tract
elevated upwards of 4000 feet above the sea, extending for 400 milos
to the foot of tho Sierra Nevada. This tract is intersected by several
short ranges 8000 feet high and upwards ; its climato is dry, its soil
saline, and many of the rivers lose themselves in salt lakes and

1878.]            Distribution of the North American Flora            571
                                                               li2
         "W'l¦OTl'ld
            ¦S«nqsnilj
                                            •ainn iiss 1i»JO
                                                                   »?
                                        HIUIoJITO jo fo\\v\
           aoA|;i omo
O .1                                          ¦0351.1UOIj I10S
W  .2
CO $
   5 -iM\U iddissiesiK
   >         •SIIIo¦I -is

572                    Sir Joseph D. Hooker on the             [April 12,
marshes, whence the local names of Great basin, and of the Sink,
Salt-lake, and Desert regions. The Sierra Nevada succeeds, rising
steeply to an elevation of 12,000 and sometimes of 15,000, feet.
Under various names it traverses America, with little interruption,
from Alaska to Southern California, at a distance of 100 to 150
miles from the Pacific ; but its breadth is nowhere so great as that
of the Rocky Mountains. The descent from it to the westward is
into the great valley of California, whose floor is raised but little
above the sea level, and between which and the Pacific are the low
and narrow coast-ranges, of which the southernmost in southern Cali
fornia unites with the Sierra Nevada.
     Turning now to the flora of North America north of the tropic, we
find that the distribution of its plants is in remarkable conformity with
its geographical and climatal features, being in meridional belts from
the Arctic Ocean to tho Gulf of Mexico ; the botanical components
of these belts differing more and more in advancing south, till in the
principal parallel that wo have traced, the diversity between the
eastern and western belts is greater than between any tsvo similarly
situated regions on the globe.
     Polar Area.—Commencing in the Polar area, the Arctic American
flora, though on tho whole a uniform one, is distinctly divisible into
three ; the first extends from Behring's Straits to tho mouth of the
McKenzie River, and is marked by the presence of certain Asiatic genera
and species that advance no farther eastward ; the second extends
thence onwards to Baffin's Bay, and presents various American genera
and species not found either eastward or westward of it ; and the
third is that of Greenland, which is almost exclusively European, and
presents several anomalies, which I shall hereafter discuss. Besides
this eastern and western distribution of the Arctic flora, it streams
southward along the three meridional mountain chains of tho
continent.
     British North-American Flora.—South of tho Arctic flora is that of
 the British possessions, that is of temperate America north of the 47th
 parallel ; it consists of a mixture of North European, North Asiatic,
 and American genera, in very different proportions, disposed in five
 meridional belts. 1, to the eastward, the Canadian forest region ;
 2, the woodless region, a continuation of the prairie region farther
 south ; 3, the Rocky Mountain region, where Mexican genera appear ;
 4, a dry region, a continuation of the Desert or Sink regions to tho
 south of it ; and 5, the Pacific region, which assimilates very closoly
 in its vegetation to that of Kamtschatka.
      United States Flora.—It is on entering the United States that
 the flora of temperate North America attains its great development
 of genera and species in all the meridians, and that the boundaries
 of the meridional belts of vegetation are most strictly defined.
     I. The Great Eastern Forest region, extending over half the con
 tinent, and consisting of mixed deciduous and evergreen trees, reaches
 from the Atlantic to beyond tho Mississippi, dwindling away as it

 1878.]           Distribution of the North American Flora.             573
ascends the western feeders of that river on the prairie. It is note
worthy for the number of kinds especially of deciduous trees and
shrubs that are to be found in it, even on a very limited area. Of this
I shall select two examples from my Journal. One was a patch of
native forest, a few miles from St. Louis, on tho Missouri, where in
little more than half an hour, and less than a mile's walk, I saw
forty kinds of timber trees,* including eleven of oak, two of maple,
two of elm, three of ash, two of walnut, six of hickery, three of willow,
and one each of plane, lime, hornbeam, hop-hornbeam, laurus, dios-
pyros, poplar, birch, mulberry, and horse-chestnut ; together with
about half that number of shrubs.
     The other example was afforded me by Goat Island, which divides
the great cataract of Niagara, and covers less ground than Kow '
Gardens. Here the vegetation was more boreal and less varied than
in Missouri ; but with Dr. Gray's aid I counted thirty kinds of trees,
of which throe were oaks and three poplars, together with nearly
twenty different shrubs.
     I know of no temperate region of the globe in which any approach
to this aggregation of different trees and shrubs could be seen in such
limited areas, and perhaps no tropical one could afford a parallel.
     No less remarkable is the composition of the flora of the Eastern
States. Professor Gray has shown that most of its genera are common
to Europe and Asia, but very many are all but confined to North-eastern
Asia and Western America. This generic identity, however, gives but
a faint idea of the close relationship between the East American and
East Asiatic, especially tho Japanese, floras, for there is further
specific identity in about two hundred and thirty cases, and very close
representation in upwards of three hundred and fifty ; and what is
most curious is, that there are not a few very singular genera, of which
only two species are known, one in East Asia, tho other in East
America ; and in somo of theso instances the Asiatic species is a wide
spread plant in East Asia, whilst the American is an extremely scarce
and local plant in its country, which and other considerations render
it conceivable that tho Asiatic element in East America is a dying-out
one.
     Leaving out of consideration tho purely American genera of this
flora, there remain the genera common to Europe, Asia, and America ;
the genera confined to America and Asia ; and the genera confined
to America and Europe. I shall give an illustration of the propor
tions in which these occur by a reference to the principal trees and
large shrubs only, their names being familiar to you, though tho
smaller shrubs and herbs afford infinitely more numerous and striking
examples ; thus, of those common to the three northern continents, I
find in America thirty-eight genera with about one hundred and fifty
species, these include maples, ashes, hollies, elms, planes, oaks,
    <U+2666> For the indication and names of them I am indebted to Dr. Engelmann of
St. Liouis, who took me to the forest.

574                   Sir Joseph D. Hooker on the             [April 12,
chestnuts, nut, hornbeam, birches, alders, willows, beech, poplars, &c.
Of those confined to America and East Asia I find in America thirty-
three genera and fifty-five species, including magnolias, tulip tree,
negundo, wistaria, Virginia creeper, gleditschia, hydrangea, liquid-
amber, nyssa, tecoma, catalpa, diospyros, sassafras, benzoin, mulberry,
walnut, and others, which, not being European, are unfamiliar to you.
Lastly, of those confined to Europe and America I find only one
genus, namely the hop-hornbeam, of which there is but a single
representative in each country.
    Here then is conclusive evidence of the close botanical relation
ship of North-eastern Asia and Eastern North America ; a relationship
of which there is but little evidence in the vegetation of the Prairies
and I fcicky Mountains, and still less, perhaps, in the regions farther
west.
    II. The Prairie region succcods, a grassy land with many peculiar
herbaceous American genera, including Mexican types, of which last
the most conspicuous are a yucca and cacti, which latter increase in
number as the Kocky Mountains are approached, where they form a
noticeable feature in the landscape.
    In the parks and lower valleys of the Rocky Mountains deciduous
trees are few and scattered, and the forest is an open one of conifers,
amongst which a pine, allied to the Mexican nut-pines, P. edulis, first
appears. Higher on the mountains the coniferous forests are dense,
and almost the only deciduous tree is an aspen, which forms impene
trable brakes on the slopes and in the gullies. Above the forest
region are the sub-alpine and alpine regions, presenting a mixture of
European, Asiatic, and American types.
    III. Descending to the Sink region the cacti and yucca almost
disappear, though they increase to a maximum farther south in this
meridian. Deciduous trees are very few, and confined to the gullies
of the mountains, and Mexican genera increase in numbers. The
hoary sage-bush (Artemisia) covers immenso tracts of dry soil, and
saline plants occupy the more humid districts.
    Another nut pine of Mexican affinity (P. monophylla) traverses
the centre of this region in a narrow meridional strip, and the propor
tion of endenic plants, herbaceous especially, is very large.
    IV. The Sierra Nevada is clothed with the most gigantic coniferous
forest to bo found on the globe, amongst which a very few species of
duciduous trees are scattered ; but none of these are identical with
trees of the Eastern forests, though several are representative of them.
New Mexican genera occur at all elevations from the crest of the range
to its base, and thence extend across the Californian valley and the
Coast-ranges to tho Pacific, mixed with northern West American
genera and species.
    In this slight outline of tho botanical features of tomperate and
Arctic North America, I have alluded to three as most noteworthy,
namely, the vegetation of Greenland, the Asiatic character of the
vegetation of tho oastern half of tho continent, and tho moro southern

1878.]           Distribution of the North American Flora.                     575
and even Mexican character of the vegetation of the western half.
How are these features to be accounted for ?
     It so happened that Dr. Gray, Professor of Botany in Harvard
College (Boston), and I were contemporaneously, but without concert,
engaged in botanical investigations, which have resulted in explana
tions of the two first features. Ho was at work on the flora of Japan,*
I on that of the Polar Zone,f and we were both bringing to bear upon
our subjects considerations regarding the variation of species which
Mr. Darwin J almost simultaneously laid before the public, and which,
I need not say, powerfully directed our studies.
     I shall take the vegetation of Greenland first, as being first in order,
though second in date of appearance and least in importance. Its
chief peculiarities are, 1, that its plants are almost all of them
Scandinavian (that is, North-west European), hardly any of the
peculiar plants of the American Arctic sea-coast and Polar islands
crossing Baffin's Bay and Davis Straits ; 2, that of its 300 flowering
plants hardly any present even a variation from their Scandinavian
prototypes ; 3, that it is poorer in species than is any other division
of the Arctic flora, and wants many Scandinavian plants that are
found in most other Arctic countries; 4, that though Greenland
extends 400 miles south of the Arctic circle, its extra-Arctic con
tinuation adds only about 100 species to the flora, and these all cross
the Arctic circle in other longitudes ; 5, some Greenland species aro
confined to it and to tho mountains of the Atlantic side of America,
being found nowhere else in Arctic or sub-Arctic America.
     My explanation of these anomalies was, that at a period previous
to the Glacial, a flora common to Scandinavia and Greenland was
spread over the whole American Polar area, and that, on tho
accession of the cold of that period, this flora was driven south
wards, and was affected differently in different longitudes. In
Greenland many species were exterminated, being as it were driven
into tho sea at the southern extromity of the peninsula, where only
the hardiest survived. On the return of warmth tho Greenland
survivors migrated northward, peopling the peninsula with tho
hardiest of the species of its former flora, unmixed with American
species ; and unchanged in aspect, from never having been brought
into competition with those of any other flora. On the other hand,
tho same Scandinavian plants when driven south on the plains of tho
continent, multiplied there in individuals, and being brought into
competition with American species descending from the continental
    * " Observations upon the Relations of the Japanese Flora to that of North
America, and of other parts of tho North Temperate Zone." ' Memoirs of tho
American Academy of Sciences,' vol. vi. p. 377. Read December 14, 1858, and
January, 11, 1859.
   t " Outlines of the Distribution of Arctic Plants." Read before tho Linnean
Society of London, June 21, 18C0. ' Trans. Linn. Soc' xxiii. p. 257.
   % " On the Tendency of Species to form Varieties,'' by C. Darwin, Esq., F.R.8.,
and Alf. Wallace, Esq. Read July 1, 1858. ' Journal of the Proceedings of tho
Linnean Society of London,' vol. iii. (Zoology), p. 45.

576                      Sir Joseph D. Hooker on the                   [April 12,
mountains on to the plains, assumed varietal forms. On the return of
warmth, therefore, many Scandinavian species that had been extermi
nated in Greenland, would, having survived on the continent, travel
northwards on it, some unchanged, others under varietal forms, accom
panied with American species that had descended from the mountains
during the cooling of the continent. Lastly, as some of the Scandi
navian species were no doubt local, and confined to near the meridian
of Greenland, it is not surprising to find that a few such should
survive only in Greenland and on the eastern alps of North America.
    Tims only could I satisfactorily account for the almost complete
identity of the Greenland flora with tho Scandinavian after such
changed conditions of climate ; for the paucity of its species ; for the
absence in it of varieties ; for the rarity in it of peculiarly American
species ; for the few species which extra-Arctic Greenland adds to its
Arctic flora ; and for certain of its plants being limited in range to
Greenland and the eastern American alps.
    The relationship between the flora of North-east Asia and Eastern
North America has been fully explained by Dr. Asa Gray in an
essay on the Flora of Japan, which is the first entirely satisfactory
contribution of its kind to the science of Botanical Geography known
to me.
    After a detailed comparison of the botany of Japan and North
America, and proving their affinity, Professor Gray refers to the fact
that many of the existing genera and even species of both floras co
existed in the high latitudes of America during Miocene times, as
shown by Heer, and other palasontologists ; during which period ho
further assumes that the three northern continents were conjoined,
or so contiguous as to allow of a commingling of their floras.
    The Glacial period followed, carrying an Arctic climate south to
the latitude of the Ohio, but so gradually, that these plants were not
exterminated, but wholly or in part driven southward, followed in the
rear by the Arctic vegetation. As tho temperature rose with the
retreating ice, this flora returned northward, leaving the Arctic and
sub-Arctic plants on the mountains of both East and Wost America.
    He next shows that the retreat northward was to a somewhat
higher latitude than tho same plants now attain ; and this he accounts
for by a reference to tho Fluvial epoch of Dana,* when the region of
tho Great Lakes was submerged 500 feet below their present level.
This diminished area and lowered elevation of the land, by inducing
a milder climate than now obtains in tho Lake region, favoured tho
extension of the flora to a higher latitude than it now attains, and
hence effected a second commingling of American and Asiatic plants.
Lastly, Dana's Terrace epoch supervened, when the previously de-
   * Whilst theso pages were still in the press, Prof. Gray has informed mo
that he now lays little stress on the conditions supposed to be duo to the Glacial
and Fluvial epochs ; and that lie is rather disposed to consider tho separation of
the northern floras by the Glacial epoch to have been final.

 1878.]          Distribution of the North American Flora.                   577
 pressed northern region was again raised, cooling the climate, finally
 dissociating the Asiatic and American floras, and giving to the Arctic
 and sub-Arctic plants of the continent their present limits.
     It remains now to account for the great rarity of East Asiatic
 types in America west of the Prairies, and the presence in those
 meridians of Mexican and still more southern ones. Hitherto there
 have been no other attempts at a solution of this problem than
 such unsupported speculations as that the western half of the conti
 nent, though so much the loftier, was submerged during the southern
 migration of the northern Miocene plants ; or that the climate of the
 West was unsuited to the habits of these, which appears to me to bo
 at variance with the fact that when imported into it they thrivo
luxuriantly.
     The explanation which I have to offer will be best understood by
 a reference to our section (p. 571), which shows the western half of the
 continent to be enormously elevated as compared with the eastern, and
 to have been singularly adapted for the retention of vast bodies of ico
 for long after the Glacial period. Wo find there a valley (the desert
 region), upwards of 400 miles broad, and upwards of 4000 feet eleva
 tion, with many ranges of over 8000 feet in it, bounded by broad and
 lofty mountains, together occupying at least two-thirds of the breadth
 of the western half of the continent. We further know that these
 mountains were clothed with ice during the Glacial epoch, and that
 the valley was then occupied by a vast lake ; for on the uppermost
 of the many shelves which the retiring waters of this lake cut on tho
 flanks of the Rocky Mountains and Sierra Nevada, the skull of the
 musk-ox, the most Arctic of land quadrupeds, has been found.
     It is obvious that this whole western region must have retained its
 glacial mantle for an incalculable period after Eastern America had
 been sufficiently wanned to admit of tho northward return of tho
 plants that had been driven southward in it ; and that this glaciated
 condition must have effectually barred a similar return of the same
 plants in those western meridians; these must have perished in
 short on reaching Southern California. Long ages after, when tho
 western ice disappeared, and the climate of the valleys warmed, the
 Mexican and more southern plants would, as a matter of course, take
 possession of tho unoccupied soil, and advance northward till they
 encountered the boreal vegetation of North-western America, with
 which they now commingle.
     I have said that the extinction of East Asiatic types in Western
America was not total ; a few escapes are found in the valleys of the
Rocky Mountains and Sierra Nevada,* and also along the coast of tho
Pacific, the warming influence of which favoured their preservation
during their northern migration.
     Two instances of these escapes arc of such interest that I shall in
    * And also on tho highlands of Central Mexico, where some Asiatic types
remain which have not migrated farther north or south in America. Such are
the eminently Asiatic genera Bocconia, Meliosma, Photinin, Cotoneaster, Deutzia,
and Abclia,

578                    Sir Joseph D. Hooker on the               [April 12,
concluding this lecture bring them under your notice ; they are those
giants of the vegetable kingdom, the Sequoias, the Redwood (S. son-
pervirens), and the " Big-tree," or " Wellingtonia (S. gigantea).
     Tho fossil remains of these trees, or species most closely allied
to them, are found in Miocene beds in high latitudes all round the
globe ; in Vancouver's Island, Sitka, on the Arctic American sea-
coast, in Greenland, Spitzbergen, and in Arctic Asia, &c. The genus,
therefore, which first appeared in the Cretaceous times, was un
doubtedly a member of that mixed Americano-Asiatic flora that was
driven southward during the Glacial period. The genus is now con
fined to western North America, and to the two above-named species,
but is represented in Eastern America by the very closely allied
genus Taxodium, and in Eastern Asia by Glyytostrobm.
     The distribution of the two Sequoias is most instructive. The red
wood forms a dense narrow forest tract for about 500 miles, skirting
the ocean, along whose warmer shore it crept northward after tho
Glacial epoch. It rivals in height its sister of tho Sierra, and attains
an enormous girth and ago, though I can find no account of any
attempt having been made to estimate its age.
     The S. gigantea or " Big-tree " (the Wellingtonia of British gardens),
again, is a plant of a cooler climate ; and hence, having survived tho
 glacial cold, was enabled to establish itself in tho Sierra Nevada, under
 certain very restricted conditions. It extends at intervals along tho
 western slope of the Sierra to a little north and south of the parallels
 of 36° and 38° N, that is for nearly 200 miles in a north-west and
 south-oast direction, at elevations of 5000 to 8000 feet above the sea.
 Towards tho north the trees occur as very small, isolated, rcmoto
 groves of a few hundreds each, most of them old and interspersed
 amongst gigantic pines, spruces, and firs, which appear as if en
croaching upon them ; such are the groves visited by tourists
(Calavoras, Mariposa, &c.). To the south, on the contrary, tho Big-
trees form a colossal forest, forty miles long and three to ten broad,
whose continuity is broken only by the deep sheer-walled canons that
intersect the mountains ; here they displaco all other trees, and are
described as rearing to the sky their massive crowns; whilst seen
from a distance the forest presents the appearance of green waves of
vegetation, gracefully following the complicated topography of the
ridges and river basins which it clothes.
     But by far the most remarkable fact hitherto reported regarding
the disposition of the groves is, that they occupy only those spots in
tho Sierra which were first laid bare when its icy mantle became
broken up into isolated glaciers. Thus, commencing at the north,
tho gap of 40 miles between the Calaveras and Tuolome groves
was occupied by the great glacier of the Tuolome and Stanislaus
rivors ; that between the Merced and Mariposa groves by the glacier
 of the Merced River, which sculptured the famous Yosomito Valley ;
and so on, each successive group of trees occupying a lofty spur
 between tho sites of ancient glaciers, and the greatest continuous
extension of the forest (of 40 miles) occurring exactly where, owing

 1878.]           Distribution of the North American Flora.                    579
 to the topographical peculiarities of the region, the ground was most
 perfectly protected from great fields of ice.
      Mr. Muir, a very intelligent and accurate observer, who has
 studied the groves throughout their length and breadth most dili
 gently,* and to whom I am indebted for the above and much
 other information regarding the southern forest of Big-trees, considers
 that these have never since the Glacial epoch been moro widely distri
 buted or in greater vigour than now, and doubts, indeed, if the forests
 have reached their prime, founding his opinion on .the high stato of
 health of the mass of the trees, the multitude of seedlings and sap
 lings in the southern groves, and the absence of any trace of trees
 having existed outside the present limits of the groves (as of dead
 trees, stumps, or the great holes left by fallen trees).
      So little that is trustworthy has hitherto been published regarding
 tho age, size, and durability of the Big-tree trunks when fallon, that
 I shall offer you some accurate data which I obtained on these points
 chiefly from Mr. Muir. A tree felled in 1875 had no appearance of
 age ; it was G9 feet in girth inside the bark, and the number of annual
 rings counted by three persons varied between 2125 and 2139.
 Another was 107 feet in girth inside the bark at 4 feet from the
 ground ; its wood was very compact, and showed, throughout a con
 siderable portion of the trunk, 30 annual rings to the inch. This, if
 the rings were of uniform diameter in the rest of the trunk, would give
 the incredible age of 6400 years ; but as the interior rings of such
 trees are much broader than the outer, half that number to the inch
 is a more conceivable estimate, which would give an age of 3500 years.
The only other instance of careful counting of rings which I can find,
 is of that of the felled tree in the Calaveras grove, which measured
 70 feet girth inside the bark, at 6 feet above the ground, and which
at 40 feet above the ground had 1255 rings. In this case the rings
next the bark were 33 to the inch, a number which at 5 feet inward
had diminished one-half. The result of many measurements, chiefly
by Professor Whitney, j gives as the average height of full-grown
trees, 275 feet, and a maximum a little over 320, and a girth outsido
the bark, at 6 feet above the ground of 70, with a maximum of 120 ;
whilst the maximum age possibly attained may be 4000 years, though
this is very improbable.
     The duration of the dead wood in the forest is very great. I rarely
observed signs of rot in tho fallen trees I examined, whilst in similar
forests in Northern California I saw gigantic trunks of silver firs form
ing mounds of rotten debris without an atom of sound wood, and this
in two years after their fall, as I was assured. I had no data for
ascertaining the length of time during which any of tho prostrate
    * " On the Post-glacial History of Sequoia Gigantea," by John Muir, of San
Francisco, Cal. (Proceedings of the Amer. Assoc, for tho Advancement of Science,
Buffalo meeting, Aug., 1876).
    t Very careful measurements of the trees in the Calaveras and Mariposa
groves are given by Professor Whitney (State Geologist) in the ' Yosemite Guido
Book,' published under the authority of the Geological Survey of California (1874).

580        Sir Joseph D. Hooker on the N. American Flora.       [April 12,
Sequoia trunks which I saw may have lain on the ground, but
Mr. Muir has supplied me with a very crucial case. It is that of a
prostrate trunk with no signs of decay in any part of it, which had been
burnt in two by a forest fire, and in the trench between the severed
portions of which a silver fir grew. This fir was felled, and had
380 annual rings ; therefore, to estimate the time during which the
Sequoia trunk had lain uninjured, we must add to the 380 years, first
the time it lay before the forest fire burnt it in two, and then the un
known interval between that time and the arrival of the silver fir seed.
    The milleniums during which these Sequoia trees must have
remained in statu quo, proving the long duration of existing condi
tions of climate, are but as minutes compared with the time occupied
by the migration of this very species, or its ancestors, north and south
in the continent of America. Whatever might otherwise be the
extent of the Sequoia's travels, they are now at an end. Man has
pronounced the sentence, " Thus far shalt thou go, and no farther !"
The doom of these noble groves is sealed. No less than five saw
mills have recently been established in the most luxuriant of them,
and one of these mills alone cut in 1875 two million feet of Big-treo
lumber ; and a company has lately been formed to cut another grove.
In the operations of the California woodeutters the waste is pro
digious. The young, manageable trees are first felled ; after which
the forest is fired to clear the ground and get others out, and thus the
saplings are destroyed. More destructive still are the operations of
the sheep-farmers, who fire the herbage to improve the grazing, and
whose flocks of tens of thousands of sheep devour every green thing,
and more effectually than the locust. The devastation of the Cali-
fornian forest is proceeding at a rate which is utterly incredible,
except to an eye-witness. It is true that a few of the most insigni
ficant groves of the Big-trees at the northern extreme of its range are
protected by the State Legislature, and that a law has been enacted
forbidding the felling of trees over 15 feet in diameter ; but there is
no law to prevent the cutting or burning of the saplings, on which
the perpetuation of the grove depends, or to prevent the burning
of the old trees, which, if they do escape the fire, will succumb to the
drought which the sweeping away of the environing forest will
occasion.
    During the last quarter of a century the Anglo-Saxon has been
ruthlessly carrying fire and the saw into the forests of California,
destroying what he could not use, and sparing neither young nor old,
and before a century is out the two Sequoias may be known only as
herbarium specimens and garden ornaments ; indeed, with regard to
the Big-tree, the noblest of the noble coniferous race, the present
generation, which has actually witnessed its discovery, may live to
say of it, that " The place which knew it shall know it no more."
                                                             [J. D. H.]

 1878.]                           Annual Meeting.                                   581
                         ANNUAL MEETING,
                             Wednesday, May 1, 1878.
        George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
     The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors for the year
1877, testifying to the continued prosperity and efficient management
of the Institution, was read and adopted. During the last twenty-five
years the number of Members paying annually (five guineas) has
increased from 344 to 544. The Real and Funded Property now
amounts to above 84,500Z., entirely derived from the Contributions
and Donations of the Members.
     Forty-one new Members paid their Admission Fees in 1877.
     Sixty-two Lectures and Nineteen Friday Evening Discourses were
delivered in 1877.
     The Books and Pamphlets presented in 1877 amounted to about
190 volumes, making, with those purchased by the Managers, a total
of 371 volumes added to the Library in the year, exclusive of
periodicals.
     Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to the Professors, for
their services to the Institution during the past year.
     The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
for the ensuing year :
     President—The Duke of Northumberland, D.C.L. LL.D. the
                         Lord Privy Seal.
     Treasurer—George Busk, Esq. F.R.C.S. F.R.S.
     Secretary—William Spottiswoode, Esq. M.A. LL.D. Treas. R.S.
                           Corresponding Member of Academy of Sciences, Paris.
              Managers.                                       Visitors.
George Berkley, C.E.                       I John Frederic Bateman, Esq. F.R.S. F.G.S.
William Bowman, Esq. F.R.S.                    Charles Brooke, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
Thomas Boycott, M.D. F.L.S.                    William Henry Domville, Esq.
Warren De La Rue, Esq. M.A. D.C.L. F R.S.      Sir Philip de Malpas Grey Egerton, Bt.
Sir T. Frederick Elliot, K.C.M.G.                 M.P. F.R.S.
Edward Frankland, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. &c.       Alexander John Ellis, Esq. F.R.S. F.S.A.
Francis Galton, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. F.G.S.        Edward Enfield, Esq.
The Hon. Sir Wm. R. Grove, M.A. D.C.L.         William Huggins, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
   F.R.S.                .                     William Watkiss Lloyd, Esq.
Thomas Hyde Hills, Esq.                        Vernon Lushington, Esq. Q.C.
The Lord Lindsay, M.P. Pies. R.A.S.       ' Henry Pollock, Esq.
Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A.       I Lachlan Mackintosh Rate, Esq.
John Rae, M.D. LL.D.                       I The Rev. Arthur Rigg, M.A.
Chas. Win. Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.      i Basil Woodd Smith, Esq. F.R.A.S.
Benjamin Leigh Smith, Esq.                     George Andrew Spottiswoode, Esq.
James Spedding, Esq.                         I The Lord Vernon.
     Vol. VIII.      (No. 69.)                                             2 s

582                         Dr. W. Spotiiswoode,                  [May 3,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 3, 1878.
  Phofessor E. Frankland, D.C.L. F.K.S. &c. M.B.I, in the Chair.
             W. Spotiiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Tr.K.S. Sec.R.I.
                     A. Nocturne in Black and Yellow.
It is well known that the coloured bands and rings shown by white
light, when polarised and transmitted through crystals, fade, and
cease to be visible when the retardation of the rays, due to tho thick
ness of crystal traversed, is large. Tho feebleness of tint and con
fusion of definition arises from the overlapping of figures of different
colours. But when monochromatic light is used no mixture of colour
can take place, and the bands and rings remain perfectly defined, even
when the thickness of the crystal is considerable. The more com
plicated figures produced by two plates of crystal are still more
liable to obliteration ; and the use of monochromatic light is in
this case even more important for maintaining the integrity of the
phenomena.
    One essential requisite for bringing out the figures in question is
purity of colour in the light employed. On this account the ordinary
method of absorption by coloured media fails ; and it is only by tho
use of a monochromatic source of light that a satisfactory result can
be obtained. For eye observations, a spirit lamp, sometimes with tho
addition of a little salt, suffices; but the illumination from this source
is insufficient for projection on a screen. My first attempt at supply
ing this requisite was made by replacing the limo in an oxy-hydrogen
lamp by a cylindor of carbon through which a holo was bored and
filled with chloride of sodium. This answered very well as long as
thore was enough sodium in the presence of the jet ; but it was found
difficult to maintain a constant supply at the particular point
requirod. The carbon and sodium were next replaced by a kind of
glass formed by melting borax, and to this small pieces of hard
Gorman glass wore occasionally added. A bead of this substance
was placed in a small platinum cup, so fixed that the jet of mixed
gases could play upon it at a distance of about three-sixteenths of an
inch. This arrangement serves perfectly for laboratory and experi
mental werk ; but for projection on a largo scale a still more
powerful source of light is required. For a burner adapted to lecture-
 purposes I am indebted to a suggestion of Professor Dewar. The
burner consists of an oxy-hydrogen jet, with the addition to the
hydrogen tube of a chamber containing metallic sodium. The metal
is volatilized by a Bunsen's burner placed below it; so that tho

  1878.]               a Nocturne in Black and Yellow.                   583
  hydrogen emerges charged with sodium vapour. The result is a
 bright monochromatic light.
      Let us begin our experiments with the simple case of a Babinet's
 compensator traversed by a beam of parallel rays. This instrument
 consists of two quartz wedges, having the axis of the crystal contained
 in one of the plane faces of each ; but the axis in one wedge is
 parallel, in the other perpendicular to the refracting edge. The
  wedges are usually made with a refracting angle too small to show
 dispersion, but of such a thickness that the bands of colour due to
 their wedge form, shown by each singly, are pale. When the wedges
 are placed with their edges turned in opposite directions they form
 a plate substantially of uniform thickness ; but owing to the fact that
 the axes are perpendicular to one another, the ray which has traversed
 one wedge as the ordinary or swifter, will traverse the other as the
 extraordinary or slower ray. Hence the total retardation of the rays
 will be that due to the difference of thickness of the wedges at each
 point ; and therefore the compound plate will be optically of thickness
  zero along a central line parallel to the edges, and of increasing
  thickness towards each side.
      If one of the wedges bo turned through a right angle (say, to its
 second position), so that their axes are coincident, the two will form
 a wedge whose thickness, greatest at one angle, diminishes diagonally,
 at a rate double of that of each wedge singly.
     If the same wedge be turned through a second right angle (say,
 to its third position), the refracting edges will be coincident, and
 the axes at right angles. The whole will then form substantially a
 wedge with a refracting angle double of that of each. But since the
rays will at every point have traversed an equal thickness of each
crystal, the one as an ordinary and the other as an extraordinary ray,
the retardation will be everywhere neutralized.
     In the first position, with white light, there will be a central band,
dark or bright according as the polariser and analyser are crossed or
coincident ; and on each side first a white, or dark, band, and then
coloured bands, whose tints are fainter in proportion to their distance
from the centre. With monochromatic light, the bands are alternately
dark and bright, and all equally well defined. In the second posi
tion, the bands are diagonal, and aro perfectly distinct with mono
chromatic light, even when, as usual, the thickness of the wedges is
too great to show them with white light. In the third position the
field is uniformly dark or bright, whatever be the nature of light
used.
     If convergent or divergent light is used, uniaxal crystals (with
which alone we are here concerned), when cut perpendicularly to
their axes, show the well-known systems of isochromatic rings and
dark brushes. When cut at other angles, they show portions of the
same systems. But when two such plates are used in combination,
theory indicates the presence of some secondary phenomena, which it
                                                              2 s 2

584                        Dr. W. Spotlimcoode,                   [May 3>
is our business now to investigate. Of these only very small portions
are visible with white light ; but with monochromatic light the con-
iiguration may be traced throughout the entire field of view.
    The effect of the two plates of crystal in producing secondary
effects due to the crossing of two sets of isochromatic curves may be
well illustrated by Tisley's harmonograph. Iu this instrument the
figures due to vibrations having two rectangular components of (gene
rally) different periods, are approximately produced. This is effected
by a compound pendulum ; but with the details of this ingenious
pieco of mechanism we are not here concerned. The curves due to
various intervals between the components are well known ; but the
instrument does not accurately traco out circles or ellipses, or any
other re-entering curves; for, owing to the friction, which gradually
diminishes tho amplitude of vibration, its traces are transcendental
curves, or spirals. But on the other hand the friction, and the con
sequent deviation of the curves from their normal form, is so small
that the various turns of the spirals may be taken as representing a
series of rings with a sufficient degree of accuracy for our present
purpose. Two features of the harmonograph curves should be noticed.
First, as actually drawn, they are not geometrical lines, but bands of
finite breadth ; and on that account are tho better suited to represent
tho interference rings of crystals. Secondly, the distance between
the several convolutions of tho harmonograph curves is greatest near
the outer part of the figure and less towards the centre, while in the
crystal rings the reverse is the case ; and with reference to any
secondary figure due to the crossing of the curves or rings, this differ
 ence must be borne in mind.
     Tho curves here used as representing the rings of uniaxal crystals
 are those produced when the two vibrations of the pendulum are in
 unison, viz. they are as nearly circular as may be, but it is difficult to
 avoid a slightly elliptic form. A plate, originally drawn by the in
 strument, has been photographed twice ; and the two facsimiles are
 now together projected on the screen. Tho secondary figures in ques
 tion are then seen in tho portion of tho field comprised between the
 centres. I have selected three such pairs and fixed them with their
 centres at suitable distances ; one of them shows ellipses ; another
 parallel straight lines ; the third hyperbolas, as secondary figures.
 If one plate be made to slide over the other, the following effects are
 usually observed. When the centres are near together, tho crossing
 of the curves gives rise to secondary hyperbolas : as the centres recede,
 the hyperbolas, at first rectangular, become oblique ; they then col
 lapse into straight lines parallel to the plane passing through the
 axes ; and finally they are converted into ellipses approximating more
 and more to circles as the centres recede still farther from one another.
 I have, however, found a pair of plates in which the order of the figures
 is reversed, and which consequently represent the phenomena as they
 actually occur with crystals.

1878.]                a Nocturne in Black and Yellow.                585
    Similar secondary figures are produced by two plates of crystal
used together, as will presently be seen. In order to examine their
mode of formation, it will be simplest to begin with some thick
plates and moderately convergent light, by which means the details
may be brought ont on a sufficiently large scale. For this purpose I
have three pairs of plates, cut respectively at 67° 30', 45°, 22° 30' to
the axis. These, and more particularly the second, are used for pro
ducing the well-known Savart's bands. If convergent light be made to
traverse any of these plates, some portion of the rings are produced.
The proportion of the ring system contained in the field of view
depends upon the convergence of the rays ; and the distance of the
centre of the rings from that of the field upon the inclination to the
axis at which the plate is cut. In the specimens here used the rings,
for reasons stated in connection with Babinet's compensator, are in
visible with white, but visible with monochromatic light.
     If a pair of these plates be used, and the principal plane of one,
originally coincident with that of the other, is made to turn gradually
through 180°, then with white light a series of coloured bands is pro
duced. The distance between the bands increases, from a minimum
when they are first visible, indefinitely as the angle of turning
approaches 180°; while the brilliancy of their tints and accuracy
of definition attains its maximum at 90°. With monochromatic light,
when the angle between the principal planes of the plates is 0°, the
vibrations will traverse the second plate in the same manner as they
traversed the first ; and the retardation between the ordinary and the
extraordinary rays will be double of that duo to each plate singly.
The two plates will thus act as a plate of double thickness, and the
number of bands (portions of rings) visible with one plate, will bo
doubled. When one plate is turned as before in front of the other,
and the angle between their principal planes is gradually increased,
the rings due to one plate cross those due to the other; and the
intensity of illumination at the overlapping parts will depend upon
the angle at which the rings cross one another. Bearing in mind the
fact that at every point of the field the polarisation of one ray is
parallel, and that of the other perpendicular to the direction of the
ring, it is seen that when the rings cross at 90°, the ray which
traversed the first plate as an ordinary, will traverse the second as an
 extraordinary ray ; and consequently the retardation due to the two
 plates together will be the difference of that due to each alone. The
result will therefore be similar to that produced by the two wedges
 when their refracting edges are at right angles ; and the field will be
crossed by diagonal straight lines.
     For all other angles of crossing, including the case particularized
above, the following will take place. Each ray which enters the first
plate will emerge as two rays polarised, the one radially, the other
tangentially with respect to the rings, and with a certain retardation.
On entering the second plate, the vibrations of each of these rays will

586                        Dr. W. Spottiewoode,                    [May 3,
be again resolved radially and tangentially with respect to the rings
due to the second plate. Each of the new components, whether radial
or tangential, will therefore consist of two parts, generally of different
intensities, one of them having been retarded behind tho other in
their passage through the first plate. The two parts of each tangen
 tially vibrating ray will partially interfere ; and so likewise will the
two parts of each radially vibrating ray. In consequence of this
interference, the two rays emerging from tho second plate will in
general bo of different intensities, and one of them will be retarded
behind the other in their passage through that plate. Finally all the
vibrations will again be resolved into ono plane by the analyser ; and
when so resolved they will in general partially interfere. This partial
interference will cause the dark rings due to the first plate to be broken
with patches of partial brightness, and the bright rings with patches
of partial darkness, where the rings of one system cross those of the
other. The general effect is in many cases that of a diaper-pattern
over the field of view.
     The distribution of these interruptions and the nature of the
secondary figures which they form, will depend upon the curvature
and angle of crossing, of the rings at each point of the field. The
mathematical formulas, which give the details of the illumination,
present no difficulty beyond tedionsness of calculation. And it will
be sufficient here to say that, when carried only to a first approxima
tion (with respect to tho angle of incidence of the rays) they indicate,
for the secondary figures, a series of straight lines alternately dark
and bright, known as " Savart's bands." When carried to a second
approximation the formula; indicate that in the neighbourhood of the
ring-centres, the secondary figures will be conic sections. When the
principal planes of the crystals (planes containing the axis and the
normal to tho plate) are at 180° to one another, the conic sections are
central. In that case, the expression for tho square of one of the
principal axes of the curve is a cubic in the line of the angle at which
the crystal has been cut. This expression when equated to zero
must, by the theory of equations, have one real root ; in other words,
it will vanish for one particular value of the angle, and be negative
for greater values and positivo for less values of tho angle. If, there
fore, the crystals be cut at an angle to the axis smaller than the angle
given by the cubic equation, they will, when placed with the axes
inclined to opposite sides of the field, show hyperbolas for the
secondary figures ; when cut at a certain angle (about 59° 50' in the
case of quartz), the figures will be straight lines parallel to the line
joining the ring-centres ; and when cut at a greater angle, the figures
will be ellipses, approximating to circles as the angle of section
approaches to 90°.
     But leaving aside tho mathematical aspect of the question, the
principal interest of the method of monochromatic light consists in
tho simplicity of tho results, and in tho opportunity which it affords

 1878.]              a Nocturne in Black and Yellow.                   587
 of examining in detail all the effects due to two plates of crystal. It
 enables us in fact to follow the peculiarities of the secondary figures
 throughout the entire field of view, and to trace by a continuous
 process the modifications which these figures undergo when the
 relative positions of the crystals are changed.
     Many of these effects are best seen with the optical arrangement
 usually employed for showing the crystal rings. I have here four
 pairs of quartz plates cut respectively at 45°, 59° 50', 67° 30', 90°,
 to the axis ; the plates of each pair having their principal planes at
 180° to one another. The first of these shows, in the region about
 the line joining the centres of the ring systems, a series of ellipses
 for the secondary figures ; the second shows straight lines ; the third
 oblique hyperbolas ; the fourth rectangular hyperbolas. With a view,
 however, of exhibiting not only these the more important, but also all
 intermediate phases of the phenomena, I have prepared two curved
 sections of quartz, each forming nearly a quadrant, and cut at one end
 perpendicular, at the other nearly parallel to the axis. By placing
 these end to end, with the axes at opposite ends, and sliding one over
 the other, all the phases of the secondary figures can bo shown in
 succession. And if the point midway between the axes bo kept in
 the centre of the field of view, the figures will be symmetrical ;
 otherwise unsymmetrical. Beginning with the ends, which are per
 pendicular to the axis, together in tho field of view, and causing the
 quadrants to slido at the same rate in opposite directions, the secondary
 circles will be seen elongating into ellipses, tho ellipses stretching
 out until they pass into parallel straight lines ; and lastly, these lines
 contracting towards the centre of the field and diverging towards tho
sides, until they form hyperbolas, the obliquity of which gradually
 diminishes as we approach that part of the section which is parallel
 to the axis.
     The case of two quartz plates cut at an angle of 67° 30' to the
axis, whereof one is free to revolvo in front of the other, gives rise to
some interesting transformations of tho secondary figures. When the
principal planes of the crystals are coincident, the field generally
shows rings double in number to those due to one plate. But towards
the side away from which the axes are directed the rays are more
nearly parallel, while towards the opposite side the rays are more
nearly perpendicular to the axis. Hence, towards the first side, tho
rings will approximate more nearly to circles, and towards the other
they will show indications of becoming branches of hyperbolas. As
the principal planes are turned round in opposite directions from
their initial position, the secondary figures begin to appear. At 45°
discontinuous bands with hyperbolic curvature towards the part of
tho field most distant from the ring centres are seen. At 90° these
bands become continuous and sharply defined, while towards the ring-
centres a portion of the ellipses may be observed entering the field.
Beyond 90° tho hyperbolic branches leave the field, and the rectilinear

588                A Nocturne in Black and Yellow .               [May 3,
part of the bands is replaced by the diaper-pattern described in a
former part of this lecture ; while the ellipses are gradually elongated
to parallel straight lines, and then are converted into hyperbolas. At
180° the hyperbolas occupy the centre of the field.
    Many similar experiments may be made with biaxal crystals ; but
it would exceed our present limits to describe them here. I will,
therefore, confine myself to a repetition with monochromatic light
of the well-known experiment of showing the passage of mica from its
proper biaxal form to an apparently uniaxal form , by crossing a
number of films of the crystal.
    It has perhaps been abundantly shown on more than one occasion
in this theatre, by the spectra of polarised light, that colour is in fact
a shadow ; and that the varied tints, produced by crystals in light
under this condition, are due to selective shadows thrown as it were
over the various components of a colourless beam. And the present
method of monochromatic light affords a striking illustration of the
fact that suppression of light is a factor of all chromatic effects. But
beside this, the method affords an opportunity of tracing, by a con
tinuous process, the transformations of the results due to a continuous
change of crystalline circumstance. The experiments supply a fresh
instance of the fact that nature does nothing per salt am ; and they
may perhaps be regarded as adding one more link, however insignifi
cant, to that great chain of continuity which is gradually binding
more closely together the diversified phenomena of the material
universe.
    Lastly, they remind us that the most beautiful, the most delicate,
the most instructive features of nature are dependent, not so much on
abundance of material, on profusion of ornamentation, or variety of
display, as upon simplicity of character, on fidelity to truth, and on
strict but willing obedience to law.
                                                             [W. 8.]

  1878.]                  General Monthly Meeting.                         589
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, May 6, 1878.
   Sir W. Frederiok. Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President, in the Chair.
       The following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year wore
   announced :
             The Lord Lindsay,
             Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart
             C. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.
             George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer.
             William Spottiswoode, Esq. LL.D. Tr.R.S. Secretary.
             Philip Boyd, Esq.
             Frank Crisp, Esq. LL.B. B.A. F.L.S. Hon. Sec. R. Mic. Sue.
             James McClelland, Esq. J.P. F.S.S.
             Colin Mackenzie, Esq.
             Emile R. Merton, Esq.
  were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
         John Tyndall, Esq. D.C.L. LL.D. F.R.S.
  was re-elected Professor of Natural Philosophy.
       The Secretary announced that the Managers had granted the use
  of the Lecture-Theatre to the Sanitary Institute of Great Britain
' for their Anniversary Meeting on July 3 at 3 o'clock, when an
  Address would be given by Mr. Fbank Buckland, M.A. on "The
  Pollution of Rivers, and its Effects upon the Fisheries and the
  Supply of Water to Towns and Villages."
      The Special Thanks of the Members were returned to Charles
  Hawesley, Esq. for a donation of Five Guineas for the Promotion of
  Scientific Researches.
      The Chairman announced that the Fullerian Professorship of
  Physiology became vacant on the 5th of April last ; and that the
  Managers would proceed to the election of a Professor on the 4th of
  November next.
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
  table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
       FROM
  Academia del Lincti, Rome—Atti, Serie III. Transunti, Vol. II. Fasc. 1, 3, 4.
       4to. 1878.

590                           General Monthly Meeting.                      [May 6,
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 110. 8vo. 1878.
Antiquaries, Society of—Proceedings, Second Series. Vol. VII. No. 3. 8vo. 1878.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVIII. Nos. 5, 6. 8vo.
      1S78.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal — Sitzungsberichto, 1877, Heft 3. 8vo.
      1877.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1878. Nos. 10, 11, 12.
      4to.
Chemical Society—Journal, 1877 : Supplementary No. and for April, 1878. 8vo.
Chilian Minister, The—Nitrate and Guano Deposits in the Desert of Atacaina.
      8vo. 1878.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. LI. 8vo. 1878.
Cnrmcall Polytechnic Society, Royal— Forty-fifth Annual Report. 8vo. 1877.
Coutts, John, Esq. (the Autlior)—The Philosophy of Man and Creation (the Micro
      cosm and the Macrocosm) as manifested bv Revelation and Science. 16to.
      1878.
Dawson, Dr. J. W. F.R.S. (the Author)—Notes on some Scottish Devonian
      Plants. (K 102) 8vo. 1877.
Editors—American Journal of Science for April, 1878. 8vo.
   Analyst for April, 1878. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for April, 1878. 4to.
   Chemical News for April, 1878. 4to.
    Engineer for April, 1S78. fol.
    Horological Journal for April, 1878. 8vo.
    Iron for April, 1878. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for April, 1878. fol.
   Nature for April, 1878. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for April, 1878. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for April, 1878. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 628. 8vo. 1877.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Vol. XXII. No. 2. 8vo. 1878.
Geological Survey of India—Records, Vol. XI. Part 1. 8vo. 1878.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1877, No. 2. 8vo. 1878.
Mechanical Engineers' Institution—Proceedings, Jan. 1878. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Proceedings, Part 46. 8vo. 1878.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 25. 8vo. 1878
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Calendar for 1878. 8vo.
   Journal for April, 1878. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. II. No. 6. 8vo. 1877.
Preussische Ahademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberiehte : Jan. 1878. 8vo.
Rossetli, Sig. F. (the Author)—Relazione su Esperienze Telefoniche. 8vo. 1878.
    Sulla Temperature del Sole. 4to. 1878.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 186. 8vo. 1878.
Russian
St.        Physical
     Petersburg,             Observatory—Annalen
                    Central des
                 Acadi¦mie                            7" Sc¦rie. 1876.
                                Sciences—Mc¦moires.: Jahrgang,    Tome 4to.
                                                                        XXIV.1877.
                                                                                Nos.
      4-11 ; Tome XXV. Nos. 1-4. 4to. 1877.
Tuson, Professor R. V. (the Editor)—Cooley's Cyclopaedia of Practical Receipts.
      Sixth edition, Part 2. 8vo. 1878.
 Vereins zur BefOrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandelungen, 1878.
      Hefte 2, 3. 4to.

1878.]         Sir William Thomson on Stress on Iron, &c.              591
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, May 10, 1878.
       C. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.K.S. Vico-Prcsident,
                              in tho Chair.
                 Sir William Thomson, LL.D. F.R.S.
 The Effects of Stress on the Magnetization of Iron, Cobalt, and Nickel.
Though, as discovered by Faraday, every substance has a susceptibility
for inductive magnetization, the three metals, iron, nickel, cobalt, stand
out so prominently from among the other known chemical elements,
that they only are commonly regarded as the magnetic metals, and the
magnetism of all other substances is so feeble as to be comparatively
almost imperceptible.
    The magnetization of each of the three magnetic metals is greatly
affected by mechanical stress. From the beginnings of magnetic
science it must have been known that the magnetism of iron and steel
is disturbed, sometimes lost or much diminished, by blows, striking
the metal with a hammer, or letting it fall on hard ground. Gilbert,
nearly three hundred years ago, showed that bars of soft iron held in
the direction of the dipping needle and struck violently by a hammer
acquire much more magnetism, and again more reverse magnetism
when inverted in that line, than when placed in those positions gently
without shock of any kind. An ordinary fireside poker shows these
effects splendidly, with no other apparatus than a little pocket-com
pass or a sewing needle, magnetized and slung horizontally, hanging
by a fine silk thread. If habitually the poker rests upright the upper
end will be found a true north pole, the lower a true south when first
tested by the needle. Holding the poker with exceeding gentleness,
invert it :—The end that was down, though now up, is still a true south
pole, and repels the north end (or true south pole) of the movablo
suspended needle. A gentle tap with the hand on the poker now
produces a surprising result. Instantly it yields to the terrestrial
influence, and its upper end, becoming a true north pole, attracts the
northern end of the suspended needle. Even more surprising is the
slightness of the agitation which suffices to shake the retained mag
netism of a former position out of a soft iron wire, and let it take the
magnetization due to tho position in which it is held. A superstitious
person would say ;—that is animal magnetism !—when he soes an iron
wire becoming a notably effective magnet when held vertically and
rubbed gently from end to end between finger and thumb.

592                       Sir William Thomson                   [May 10,
     Changes of magnetism produced by mechanical agitation are
 shown to a much greater degree in thin bars than in thick ones ; and
 when the diameter exceeds a quarter of the length they are hardly
 sensible. Hence when the " Flinders bar " is applied to compensate
 the error produced in a ship's compass by change of magnetic lati
 tude, its length ought not to be more than six or seven times its
 diameter ; and for the same reason long iron rods or stanchions in the
 neighbourhood of a compass are very detrimental to its trustworthi
 ness. Half a hundredweight of iron in the shape of rails or awning
 stanchions, too often to be found very near a compass, are more
dangerous than tons or hundreds of tons in the shape of heavy steam
 steering gear, or of armoured turrets in an ironclad.
     A piece of iron left in the Royal Institution by Faraday, with a
 label in his own handwriting to the effect that it had been between
 three hundred and four hundred years fixed in a vertical position in
 the stonework of the Oxford Cathedral, having been given to him by
 Dr. Buckland in May, 1835, was exhibited and tested. It was found
 to have its upper end a true north pole. It was inverted before the
audience, and instantly that end became a true south pole and the
 other a true north pole. Thus nearly four hundred years in one
position had done nothing to fix the magnetism. In its inverted
position it was hammered violently on each end by a wooden mallet :
this increased the magnetism somewhat, but did not fix it. The bar
was inverted again, and then, in its first position, its original upjier
end, now up again, became again a true north pole.
     The stoutness of the bar (that is to say, the greatness of the pro
portions of its breadth and thickness to its length) were such, that if
of modern iron, it probably would not have behaved as it did ; but pro
bably also it may have been superior in " softness " to the ordinary
run of modern bar iron.
     Bars of nickel and cobalt, unique and splendid specimens, for
which the speaker was indebted to the celebrated metallurgical
chemist, Mr. Wharton, of Philadelphia, were exhibited, and found to
show effects of concussion quite as do bars of iron of different
qualities.
     An altogether new effect of stress was discovered about ten years
ago by Villari, according to which longitudinal pull augments the
temporary induced magnetism of soft iron bars or wires when the
magnetizing force is less than a certain critical value ; and diminishes
it when the magnetizing force exceeds that value ; and augments the
residual magnetism when the mngnetizing force, whether it has been
great or small, has been removed.
     The speaker had measured approximately the Villari critical
value, and found it to be about twenty-four times the vertical com
ponent of tho terrestrial magnetic force (or about 10 C.G.S. units).
The maximum effect in the way of augmentation by pull he had
found with about six times the Glasgow vertical force. He had found
for bars of nickel and cobalt opposite effects to those of Villari for

 1878.]     on Effects of Stress on the Magnetization of Iron, dec.      593
 soft iron, and had found a maximum value, with a certain degree of
 magnetizing force, and evidence making it probable that a critical
 magnetizing force would be found for each of these metals also, such
 that the magnetization would be increased by pull when the mag
 netizing force exceeds it.
     The speaker had found corresponding effects of transverse pull in
 soft iron, and had found them to be correspondingly opposite to
 those discovered by Villari for longitudinal pull. The transverse
 pall was produced by water pressure in the interior of a gun-barrel
applied by a piston and lever at one end. Thus a pressure of about
 1000 lbs. per square inch, applied and removed at pleasure, gave
effects on the magnetism induced in the vertical gun-barrel by the
vertical component of the terrestrial magnetic force, and, again, By
an electric current through a coil of insulated copper wire round the
gun-barrel, which were witnessed by the audience. When the force
magnetizing the gun-barrel was anything less than about sixty times
the Glasgow value of the vertical component of the terrestrial force,
the magnetization was found to be less with the pressure on than off.
When the magnetizing force exceeded that critical value, the mag
netization was greater with the pressure on than off. The residual
(retained) magnetism was always less with the pressure on than off
(after ten or a dozen " ons " and " offs " of the pressure to shake out
as much of the magnetization as was so loosely held as to be shaken
out by this agitation).
     It is remarkable that the critical amount of the magnetizing force
in respect to effect of transverse pull is more than double that of the
Villari effect of longitudinal pull. Thus for intermediate amounts
of force (say forces between 10 and 25 C.G.8. units), both longi
tudinal pull and transverse pull diminish the induced magnetization.
Hence it is to be inferred that equal pull in all directions would
diminish, and equal positive pressure in all directions would increase,
the magnetization under the influence of force between these critical
values, and through some range above and below them ; and not
improbably for all amounts, however large or small, of the mag
netizing force; but further experiment is necessary to answer this
question.
     A most interesting further inquiry iu connection with this subject
is to find if asolotropic stress (pressure unequal in different directions),
beyond the limits of elasticity, leaves in iron, nickel, or cobalt a per
manent asolotropic difference of magnetic susceptibility in different
directions analogous to that discovered thirty years ago by Tyndall
in the diamagnetic quality of soft, imperfectly elastic material, such as
fresh bread. Special difficulties prevented the speaker from obtaining
any results thirty years ago, when he tried to discover corresponding
effects in iron ; but the investigation is not hopeless, and he intends
to resume it.
                                                              [W. T.J

594            Professor Ramsay on the Geology of Gibraltar                [May 24,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 17, 1878.
        Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                             A. Graham Bell, Esq.
                                      Speech.
                                [Abstract deferred.]
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 24, 1878.
        Sir W. Frederick Pollock, Bart. M.A. Vice-PreBident,
                                  in the Chair.
                        A. C. Ramsay, LL.D. F.B.S.
          DIRECTOR-GKNEUAL Or THE GEOLOGICAL BURVET OF THE UHITED KINGDOM.
The Geology of Gibraltar and the Opposite Coast of Africa ; and the
                      History of the Mediterranean Sea.
The Eock of Gibraltar is about 2£ miles in length, by 1550 yards in
breadth near the north front, and 550 yards at Europa Flats at the
southern end of the fortress. The north side of the Bock forms a
noble cliff, close to which is the Rock gun battery on a peak 1349 feet
above the sea. Farther south, close to O'Hara's Tower, the highest
part of the Bock attains an elevation of 1370 feet.
    The strata which form the principal part of the Eock consist of
compact grey limestone, which from the north front to O'Hara's
Tower and the western edge of Windmill Hill Flats dip westerly at
vory high angles, and at Windmill Hill are absolutely vertical. No
fossils have been found in these beds, except a few brachiopods of the
genus Bhynchonella of an unnamed species, but which somewhat
resembles Bh. concinna of the British Oolites, and therefore it has been
commonly considered that the limestone of the Rock belongs to the
Oolitic or Jurassic series of continental geologists. All along the
western part of the peninsula, from Grand Casemate Square to the
New Mole Parade and the Hospital Road, the strata consists of dark
shales and thin bands of calcareous grits, which overlie the limestone
and may bo well seen standing on edge in the ditch outside the
batteries between the Old Mole and Careening Bay. No fossils have
been found in these strata ; but their perfect conformity to the lime
stone beds indicates that they belong to the same geological series.
Without going into details I may mention, that between the New
Mole, the Devil's Bellows, and the neighbourhood of the Advance
                                                                                    ^

1878.]             and the Opposite Coast of Africa, dc.                   595
Battery a fault crosses the Rock from north-west to south-east, and
south of that line on the Windmill Hill Flats and Europa Flats the
disturbance of the rocks has been so extreme that the strata have a
reverse dip and the shales undorlio the limestones at angles of from
40° to 50°.*
    The neighbouring coasts of Spain seem to belong to the same
series of strata as those which overlie the limestone, excepting a patch
of late Tertiary beds (Crag ?), which lie close to the coast at and near
Campo. The rocks of the opposite coast of Africa between Ceuta and
Cape Spartel resemble those of the Spanish coast, and the rugged and
woody height of the opposite Pillar of Hercules, Gebel Abyla, is
recognized as being formed of limestone of the same age as the Rock
of Gibraltar.
    I have said that the limestone of Gibraltar is overlaid by shales,
which, however, are in places concealed by a remarkable brecciated
conglomerate, or agglomerate, as it is styled by Mr. James Geikie
in our joint memoir on the ' Geology of Gibraltar,' now in course of
publication. It is well seen at Buena Vista and on the ground
between the Mount and Rosia Bay, and consists of angular fragments
of limestone of all sizes, up to three or four yards in diameter,
agglutinated together into a compact mass, which very rarely shows
any traces of stratification. Its origin seems to be as follows.
    It is well known that during the Glacial epoch the range of the
Sierra Nevada maintained an independent set of glaciers, and one on
a very small scale even now remains in one of the higher and most
shady recesses of the mountains. In Africa the range of the Atlas
also had its glaciers on a large scale ; but it is impossible to believe
that a small isolated boss of rock like Gibraltar could have given
birth to a glacier, even though the whole had been heaved much
higher into the air than now.
    It is clear, however, that when glaciers occupied the valleys of the
Sierra Nevada and the range of the Atlas in North Africa, tho climate
 of Spain must have been more severe than at present, and the land
must have suffered from winter snows and frosts now almost un
known at Gibraltar. It is therefore surmised that, when the Rock
with its innumerable joints was subject to heavy snowfalls and alter
nating frosts and thaws, angular stones, small and large, were split
from and wedged out from the parent mass of limestone and lodged
on the steep slopes of tho hill. These, whon thaws became powerful
and rain also fell, being saturated with the half-melted slush of snow,
would year by year be carried confusedly down the slopes even to tho
very foot of the Rock, beyond which in places they now pass out
beneath the sea.
     During this episode in tho history of the Rock, there is no proof
that it was inhabited by Mammalia.
   '"^xhe lecture was illustrated by a map and sections showing all these points
 aA much of what follows.

59 G                       Professor Ramsay on the                     [May 24,
     After a time tho climate ameliorated, probably during one of
those inter-glacial episodes which have been proved by analyses of the
ancient glaciers of the Alps and Britain. Simultaneously with this
change of climate the Rock and adjoining parts of Spain were united
to Africa by tho gradual upheaval of the whole territory, probably of
not less than 1000 feet above tho present level. The soundings
between Cape Plata in Spain, and Cape Spartel in Africa, show that
this upheaval would be sufficient to connect the opposite continents.
There is nothing extreme in this supposition, for similar oscillations
of level at the same epoch of geological history can be proved in
many other regions, as, for example, by sea-shell beds in North
Wales and Lancashire from 1200 to 1300 feet above the sea, and by
similar phenomena in Norway, Greenland, and the far-north islands of
the Arctic Sea.
     When the junction of the continents was complete, a migration of
Mammalia took place into the area of which Gibraltar forms part.
These, for tho most part, wore not forms such as inhabit the north of
Europe, but African species, tho remains of which are found in fissures
and bone-caves in the limestone rock, and in similar cavities in the
limestone breccia. Such cavities and fissures are found in almost all
limestones, and were, and still are, being produced by the solvent
action of carbonic acid in rain-water percolating through cracks and
joints. A list of those found in the Genista Cave has been printed
in tho 'Journal of the Geological Society' (1865), by Mr. Busk and
the late Dr. Falconer, who visited the rock for the purpose of
investigating the phenomena. It is unnecessary to repeat the list
here, but among other species there occurs Rhinoceros etruscus and
it. leptorhinus, a horse, the common pig, and Suspriscus, oxen, deer, Ibex
agoceros, leopards, the African lynx, and Hycena crocuta, now living
in Africa.* In connection with this subject, it is important to
 mention that many years ago Mr. Smith of Jordanhill, found a tooth
 of Elephas antiquus in an old beach at the south end of Europa Flats.
 In like manner, on tho coast of Africa, close to Tangier, while ex
 amining a sea-cliff, formed of coralline sands and gravels, with Mr. J.
 Geikie and some friends from Gibraltar, we found a molar tooth of
 the same species sticking in the jaw. It is important to notice that
 E. antiquus is so closely allied to the living African elephant that it is
 considered by some persons to have been its ancestor, just as the
 E. primigeneus, or mammoth, is by others surmised to have been the
 ancestor of the living Indian elephant.
      By and by there began a slow intermittent depression of the area,
 the result of which was the formation, by marine erosion, of the lime
 stone platforms of Windmill Hill and Europa Flats, the first from 370
 to 390 feet, and the latter from 90 to 120 feet above the present level
 of tho sea. Both are undoubtedly true plains of marine denudation,
     * For the latest details of the Mammalia found in the Genista Cavef''
  'Transactions of the Zoological Society,' 1877, by George Busk, F.B.S. &c, ^,

1878.]              History of the Mediterranean Sea.                 597
and similar smaller terraces of erosion occur elsewhere in the lime
stone and the limestone breccia. This gradual sinking of the land
went on till the Rock sank at least 700 feet ; for on the more pre
cipitous east side, sands with sea-shells occur high on the promontory,
and also what appear to be numerous minute fragments of Echini. At
this time Gibraltar was a little rocky islet, miles from any continuous
shore ; and it is obvious that, under such circumstances, it could have
been inhabited by no large, and only, possibly, by a few very small
mammalia.
    A re-elevation of the Rock and adjacent sea-bottom followed the
temporary depression, and Gibraltar may have been re-united to
Africa, in which case a second migration of Mammalia may then have
taken place from that continent into Europe. A later formation of
limestone breccia also took place ; for, on a minor scale, it is found
overlying the sands on the east side of the Rock.
    The important question now arises, What effect had these various
oscillations of the relative levels of the land on the history of the
Mediterranean Sea, and what in earlier times was its origin ?
    Let anyone consider Asia and Europe as a whole, and he will find
that the Black Sea, the Sea of Marmora, and the Mediterranean lie in
a western continuation of the great area of inland drainage of Central
Asia, which, from the confines of Europe on tho west shore of the
Caspian Sea, extends eastward into Asia for a distance of about 3000
miles. In this immense area, the Caspian, the Sea of Aral, La&e
Balkasch, and all the minor lakes are salt, with the exception of those
lakes from whence rivers flow into other lakes, in which case the
lakes having outlets are fresh, and those into which they discharge
their waters are salt, the latter having no outflowing rivers by which
to discharge their surplus waters. The reason of this is obvious ; for
all rivers hold salts in solution, generally insensible to the taste, but
appreciable to the analyses of the chemist ; and, as lakes which do not
discharge their water by rivers only get rid of it by means of solar
evaporation, the result is, as in the well-known cases of the Dead Sea
and the Salt Lake of Utah, that the salts by degrees get concentrated,
sometimes almost to the point of complete saturation.
    The surface of the Caspian Sea is 83 . 6 feet below the level of
the Black Sea, and its extreme depth I do not know, except that it is
more than 2000 and less than 5000 feet where deepest. The Black
Sea, which flows through the Bosphorus into the Sea of Marmora, is
at least 6000 feet deep whero deepest, while the Sea of Marmora,
which discharges its water into the Mediterranean through the
Dardanelles, is 3360 feet in depth. Beyond this lies the Mediter
ranean, more than 1700 geographical miles in length, which when
critically examined with relation to its soundings, resolves itself into
three distinct basins of great depth. The first, between the coast of
Syria and Sicily, is about 1040 geographical miles long, the whole
being more than 5000 feet deep, while its profoundest depths range
from 9600 and 10,980 feet between Africa and Asia Minor, and
    Vol. VIII. (No. 69.)                                     2 t

 598                        Professor Ramsay on the                [May 24,
 13,020 feet half-way across the sea between the Gulf of Sidra and
 the mouth of the Adriatic. The next basin, lying south of Sicily, is
 about 170 geographical miles in length, the whole being over 2000
 feet deep, while its greatest depth as given by Admiral Spratt
 between Malta and Pantellaria is 4200 feet.* The western basin
 where more than 5000 feet deep is about 830 miles in length. Where
 deepest near the African coast opposite the month of the river Kebir
 the depth is 9162 feet, between Marseilles and Minorca 9258, and
 between Majorca and Algiers 9342 feet.
     Taking a sinuous line of soundings between Cape Plata in Spain
 and Cape Spartel in Africa as we open into the Atlantic, the average
 depth, as given in the Admiralty chart, is from 600 to 780 feet for at
 least three-quarters of the way, while the greatest depth is 996 feet.
     If we consider the relation of these three basins and their
 soundings to the closing of the Mediterranean Sea by upheaval into
 land of the above-named opening, it becomes obvious that had the
 upheaval been sufficient also to uplift the comparatively shallow area
 between Sicily and Tunis, what is now one long inland sea must then
 have presented the spectacle of three salt lakes, comparable in their
 nature to the Caspian, the Black Sea, and the Sea of Marmora, tho
 whole being then as now a more western prolongation of the area of
inland drainage of Central Asia.
     The eastern lake between the coast of Syria and Sicily must have
 covered an area much more than twice as large as the Caspian Sea, and
 south of tho present coast of Sicily lay the second basin, which, as
 shown by Admiral Spratt, both in form and size somewhat resembled
 the Sea of Marmora. Like that sea or salt lake, it also communicated
with the more eastern lake by a narrow gorge 1740 feet deep where
shallowest, and comparable to the Bosphorus, through which tho water
of the Black Sea flows as a rapid salt river into the Sea of Marmora,
while at its north-west end, it communicated by a long, narrow valley
or channel with the great western basin that lies between Italy and
 the Straits of Gibraltar. This channel, which is 1272 feet deep where
shallowest, is aptly compared by Admiral Spratt to the salt stream of
the Dardanelles, for they are much the same in length and breadth,
and in each case the soundings rapidly deepen outside their ends.
     It thus appears that at a certain period of its history, the Mediter
ranean area of depression was occupied by three great lakes which
communicated with each other by narrow river-like channels, and it may
be that, though temporarily closed, a similar gorge for a time con
nected the western lake with the Atlantic.
     Under these circumstances it is hard to say whether the waters of
the Mediterranean area were Salter or fresher than they are now.
That they were not fresh we may well believe ; but if a river current
ran from the Mediterranean into the Atlantic it may be that, like the
    * See Admiral Spratt " On the Maltese Bone-caves," ' Quarterly Journal of
the Geological Society,' 1867.

 1878.]              History of the Mediterranean Sea.                599
 Black Sea now, these inland Mediterranean lakes were gradually
 freshening, unless solar evaporation of these broad land-locked waters
 helped to keep them salt, or even to make them Salter than the
 Atlantic Ocean, which indeed the Mediterranean water is now, in spite
 of the influx of such great rivers as the Don, the Dnieper, the Danube,
 the Nile, the Po, the Rhone, and the Ebro. The freshening effect
 of these is more than neutralized by the mighty river-like rush of
 Atlantic water which flows through the Straits of Gibraltar, and is
 due to the immense amount of evaporation that is constantly going
 on from the surface of the great continental sea. These things
 combined have tended to make the present Mediterranean some
 what more salt than the Atlantic, for the latter contains 2-673 of
 common salt by weight in 100 parts of water according to Bischoff,
 while according to William Bamsay the Mediterranean contains
 2 - 946 grains, and the proportion of pure water in the Atlantic to all
 the substances in solution is greater by "243 than in the Mediter
 ranean.
      Such is a brief account of the past history and of the present state
 of the Mediterranean area, but something remains to be said respecting
 the origin of the great basin in which its waters lie.
      When we examine a geological map of Europe and the north
 coast of Africa, one important feature is, that the Mediterranean area
 on the north side of the sea consists to a great extent of Miocene and
 Pliocene strata, and the same is the case with the Sea of Marmora,
 the Black Sea, the Crimea, the Sea of Azof, and part of the west
 coast of the Caspian. Where Pliocene beds form the coasts they
 often merely conceal Miocene strata that underlie them. In like
 manner the Balearic Islands, Corsica and Sardinia, Gozo and Malta,
 contain Miocene strata, Malta and Gozo being entirely formed of
 these, as shown in the map by Admiral Spratt and Lord Ducie.
 Candia and Greece arc partly formed of the same kind of rocks. In
 like manner the north of Africa at and near the sea between Tunis
 and Tangier largely consists of Miocene strata, forming part of the
mountain district south of Oran and Algiers, and extending to the
 flanks of the farther Atlas.
      Considering that on the mainland of the Mediterranean region
the Miocene strata are fragmentary, and also that the same is the
case in the islands, it is, perhaps, not too much to assume that a very
great part of that area was once occupied by Miocenb rocks, which,
before the Mediterranean came into existence, formed a long and broad
land, of which Malta and parts of other Mediterranean islands are frag
ments. By and by a gradual sinking of this vast area began, probably
simultaneously with that of the subsidence of the Asiatic area of
inland drainage (first described by Pallas), of which, as already stated,
the Mediterranean area is a western prolongation.
      It is now a widely accepted canon in geology, that when on a
great scale one part of the surface of the earth is depressed, other
portions often more or less parallel to the area of depression aro
                                                            2 t 2

600                      Professor Ramsay on the               [May 24,
upheaved, and these general effects being due to shrinkage of the
earth's crust, mountain chains have been formed at various periods
throughout all geological time. It is for this reason that the strata
of all great mountain chains are contorted, the beds, once horizontal,
being by lateral pressure forced into a smaller space than they
originally occupied when flat. I must add that all mountain chains
of which I have any knowledge, personal or acquired by reading,
are the result of several such shrinkages and upheavals.
     It is a fact well known to geologists, that after the close of the
Eocene or Lower Tertiary epoch, the Pyrenees, and the Alps and Car
pathian mountains underwent one of those last and greatest upheavals,
which then raised them into mountain chains of the first European
magnitude. At the same period the Apennines, and the mountains
east of the Adriatic and Ionian seas were elevated, together with the
Caucasus and other mountain tracts, needless to name in this abstract.
Till this elevation took place, what we now call Europe had but
little resemblance to our modern continent, and it was after the eleva
tion of these mountain chains that the Miocene strata of Europe were
deposited in seas and at intervals in lakes that washed the bases of
the mountains.
     The Miocene epoch of our European area was a period of repose,
excepting the occurrence here and there of ordinary volcanic pheno
mena, accompanied by minor oscillations of the level of land in
relation to the sea, as, for example, in Switzerland, where the Miocene
strata consist of alternations of marine and lacustrine strata. But at
the close of this epoch, or rather what brought it to an end in the
area under review, a renewed upheaval took place of the Alps, the
Pyrenees, the Caucasus, and other mountain ranges already named.
So important was this event, that the thick flat-lying consolidated
Miocene rocks that flanked the bases of the older Alps, were with
theso mountains heaved thousands of feet above their former level.
Most Swiss tourists know the minor mountains on the north side of
the Alps, one of theso being the Righi, the summit of which is
5919 feet high ; and in older times these hills must have been much
higher, considering the great denudations they have suffered during
long geological ages.
     The same kind of minor Miocene hills adhere to the Pyrenees
and the Caucasus, and also in other regions already named, in
cluding the Atlas south of the Mediterranean ; and indeed they are
equally applicable to the Himalayan range, which, after a prodigious
upheaval in post-Eocene times, underwent, like the Alps, a post-
Miocene elevation of great amount, as witnessed by the Sewalik hills
on the southern flanks of the mountains.
     The cause, or rather tho complement, of these last important
elevations seems to me to have been the gradual sinking of the great
area of inland drainage, by which, according to Pallas, an old Asiatic
Mediterranean was formed, the approximate limits of which from the
Black and Caspian seas eastward, have in later days been insisted on

1878.]             History of the Mediterranean Sea.               601
by Sir Roderick Murchison, in his work on ' Russia and the Ural
Mountains.' In like manner, in my opinion, the gradual sinking of
the Mediterranean region by degrees produced a vast inland sea,
united to part at least of that of Asia. Even the European and
African part of that sea was for a time much more extensive than the
present Mediterranean, as witnessed not only by the fossil mollusca
of the Sahara, which are of Mediterranean species, but also by other
marine Pliocene strata high above the level of the sea on the southern
coasts of Europe. One important result of this great subsidence was
to produce those deep basins, which subsequently passed through the
various physical phases described in this lecture.
    To sum up the subject :—
    1. What is now the Mediterranean area, in old times consisted of
a wide land surface chiefly formed of Miocene strata.
    2. The Alps, the Pyrenees, the Atlas, and other mountain chains,
underwent renewed upheaval, accompanied by contemporaneous de
pression of the Mediterranean area. This closed our Miocene epoch.
    3. The greatest extent of the Mediterranean Sea was in the
Pliocene epoch.
    4. Partial elevation of the mouth of the Mediterranean, and pro
bably of the ground between Sicily and Africa, permitted the migration
of African mammals into Europe at a time or times when the inner
parts of that sea formed three great and deep salt lakes, in what then
was and still is a western continuation of the great Asiatic area of
inland drainage.
    In conclusion, let me remark, that in the study of physical geo
graphy it is by no means sufficient merely to indicate outside forms,
such as the positions, heights, and other obvious characters of
mountain ranges, the extent of table-lands and plains, and of lakes
and rivers, great and small. The mere physiography of an area is
not enough to know. It is not enough to say that things are thus
and thus. Why are they so ? is a question that must always recur
to the philosophic mind. Geology lies at the base of almost all
modern researches in Physical Geography, and by means of geological
data we can alone struggle to explain the origin and nature of the
complicated events that produced every feature, large and small, of
every part of the outside world. Till this in the far future is accom
plished, though we may have able sketches, the actual details of the
physical geography of the world cannot be perfectly understood.

602                              Professor Flower                         [May 31,
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, May 31, 1878.
        George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
                       William Henry Flower, F.R.S.
  1IUNTKRIAN FR0FE8SOR OF COMPARATIVE ANATOMY AND CONSERVATOR OF THE MU8KCM. OF THE
                         ROTAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND.
                     The Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.
The region of the world treated of in the present lecture is that
known to geographers as Oceania, or Oceamca, consisting of a vast
number of islands of various sizes, from Australia downwards,
scattered throughout tho great ocean tract bounded east and west by
the continents of America and Asia.
      The inhabitants of these islands offer many advantages for the com
mencement of a study of physical anthropology, and for an exposition
 of the principles of the science.. We shall find that they present great
 diversity ; some of the widest contrasts to be met with in the human
 species are to bo found among them. We shall also find in this area
 some of the lowest existing types of mankind, affording material for
 studying tho most extreme deviation known from tho highest race, as
 exemplified in the European. Lastly, the comparative isolation in
 which the greater number of these islands have remained for count
 less generations, lying hidden in their ocean solitudes, far away from
 the track of commerce and civilization, has caused their inhabitants
 to develop and retain distinctive characteristics more sharply denned
 than those of other regions of the world, where constant inter
 communication has resulted in infinite and intricate blendings of
 primitive races, and but partial and imperfect evolutions of new
 ones.
      The people of these islands will be treated of here mainly from
 an anatomical point of view, and in great measure from observations
 made upon such portions of their bodily frame (chiefly crania) as are
 preserved in the collection under my charge But it must be
 observed in limine, that this collection, as with all others yet
 formed, large as it may appear to the uninitiated in the difficulties
 of craniology, is wholly insufficient for the purpose of constructing
 a classification of mankind, founded on physical structure. It can

 1878.]           on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.             603
only afford certain indications, valuable as far as they go, from which
a provisional or approximative system may be built up. Very many,
indeed the majority, of the islands are totally unrepresented, in it ;
 othors are illustrated by only one or two individuals. Far larger
collections, and far more systematic and minute observations, than
have yet been made, are required before the natural history of man
in this region can be worked out in any detail The results obtained
at present are however sufficient to encourage us to persevere, and to
vindicate the study of anatomical characters, especially those of the
 skull, as a basis for a natural classification, from the disrespect into
 which it has fallen, on account of the failure of tentative systems of
 craniology, founded on far too imperfect materials, and too imperfect
 use of those materials.
     I will begin by speaking of the great continental island, as it may
be called, of Australia, which when discovered by Europeans was
inhabited throughout by a race, distinct in the totality of its characters
from any known to exist in any other part of the world. It will be
convenient to consider this race first, partly because the materials at
my disposal for its investigation are more abundant and more com
plete than in the case of any other of the races of the Oceanic area,
and partly because a comparison of its characters with those of the
best known race (that to which we ourselves belong, and which is
commonly taken as the standard in works on human anatomy) will
afford a good idea both of the kind and the degree of variation to be
met with between one of the lowest and one of the highest groups of
mankind, and we shall at the same time be able to appreciate whether,
and if so, to what extent, any approximation is made by the former
towards any still lower types of animal organization.
     Although the northern coast of Australia had previously been
soen by Spanish and Portuguese navigators (as by Torres in 1606),
the first rencontre of any European with the nativo inhabitants
appears to have been that of Abel Tasman, the celebrated Dutch
seaman, who in 1644 was sent out by Van Dieman, governor of the
possessions of Holland in the East Indies, on his second voyage of
discovery. The part which he visited (and to which he gave the
name of New Holland) was the north-west coast, and he describes
the natives as naked, black, and curly-haired.
     The earliest description of the aborigines of Australia by any
Englishman is that of Dampier, who in his first adventurous voyage
round the world stayed on the north-west coast, not very far from the
spot visited by Tasman, from January 4th to March 12th, 1688. He
has left us a tolerably full account of the inhabitants, which, although
presenting some discrepancies from those of more modern travellers,
is valuable, and probably on the whole trustworthy. " The inha
bitants of the country," he says,* " are the miserablest people in the
   * ' A New Voyage .round the World,' by Captain 'William Dampier. Sixth
edition, 1717, vol. i. p. 464.                                        .

604                          Professor Flower                  [May 31,
world. The Hodmadods [Hottentots] of Monomaiapa, though a nasty
people, yet for wealth are gentlemen to these ; who have no houses
and skin garments, sheep, poultry, and fruits of the earth, ostrich
eggs, <fcc, as the Hodmadods have. And setting aside their humane
shape, they differ but little from brutes. They are tall, strait-bodied,
and thin, with small, long limbs. They have great heads, round
foreheads, and great brows. They have great bottle noses, pretty full
lips, and wide mouths. The two fore-teeth of their upper-jaw are
wanting in all of them, men and women, old and young ; whether
they draw them out I know not. Neither have they any beards.
They are long-vizaged, and of a very unpleasing aspect, having no
one graceful feature in their faces. Their hair is black, short, and
curl'd, like that of the Negroes ; and not long and lank, like the
common Indians. The colour of their skins, both of their faces and
the rest of their body, is black, like that of the Negroes of Guinea.
They have no sort of cloaths, but a piece of the rind of a tree ty'd
like a girdle about their waists, and a handful of long grass, or three
or four small green boughs full of leaves, thrust under their girdle
to cover their nakedness. They have no houses, but lie in the open
air, without any covering; the earth being their bed, and the
heavens their canopy. Their only food is a small sort of fish,
which they get by making wares of stone across little coves, or
branches of the sea. In othor places they seek for cockles, mussels,
periwincles," &c. He describes their weapons as wooden swords and
lances. "The sword is a piece of wood shaped somewhat like a
cutlass," probably a boomerang. It is satisfactory to note that the
relations of Dampier and his companions with the natives, both on
this and his second visit to Australia at Shark's Bay, eleven years
later, were perfectly amicable, or at all events unattended by any
serious disagreement or casualty on either side, a sudden and
vigorous beating of the drum being sufficient to scare them away
on one occasion when they had become troublesome and even
threatening.
     The next visit of an Englishman to Australia was one which led
to far more memorable consequences. It was that of Captain Cook,
who, on his first voyage round the world, after sailing westward from
New Zealand, reached the coast of '• New South Wales," as he named
it, near Cape Howe, on the 19th of April, 1770, and sailing north
wards, explored the whole east coast to Cape York in Torres Straits.
His first sight of the natives, on April 27th, is described at page 489,
and his first landing, on the following day, at page 492 of the great
navigator's deeply interesting narrative. Read by the light of sub
sequent events, the gallant though unsuccessful defence of their
native land by two naked savages against a boat's crew of forty armed
men must excite our sympathy. Certainly no more critical event has
ever occurred in the history of any nation, nor combat ever fought
attended with such momentous consequences, to one at least of the
races engaged, as that which took place in Botany Bay on April 28th,

1878.]          on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.           605
1770. On that day the fate of the Australian race, which had heen
for untold ages in undisturbed possession of their native soil, was
sealed. Cook's discovery led to the settlement of the country by the
English. The settlement of the country by the English means the
inevitable annihilation of the aboriginal race.
    Cook afterwards saw more of the natives of the northern part of
Australia (now Queensland) during his enforced stay in " Endeavour
Bay," and has left us a detailed account of their physical characters,
condition, and customs,* which, as in the case of all other descrip
tions given by the illustrious navigator, subsequent observation has
fully corroborated, and which will be incorporated with what I shall
have to say on these subjects presently.
    The whole of the habitable part of the great land tract, 2400 miles
from east to west, and nearly 2000 from north to south, when first
explored by Europeans was found to be occupied, though very sparsely,
by people having a remarkable general similarity in physical cha
racters, language, and customs, though whether they are all to bo
considered as belonging to one race, or whether, as somo suppose,
they result from the blending of two originally distinct races, it is
not easy upon the present evidence to decide. The latter theory
certainly has the merit of reconciling the discrepancies between the
accounts of different observers. It will be reverted to in speaking of
their physical characters.
    The geographical position of the country has isolated them in a
remarkable manner, probably for long ages, from all the rest of the
world ; except for a little infusion of Papuan and Malay influence on
the north coast, all the civilization they possess is undoubtedly their
own. This isolation must be taken into account, in considering their
social condition, as an index of their real elevation in the scale of
humanity ; for as with individuals so with nations, those naturally
of inferior endowments may, by the influence of educated and civilized
neighbours, appear superior to others who have not had these ad
vantages. Although, as will bo shown hereafter, the anatomical
structure of the Australian, as compared with that of the European,
shows signs of degradation, yet, in some respects, he is not below,
but, perhaps, rather above, some African negroes, who may greatly
surpass him in knowledge of the arts, in social customs, and other
conditions, by which relative superiority of race is usually tested.
But then the Africans have been living from time immemorial in
contact with more highly educated races.
    However this may be, it is certainly true that there is nowhere
existing at present any large group of human beings, the inhabitants
in fact of a whole continent, so totally removed from what we call
civilization, as were the Australians when first discovered ; as the
following short summary of their condition will show :—
    Of clothing the majority had none, being like those described by
                           * Opcit., p. 631, ct aeq.

606                          Professor Flower                   [May 81,
Cook, absolutely naked, both sexes alike. Some, however, wore a
girdle or band of bark, leaves, or skin, and others a short cloak, mado
of kangaroo skin, thrown over the shoulders. Yet they were not
destitute of the idea of personal adornment, daubs of red or yellow
ochre mixed with grease on the body, a stick or a bone stuck through the
septum of the nose, and feathers in tho hair were indispensable to the full
dress at least of the men. They had no fixed dwelling-places, but moved
about from spot to spot as inclination or necessity compelled, erecting
temporary shelters of the most primitive and unstable character, of
boughs of trees, or pieces of bark. Some (as those described by
Dampier) appear to have made no habitations of any kind. Their
bark or log canoes were of tho roughest and most simple construction,
though in this, as in some other respects, an improvement is observed
near Capo York, doubtless under Papuan influence. They had no
bows and arrows, their arms being spears, lances, and shields, and
two remarkable and ingenious weapons peculiar, or nearly so, to them
selves, and almost univorsally distributed throughout the country, the
boomerang or the " wummera," or throwing stick. With the aid of
the latter in propelling their lances, " at fifty yards," Captain Cook
says, " they were more suro of their mark than we were with a single
bullet." They had no metals and no kind of pottery for domestic use.
The only vessels that they had for holding water were curved pieces
of bark, or, in some districts, tho skulls of their deceased relatives.
They knew, however, how to manufacture knives of flint and shells,
axes of stone, and cord and nets out of native grass. Their cookery
was of the rudest kind, as they had no vessels in which they could
boil water. Their food consisted of the flesh of kangaroos and other
marsupial and rodent mammals, fish, molluscs, crabs, snakes, lizards,
wild seeds, roots, and fruits. They made no sort of attempt at culti
vation of the ground, and possessed no domestic animal, except the
half wild dingo, or native dog. Cannibalism, though occasional, was
not so universal a custom as with many other races higher in the
social scale, as the New Zealanders and Fiji islanders.
    They wero divided into numerous small tribes, each composed of a
varying number of individuals (from fifteen to three hundred or more),
which were constantly at war with each other. They acknowledged
no hereditary or formally elected chiefs, but had several curious and
complicated social customs, of which those relating to the initiation
into manhood, and others designed to prevent the intermarrying of
near relations, are the best known. They possessed nothing resembling
writing, but native drawings have been discovered, which (as in the
case of many others of the least elevated of mankind) show some
power of representing graphically the forms of men and animals.
Though every tribe spoke its own dialect, all the languages of
the continent are said to have possessed closely affined common
characters.
    It will be scon from this summary that the Australian of the
present day is on an immeasurably lower level of civilization than the

1878.]           on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.                  607
Britons were, evon as far back as the neolithic poriod, ages beforo the
invasion of Cassar, as there is fairly good evidence that the country
" was then inhabited by a tolerably large population, divided into
tribes, and living principally on their flocks and herds, acquainted
with agriculture, and supplementing their food by hunting and
fishing. They were acquainted with the arts of spinning and making
pottery, and with mining, and exchanged their commodities by barter.
They were possessed of boats, in which they could make voyages from
France to Britain or from Britain to Ireland. They reverenced
their dead by erecting tombs, and they worshipped the Great Unknown
 in those rude temples which astonish us on the lonely moor, or the
 swelling chalk down, or within reach of the sound of the waves on the
 sea-shore." *
     I do not propose to enter into the question of the moral and in
 tellectual character of these or of the other people of whom I shall
 have to speak, as there is no subject upon which it is so difficult to
 obtain satisfactory evidence or to draw just conclusions. It is hard
 enough to do so with people about whom wo have ample means of
judging, but to attempt it with savages, whose language is imperfectly
 understood, and whose ideas and notions are most difficult to appre
 ciate, would lead me far beyond the scope of the subject I have
 undertaken ; so I will pass at once to the physical characters of the
 race.
     Although there are many general traits common to all Australians,
 yet, as indicated above, it is by no means certain that they are such a
 homogeneous peoplo as has been often supposed. Topinard, who has
 made a careful summary of the descriptions of various travellers,!
 thinks that he can distinguish two races, which, either pure or mixed
 in various proportions, constitute tho various tribes now, or recently,
 inhabiting the continent.
      1. The finer raco, taller and lighter coloured (chocolato or
 coppery), with straight or wavy hair, inhabiting the elevated plains of
 the whole of the interior, and reaching the coast at Queensland, and
 to tho north. These are the people described by Cook at Endeavour
 Bay.
      2. The lower race, negroid, black, and small, with woolly hair,
 and more prognathous. They are met with chiefly on the coast at
 various parts, as on the north-west (Dampier), King George's Sound,
 and the neighbourhood of Sydney. These, Topinard considers tho
  primitive inhabitants of the land ; they are now becoming extinct, by
  absorption into the other, the invading race, and by the encroachments
  of the latter and of European settlers. He thinks, moreover, that he
  can distinguish two types of Australian crania ; but these have not
  been associated hitherto with the other characters, as unfortunately
  the larger number of osteological specimens in our Museums have
          * ' Edinburgh Review,' April 1878, No. 302, p. 448.
          f ' Ktmlc sur lea Kui-es Iudigi-nm) de l'Australie.' Puris, 1872.

G08                          Professor Flower                       [May 31,
no indication of the tribe, or of the external appearance of the indi
vidual, to which they belonged.
     Under these circumstances, it is necessary at present to treat them
all as belonging to one race, trusting to future and more careful obser
vations to discriminate between the different branches into which it
may have become divided, or perhaps the different roots from which
it may have sprung.
     With regard to the stature of the Australians, we have really no
very precise information ; travellers almost always trusting to some
what vague impressions, instead of actual measurements. Stanbridge,
however, gives the average of men of Victoria as 5 feet 5£ inches.
As facts contributing to a knowledge of this subject, I may mention
that the height of four adult male skeletons now in England are
respectively, 1. (Middlesex Hospital) 5 feet; 2. (Cambridge Uni
versity) 5 feet 4 inches ; 3. (Cambridge University) 5 feet ; 4.
(Barnard Davis collection) 5 feet 1 inch ; and four in the Blumen-
bach collection at Gottingen, are according to Dr. J. W. Spengel,
respectively 5 feet 8 inches, 5 feet 5 inches, 5 feet 3 inches, and
5 feet 3 inches, giving an average of 5 feet 3 inches for the eight
males. Three female skeletons, two in the museum of the Royal
College of Surgeons, and one at Haslar Hospital, are respectively
5 feet 2 inches, 4 feet 11 inches, and 4 feet 11 inches. These numbers
are of course quite insufficient to give the true average of the race, but
I think that we may infer from them, that the general height is
somewhat less than that of Englishmen, whose average, as ascertained
by the very careful observations of Dr. Beddoe, is not very far from
5 feet 6^ inches.*
     The colour of the skin presents various shades of darkness, never
really black, but more usually of a dark brown or chocolate colour.
The hair is always black, though often artificially discoloured by
lime or ochre. It is greatly developed upon the scalp, face, breast,
shoulders, and arms ; the men being nearly always full-bearded. The
hair on the head has neither the stiff, lank character of the Mongolian
and American races, nor (unless in exceptional cases, as those described
by Dampier, indicating mixture of other races) the frizzly or
"woolly" character of the negro or Melanesian ; but is fine, silky, and
slightly curled or wavy. When allowed to grow long, it commonly
hangs on the head in tangled, shaggy masses. As in general appear
ance, so in microscopic section, it is intermediate between the two
extreme forms mentioned above, having neither the nearly cylindrical
form of the lank-haired races, nor the flattening of the frizzly-haired
groups of men. It is, in fact, very similar in size and form to that of
many Europeans.
     The figure of the Australian is variously described by different
travellers ; but the limbs, especially the legs, are generally said to be
    * " On the Stature and Bulk of Mnn in the British Isles." ' Mem. Anthrop.
Soc. Lond.' vol. iii. 1870.

1878.]          on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.             609
slender, and the head appears disproportionately large. In fact, as
will be shown presently, though the cerebral cavity is small, the out
line of the bony framework of the head is large and long, and the
overhanging brows, profusion of shaggy hair, and luxuriant beard,
heighten the effect of size.
     Judging from descriptions, and numerous photographs which I
have seen, there is a type of countenance common to, and very dis
tinctive of, all Australian natives. In the album of the Anthropo
logical Institute, there are excellont photographs of upwards of fifty
natives of both sexes and different ages, which present a remarkable
family likeness. It is true that, though from various tribes, these are all
from one district, near Melbourne ; but others from New South Wales,
and from North Australia, show the same common characters, and the
 general resemblance of the facial portion of the skulls indicates a
 general prevalence of similar and strongly marked features. These are
 as follows :—The head is narrow and long behind the ears. The eyes
 (which are said to be bright and sparkling) are sunk beneath very heavy
 and prominent brows. The nose is short, not prominent, but very wide,
 its width at the lower end equalling its height, and being about
 one-third of the whole width of the face. The upper part of the
 dorsum is deeply sunk under the projecting forehead, there being no
 prominence of the " bridge " ; the dorsum seen in profile is straight or
 slightly rounded. The apex is thick and round, the nostrils dilated,
 their plane directed downwards, outwards, and forwards. The mouth
 is very wide ; the lips thick and projecting, though by no means to
 the extent observed in most African negroes. The degree of progna
 thism varies, as will be seen when speaking of the cranium. The chin
 is usually small.
      No part of the organization offers such definite characters for
 description, analysis, and comparison as the skeleton. The bones are
 nearly imperishable, readily preserved, and easily examined and
 measured. Of all parts of the skeleton the cranium is the most
 valuable, as it gives the means of estimating the volume and form of
 tho brain ; and the facial characters, by which the races of mankind
 are so strongly differentiated, have their outlines clearly indicated in
 its bony framework.
      The Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons contains a fine
 scries of crania of native Australians, fifty-four in number—a far
 larger series than is contained in any one collection elsewhere. Of
 these, twelve are from North Australia, Cape York, and Port Essing-
 ton ; one from Queensland ; six from New South Wales ; nineteen
 from South Australia ; four from West Australia ; and the remainder
 from unknown localities. As I have not been able to find any con
 stant characters by which the skulls from different regions of the
 continent can be distinguished, I have taken them all together in the
 following summary of their characteristics, irrespective of locality.
 Five of the skulls have not arrived at full maturity, having the basal
 suture still open (being, thorefore, below the ago of twenty), and

610                            Professor Flower                           [May 31,
are consequently rejected in the average of measurements. Of the re
maining forty-nine, twenty-six appear to belong to males and nineteen
to females ; the remaining four being doubtful. The sexual characters
are generally very well marked. Of pathological deformities suffi
ciently marked to interfere with the normal characters of the cranium,
or of variations of form caused by premature synostosis of the sutures,
there are none ; and not one of the series (or any other Australian
which I have examined) shows any signs of having been artificially
deformed during infancy. These skulls show that the practice of
knocking out some of the front teeth on initiation into manhood is
not so frequent as some writers on the customs of the Australians
would lead us to believe. In only one caso, both central upper
incisors have been lost, and the right only in five cases, tho left in
one, though this latter may have been due to natural decay. Among
fifteen Australian skulls in the Army Medical Museum, at Netley,
three have lost the right central incisor, none the left.
     In order to appreciate tho distinctive characters of the Australian
crania more fully, I have compared them with a corresponding number
of Europeans, and have taken Italians as the only nation of which a
sufficient number exist in the Museum to obtain a fair average of both
sexes. This is owing to the College having a few years ago purchased
the valuable collection of ancient and modern Italian and Greek
crania, formed by Professor Nicolucci. From these I have selected
forty male and twenty female crania from various parts of Italy,
taken at hazard from the modern collection, regard only having been
paid to their being adult and of no abnormal form. These were pro
bably all from people of the least cultivated classes, and whose aver
age height would not differ greatly from that of tho Australian.
     In general size, as estimated by the principal external diameters
of the cranium, there is a wonderful similarity between the two races.
The average horizontal circumference * of the Australians of both
sexes is exactly 19 " 7 inches, while that of the Italians is 19 - 8 inches.^
Though the average length, height, and breadth of each differ indivi
dually, these three mean dimensions added together come to exactly
the same in both races, as the following table shows :—
                                           Australian.      Italian.
               Average length                  7-2           6'9
                    „ breadth                  5-1           5-5
                    „ height                   5'1           .VI)
                                              17 - 4 inches 17 ' 4 inches.
    * This is measured by a tape passed round the skull, just above the glabella,
and over the most prominent part of the occiput—the line Op O in Fig. 1.
    t The average for both sexes, where the number of skulls of each has not
been equal, is obtained by adding together the average procured for each sex
separately, and dividing the result by two; otherwise a preponderating number
either of males or females in the series would have a disturbing effect upon the
general average.

1878.]            on the Native Baces of the Pacific Ocean.             611
     Yet the capacity of the interior of the cranial cavity is very
different, the average of the Australians of both sexes being 74-7
cubic inches, or 1224 cubic centimetres, and that of the Italians 83 - 4
cubic inches, or 1367 cubic centimetres, giving an advantage of nearly
9 inches to the latter. This difference is accounted for partly by the
greater thickness of the Australian cranium, but chiefly by its angu
larity, the upper lateral parietes being flattened and sloping from
the median line above like the roof of a house, instead of having the
round, dome-like form of the European cranium ; being, in fact, as Pro
fessor Cleland expresses it, " ill-filled."
     The average of the twenty-six Australian male skulls is 78 - 4 inches,
or 1285 cubic centimetres ; that of nineteen females, 69 - 7 inches or
1142 cubic centimetres. The highest male is 88 - 5 inches (1450 cubic
centimetres), or less than the average male Italian (89 - 1 inches = 1460
cubic centimetres). The smallest of the Australian series (a female)
is 62 "9 inches, or 1030 cubic centimetres. The greatest care was
used to ensure accuracy in the measurements, which were taken by
the method to which, after many thousand trials, I have now given
the preference—i. e. filling the skull with mustard seed and esti
mating the quantity by means of Busk's choremometer,* certain pre
cautions being adopted which it would take too long to describe here.
It is perfectly clear, then, that in cranial capacity, which is the most
accurate way of estimating volume of brain, the Australian savage is
very inferior to the Italian peasant.
     The general form of the cranium seen from abovo (the norma
verticalis of Blumenbach), is ordinarily estimated by stating the pro
portion which its greatest breadth in the parietal region (Fig. 3,
P P) bears to its extremo length from before backwards (O Op),
the latter being reckened as 100. This gives tho index of breadth,
or latitudinal index, or, as it is often called, the cranial index.f
According to tho most convenient system of nomenclature, when tho
index is below 75 the skull is called dolichocephalic, or long-headed ;
when between 75 and 80, mesocephalic ; when 80 or above, brachy-
cephalic, or short-headed. The average length of the male Australian
crania of this collection is 7-31 inches, the length of the female being
7"00. This diameter is taken from the ophryon of Broca (Fig. 1,
Op) to the most distant part of the occiput (O), and does not include
the projection of the glabella (G). The average breadth of the malo
is 5-18, of the female 5-06. The indices are more interesting than
the absolute diameters, as they give an idea of tho form of the skull.
The average latitudinal index of the twenty-six male skulls is 71-2,
of the nineteen females, 72 - 3 ; so that as a race, the Australians arc
strongly dolichocephalic. On analyzing the indices of the forty-
   * G. Busk, " Note on a Ready Method of Measuring the Cubic Capacity of
Skulls," ' Journ. Anthrop. Institute,' vol. iii. p. 200.
    x nu, - i .,      breadth x 100       . ,
    t Obtained thus:      j n          = index.
                          length.

612                               Professor Flower                          [May 31,
nine skulls separately, I find that forty-five of them range between
68 and 74, which may thus be called the normal limits of variation.
One is exceptionally low, viz. 67, making forty-six out of the forty-
nine truly dolichocephalic. Three come into the category of meso-
cephaly, one having an index of 75, one of 76, and one the altogether
exceptional index of 78. Of the genuineness of this last, I have,
however, some doubts, as it presents some other aberrant characters.
Excluding this, not one approaches the borders of brachycephaly.
Fig. 1. —Side view of skull of male Australian.* VV. Horizontal line, corresponding
     with visual axis. A. Alveolar point. S. Spinal point, or base of nasal spine.
     N. Nasion, or centre of fronto-nasal suture. G. Glabella. Op. Ophryon, or centre
     of supra-orbital line. Bg. Bregma, or union of coronal and sagittal sutures.
     L. Lambda, or union of lambdoid and sagittal sutures. 0. Occipital point. Au.
     Auricular point, or centre of external auditory meatus. B. Basion, or centre of
     anterior margin of foramen magnum. Pt. Ptereon, or point where the frontal
     (Fr), parietal (P), squamosal (Sq), and ali-sphenoid (A S) bones meet.
     It is interesting to find that other collections of Australian crania
give closely similar results. Thus I found the average latitudinal
index of ten male Australian skulls in the Army Medical Museum
at Netley, to be 72. Broca gives 71-93 as tho averago of seventeen
of both sexes at Paris, and Dr. Barnard Davis 72 as the average of
twenty-three in his collection. From all these various data, there
can be no doubt that it is a perfectly well-established fact, that the
average cranial index of the skull of the Australians is 72, or slightly
    * The figures arc all from specimens in the Museum of the Roynl College of
Surgeons of England. They are drawn geometrically by means of Broca's stereo
graph, and reduced one-third.

1878.]            on the Native Bace8 of the Pacific Ocean.                 613
less, and that they are, therefore, to be placed among the most
dolichocephalic of races.
     The Italians show in this respect far greater variation than the
Australians, the extremes ranging between 71 and 91, the average of
both sexes being as high as 80, or just within the compass of brachy-
cephaly.
     The height of cranium is estimated in various ways by different
anthropologists, but the most convenient is the distance from the basion
or anterior margin of foramen magnum (B, Fig. 1), to the bregma or
junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures (Bg, Fig. 1). This dimen
sion in the Australian skulls of both sexes in the College Museum
is practically equal to the breadth. In the males it rather exceeds
the latter, but in the females falls short of it. Tho average alti-
tudinal index (ratio of height to length, the latter being 100) in
the male is 72 - 0, in the female 71 - 1. Tho range of variation is greater
than that of the breadth, boing from 63 to 80. The average alti-
tudinal index of ton skulls of males at Netley is 74, or rather higher
than the Collego series—a circumstance probably due to the latter
containing a number of skulls belonging to a peculiar tribe from tho
 neighbourhood of Adelaide, of exceptionally depressed form, of which
there are no representatives in the Netley collection.
     Every Australian cranium yet examined, of either sex, is what
Busk calls phamozygous—that is to say, in the norma verticalis, when
held at arm's length and looked at with one eye, both zygomatic
arches are seen at the same time. Of tho Italian skulls, out of twenty
females, only one is phasnozygous, and that very slightly ; out of forty
males, eighteen present this condition. This dopends upon the com
parative development of the cranial parietcs (Fig. 2, P P) and the
zygomatic arch (Z Z), or cerebral versus muscular development. In
the Australian crania it rather indicates narrowness of brain cavity,
than any great sizo of tho zygomata, for as a general rule the
various ridges and processes for the attachment of muscles are not
very strongly marked. The mastoid processes are not large, and
the inion and occipital curved lines are moderate, the former in no
case exceeding No. 3 of Broca's scale,* usually but No. 1 or 2 in the
males.
     On the other hand, every skull, without exception, male or female,
has a prominent glabella. In the males it equals No. 3 or No. 4
of Broca's scale, rarely as low as 2 ; in the fomalos 2 or 3. Even in
the children's skulls this character begins to show itself.
     The sutures of the cranium are generally less complex than in
European skulls, and Wormian bones in the lambdoid suture aro less
frequent and more simple in character. Metopism.f or persistence of
    * " Instructions Craniologiques et Craniome'triques," ' Mem. de la Soc.
d'Antlirop. de Paris.' T. ii. 2nd ser. 1875.
    t One of the many convenient terms introduced by Broca into craniolngy
See " Notions comple'mentaires sur l'Osteologio du Crane," ' Bull, de la Societe
d'Anthrop. do Paris,' 20 Mai, 1875; and "Instructions Craniologiques et
Craniome'triqucs," ' Mem. de la Soc. d'Anthrop.' Tom. ii. 2nd ser. 1875.
     Vol. VIII.      (No. 69.)                                      2 u

614                         Professor Flower                      [May 81,
the frontal suture into adult age (see Pig. 4), does not occur in a single
instance ; whereas out of the sixty Italian skulls, as many as ten are
metopic, which nearly agrees with the statement of Broca, that in
European skulls this feature occurs in one out of every seven. The con
dition of the sutures at the region of the skull, called the " ptereon "
by Broca (the anterior part of the temporal fossa, near the great wing
of the sphenoid bono, Fig. 1, P.), is of some interest as a race-character.
These conditions may be classified thus :—1. Tho squamosal actually
coming in contact with the frontal {Ptereon retournS, Broca). 2. The
squamosal coming near the frontal (less than half a centimetre)
" stenocrotaphitic " crania. 3. An " epipteric " bone, or small separate
ossification developed at the upper end of the great wing of the
sphenoid. 4. Neither of the above conditions present, but a simple
sphenoparietal suture of more than half a centimetre in length, as in
the skulls usually considered normal among Europeans (ptereon en H.
Broca). Comparing both sides of the whole number of Australians
and of Italians examined, the relative frequency of the different con
ditions in the two races, reduced to terms of 100, is as follows :—
                                No. I.   No. 2.  No. 3.   No. 4. Total.
       Australians               9-1     373     14-5     39- 1   100
       Italians . .              2-5      14-2   108      72-5    100
    The form of the skeleton of tho face is, as has been mentioned
before, extremely characteristic of race, though it has not usually
received as much attention as it merits. The facial angle, as it is
called, or angle formed by the profile of the faco with a horizontal
line, has certainly been very much talked about since the time when
Camper first drew attention to its interest as a distinguishing
character of higher or lower races. Many modifications of Camper's
angle have been proposed, both as to the horizontal and the vertical
line, and many methods of measurement have been adopted, nono,
however, so commodious as Broca's " median goniometer." Measured
by this instrument, the angle having its apex at the " alveolar point "
(anterior and inferior point of premaxilhs in the median line, Fig. 1,
A) and one limb passing through the centre of the external auditory
meatus (Au), and the other through the " ophryon," or centre of
forehead, immediately above the glabella (Op), which may be called
the ophryo-alveolo-auricular angle, averages in 42 adult Australian
crania of both sexes, 64 'S0, or 63 "9° for the males and 64 "8° for the
females ; in 60 Italians the average of both sexes is 68 '0°, or 67 - 9°
for the males and 68 - 2° for the females. Tho size of this angle, it
will be observed, depends upon several distinct conditions of the skull,
which are not directly related to each other ; the chief of which are—
(1) the prominence of the forehead, (2) the projection forwards of the
upper jaw, and (3) the length of the face from above downwards. Tho
difference of the angle in tho two races is chiefly due to the second,
for the Australian forehead, though considerably narrower than the
European, is very nearly, if not quito, as prominent ; the average dis
tance between the basion and centre of the frontal bone (tho frontal

 1878.]            on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.                 615
radius) being almost exactly the same in both races. This is not
surprising considering, as mentioned before, the actual height of the
skull at the upper part of the frontal bone (bregma) measured from the
basion is greater in the Australian than the Italian.
     The prognathism or projection forward of the jaws is most readily
estimated by comparing the distance from the basion to the nasion
(naso-frontal suture), or the bast-nasal length (Fig. 1, B N), with that
from the basion to the alveolar point, the basi-alveolar length (B A),
both most easily measured with the sliding callipers. When the
 latter dimension considerably exceeds the former, the face is said to
 be prognathous ; when tho reverse is the case, it is orthognathous ;
 when the two dimensions are equal or thereabouts, it is mesognathous.
     Tho exact degree of gnathic projection is expressed by an index
formed by the relation of the basi-alveolar (B A) to tho basi-nasal
length (B N), the latter, as the more fixed, being taken as 100. If tho
 index is between 98 and 102, the face may bo considered meso
 gnathous; if below 98, orthognathous; if above 102, prognathous.
     The Australians taken altogether come into the prognathous cate
 gory, the general average of the indices of the adult skulls of both
 sexes, in which the face is preserved, being 104 ; that of the females
 alone being nearly 105, and that of the males 103. There is con
 siderable individual variation. In seven cases out of the forty-two, B A
 is equal to B N, and in five it is actually less. Among the sixty Italian
 crania measured for comparison, there is also much individual
 difference, some few being prognathous, and six having the two
 dimensions equal ; but taking tho general average, orthognathism
 prevails, tho mean index being 97. In a very well-formed English
 skull, the gnathic index is as low as 92.
     The height of the face of the Australians is less than in tho
Italians ; tho length from the nasion to the alveolar point (N A)
averages in the males of the former, G7 millimetres, in tho males of
tho latter, 70 millimetres.
     The nasal bones of tho Australians are extremely characteristic,
being remarkable among all races for their shortness, and for tho de
pression of their upper part, which is sunk beneath the overhanging
glabella. The importance of the general form of the nasal apertnro
as a race-character, was pointed out by the late Dr. Williamson, in his
catalogue of the crania in the Army Medical Museum ; but tho
readiest mode in which this may be estimated and expressed is one of
Broca's numerous and valuable contributions to craniology.* His
" nasal index," or ratio between the greatest width of the nasal aper
ture (Fig. 2, n n) and its height—including the nasal bones, and measured
therefore from the nasion or centre of the fronto-nasal suturo (N)
to the lower border of the aperturo or base of tho nasal spino (S) —
is one of the most usefid of all the cranial indices in distinguishing
races, and is of great assistance in forming an idea of the characteristic
      ' Reclierches sur llndice Nasal," ' Revue d'Anthropologic.' Tome i. 1872.
                                                                  2 v 2

  616                             Professor Flower                       [May 31,
  physiognomy of the individuals composing them. The most usnal
 height of the nasal aperture is about 100 millimetres, the width
 about 50 millimetres; the index, consequently, 50. This may be
 taken as a general mean of all races, and thus individuals or races in
  which the index varies only slightly on each side of this figure
 (between 48 and 52) aro called by Broca, mesorhine. Those in
 Fig. 2.—Front view of skull of Australian. PP. Parietal eminences. ZZ. Zygo
      matic arches. Op. Ophryon. N. Nasion. S. Spinal point, n n. Width of nasal
      aperture. 0 0. Width of orbit, oo. Height of orbit.
which the index is lower than 48, are leptorhine, or narrow-nosed ;
those in which the index is 53 or higher, are platyrhine, or broad-
nosed. The Australians come decidedly under the latter category,
the general average index of 41 crania of both sexes being
56 - 5.* Out of the wholo number, 34 are platyrhine (more than half
have an index between 54 and 58, the highest index being 69), 7 aro
mesorhine, and these nearly all on the platyrhine side, in one only
does the index fall below 50, and not one in leptorhine. Indeed, a
leptorhino Australian cranium would be as great a phenomenon as a
brachycephalic ono, and would require strong proof of its authen
ticity.f The females, on the whole, aro rather more broadnosed than
the males, their average being 57-6, that of the males being 55 - 8.
The average nasal index of ten male Australian crania in the Army
Medical Museum at Netley, is 54 - 8.
     * This, as with the other general averages, is not the mean of the individual
indices, but what is more accurate, tho index of the means of the dimensions
      mean width x 100
         mean height.
     t There is, however, one in tho collection of the Anthropological Institute,
which appears to be genuine The index is only 46.

 1878.]           on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.                   617
      In the sixty Italian skulls, the average nasal index is 47, there
 being little difference between the sexes ; they are, therefore, as a
 race, leptorhine, though approaching the confines of the intermediate
 category. There is, however, very considerable variation among
 them, as many as 8 being platyrhine, 18 mesorhine, and 34 leptorhine ;
 the highest being 58 - 3, the lowest 39 - 6.
      The general character of the faco depends much on the form of
 the orbit. In the Australians this is elongated and rectangular rather
 than round, and with the upper and lower border nearly parallel.
 The orbital indox of Broca, or relation of the height (Fig. 2, o o)
 to the width (O O) of the anterior margin, measured according to the
 method for which I must refer to his memoir,* gives a good idea of
 its general shape. A low orbital index shows a wide and depressed
 orbit, generally ovorshadowed by a heavy superciliary ridge ; a high
 index shows a round, open orbit. There is much individual variation
 in this character, as in all others derived from the cranium, in every
 race ; but the averages often give useful differentiating characters. As
 with tho other indicos, it is convenient to group them into three—the
 high (megascme), intermediate (mesoscme), and low (microsome), the
 limits of which are set by Broca at 89 and 83 respectively ; 86 being
 taken as tho general average of all races. Tho orbital index of the
 averago male Australian of this collection is 81 -8, of the female 82- 9,
 or of both sexes together 82 . 3 ; so that taken all together, thoy are
microsome. With regard to tho variations, 15 out of the 42 are meso
 scme, and tho highest index among tho males is 88 - 1, so that not one of
 this sex is megascme. Two females, however, enter this category,
having respectively indices of 89-7 and 92-1. This quito accords
 with the fact pointed out by Broca, that as a general rule the orbital
index of tho female is greater than that of the male ; indeod, these
 Australians are in this respect exceptionally equal. Tho mean orbital
index of the ten male Australians at Nctley accords remarkably with
that of those in tho College of Surgeons' collection, being exactly 82 - 0.
Tho Italians have a higher orbital index, and thcrcforo rounder orbits
than tho Australians, tho mean index boing 86 - 0 for tho males and
90 - 9 for tho females.
     Tho malar bones aro romarkably small and weak in the Austra
lians, tho lower border especially is very little developed. They also
slope away from the median line of the face, and tho outer margin of
the orbit, as best seen in the profile view of the face, is placed consider
ably behind tho inner margin, offering the greatest contrast in this
respect to tho Mongolian typo, which reaches its greatest development
in tho Eskimo. Tho malar bones of tho European aro deeper and
stronger than tho Australian, though they also slope backwards from
the middle line.
     The nasal spino is never large, usually No. 2 of Broca's scale,
    * ' Becherches sut l'Indicc Orbitaire.' Paris, 1876. Also ' Instructions Cra-
niologiques et Crauiomctriciuts.'

 618                           Professor Flower                          [May 31,
 or often No. 1, and in two cases it is obsolete, as in the apes. Tho
 lower margin of the nasal opening is not sharply defined, as in tho
 European ; but tho floor of the narial chamber passes gradually
 into the anterior or external surface of the alveolar process of the
 maxilla.
     The palate, though varying in different individuals, is often of a
 form very rarely seen among Europeans, i. e. long and narrow, with
 lateral margins nearly parallel, and the anterior margin straight
 (by psiloid). It has very seldom the even semicircular form (parabolic)
 seen in many other races.
     Though the mandible or lower jaw varies in form in different
 individuals, when a considerable series is examined and compared
 with a corresponding series of Europeans, it will bo seen that in tho
 majority of the Australians the symphysis is shorter from above down
 wards, tho mentum or chin more retreating, the horizontal ramus
 longer and lower, with its upper and lower margins more nearly
 parallel, the ascending ramus not so high, and broader from before
backwards, and the coronoid process less developed. In all these
characters, as in many of those of the cranium mentioned above, espe
cially the relative smallncss of the cranial cavity, the smallness of the
nasal bones, tho form of the lower margin of tho nasal aperture, and
the prognathism, the Australian presents some approximation towards
the anthropoid ape.
     The teeth of tho Australian differ considerably, as has often been
pointed out, from those of tho European, and indeed from most other
races, in their superior size, and in the more complete development of
the cusps of the molars. In order to estimate with precision the dif
ference in size, I have obtained the following average measurements
from examples of both races expressed in millimetres; but as tho
teeth are lost in many of the skulls in collections, tho numbers
examined in both cases are not quite so abundant as might bo
wished :—
                                             Male      Male       Female
                                          European. Australian. Australian.
         Width of upper canino ..            7-50      8-54        8-33
         Length of three upper molars . .  4153       46 67       46-00
         Length of three lower luolare ..  45-85      51-43       49-67
         Breadth of second upper molar      1105      12-67       12-21
     The third molars, or wisdom teeth, aro moro constant, earlier in
appearance, and better developed, both as to crown and root, than in
tho European. There are very few instances in which these teeth are
very small and single-rooted among the Australians, and fewer still
in which they are absent.
     The teeth generally, as with all savages, aro remarkably free from
decay, though as life advances they wear down from tho attrition

 1878.]           on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.            619
 occasioned by gritty particles in their food. But it is very rare to
 find skulls, even the oldest, in which any considerable number of
 teeth have been lost during life.
      For an examination of the characters of the remainder of the
 skeleton, the materials at my disposal are, unfortunately, very in
 sufficient. The attention of collectors has hitherto been concentrated
 too much on the skulls, and the preservation of complete skeletons,
 certainly a matter of greater difficulty, has been much neglected.
     The bone, or group of bones, which next to the cranium is most
 likely to afford good differential characters for races, is the pelvis.
 The very striking difference between this part in all the apes and in
 man, would readily lead to the supposition that some difference
 might be found in it between the higher and lower races of the latter,
 and it is therefore natural that attention should be directed to tho
 subject.
     The most marked difference between the pelvis of man and that of
 tho apes is expressed numerically in the " pelvic index," or relation
 between the antero-posterior to the transverse diameter of the brim, the
 latter being taken as 100. In various anthropoids this index ranges
 between 122 (orang) and 160 (chimpanzee) in the males, and somewhat
 less in the females. In the European males the average in sixty-throo
 measured by Verneau,* was 80, which nearly corresponds with an
 average of eleven measured by myself, viz. 81. I have been ablo
to measure eight male Australian pelves, and find the average index
is as high as 99-5, tho numbers in the different individuals being
respectively 108, 105, 102, 100, 98, 98, 95, and 90; the various
 Europeans ranging between 96 and 71. The pelvis of the negro has
been shown by Vrolik and others to possess the same peculiarity of
 form. There are other characters of the pelvis, and also of the form
 and relative proportions of the bones of the limbs by which the Aus
 tralian appears to differ from the average European ; but I will pass
 them by for the present, as the number of individuals examined is really
 not sufficient to draw general conclusions from with safety, merely in
dicating that as far as they go, they appear to show that the Australian
resembles the negro and differs from the European in tho rolative
superior length of tho second compared with the proximal segment
of both limbs, or in other words, the radius and tibia, as compared
with the humerus and femur, are relatively longer in the black races.
     I must now bring to a conclusion this brief summary of the
physical characters of the Australian aboriginal people, for, beyond
an imperfect knowledge of their osteology, we have at present no in
formation as to their anatomical structure. Tho past history of this
race, absolutely unknown from documents or traditions of any historic
value, is a most interesting subject for speculation. Whether thoy
have, as some suppose, fallen from a higher stato of civilization and
structure, and have, by whatever cause, degenerated into their present
          * 'Lo Bassiu dans leu Sexes et dans les Raccs.' Paris, 1875.

 620                        Professor Flower                  [May 31,
condition, or whether they represent a phase in the history of man
kind generally, both social and physical, once universal, now confined
to the Australian continent, and thus offer a parallel to so many of
the phenomena connected with the fauna and flora of that remarkable
land—a land of living fossils, as it may be called—is at present a
question which fails to be answered for want of sufficient data.
It may bo stated, as a simple matter of fact, and with only such
weight allowed to it as to other negative evidence of the kind, that
hitherto no remains of any race, presenting the characters of the
Australian savage, or indicating so great a departure from the normal
modern European standard, have been discovered in any European
land. Even for a parallel condition of culture, we must go back to
very early prehistoric times.
     Whatever the past history of the race may have been, its future
is no matter of speculation. On April 28, 1770, the day when
Cook first landed on the Australian shore, its fate was determined,
and that fate, whether for good or for evil, in the great and com
plex succession of events which combine to make up the history
of the world and shape the future destiny of mankind, is extinction.
The causes and methods of this extinction will bo best illustrated
by the story of a kindred and neighbouring people, with whom the
event is already an accomplished fact.
     To the south of the southern extremity of Australia, and separated
from it by an interval of about 150 miles, lies the large island now
called Tasmania, having an area equal to about three-fourths that of
 Ireland. It was discovered in 1642 by Abel Jansen Tasman, on his
first voyage of exploration in the South Seas, and named by him
-Van Dieman's Land, after the governor of the Dutch East Indian
 possessions. It was then, and indeed until 1798, when its insularity
 was proved by Bass and Flinders, thought to be part of the mainland
 of New Holland or Australia. Tasman anchored in the bay, which
he named " Frederick Henry," and though he inferred from various
 signs that the land was inhabited, he did not see any of the natives
 during his short stay. In 1772, the French navigator Marion du
 Fresne arrived with two vessels at the same spot visited by Tasman,
 and there, on tho 4th of March, the first meeting of the aborigines
 with Europeans took place. The former came with confidence down
to the French boats, bringing their wives and children with them,
but in consequence of a misunderstanding a conflict took place, in
 which one of the natives was shot and the rest fled.
     The first Englishman who approached the shores of Tasmania was
 Captain Furneaux, of the ' Resolution,' who in March, 1773, having
been accidentally separated from tho ship of his commander, Captain
 Cook, coasted along tho south and east shores of the island, but bad
 weather preventing him from landing, he saw none of the people,
 though he says tho country " appeared to bo thickly inhabited, as
 thero was a continual fire along shore as we sailed."

1878.]            on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.                621
     On the 26th of January, 1777, Captain Cook, on his third voyage,
entered Adventure Bay, Bruni Island, and then the intercourse
between the English and the Tasmauians, so fatal to tho latter,
commenced. Cook thus describes them : " They were quite naked,
and wore no ornaments, unless we consider as such, and as a proof of
their love of finery, some large punctures or ridges raised on different
parts of their bodies, some in straight and others in curved lines.
They were of the common stature, but rather slender. Their skin
was black, and also their hair, which was as woolly as that of any
native of Guinea ; but they were not distinguished by remarkably
thick lips or flat noses. On the contrary, their features were far from
being disagreeable. They had pretty good eyes ; and their teeth
were tolerably even, but very dirty. Most of them had their hair and
beards smeared with a red ointment ; and some had their faces also
painted with the same composition." *
     The next European visitors to Tasmania were the French
Admirals D'Entrecasteux and Baudin, in 1792 and 1802 ; the latter
being accompanied, as naturalist, by Peron, who has given us a full
description, accompanied by tho first published drawings of tho
people. These, however, are little better than caricatures.
     In 1803, Van Dieman's Land was taken possession of by the English,
and colonized by expeditions from New South Wales at two points,
Port Dalrymple on the no. th, and Restdown, afterwards Eisdon,
on the Derwent, near the future Hobart Town. The latter settle
ment was formed by a military party and convict labourers, and here
took place, in May, 1804, the first serious conflict between tho natives
and European invaders. A party of soveral hundred blacks—men
women, and children—engaged, as it subsequently appeared, in a
kangaroo chaso, were suddenly seon running down the side of a hill
 towards tho infant colony. The alarmed settlers, thinking they
 were about to be attacked by a strong force, without any parloy, fired
 volleys among the harmless and unhappy natives, killing, it is said,
 as many as fifty beforo the rest could make their escape. After this,
 of course it was long before amicable rolations could be re-established.
 In fact the " Black War," thus begun, ended only with the departure
 of the last natives from tho island in 1835.J" The usual difficulties
 which attend the colonization of a country already inhabited by a
 different race from tho new comers, wero aggravated in tho caso of
 Tasmania by the fact that a considerable proportion of tho latter
 consisted of convicts of tho most hardened and degraded typo, who,
 frequently escaping from tho European settlements, took to a roviiig
 and lawless life in the forests as bushrangers, or on the islands in tho
 straits as sealers. From these men, utterly selfish, brutal, and cruol,
     * ' Third Voyage,' vol. i. p. 96.
     t I am indebted to tho painfully interesting work, ' Tho Last of tho Tas-
 mnnians,' by James Bonwick, for moat of the facts mentioned in connection with
 this subject.

 622                           Professor Flower                      [May 81,
the natives in most cases first received those impressions of European
 civilization and character which all the endeavours of the more
humane colonists and of the Government could never eradicate ; and
 the injuries that wero inflicted by them, led to reprisals upon the more
 peaceful and well-intentioned settlers, which rendered life, except in
the immediate neighbourhood of the most settled districts, so insecure as
sensibly to damago the prospects of the colony, and to cause an urgent
cry for Government interference. It is stated by Mr. Galder * that
 " in the five years preceding the close of 1831, ninety-nine inquests
 wero held on the bodies of white people killed by blacks, and of
course there were many more who were not known ; and in the same
period sixty-nine Europeans were reported wounded in encounters
with natives." Of the corresponding losses upon the other side it is
not possible to form an estimate. An unsuccessful endeavour was
made by the Government to divide the country between the two races
by a line of demarcation, and a proclamation to that effect was issued
on April 15th, 1828 ; but as there were no means of imparting a
knowledge of its contents to those most concerned, who naturally
imagined they had a right to wander at their free will through the
laud which was once thoir own, it led to no result. More severe
measures were then tried, and on October 1st, 1830, martial law was
proclaimed against the blacks throughout the island, and the famous
operation of the " Line " commenced. The intention of this was to
surround the whole of the native tribes by a military cordon, reaching
across the island, and gradually to close upon them and finally
drive them into Tasman's Peninsula, on the east side of the island,
which has a narrow neck, scarcely a mile in width, which was after
wards to bo guarded and fortified ; and here they were to be kept,
while the European population enjoyed their lands in peace. This
great operation, which employed nearly the whole population, military
and civil, for many months, and cost the colony, it is said, upwards of
30,000Z., resulted in the capture of a single black. When the line
closed on the neck of tho peninsula it was found that all the rest,
active, supple, and naked, acquainted with the passes and byways of
their accustomed hunting-grounds, had eluded the vigilance of their
would-be captors. The original number of the natives appears by
this time to have been greatly diminished. Those that had become
partially civilized, and had attached themselves as labourers and
dependents upon the European farms and families, were dying out,
as such people always do, under the influence of the altered mode of
life, and the habits (especially spirit drinking) and diseases acquired
by contact with whites ; and those that retained their original wild
condition, were hunted from place to place, and harassed by perpetual
skirmishes, not only with tho English, but with each other ; for when
one tribe found its land occupied by the English it was driven into the
    * " Some account of the Wars of Extirpation and Habits of the Native
Tribes of Tasmania," ' Jouru. Anthrop. Inst. ' vol. iii. 1872, p. 7.

1878.]          on the Native Baces of the Pacific Ocean.             623
territory of another, a serious matter to people with no resources for
food but the chase in a country not abundantly supplied with wild
animals. Under these depressing circumstances not only was the
mortality of the adults great, but that of the children was greater
still ; and so it came about, as was ascertained by the events now to
be narrated, though it was not suspected by the English colonists,
that by this time the entire native population of the island had been
reduced to little more than 300.
     After the failure of the " Line," other methods were tried to secure
the natives, chiefly the offer of rewards for individual captures, but the
desired end was finally achieved in a manner almost unexampled in
the history of such transactions. There was at that timo living in
Hobart Town a man of the name of George Augustus Bobinson, a
bricklayer by trade, of strong religious feelings, and of great en
thusiasm for the cause of the oppressed blacks. He had for somo time
 entertained the idea of gradually reclaiming and civilizing them by
 methods of conciliation ; and he was well fitted for this object, having
 a remarkable natural gift for acquiring influence over them and
 gaining their confidence and esteem. He gathered round him at a
place at Bruni Island, allotted him by the Government, as many as ho
 could induce to adopt settled habits, taught them the rudiments of
 European education, and learned what he could of their languages and
ideas. Believing that the only remaining hope for the savage tribes
 was to bring them under similar influences, he undertook, notwith
standing their exasperated state, to go among them, with a few
 English and native companions (among whom were the two by whose
 busts, now in many of our Anthropological museums, the features of
the Tasmanian will be chiefly known to posterity, Wouraddy, and his
wife Truganina, afterwards celebrated as the last survivor of the race),
 without arms of any description, and to persuade them, by promises of
protection and good treatment, voluntarily to surrender their freedom.
In the course of three years ho actually succeeded in accomplishing
his end. Tho last party of eight, consisting of one man, four women,
and throe boys (one of the latter being afterwards known as William
Lanney, the " last man "), were taken at Western Bluff, December 28,
1834, and brought into Hobart Town, January 22, 1835, amid great
rejoicings from the colonists. As tho successive parties wore brought
in by Robinson, thoy wero shipped off, first to Swan Island, then to
Gun Carriage Island, and finally established on Flinders Island in
Bass Straits. The whole number settled here scarcely exceeded
200. They wore fed, clothed, and educated (most of them learning to
read and write) at Government expense ; but the unfavourable climate,
total change of mode of life, absence of all the interests and excite
ments of the chase or of war, and home-sickness, told rapidly on
their health. They died one after the other, until, in October, 1847,
being reduced to forty-four in all—twelve men, twenty-two women,
and ten children—this remnant, thoroughly tamed and not likely to
occasion any further alarm to tho English colonists, were once moro

624                           Professor Flower                [May 31,
allowed to return to their native land. A reserve of 1000 acres was
assigned to them at Oyster Cove, not far from Hobart Town, and here
they were kept under superintendence. Their numbers, however,
continued to decrease at the same rate as before, and they lived the
degraded life common to half-reclaimed savages, without interests,
occupations, or hope. In 1854, there wero throe men, eleven women,
and two boys alive. On the 3rd of March, 1869, died the last male
of the race, William Lanney, mentioned before. He had become a
sailor, and had made several voyages in a whaling ship, but unfortu
nately had, like so many in his position, taken to intemperate habits.
In June, 1876, died the last woman, Truganina, or Lalla Rookh, as
she was afterwards called, tho faithful companion of Robinson's
conciliatory missions, and who had been, at least on one occasion, tho
means of saving his life.'
     I have given this brief outlino of what may bo called the political
history of the Tasmanians, though perhaps departing in doing so
from the general scope of the lecture, because of its completeness,
and of the illustration it affords, in a concise form, of the almost
inevitable results of the contact of two such absolutely different
races as the English and tho Tasmanian. The details of the history
are saddening and painful in the extreme, and yet it would be difficult
to say what tho world has lost by the extinction of the Tasmanian
aborigines.
     It appears tolerably certain, from what has been mentioned before,
that the Tasmanians were not a numerous raco, the various estimates
of tho whole population of tho island, at tho time of its settlement by
the English, ranging between 4000 and 7000 ; so they must have been
very thinly scattered, and many large districts must have been quite
uninhabited. Their isolation from all the rest of tho world was more
absolute even than that of the Australians, and they were consequently
inferior even to them in all the arts of civilization. They possessed
no boats by which the straits between Tasmania and the Australian
land could bo crossed, and they show no indications of ever having
been visited by, or receiving any extraneous culture from, natives of
any of the Pacific Islands.
     Like the Australians, they were divided into numerous small tribes,
each speaking a different dialect, as many as nine having been
recognized. They had no fixed habitations, wore no clothes of any
kind, did not cultivate the ground, or keep domestic animals, had no
pottery, and no bows and arrows. They wero inforior to the
Australians in not knowing either tho boomerang or the throwing
stick, in having no- shields, no dogs, and apparently not knowing
how to procuro firo as occasion needed, as they always carried with
them burning torches of vegetable fibre, which it was the especial
duty of the women to tend and keep alive.
     It is difficult, indeed, to imagine human beings living in a lower
social condition than that of the aboriginal Tasmanians, aud yet the
 partial education which some of tho race underwent before their final

  1878.]           on the Native Boxes of the Pacific Ocean.                     625
 extinction, showed that they possessed capacities, intelligence, and
 moral qualities, by no means inferior to those of many other of the
 uncivilized races of the world.
      As might be supposed, the Tasmanians, having lived in all
 probability for a great length of time on a restricted portion of tho
 earth's surface, under similar external conditions, and without any
 intermixture from any alien race, have developed, or at all events per
 petuated, a very great sameness of physical characters ; and havo
 come to possoss a peculiar structural type, by which, taken in its
 entirety, they can bo distinguished from all other people.
      It is greatly to be regretted that so little evidence of this has
 been preserved. Four complete skeletons * and less than thirty
 skulls, of both sexes and various ages, in this country, are all that wo
 havo by which to estimate their stature, proportions, and conformation
 generally. Their external appearance we judge of by descriptions,
 some portraits moro or loss indifferent in execution, some valuable
 photographs (though on too small a scale) of tho latest survivors, and
 two excellent busts, before mentioned, of a man and a woman modelled
 by Mr. Murray, of Hobart Town. Of their remaining anatomical
 structure, nothing will ever be known ; in fact we must now, when
 speaking of them zoologically, treat them as we do fossil animals, and
 rely chiefly on their bones for distinguishing characters ; and tho
 habit of burning their dead, which prevailed as long as they remained
 in their natural condition, renders theso far scarcer than could bo
 wished. It is greatly to bo hoped, however, that the present occupiers
 of their land, who have profited so largely by their extinction, will
 spare no pains to search for, and secure to science, all that still
 remains of the race, which thoy or their predecessors have been tho
 means of destroying.
     The height of the Tasmanians is stated to have been somewhat
 below that of the Australians, but they were of rather stouter build,
 their bones being generally less slender. The average height of tho
 three male skeletons in England is 5 feet 3£ inches, that of the femalo
 4 feet 1\ inches. Of course these numbers are too small to place
 much valuo upon ; but they do not differ greatly from Mr. G. A.
 Robinson's measurements of twenty-throe Tasmanian men, whoso
 height variod between 5 feet 1 inch and 5 feet 1\ inches, the average
being 5 feet 3f inches, and of twenty-nine women, who wero between
 4 foet 3 inches and 5 feet 4£ inches, tho average being 4 feet
 \\\ inches. In colour, they were not unlike the darker com-
plexioned Australians, but they completely differed from that race,
or at least from the great majority of them, in the character of
the hair, which was not straight, but crisp or frizzled. The women
    * Those liave all been obtained and sent to England by Mr. Morton Allport,
of Hobart Town. Two are in the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, ono
in that of the Anthropological Institute, and one in the splendid private collection
of Dr. Barnard Davis, at Shelton, in Staffordshire.

62G                            Professor Flower                            [May 31 ,
used to shave or burn it off close to the scalp, but the men allowed
it to grow long, when it assumed tho form of small, corkscrew
ringlets, which they were in tho habit of covering with grease
and red ochre, giving it the appearance of a mat or mop of red
strings hanging over the head and neck. Naturally its colour was
brown of the darkest shade, or what is usually called black. They
had a well-developed beard and whiskers, of the same fine curly or
" frizzly " nature. In the general character of the features, they
do not appear to havo differed much from the Australians, having
similar heavy brows, short, broad noses, and wide mouths.
      The osteology of the Tasmanians has been described by Dr.
Barnard Davis * and by Dr. Topinard,f from materials in the col
lections at Shelton and at Paris. The Museum of the College of
Surgeons contains the largest series of skulls at present existing, but
they havo hitherto been but imperfectly and partially described.
They are fifteen in number, of which three are young, and therefore
not available for average measurements. Of the adult skulls, six
appear to bo those of men and six of women. Tho sexual characters
are very well marked, the difference in size being particularly striking.
There is no case of artificial or pathological deformation among them.
      The crania have the general angular form, prominent median ridge
above, and flattened upper parietal region noticed in tho Australians,
but their special character is a prominence of the parietal eminences,
not found in any of the Australian crania, and developed to a greater
or less degree in all, and giving a greater latitudinal index. This is
even seen in the cranium of a young infant, tho form of which is
characteristically different from that of an Australian child of corre
sponding age. Most of the skulls of this series show tho elevations
and depressions of the surface pointed out by Topinard, as dis
tinguishing the Tasmania crania in the Paris collection, for a de
scription of which I must refer to the memoir cited above. Seen from
behind, the skull appears pentagonal, though broader in proportion
to its height than tho Australian. The glabella is prominent, and
overhangs the nasals in every case, even in the females, though to
a less extent than in most Australians. The mastoids, inion, and
other muscular ridges, arc rarely much developed.
      Having mentioned that there was no case of metopism or persist
ence of the frontal suture among the Australians, it is interesting to
note that one of tho Tasmanian skulls in the collection, that of an
old woman, is metopic, and that the skeleton of an adult man in the
Museum of the Anthropological Institute is in the same condition. With
regard to tho ptcreon (and this is important in rolation to tho
formation of this region in the Melanesians), in no caso does the
squamosal meet the frontal, though it comes very near it in fifteen
     * " On tho Osteology and Peculiarities of the Tasmanians." Three Plates.
 ' Nat. Verhand. dor Hollandsche Maatsch. der Wetenschappen,' 1874.
     t " Etude sur lea Tasmaniens." * Mem. de la Soc. d'Antlirop.' t. iii. p. 307.

1878.]           on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.             627
out of thirty-four cases, and in fourteen epipteric bones are developed.
In only five out of the thirty-four is the spheno-parietal suture longer
than half a centimetre.
    The capacity of the Tasmanian cranium has been estimated, both
by Barnard Davis and by Topinard, as somewhat greater than that of
the Australian, and the measurements of this series lead to a similar
conclusion. The average of the six male crania is 1309 cubic centi
metres, or 79-9 cubic inches; that of the six females; 1135 cubic
centimetres, or 69- 3 cubic inches; the general average, 1222 cubic
centimetres, or 74 - 6 inches. Of course these data are taken from
too small a series to be regarded as more than approximations. They
are somewhat lower than those given by both the authors just named,
and though something may be duo to difference of method of
measurement, it is clearly not entirely so, as in other dimensions,
in the estimation of which there is no difficulty, I find that my skulls
are inferior to theirs. Thus the average horizontal circumference of
the six males is 20"2 (the maximum being 20 '4), while the skull at
the Anthropological Institute is 21 - 3, the average of six in the Sheltou
collection 20 - 6, and the average of the six measured by Topinard is
also 20-6.
    As mentioned above, in consequence of the development of tho
parietal eminence, the latitudinal index is considerably greater than
in tho Australian. In my series it varies between 72 and 80, tho
average being 76"0. It is curious that this is exactly the same as
the average of nine skulls at Paris measured by Topinard, but
the fourteen in the Shelton collection givo, according to Dr. Barnard
Davis, a lower average, viz. between 73 and 74. The average alti-
tndinal index is 72"8, or nearly the same as that of the Australians.
Individually, in twelve out of fifteen crania is the height less than
the breadth. The superior width of the skull lies wholly in tho
parietal region, the average frontal and zyomatic diameters not
differing appreciably from those of the Australians.
    Turning to the face, we find the principal features presenting a
great resemblance to those of the Australians. The projection of tho
jaws, although in one instance it is so excessive as to disturb tho
average considerably (the index in this case being 113), is not
generally so great as in the Australians—only four out of nine
capable of being measured (a very insufficient number for obtaining
an average of so variable a character) being within the limits of true
prognathy, four being mesognathous, and one truly orthognathous
(index 97), as defined above. The ophryo-alveolo -auricular facial
anglo gives an average of 67 - 8, or considerably higher than that of
tho Australian, almost as high, in fact, as the Italian. The face is
short from above downwards, the measurement N A being less even
than in the Australians (65 for the males, 58 for the females), and
the malar bones are small, very shallow from above downwards, and
retreating. The orbits are remarkably different in the two sexes ; in
the males thoy aro low and elongated, with heavy overhanging supra

628                          Professor Flower                   [May 31,
ciliary ridges, having an average index of 76 '3, lower oven than the
male Australians ; while in the females thoy are more rounded and
open, giving an average index of 85 - 4, the general average for tho rac
being 80 - 8, or decidedly microsome. Broca gives the general average
of the orbital index of the Tasraanian skulls at Paris at very newly
tho same figure, viz. 79-33, but ho did not find so great a discrepancy
between the sexes.
     Tho form of the nasal bones and of the nasal aperture is not very
different from that of the Australians, and, as with them, there is no
example of a leptorhine nose among them. Two are mesorhine and
tho remaining ten platyrhine, the average index of the twelve being
66-8, which accords remarkably with Broca's average of 56-92,
found in eight specimens at Paris. Tho general average of this im
portant index is practically therefore the same as in the Australian.
     In the large size, and strongly pronounced character of the teeth,
tho Tasmanians resemble the Australians ; in one point, however, they
seem to differ, not only from that but from all other kindred races ;
and this is one which, I believe, has not been previously recorded. It
is the tardy development and irregular position of the posterior molars.
These teeth are generally of largo size, but there appears to be too little
room for them in the jaw, so that only in two out of eleven adult
skulls in which their condition can be observed, are all of them
normally placed ; in all the others, one or more of the wisdom teeth
are either retained beneath the alveoli, or are in obliquo or irregular
positions. This is the more remarkable, as I have never observed a
similar condition in any single authentic Australian skull, although
occasionally, as beforo mentioned, small and imperfectly developed
wisdom teeth may bo found among them.
     In the three proportions of the skeleton, which have been
mentioned, in which the Australian differs from the European, viz.
tho greater antero-posterior diameter of the pelvis as compared with
its width, the greater length of the tibia as compared with the
femur, and especially tho greater length of the forearm as compared
with the humerus, the few Tasmanian skeletons which I have ex
amined agree completely with the Australian type. The average of
tho pelvic indices of the three male Tasmanian skeletons in this
country is 93 ; that of the ono female, 79.
    It will be seen by a reference to tho map, that Tasmania, Australia,
and the large, numerous, and closely placed islands, which lie between
the latter and the Asiatic continent, divide tho two groat water tracts,
called respectively the Indian and the Pacific Oceans. The Pacific
Ocean proper is studded over with an enormous number of islands, all,
with the exception of the New Zealand group, of moderate or small
size, and to which tho term Polynesia is collectively applied. Al
though this ocean had been traversed several times by the enterprising
Spanish, Portuguese, and oven English voyagers of the early part of
the seventeenth century, and tho route from tho west coast of America
to the Malay Archipelago was well known, tho discovery of the greater

1878.]          on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.           629
number of the islands and the establishment of permanent relations
with their inhabitants, was reserved for the numerous expeditions
made at the latter part of the last century, which had for their
special object the exploration of this then comparatively unknown
region of tho world. Among these the most memorable, both for
the extent of new acquisitions to knowledge and for the importance
of tho results upon the world's history, were the three voyages of
Captain Cook. At that time the observation was made, to quote
the words of Forster, who accompanied Cook as naturalist in his
second voyage, that there are " two great varieties of people in the
South Seas —the one more fair, well-limbed, athletic, of fine size,
of a kind, benevolent temper ; the other, blacker, the hair just
beginning to become woolly and crisp, the body more slender and low,
and their temper, if possible, more brisk, but somewhat mistrustful.
The first race inhabits Otaheite and the Society Isles, the Marquesas,
the Friendly Isles, Easter Isle, and New Zealand ; whilst the socond
peoples New Caledonia, Tanna, and the New Hebrides, especially
Mallicollo." Subsequent observation has fully confirmed this division,
and sinco the anatomical characters of the two races have been studied,
it has been found that they show many strongly marked contrasts.
This is seen especially whon pure types of each have been examined,
for, as might bo expected, with races living in close proximity, often
occupying the same small island, and prone to invade each other's
territory, and to make extensive migrations by sea, a great mixture
has taken place, not only along the boundaries of the respective
regions inhabited by each, but even extending at certain points far
into the interior. As it has become necessary to give distinctive
names to these races, that of Polynesian, at first applied indis
criminately to the whole, is now usually restricted to the fairer race
of Cook and Forster, while " Mclaucsian " has been invented for the
darker race, although this word has frequently been used in a wider
sense than I shall employ it here, to include Tasmanian, Papuan, and
even Australian. " Papuan " is often also used as a race-designa
tion for the people inhabiting the New Hebrides and adjacent islands ;
but the appropriateness of these terms will be better discussed after
tho facts at present known, connected with the structure and distri
bution of the races, have been stated.
     Tho islands which at the present time are either wholly or
mainly inhabited by the Melanesian race, are that group lying in the
western part of the ocean, not far from the coast of Australia, and
joining at their northern extremity to the great island of Papua or
New Guinea, the principal being New Caledonia, the New Hebrides,
the Solomon Islands, New Britain, and New Ireland, which form
a nearly continuous semicircular chain embracing the north-east
coast of Australia ; and lying somewhat away from the rest, the Fiji
group, the last but one of the annexations of the British empire.
     The most southernmost and largest of theso is New Caledonia,
about 200 miles long and 30 broad. It was discovered by Cook in
1774 on his second voyage, and has recently been taken possession of
     Vol. VIII. (No. 69.)                    "              2 x

630                                Professor Flower                        [May 31,
by tho French, and used as a penal settlement. To the north and
east lies the long chain of the New Hebrides, with the Santa Cruz
Islands still farther to the north. Theso were first discovered by the
celebrated Spanish voyager Quiros in 1606, who considered them to
be part of a southern continent to which he gave the name of " Tierra
Austral del Espiritu Santo " ; the latter part of this name being still
retained for the largest island of the group, 70 miles long by 25 broad.
They were visited in 1768 by the French Admiral, Bougainville,
who, besides landing on the " Isle of Lepers," did no more than discover
that the land was not a continent, but composed of numerous small
islands, which he named the " Great Cyclades." Cook, in 1774, made
a complete exploration of them, and thought himself justified therefore
in changing the name to " New Hebrides," by which they are now
generally known. Ho visited and stayed some time at Mallicollo and
Tanna, but was repulsed by the natives at Erromango ; he also par
tially surveyed several of the other islands, and gave the name of
" Sandwich " to one, now more generally known by its native name of
Vati.
      The New Hebrides, and the nearly adjacent Santa Cruz Islands,
have not yet been annexed by any European power, but they have for
some years past been visited by the crews of European vessels,
actuated by vory different motives, and producing very different effects
by their visits on the natives. These may be divided into four classes—.
(1) traders in sandalwood ; * (2) collectors of labourers for the planta
tions of Queensland, Fiji, &c, often no better than kidnappers : to
repress and repair the infamous deeds of these two classes, came (3)
officers of the English war vessels which cruise in those seas, some of
whom, as Captains Erskine and Goodenough, have given interesting
accounts of the condition of the islands ; and (4) missionaries of
various denominations. It is very unfortunate for the reputation of
the Melanesians, that the most striking historical events connecting
them with our country have been the murders of three most excel
lent men, who were zealously labouring for their welfare, the Rev.
J. Williams, at Erromango, in 1839 ; Bishop Patteson, at Nukupn,
in 1871 ; and Commodore Goodenough, at Santa Cruz, in 1875 —all
due, in great probability, to the irritation and suspicion caused by the
behaviour of previous visitors of different character and motives.
Captain Goodenough himself wrote, "It is remarkable that just in
proportion to the amount of people who have been taken away as
labourers, so are the natives inclined to assault Europeans. Where
white men are least known, the people are most friendly." t
     * One of these men, after he had taken in his cargo, was known to fire in
discriminately among the natives, in order to spoil the trade to those who should
come to the island after him, and so keep np the price of the article. —Erskine's
 ' Journal of a Cruise among the Islands of the Western Pacific,' 1853, pp. 330
and 393.
     t la historical justice, it should, however, be recollected, that Cook on his
first visit to several of the islands of the Pacific was attacked by the natives, and
only avoided bloodshed by abandoning the attempt to land.

 1878.]         on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.              631
     The social condition of all the natives of these varions islands
when first discovered was greatly in advance of that of the Australians
and Tasmanians, as the following extracts from Cook's account of his
landing in New Caledonia, show: —" The ground near the village was
finely cultivated, being laid out in sugar-canes, plantains, yams, and
other roots ; and watered by little rills, conducted by art from the main
stream, whose source was in the hills. Here were some cocoanut
trees, which did not seem burdened with fruit. We heard the crowing
of cocks, but saw none. Some roots wero baking on a fire in an
earthen jar, which would have held six or eight gallons ; nor did wo
doubt its being their own manufacture. * * * * The plantations were
laid out with great judgment, and cultivated with much labour."
     The condition of tho other islands differed only in details. Their
inhabitants possessed fixed habitations, thatched, and sometimes of
more than one story, grouped together in villages : as just mentioned,
they cultivated the ground, and they reared domestic animals, fowls,
and in some cases pigs. They had large double canoes, 30 feet
long, connected by a deck or platform, and with a lateen sail or
sails, though of a more clumsy construction than those of the Friendly
Islands, as the keen eye of the great navigator does not fail to notice.
The men wore a girdle of bark or leaves, and tho women a short
petticoat. They had also earrings of tortoiseshell, necklaces or
amulets and bracelets of shells and stones. They fought with bows
and arrows, spears and darts. In many respects their moral character,
as far as Cook was able' to judge of it, contrasted favourably with that
of the still more civilized and polished inhabitants of the Society and
Friendly Islands, among whom he had just been sojourning. Tho
New Caledonians were " not the least addicted to pilfering, which is
more than can be said of any other nation of this sea." Some re
markable instances are related of the honesty of the people of Malli-
collo, and the women were everywhere far more reserved and decorous
in their behaviour than the true Polynesians.
    Captain Goodenough estimated the population of the New Hebrides,
Banks, and Santa Cruz Islands, in 1875, at about 70,000, but gives
striking evidence of its rapid decrease since the establishment of regular
intercourse with Europeans. Not a single island that ho visited but
presented the same appearance of diminishing population.
    It is probable that the range of the Melanesian race was at ono
time more extensive than at present, and that they wero settled in tho
islands where they at present dwell, and also in many others now
occupied by Polynesians, before the arrival of the last-named race, who
appear in many cases to have supplanted them. Even in the true
Melanesian aroa, geographically speaking, there is a considerable
infusion of Polynesian influence, apparent in the physical characters,
customs, and language of the people. The inhabitants of some of the
Loyalty Islands, near New Caledonia, for instance, are almost pure
Polynesians, derived from an immigration which took place from Uea
or Wallis Island in the beginning of the last century. Among tho
                                                            2x2

 632                               Professor Flower                      [May 31,
 New Hebridean Islands there arc several Polynesian colonies of quite
 modern origin. In New Caledonia, according to Bourgarel,* the yellow
 race (Polynesians) number about one-fifth of the whole population,
 the black race (Melanesians) two-fifths, the remainder being formed by
 a mixture of the two. The chiefs, aud what may be called the aris
 tocracy of the island, mostly belong to the lighter race. On the
 other hand, traces of the former presence of a Melanesian population
 are found in some of the central and even eastern Polynesian Islands,
 as far, according to W. L. Ranken, as Niue (Savage Isle), Penrhyn
 Atoll, and Rarotonga,f and in all probability in New Zealand. The
 different proportions in which the two races are mixed is one of
 the circumstances which has given rise to the diversities observed in
 the appearance and character of the inhabitants of many of the
 islands.
     As there is every reason to believe that the Melanesians have
 been established in the islands they now occupy for an immense
 length of time, and as they are not naturally given much to rove from
 place to place, like their lighter-coloured neighbours the Polynesians,
 strongly marked, special characters have been developed in the in
 habitants of the different islands ; and it is probable that if sufficient
 materials were collected, we might be able to distinguish even by the
 skull alone the particular island from which it was derived. Those
 ¦who doubt the value of the cranium as a race-character may be sur
 prised at this assertion ; but the very few and imperfect observations
 already made lead me to think that it is probably true. The fact
 that a skull brought from a particular island without any history,
beyond its having been found there, presents characters unlike those
 generally associated with tho inhabitants of that island, proves
nothing, as it may have belonged to an individual of another race,
 who had found his way there by some accidental circumstance. Tho
 frequent occurrence of such a case, should convince collectors of the
necessity of obtaining larger series from each locality than we are
now at present contented with. The larger the series, the more
chance is there of obtaining average characters of the predominating
race, and of eliminating the influence of individual variations and
accidental mixtures.
     Unfortunately our knowledge of the distinctive characters of tho
people of the various islands of the New Hebrides and Santa Cruz
Archipelagos is still most imperfect, and that of the Salomon Islands
and New Ireland and New Britain even more so. It will be better,
therefore, for the present purpose to group them all together, and
attempt to describe the characters of what may bo considered as tho
average or generalized Melanesian type.
     In stature thoso people present considerable variation. Some, as
    * Bourgarel, " Dos liaoes de rOco¦anie Francaiso," ' Mem. de la Soc. d'Anthro-
pologie do l'aris,' vol. i. 1800.
    t "The Smith Sea Inlands," ' Journ. Anthrop. Inst.' 1877.

1878.]           on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.             633
those of Mallicollo, are decidedly undersized; they are described by
Cook as " a rather diminutive race," and by Goodonough as " a small,
poor, weedy people." Cook says, "the peoplo of Tanna are of
middle size, rather slender than otherwise ; many are littlo, but few
tall and stout." Erskine says, " the people of Vati are of larger
stature than the Tannese." Goodenough tells us, "the natives of
Espiritu Santo are fine-looking men compared to those of Mallicollo,
and reminded me of Fijians ; " but we have no accurate measurements
of any sufficient number, and there are no skeletons in any of the
English museums.
     Their head is narrow, the forehead especially, and often retreating.
The brow is not so prominent as the Australian. The nose is narrow
at the root, but broad below, with wide nostrils ; its root is not so
depressed as the Australian, and its dorsum is often prominent and
arched. In many cases, especially among the northern islands, it
assumes what is commonly described as a " Jewish form," arched, and
with the tip prolonged downwards. 80 common docs this form of
nose appear, that it may almost be considered characteristic of the
race. The wholo face is rather "hatchet shaped," the sides sloping
away from the middle line. The jaws are prognathous and the lips
thick. The complexion, though often called "black," in common par
lance, is really a dusky brown or chocolate colour. By the character of
the hair they are distinctly separated from the Australians, the Malays,
and Polynesians, and allied to the Tasmanians and the Negritos, or
black people of the Malay Archipelago. On the head it is rather
coarse, elliptical in section, and more or less closely curled or frizzled.
 When allowed to grow long, sometimes it hangs down in close spiral
 ringlets, as with the Tasmanians, but it more often forms a largo fuzzy
 mop, standing out to a considerable distance all round the head,
 which remarkable coiffure frequently occupies a considerable amount
 of time and attention on the part of the owner to keep in order.
 Though the hair is always naturally black, or nearly so, its colour is
 often artificially modified by the application of caustic lime, made from
 burnt coral, and by various colouring agents— a practice common
 among the inhabitants of the Pacific, and which has given rise to
 reports of fair, brown, and red hair among them ; whereas black, or the
 dark shade of brown commonly so-called, is the universal colour of
 all the races spoken of in this lecture, as of the great majority of the
 people of the world. The beard is generally well developed, as is
 the hair upon the limbs and chest.
     My remarks upon the osteological characters of the Melanesians
 must, from the paucity of materials, be limited to the skulls, and chiefly
 to those in the collection under my charge. These are twenty-one in
 number, six from the Isle of Pines, a small island near the southern
 extremity of New Caledonia ; throe probably from Vati or Sandwich
 Island ; eight from Mallicollo, collected by the late Commodore Good-
 enough, and by Dr. A. Corrie, Assistant Surgeon to the ' Pearl ' ; two
 from Vanikero, and two from the Salomons. Crania from New

634                             Professor Flower                       [May 31,
Caledonia have been described by Bourgarel, and from the New
 Hebrides by Dr. Barnard Davis and Mr. Busk.
     The skulls from Mallicollo all present a remarkable flatness of the
 frontal region, strongly suggestive of artificial pressure in infancy,
 such as is, or was formerly, practised by many of the Western
 Americans. It is not, however, the flattening produced by squeezing
 between two boards, as with the inhabitants of British Columbia, as
 there is no sign of counter pressure on the occiput, and no lateral
 bulging of the cranium. The forehead is simply depressed, the
 remainder of the skull retaining its normal form. This peculiar con
 formation of the head attracted the attention of Cook and Forstcr in
 the living people. The latter says : " In Mallicollo we observed that
 the greater part of the skulls of the inhabitants had a very singular
 conformation ; for the forehead, from tho beginning of the nose,
 together with the rest of the head, was much depressed, and inclining
 backwards, which causes an appearance in the looks and countenances
 of the natives similar to those of monkeys." *
     No evidence has, however, yet been obtained of the existence of
such a practice among tho inhabitants, and no crania from any of the
other islands yet examined present any sign of it. If it should prove
 to be a natural conformation, it will be one without parallel in any
 known race ; if the result of custom, it will be very singular, as
being peculiar to one out of hundreds of islands of the oceanic area.f
     The average capacity of the eighteen Melanesian skulls in the
collection which can be measured is 1320 cubic centimetres, or 80"5
cubic inches. This includes some females ; but as there is some diffi
culty in distinguishing the sexes in several cases, I have taken them
all together. It will be observed that this is higher than the average
Australian male by about 2 cubic inches; showing, if so small a
number of specimens can bo relied upon, that the Melanesian, like
his nearer relation the Tasmania)!, is better endowed in this respect
than his Australian neighbour.
     The most striking general character of the cranial part of all these
skulls is their great length and narrowness (see Fig. 3), the sides being
remarkably flat, especially in the posterior parietal region. In this con
formation they differ totally from the Tasmanians. The average lati
tudinal index among twenty skulls is 70 - 4, lower than the Australian,
and in fact than any other known race ; J and among them are some of
the longest and narrowest normal skulls known, one having an index
as low as 62. The highest of the series is 75. The relative pro
portion of height compared to breadth in skulls of the New Cale-
    * J. R. Forstcr, ' Observations made during a Voyage Round the World,'
 1778, p. 267.
    t Fluttening of the occiput is not uncommon among the South Sea Islanders,
as amoug many other races ; hut it is probably undesigned, and arises from the
practice of keeping the infant lying on its back upon a hard board or pillow.
    X It is singular that the Eskimo, though so widely different in many other
characters, approaches nearest to the Melanesian in the lowness of tho latitudinol
cranial index.

1878.]             on liie Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.                      635
 Fig. 3.—The npper surface of the skull of a Melanesian, from the island of Vanikoro, as
      an example of a dolichocephalic cranium, the relation of the greatest breadth
      (P P) to the length (Op to 0) being as 70 to 100.
 Fig. 4.—The upper surface of the skull of a Polynesian, from the island of Lifuka
      (Tongan group), a brachycephalic cranium, the relation of the greatest breadth
      (P P) to the length (Op 0) being as 84 to 100. It also shows mctopism, or
      persistence of the frontal suture.

636                            Professor Flower                      [May 31,
donians lias been already commented upon by Dr. Barnard Davis,
who has applied the term " hypsi-stenocephalic " to them.* It is
remarkable that in this series (none of which are from New Cale
donia itself, though from neighbouring islands) the height of every
skull, measured from the basion to the bregma exceeds the greatest
parietal diameter, and the average altitudinal index is 74 - 6, or con
siderably greater than in either the Australian or Tasmanian. In
six skulls of New Caledonians, apparently of the pure Melanesian race,
in the Army Medical Museum at Netley, the average latitudinal
index is 70 - 1, and the altitudinal index 73 - 9. These results nearly
accord with those obtained from the larger collection at Paris, tho
respective indices of which, according to Broca, are 71-8 and 73-7,
but these probably include some specimens of the mixed race.
    In no raco known does the condition of the ptereon differ so
greatly from the average of Europeans as the Melanesian. This is
more especially seen in the Mallicollo skulls, where it is the exception
for the squamosal not to join the frontal bone, as it does so in ten
cases out of sixteen cases, and sometimes very largoly. Among these
eight skulls there are also two cases of metopism.
     The face is generally short, shorter even than that of the Australian,
but it has much the same general characters, as narrowness of tho
frontal region, and weak and retreating malars. The prognathism
is almost always marked, tho indices of the different skulls in which
the bones of the face are sufficiently perfect to allow of measurement
never falling below 100, and rising as high as 111 in two and 115
in one caso, the average being 105 - 4. The nasal bones and tho
nasal aperture are short and broad, but the former have not the
 extreme reduction and flattening characteristic of the Australian.
The index is invariably above 50; the lowest being 51 '1 and
the whole series averaging 54 - 9, or rather below that of the Aus
tralian.
     In tho form of the orbit the Mallicollo skulls differ considerably
 from the others, the upper margin being elevated, drawn back as it
 were by the depression of the forehead, so as to give an almost
 circular shape to the opening, as in the case of the deformed skulls of
 the ancient Peruvians, an argument in favour of the artificial origin of
 this conformation. The average of the orbital indices in the skulls
 from this island rises as high as 90, whereas in those from the other
 islands it is not higher than 81, much the same as tho Aus
 tralian. The prominence of tho supraorbital ridges and glabella is
 occasionally strongly pronounced, but is not universal as in the
 Australians.
     The lower jaw, in some cases, presents most of the marks of
 inferiority of character which have been pointed out when speaking
    * ' On the Peculiar Crania of the Inhabitants of certain Groups of Islands in
 the Western Pacific,' 1866. Natuurk. Verhand. van de Hollandsche, Maatschappij
 der Wetensehappen te Haarlem, xxiv. DeoL

1878.]             on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.               637
of tho Australians. The teeth havo unfortunately been lost in the
greater number of the crania of this series, so that I am not able to
give average measurements of any value; but they do not appear gene
rally to have been so large and well developed as in the Australians.
In one skull from tho Isle of Fines, the third molars are misplaced,
as was found to be so frequently the case with the Tasmanians.
     People having very much the same physical characters as the
Melanesians inhabit the islands of the Louisiade Archipelago, those
of Torres Straits, and a very considerable part of New Guinea, and
even some of the islands farther west, as Aru, Timor, Gilolo, &c.
The exploration of New Guinea in an ethnological sense is only now
commencing, and promises a most interesting future. The greater part
of tho island is certainly inhabited by a dark-skinned race, with crisp
or frizzled hair ; indeed the name by which they are frequently known,
 " Papuans," is said to allude in the Malay language to the latter
peculiarity. It is, however, very doubtful whether they all possess
tho uniform characters of the genuine Melanesian. In a collection
of skulls lately presented to the Museum of the College of Surgeons
from the east end of the island, by Dr. P. Comrie, late of H.M. ship
' Basilisk,' while some present the characteristic form of that race,
others are short and round, and have facial characters indicating
either Polynesian, Malay, or Negrito mixture. The same appears to
be the case in other parts of the island.
     The Museum of the College contains seven skulls of adult males
 from islands in Torres Straits, chiefly Erroob or Darnley Island,
 collected by Mr. Jukes during Captain Blackwood's Survey in 1842-46,
 and by Mr. Huxley in Captain Owen Stanley's Survey in 1847-50.
 Tho average cranial capacity of these skulls is 1340 cubic centimetres,
 or 82 cubic inches ; the average latitudinal index, 72 - 6 ; the averago
 altitudinal index, 75" 6 ; gnathic index, 105 ; orbital index, 84 - 2 ; and
 nasal index, 52-8; so that except that the last measurement is some
 what lower (but it is only taken from five skulls, the other two
 having the face damaged) and the breadth rather greater, there is littlo
 to distinguish them from the New Hebrideans. In culture these
 people are quite on a par with the last, and contrast strongly with
 tho Australians with whom they come in contact at Cape York.
      The inhabitants of the Admiralty Islands to tho north of New
 Guinea, on which no European landed until it was visited by tho
 ' Challenger ' in March, 1875, appear to belong to the same raco,
 according to an interesting description of them by Mr. H. N. Moseley,*
 but their cranial characters have not yet been described.
     Black-skinned people, with close curly hair, have long been known
 to exist still farther to the west of the Malay Archipelago, in tho
 Philippines, the Andamans, and even the interior of the Malay Penin-
    * " On the Inhabitants of the Admiralty Islands," ' Journal of the Anthropo
logical Institute,' May, 1877.

  638                            Professor Floveer                       [May 31,
  sula. As long as very little was known of their anatomical conforma
  tion, they were confounded with the Molanesians, and the name
 " Negrito," first applied to them hy the Spaniards in Luzon, has often
 been used for all the people having these two characters, dark com
 plexions and frizzly or woolly hair, throughout the Indian Archi
  pelago and Pacific Ocean, even as far as Tasmania. More complete
 information has, however, shown that the blacks of the western and
 northern Malay region differ in many characters from the Melanesians,
 and I shall follow Quatrefages in restricting the term "Negrito" to
 them.
      They are found at present in the most unmixed condition in tho
 Andamans, a chain of long, narrow islands, in the Bay of Bengal,
 about 20 miles in breadth and 140 in length, and divided by
 several narrow channels. These islands were surveyed in 1789 by
 Lieut. Blair, of the East India Company's Service, and a penal settle
 ment founded upon them, but this was abandoned a few years after
 wards ; and the islands were not visited by Europeans again until in
 1857, after the Indian Mutiny, a commission, consisting of Drs. Mouat
 and Flayfair and Lieut. Heathcote, was sent to examine them, and in
 consequence of their report, Port Blair was established as a convict
 settlement for our Indian possessions.
      The islands were inhabited by a peculiar race of people, who
 must have lived in them for a great length of time, with very little, if
 any, admixture from other races, and have consequently acquired
 strongly marked and very uniform characteristics. Their warlike
disposition, notwithstanding their diminutive size, and their im
 placable hostility to strangers who wero led by accident or design
to their shores, have been the chief causes of their isolation. The
earliest accounts that were published of their condition led to the
belief that their moral and social organization was upon the lowest
scale, and that they wero among tho most degraded of mankind;
but the larger experience which has been acquired since the esta
blishment of the settlement, tho elaborate memoir of Quatrefages,*
containing references to all that had previously been written, tho
more recent information furnished on personal observation by Day,f
Dobson,} and others, and the very detailed account of the customs and
arts of the Andamaneso lately transmitted to the Anthropological
Institute, with a large collection of their weapons and manufac
tures, by Mr. Man, has caused a considerable modification of this
idea.
     The numerous photographs which havo been taken and sent to this
country give a very good idea of their external physical characters,
and a close examination of them shows that the resemblance to
African negroes, which appears to strike everyone who sees them
    * " Etude sur les Mincopies," ' Revue d'Anthropologie,' tome i. p. 37, 1872.
    t ' Proc. Aeiat, Soc. Bengal,' June, 1870, p. 153.
    \ 'Journal of tho Anthropological Institute/ vol. iv. p. 457.

 1878.]          on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.              .   639
 for the first time, is rather superficial, and depending much upon
 colour and the character of the hair, though, by tho way, this last is
 seldom seen, as both men and women have an almost universal custom
 of keeping the head closely shaved. When the hair does grow,
 however, it is found to be as finely frizzled as that of the most
 "woolly-headed" African. A specimen sent home by Mr. Man,
 for which I am indebted to General Lane Fox, is smaller in trans
 verse section and more flattened than that of any Melanesian or
 Papuan which I have examined, and very nearly as much so as the
 hair of the Bushmen of South Africa. Whether the men aro full-
 bearded I cannot say, as the face is always as carefully cleared
 of hairy appendages as the scalp. The head is very short and
 round, the forehead flat and tolerably full; the space between the
 eyes wide ; the nose small, straight, and not very broad. In photo
graphs of the full face of Australians, Melanesians, and African
negroes, the width between the outer margins of the alas nasi is
usually fully one-third of the whole breadth of the face, sometimes
more, rarely less, corresponding to the platyrhine character of tho
nasal aperture. In the Andamanese it is scarcely more than one-
fourth, as in the mesorhine races. The jaws are not particularly
prominent, nor the lips developed and everted to anything like the
extent of the African negro, scarcely more, in fact, than in most
Malays. The chin appears rounded and well formed.
     These characters are taken, as I have said, only from the inspec
tion of photographs, but they are strongly confirmed by examination
of the actual crania. The number of specimens available till the last
few years were very few, but now is rapidly increasing, and I hope
in a short time, through the kind assistance of Dr. J. Dougall,
Surgeon-Major, H.M. Madras Army, Senior Medical Officer at Port
Blair, to have materials enough to draw up a complete account of
their osteology. At present I will only indicate some of the more
important points regarding the cranium, founded on the examination
of nine specimens, two belonging to the Middlesex Hospital Museum,*
one in the Army Medical Museum at Netlcy, and six in the Museum
of the College of Surgeons. Of these, five aro males and four are
females. As the numbers are so nearly equal, and the differences
between them are not great, they may be taken together in the
following average measurements. In accordance with the dimi
nutive size of the race (for the men are said to average somewhat
under 5 feet, and the women less), the crania are of very small
general size, the average circumference being 471 centimetres, or
18-5 inches, and the average capacity 1184 cubic centimetres = 72
cubic inches, the highest being 1280 = 78, the lowest 1100 = 67.
The autero-posterior diameter averages 164 centimetres, or 6-5 inches.
The breadth of the skull in the parietal region considerably exceeds
the Tasmanian, giving a latitudinal index which varies in the nine
   * These wore described by Mr. Busk, in ' Trans. Etlmol. Soc.' June, 1865.

640                         Professor Flower                  [May 31,
skulk under consideration between 77 (which is quite exceptional and
perhaps somewhat malformed) and 85, the average being 81 - 7. This
is corroborated by the measurements of four skulls of Mincopies (as
the Andamaneso are sometimes called) in the collection of Dr. Barnard
Davis, the average of the indices of which is 81 ; so we have here a
truly brachycephalic race. Exactly contrary to what obtains among
the Melanesians, the height is in every case less than the breadth, the
average altitudinal index being 77 - 7. This relation is more duo to
the breadth being excessive than to the skull being low in proportion
to length, as it will be seen that the last-named index is higher than
that of any other of the races we have hitherto considered. The
general contour of the cranium is more rounded and " well filled "
than in any of those races. The forehead is flat, the glabella very
little developed, and with no marked depression beneath. The nasal
bones aro straight and tolerably well formed, the aperture of mode
rate width, the nasal index varying between 47 and 53, the average
being 50-6, so that they are distinctly mesorhine. The orbits of the
males and females appear to differ nearly as much as in the Tas-
manians, the index of the former being 85-6, of the latter 90 "7.
Some few of the crania show a considerable amount of alveolar
prognathism, but generally much less than in any of the other black
races. The average is only 100 - 3, so they may be considered as a
race to be mesognathous. The whole profile of the face, from the
middle of the forehead to the alveolar margin, is remarkably straight.
     People of small stature, with dark skins, round heads, and curly
hair, apparently allied to the Andamanese, have been found in either a
pure or mixed state in the interior of the Malay Peninsula (where
they are called Semangs), in several of the Philippine Islands (called
 Aetas), in Formosa, and even as far north as the Japanese island of
Kiou-siou. Their range appears formerly to have been more ex
 tensive, as they are supposed to have contributed something to the
very mixed population of the mainland of Southern India, and their
influence may be traced without much doubt into New Guinea, and
even Borneo. All these indications appear to show that the present
scattered and isolated Negrito populations, chiefly inhabiting com
paratively inaccessible regions in the forest-clad mountain ranges in
the interior of the islands, are the remnants of a race which once
spread over a wide area of south-eastern Asia, but have been
gradually dispossessed of their territory by the encroachments of
other races, especially the Malays, of whom I must speak next. The
whole of the evidence which has at present been collected on this
subject will be found in the great work ' Crania Ethnica ' of
 Quatrefages and Hamy, now in the courso of publication.
     Tho Malays at present occupy the southern half of the Malay
 Peninsula, and almost the whole of the Archipelago which is not still
 in possession of the darker, frizzled-haired people already spoken of.
 Though a totally distinct race, and when pure presenting most

 1878.]          on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.             645
fruit, cocoa-nuts, plantains, yams, shaddocks, sweet potatoes, and
sugar-cano. As domestic animals, they kept pigs, fowls, and dogs.
They mostly wore some kind of clothing, generally made of a
kind of cloth manufactured from the inner bark of a tree. The
practice of very elaborato and artistic tattooing of the skin prevailed
extensively. They had no metals, and generally no pottery, but
used stone axes, shells, gourds, &c, for domestic purposes. Their
weapons wore bows, spears, and clubs. Their large and finely built
canoes excited the admiration of so good a judge as Cook, and their
skill in handling them gained for ono group the title of " Navigator
Islands " from the French Admiral Bougainville. They were governed
by chiefs, and had an hereditary aristocracy, who preserved their
pedigrees with great care, and they possessed many complex social
customs, among which that of the "taboo" was one of the most
influential in its effects on their daily life.
     The agreeable and courteous manners of. these people, and their
docility and generosity, always impress those who come in contact
with them, although when excited, as in tho not infrequent wars
among themselves, they are capable of great cruelty, and human
sacrifice and cannibalism prevailed extensively in many of the islands.
Indolence, and a considerable laxity in several points of social morality,
are also among their failings. As is well known, they havo shown
a great aptitudo to adapt themselves to the external usages at least of
European civilization, and the primitive, picturesque, if barbarous
mode of life is everywhere rapidly giving way to an imitation of
English or American institutions, dress, and customs. Hawaii, which
exactly ono hundred years ago came for the first time in contact with
European influence, by its accidental discovery by Cook on his way to
exploro the north-west passage by Behring's Straits, has now, though
still under native rule, its constitutional government by king, lords,
and commons, its churches, its schools, its newspapers, and, as an
nounced within the lost few days, its railway.
     With the disappearance of the ancient customs, strange to say, tho
people are themselves disappearing. All accounts tell us of a steady
diminution of tho population, not only in islands whore, as in New
Zealand, Europeans have invaded and practically annexed the land, and
so curtailod the moans of subsistence of tho natives, but oven in others
whero tho original independence has been retained, tho introduction
of European institutions and customs, good and bad, and especially of
diseases before unknown in those seas, appear to havo a blighting
effect upon the vitality of the islanders. We all remember how viru
lently destructive was measles, accidentally introduced among our now
fellow-subjects in tho Fiji Islands a very few years ago ; and pulmonary
consumption, apparently unknown in former times, now occasions an
immense mortality. The cause of the rapid diminution of tho Poly
nesian population is, howover, too large and complex a question to be
discussed here ; the fact is, however, well attested. As an example,
in tho Hawaiian Islands, leaving out of tho question tho probably
     Vol. VIII. (No. 69.;                                         2 t

642                          Professor Flower                  [May 31,
beauty, and yet, on the whole, the Malays are certainly not handsome.
In youth, however, they are often very good-looking, and many of the
boys and girls, up to twelve or fifteen years of age, are very pleasing,
and some have countenances which are, in their way, almost perfect.
I am inclined to think they lose much of their good looks by bad
habits and irregular living. At a very early age they chew betel and
tobacco almost incessantly ; they suffer much want and exposure in
their fishing and other excursions ; their lives are often passed in
alternate starvation and feasting, idleness and excessive labour—
and this naturally produces premature old age and harshness of
features.
    " The Malayan race, as a whole, undoubtedly very closely resembles
the East Asian population from Siam to Mandehouria. I was much
struck with this, when in the island of Bali I saw Chinese traders
who had adopted the costume of that country, and who could then
hardly be distinguished from Malays ; and, on the other hand, I have
seen natives of Java, who, as far as physiognomy was concerned,
would pass very well for Chinese.
     " It appears, therefore, that whether we consider their physical
conformation, their moral characteristics, or their intellectual capa
cities, the Malay and Papuan [i. e. Melanesian] races offer remarkable
differences and striking contrasts. The Malay is of short stature,
brown-skinned, straight-haired, beardless, and smooth-bodied. The
Papuan is taller, is black-skinned, frizzly-haired, bearded, and hairy-
bodied. The former is broad-faced, has a small nose, and flat eye
brows ; the latter is long-faced, has a large and prominent nose and
projecting eyebrows. The Malay is bashful, cold, undemonstrative,
and quiet ; the Papuan is bold, impetuous, excitable, and noisy. The
former is grave, and seldom laughs ; the latter is joyous, and laughter-
loving—the one conceals his emotions, the other displays them."
     There is certainly no very great uniformity in the characters of
the skulls in our collections which are said to belong to Malays. But
at present craniology is labouring under a great disadvantage, owing
to paucity of materials and want of accuracy in the indications as to
the precise origin of the specimens with which we have to work, and
hence is open to the criticisms which Wallace and others have be
stowed upon it, as in the work just quoted. If we group in one
category a varied series of skulls from the Malay Islands, which may
be composed in greater or less proportion of true Malays, of Negritos,
of Melanesians, of Chinese, Spanish, Dutch, and even English, we shall
have much difficulty in assigning to them any common distinctive
characters. Endeavouring as much as possible to avoid this source of
confusion, I have selected seven male skulls, which appear to me to be
characteristic of the Malay race in its purest form, and from them
have taken the following averagea In general conformation they
present as great a contrast to the Papuan or Melanesian type,
as has been noted in the external and mental -qualities of the re
spective races. On the other hand, their resemblance to the Negrito

1878.]           on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.                 643
skulls is very singular : except in size, many of the Malay and the
Andamanese skulls are wonderfully alike.* In capacity these skulls
average 1424 cubic centimetres, or 86 - 9 cubic inches, or considerably
higher than those of any of the races hitherto spoken of, and nearly
equal to that of the Italians. They are all more or less short and
round, the average latitudinal index being 81" 4, so that they are
equally brachycephalic with the Andamanese. The height is in every
case less than the width, the average index being 76 - 4. The sutures
are generally very complex ; the ptereon in no case shows a union of
the squamosal and frontal bones so common in the Melanesian ; the
forehead is flat and smooth, without projection of the glabella or
supraciliary ridges ; the nasal bones are flat and straight, the
aperture mesorhino, the averago index being 50 - 5 ; the orbits are
fairly round, the average index being 90 (megaseme) ; the malar
bones are large and prominent, the lower part especially projecting
forward, quite differently from that of the Australian and Melanesian ;
the outer margin of the orbit is placed on a much more forward level
than in those races, causing the whole face to be broader and flatter.
This is a character which allies the Malays with the Mongolian
people of the continent of Asia, in whom it is very strongly pro
nounced. The face is rarely prognathous, usually the reverse, the
average index in these examples being 98 - 2 ; so that, taken together,
they come into the mesognathous category. The palate is short and
round, and the teeth small. Of the remainder of the skeleton I have
nothing of any value to add from my own observation.
     The last, and perhaps in some respects the most interesting and
important, of the races of which I shall have to speak this evening
is the one which has been called Malayo-Folynesian, Brown Poly
nesian, Millign, and simply Polynesian. It is the one which, with, as
before indicated, a certain proportion of admixturo of the Melanesian
race, and with considerable local variations, forms the native popula
tion of all the remaining islands scattered over the vast area of the
 Pacific Ocean. These islands, roughly speaking, form a trianglo,
 with the Sandwich or Hawaiian group, Easter Island, and New Zea
land at the three corners, at a distance of 5000 miles apart. Notwith
standing the apparent isolation of many of these, mere little specks as
it were in an illimitable expanse of ocean, the greater number of them
were when first discovered by Europeans in the last century inhabited ;
 and what is more remarkable, inhabited by people having a great
 similarity in appearance, in social customs, and in language, so much
so that no competent observer who has studied them closely appears
 to doubt that they must have had a common origin, and that whatever
diversities they may now present must be due to local conditions or
    * Wallace has already remarked that the Negritos "in most important chnrac-
ters differ more from the Papuan than they do from the Malay." Op. cit. vol. ii.
p. 278.

644                               Professor Flower                       [May 31,
admixture with other races. The carefully preserved traditions of
the people all tend to the same conclusion. The researches of Halo,
attached to Commodore Wilkes' exploring expedition, followed out
most ably by Quatrefagcs,* have even led to the construction of a map,
on which are indicated the routes by which the different islands have
been peopled, and the dates at which the various emigrations took
place have been approximately settled from computations based upon
the genealogies of the reigning chiefs. Although much of this is of
course mere conjecture, it has only been arrived at after a very full
and careful collection of traditions, language, customs, and physical
characters of the inhabitants of a largo number of tho islands, and it
forms a valuable basis for future researches into the subject. Accord
ing to the view of Hale, adopted and modified by Quatrefages, the
Polynesians came originally from the Malay Archipelago. The island
of Borou is fixed upon by the last-named anthropologist for their
last point of departure, though their earlier home may have been
somewhere in the mainland of Asia, where probably the kindred race
from which the modern Malays are derived was also developed.
They proceeded eastward, passing to the north of New Guinea and
the Salomon Islands, which they probably found already inhabited
by the black population, and on which they could not effect a landing,
and settled in the Samoan and Tongan Islands, where their descendants
still exhibit the purest type of the race. These islands, and especially
Savaii, or Havaii, as it is called in all other Polynesian dialects
except the Samoan which alone pronounces tho sibilant, became
centres, as tho population increased, for emigration, which, as these
people, like the Malays, are able navigators, was readily accomplished.
This accounts for the name Hawaii recurring as the native designation
of the Sandwich Islands, and for the general tradition in New
Zealand and elsewhere of the ancestors of the present inhabitants
having come from an island of that name.f For the facts which have
been collected bearing upon tho details of these migrations, I must
 refer to the works just mentioned.
      The social condition of the Polynesians when first discovered was
somewhat in advance of that of the Melanesians. They lived in
villages composed of large, airy, thatched houses, cultivated bread-
     * 'Les Polync'eiens et leur Migrations,' Paris, 18G6.
     t In Cook's account of his first visit to New Zealand (in 1770) he says:—
 " Having now given the best account in my power of the customs and opinions of
 the inhabitants of New Zealand, with their boats, nets, furniture, and dress, I
 shall only remark that the similitude between these particulars here and in tho
 South Sea Islands [i. e. the Society Islands] is a very strong proof that tho
 inhabitants have the same origin; and that the common ancestors of both were
 natives of the same country. They have both a tradition that their ancestors, at a
 very remote period of time, came from another country, and, according to tho
 tradition of both, that the name of that country was Heawije ; but the similitude of
 the language seems to put the matter out of doubt." ' Voyages by Hawkesworth,"
 vol. iii. p. 473. 1773. This, it must be observed, was written before tho discovery
 of tho North Pacific Hawaii (Cook's Owyhee), or the Samoan Savaii or Havaii.
    "

1878.]           on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.             645
fruit, cocoa-nute, plantains, yams, shaddocks, sweet potatoes, and
sugar-cane. As domestic animals, they kept pigs, fowls, and dogs.
They mostly wore some kind of clothing, generally made of a
kind of cloth manufactured from the inner bark of a tree. The
practice of very elaborato and artistic tattooing of tho skin prevailed
extensively. They had no metals, and generally no pottery, but
used stone axes, shells, gourds, &c, for domestic purposes. Their
weapons were bows, spears, and clubs. Their large and finely built
canoes excited the admiration of so good a judge as Cook, and their
skill in handling them gained for one group the title of " Navigator
Islands " from the French Admiral Bougainville. They were governed
by chiefs, and had an hereditary aristocracy, who preserved their
pedigrees with great care, and they possessed many complex social
customs, among which that of the "taboo" was one of the most
influential in its effects on their daily lifo.
     The agreeable and courteous manners of these people, and their
docility and generosity, always impress those who come in contact
with them, although when excited, as in the not infrequent wars
among themselves, they are capable of great cruelty, and human
sacrifice and cannibalism prevailed extensively in many of the islands.
Indolence, and a considerable laxity in several points of social morality,
are also among their failings. As is well known, they have shown
a great aptitude to adapt themselves to the external usages at least of
European civilization, and the primitive, picturesque, if barbarous
mode of life is everywhere rapidly giving way to an imitation of
English or American institutions, dress, and customs. Hawaii, which
exactly one hundred years ago came for the first time in contact with
European influence, by its accidental discovery by Cook on his way to
explore the north-west passage by Behring's Straits, has now, though
still under native rule, its constitutional government by king, lords,
and commons, its churches, its schools, its newspapers, and, as an
nounced within the last few days, its railway.
     With the disappearance of the ancient customs, strange to say, the
people are themselves disappearing. All accounts tell us of a steady
diminution of the population, not only in islands where, as in New
Zealand, Europeans have invaded and practically annexed the land, and
so curtailed the means of subsistence of the natives, but even in others
where the original independence has been retained, the introduction
of European institutions and customs, good and bad, and especially of
diseases before unknown in those seas, appear to have a blighting
effect upon the vitality of the islanders. We all remember how viru
lently destructive was measles, accidentally introduced among our new
fellow-subjects in the Fiji Islands a very few years ago ; and pulmonary
consumption, apparently unknown in former times, now occasions an
immense mortality. The cause of the rapid diminution of the Poly
nesian population is, however, too large and complex a question to be
discussed here ; the fact is, however, well attested. As an example,
in the Hawaiian Islands, leaving out of tho question the probably
     Vol. VIII. (No. 69.)                                         2 y

646                         Professor Flower                     [May 31»
exaggerated estimate of Cook, since a regular census has been esta
blished, the population has diminished from 130,000 in 1832 to 60,000
at the present time.
    Nearly all who have had personal opportunities of observation,
agree that the inhabitants of the Samoan or Navigator Islands, and of
the neighbouring Tonga or Friendly Islands of Cook, may be looked
upon as the most typical representatives of the Polynesian race ; and
I shall therefore speak of their physical characters first, They certainly
present the greatest contrast to the Melanesians, and perhaps the
greatest resemblance to the Malays ; indeed, the Rev. S. J. Whitmoe,
who lived many years in Samoa, and has studied the natives with
great care, says, in an interesting article in the ' Contemporary Review '
for February, 1873, that morally, intellectually, and physically, tho
description given by Wallace of the Malays (quoted above) applies
exactly to the Samoans, with the only difference that the latter are a
people of much larger stature, a circumstance which he attributes to
their more abundant supply of food. Commodoro Wilkes thus de
scribes the Samoans : —" The average height of tho men is 5 feet 10
inches, and some of the chiefs, whose limbs are well rounded, would
be called fino-looking men in any part of tho world. Their features
arc not in general prominent, but are well marked and distinct, and
are all referable to a common type. The nose is short, and wide at -
the base ; the mouth large, and well filled with large and white teeth,
with full and well-turned lips ; the eyes black, and often large and
bright ; the forehead narrow and high, and the cheek bones prominent.
It was observed that some of them had the eyes turned up at the outer
corner, like the Chinese. Of beard they have but little, but their hair is
strong, straight, and very black. Tho general form of the skull is broad
and short, and it is highest near the crown." The colour of the skin,
as in other Polynesians, is yellowish or light brown ; sometimes as
light as that of Southern Europeans, but varying somewhat accord
ing to the habitual exposure to the atmosphere and sun and other
causes.
    The Museum of the College contains, unfortunately, only five
crania of Central Polynesians on which to found a description of tho
race characters ; but they agree so well in all their principal features,
that I think it probable that they are fair specimens of the type. Of
these three are Samoan, one Tongan, and ono from St. Augustine's
Isle, in the Ellico group. They are all adult males.
    Their average capacity is 1420 cubic centimetres, or 86 - 7 cubic
inches. They are all round skulls (see Fig. 4;, tho indices of breadth
varying between 77 and 88, the avorago being 82 -2. The height is
either equal or less than the breadth in each case, though they may gene
rally be described as high skulls, the average index being 77 - 8. In
no caso does the squamosal meet or even approach near the frontal,
and none has epipteric bones. They are all phasnozygous, but very
slightly so. The forehead is flat, tho glabella not greatly developed,
the face long and straight ; the nasal aperture narrow, the nasal index

1878.]          on the Native Races of the Pacific Ocean.            647
varying between 39 "3 and 46-3, the average being 44-3 ; the orbits
round and high, the average index being 92 '8. The jaws in three
cases are mesognathous with indices of 99, 99, and 100 respectively ;
but one is remarkably orthognathous, with an index of only 92 ; this
may, however, be an exceptional case : the other cannot bo measured.
The malar bones aro greatly developed, as in the Malay, present
ing a marked contrast to those of the Australian. The size and
forward position of these bones are among the features by which they
can be most readily distinguished from European skulls. The lower
margin of the orbit, and the long axis of the orbital aperturo instead
of being nearly horizontal, as in the Australian and Melancsian, are
inclined downwards at the outer side. The palate is short and semi
circular ; the teeth not particularly large. It will be seen that in all
their essential features these skulls resemble those of the Malays.
They are, however, rather larger, and especially higher ; the face is
longer and somewhat less prognathous, and the nose is narrower.
    When a typical Polynesian, as a Samoan cranium, and a typical
Melancsian, as one from the New Hebrides, have once been compared
and contrasted, they can be recognized at a glance; as they differ
quite as much as does tho external appcaranco of the people. Some
skulls which were presented many years ago from the island of Lifu
(Loyalty group) by Dr. George Bennett, are most characteristically
Polynesian —tho nasal index alone would separate them from the
Melanesians, among which they would be arranged geographically ;
and this perfectly accords with what we know of the external cha
racters and history of the people to whom they belong, the Loyalty
Islands having been colonized, as already mentioned, some 150 years
ago from Wallis Island, in Central Polynesia.
    It is very interesting to observe tho physical evidence of the
gradual blending of the two different types in different proportions
in regions where, on other grounds, they have been supposed to be
intermixed. Thus among skulls brought from the Fiji and most of the
neighbouring islands, some are purely Polynesian, some as purely Mela-
nesian, others presenting a combination of characters. Professor Rol-
leston has been kind enough to allow me to examine a series of crania
lately acquired by the University of Oxford from the Central Caroline
Islands, inhabited by a population generally admitted to present the
characters of a mixed race. These skulls exactly corroborate this
view. All the principal cranial indices are intermediate between
those proper to the Melancsian and those belonging to the Poly
nesian type.
    The Maoris, or native population of New Zealand, if true Poly
nesians, as is usually supposed, have departed considerably from the
Samoan type. They are darker in colour, have usually more curl in
their hair, stronger beards, more prominent and aquiline noses, longer
heads (the average cranial index of all that I have measured being
75), rather lower orbits (89), and slightly wider though still leptorhine
noses (47). It is possible that this change of type may have taken
                                                           2 y 2

648                            Professor Flower                         [May 31,
place simply as the result of three or four centuries' isolation under
different conditions, and is therefore something similar to that which
appears to be in process among the English in North America ; but it
is very suggestive of an admixture of Melanesian blood, as every one of
the points mentioned form an approximation more or less pronounced
towards that race. Although it has been doubted by some authors, it
is asserted by others that there are Maori traditions indicating the
existence of an aboriginal population, though probably not a numerous
one, upon the islands before they were invaded from Barotonga in the
beginning of the fifteenth century. If this wore the case they were
probably Melanesians, and their absorption into the ranks of the
conquering race would cause the physical changes noted above.
    However this may be, the present Maoris are a fine race, tall,
muscular, and well built ; bravo, active, and intelligent ; " in truth," as
Sir David Wedderbum remarks, " as near an approach to the ideal of
a ' noble savage ' as has ever existed in modern times." * Notwith
standing this, and the great aptitude some of them have shown for
adopting the habits of European civilized life, several being already
members of the legislative assemblies in New Zealand, and one having at
present a seat in the cabinet, their extinction under English influ
ence appears to bo coming on as certainly as that of their very inferior
Tasmanian and Australian brethren. Their numbers in 1849 were
estimated by Sir George Grey at 120,000, ascertained by census in
1858 at 56,000, and in 1874 at 45,470, all but 2000 being inhabitants
of the North Island.
    The Maoris themselves are guilty of having exterminated in a
very ruthless and complete manner, even within the present century,
a kindred race. The history of this transaction illustrates very well
on a small scale one of the processes by which the ethnology of the
Polynesian Islands, and indeed, we may say, of the whole world, has
been gradually modified. In 1835 a party of New Zealand natives,
finding themselves short of room in their own country, probably
either directly or indirectly through the encroachments of European
settlers, resolved to seek their fortunes elsewhere, and chartering an
English brig, sailed for tho Chatham Islands, which were then in
habited by a people called Morioris, a branch of tho Polynesian stock,
but who having long hived on a small and not very productive island,
were inferior in physique and warlike acquirements to the Maoris,
The invaders had, therefore, little difficulty in taking possession of
tho islands, and in a few years had destroyed and eaten most of
the original inhabitants, and reduced the rest to slavery. At the
present time, according to Mr. E. A. Welch, the islands are in
habited by as varied and motley an assemblage of people as can
well bo imagined:—Morioris, Maoris, Kanakas, Negroes, Chinese,
Spaniards, Portuguese, Danes, Germans, English, Irish, Scotch, Welsh,
             ' Maoris and Kanakas,*' ' Fortnightly Review,' June, 1877.

1878.]          on the Native Races of Hie Pacific Ocean.             649
Yankees, natives of South America, a Manilla native, a Laplander, a
Russian Finn, a half-caste native of New Holland, &c*
    As for as we know, the Eastern Polynesians, the Hawaiians, Mar-
quesans, and Tahitians, do not differ materially in their physical
characters from the Samoans. The Marquesans were described by
Cook as " without exception the finest race of people in this sea. For
fine shape and regular features, thoy perhaps surpass all other
natives." I wish that I could give some details of their cranial coo-
formation from actual observation, which would corroborate or modify
the ordinary view of their origin and affinities, but I have not hitherto
had an opportunity of doing so. Dr. Barnard Davis has a magnificent
series of 116 crania of Kanakas, or natives of the Hawaii or Sandwich
Islands, and gives their latitudinal index in his valuable " Thesaurus "
at 80, which noarly corresponds with that of the Central Polynesians.
It will be interesting to see whether the facial characters also agree.
     In bringing to a conclusion this very slight and superficial sketch
of the anthropology of an immense region of the earth's surface, I may
be expected to say something as to the meaning attached to the word
" race," so frequently used. It is better to confess at once that it is
extremely indefinite and arbitrary, than to attempt to give an accurate
definition. To such groups as I have spoken of under this designa
tion, some anthropologists would apply the term " species." Although
this word has not now the definite signification that was formerly
attached to it, yet having some experience of its customary use among
zoologists, and looking from a purely zoological point of view at the
distinguishing characters of these types, races, varieties, or whatever
 wo like to call them, I certainly cannot apply the term species to
them in the same sense in which it is ordinarily used in zoology ;
much less can I believe in the view of the separate and distinct origin
of any of these races.
     The attempt to form a precise and harmonious scheme of classifica
tion is here, as elsewhere, beset with insurmountable difficulties. The
endless gradations of distinctive characters can only be most rudely
expressed in our artificial systems. We may speak of branches and
sub-branches, varieties and sub-varieties, races, species, Ac. ; but these
all are attempts to express degrees of difference connected by endless
intermediate conditions, and passing insensibly from one to the other.
The first and lowest degreo or indication of race characteristics in
man, is seen in the inherited traits of various members of a family, or
tribe ; the next in the more strongly marked and more permanent
characters seen in the inhabitants of somo district, especially whero
distinction of language interposes a barrier to communication and
intermarriage. Where there are few natural or artificial barriers to
mutual and extended intercourse, the characteristics of the different
    * E. A. Welch and Barnard Davis, " The Morions or Native Race of the
Chatham Islands," ' Journ. Anthrop. Soc' Nov. 1869, p. 97.

650                          Professor Flower                   [May 31,
families or tribes become blended, and an absence of uniformity and an
irregularity or variety in characters is produced. On the other hand,
isolated groups of people tend to uniformity of character in some
special direction. Certain peculiarities become in the course of ages
more and more pronounced, and the longer time that this process
continues, the more permanent and indelible do such peculiarities
become, and tho more stable is the type produced ; exactly as is well
known to be the case with tho different breeds of domestic animals.
This applies not only to the bodily, but also to the intellectual
and moral qualities. As tho necessity for depending for very exist
ence on the acuteness of the perceptive organs may, in some races,
during the course of generations increaso the powers of vision
and smell, and modify the anatomical structure of the organs by
which these senses act, so also may certain mental and moral charac
teristics in the course of time become stamped more or less firmly
upon all members of the race.
    The view of this great question, which appears to be most philo
sophical as well as most consistent with facts, is that which is inter
mediate to the two extremes held by certain anthropologists ; viz. that
of the inherent, radical, and impassable distinction between the dif
ferent groups of man and that of the perfect equality and identity of
all mankind. Tho theory that an Australian or a Polynesian merely
requires to be educated and placed in the same circumstances with a
European to be his equal in maintaining his position in those circum
stances, or vice versa, ignores tho teachings of physiology. He can no
more be expected to do bo than the foal of a cart-horse, with any
amount of training which may be bestowed upon him, can be expected
to win the Derby. But just as the cart-horse and the thorough-bred
have been developed from one original stock, and will unite and pro
duce intermediate forms, and will without selective breeding revert to
some common form, so it is with the races of man, however much this
may be disputed by the extreme school of polygenists.
     This being the general view of the position of these races, tho
divisions we make are necessarily arbitrary, and have no natural
barrier between them, and no strict equivalency, and the nature of our
classification will depend upon what characters we lay most stress
upon as indications of affinity. We see already in the subjects of
this course very striking characters, those of the hair and of tho form
of the skull, not correlated, as in the Andamanese and Melanesians.
The various groups of men upon the world, whether originally all
straight-haired or all frizzly-hairod, must, it has been argued, have
separated at some time into two primary divisions, the Leiotrichi and the
 Ulotrichi of Bory de St. Vincent, a view to which Professor Huxley is
inclined to give much weight. This would be a simple starting
point for our classification. But on examining other characters,
some of which seem equally important, difficulties arise. First let ub
take the case of the Australians. Their general aspect, all their cranial
and skeletal characters ally them so closely to the Melanesians, and

                                8
                                  -a co                                                                    I                                                           <U+25BA>3 a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CI Or
                                                                                                  Phityrhine                  Platyrhine                Platyrhine         Mes8hine                    Mesorhine                    Lept8hine                     Leptorhine
                                                            Nasal.
                                                                                                                                                                                                  87                      7                               8
LCPTabular
   Racesiof
         in
         tythe
   Outline rnsauceitracpear.lsd
   ehbcathis                                                                           2                               2                        8                      8
                                                            O•rbital.
                                      IFacial
                                       ndicks.                                    ?88
                                                                                  $82                     Microseme                   Microseme         Microseme     $'7
                                                                                                                                                                      $86                Mesoseme         1  Megaseme
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Mesognathous            Megaseme       '$
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ?
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     876                    Mesoseme
                                                                                                                                                $87                                                $7'7                   $'3
                                                                                               82                          87
                                                                                                                                                                              8                                                                                 8
                                                                                                                    ?
                                                                                                                    88
                                                                                                                    $r6
                                                                                                                                                                                Mesognathous                                        Mesognathous                  Orthognathous
                                                                                                  Prognathous                Prognathous                Prognathous
                                                              Gnathic.
                                                                                       78                              78                       78                      77                                                                                'r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
                                                      Index            Height.
                                                               of
                                                                                            8                           r8                        r8                        7                           r6                    7                               r8
                                                                                                                                                         Dolichoceph.            Brachyceph.                  Brachyceph.            Brachyceph.                          Brachyceph.
                                                          Index
                                                          of Breadth.                       Dolicho cephalic                  Mesoceph.
                                       Chamum.
                                                                                                                                                71                       82                        1 877                  82                          87 Meso.  8
                                                                                   8                                   r6
                                               Capacity
                                                                    Cubic Inches.
                                                                                                                         87                        87                       r8                                                 7                   1g'    Well
                                                                                             7
                                                          "1
                                                          $Of.
                                                                                                  developed                                                                                                                                                        developed
                                                Beard,
                                                &c.                                    Well                             Ditto                     Ditto                                             Nearly absent             Scanty
                                                                                                                                                                            ?
                                                                                   Straight                             Frizzly                   Frizzly                        Frizzly               Straight               Straight                Straight Waved
                                                                                                        Waved                                                            Very
                                                 Hair.
                                                                                               8                                                                                                                                                                8
                                                                                            Blackish                    Blackish                  Blackish
                                                Colour.                                                                                                                     Black                  LightBrown             LightBrown                          White
                                                                                            Medium                      Medium                    Vuriable
                                                 Stature.                                                                                                                Very Small                     Small
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Tall8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Medium                   Medium
                                                                                            Australian                                            Melanesian                                                                  Polynesian                           f8com,jJ     purison)
                                                                                                                        Tasmanian
                                                Race.                                                                                                                      Negrito.
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Malay                                    Italian\1(added

652 Professor Flower on the Native Bates of the Pacific Ocean. [May 31,
also to the African negroes, that it is extremely difficult to suppose
that so many coincidences could have arisen in two stocks which bad
already diverged so far as to fix permanently the distinctive charac
teristics of the hair. Again, take the Negritos of the Indo-Malayan
Archipelago. Here we have a woolly-haired people, with scarcely
any of the osteological and perhaps cerebral characteristics of the
other negroid races. The alternative supposition that woolly hair
could have originated independently, upon different branches of
straight-haired races, is also beset with difficulties. It is clear,
however, that setting aside the doctrine of separate creation, one or
other of these events must have taken place ; but which is the more
likely is impossible, in our present state of knowledge, to decide.
     Very much still remains to be done with regard to tho history of
man in the part of the world we have been considering this evening,
hoth in the confirmation or amendment of the truth of these general
conclusions, and in the completion of the various details. And now is
the time, if ever, when it must be done.
     Many of theso people have lived in their sea-girt homes, isolated
from the rest of mankind, for ages untold, and with probably little or
no change in their habits or physical characteristics. Among others,
the movements, migrations, and interchange of ideas and customs,
and progressive improvements, which have taken place have been
of the most partial, slow, and gradual character. But within the life
time of somo still among us, a marvellous transformation has been
wrought among them. It is scarcely a hundred years since the veil
of darkness and mystery which enshrouded these regions was uplifted,
and the very existence of most of the races of which I have been
speaking was first revealed to tho civilized world. It is only within
the present century that the great movement has taken place, the rush
of the Anglo-Saxon race into the islands of the Pacific, which is
rapidly shaking to the foundations all the old ethnological landmarks,
and, with accumulating speed, sweeping away, not only the charac
teristic customs, traditions, and languages of the people, but even tho
very people themselves. In another half century, the Australians,
the Melanesians, the Maoris, and most of the Polynesians, will have
followed the Tasmanians to the grave. We shall well merit tho
reproach of future generations if we neglect our present opportunities
of gathering together every fragment of knowledge that can still be
saved, of their languages, customs, social polity, manufactures, and
arts. The preservation of tangible evidence of their physical structure
is, if possible, still more important ; and surely this may be expected of
that nation, above all others, which by its commercial enterprise and
 wide-spread maritime dominion has done, and is doing, far more than
 any other in effecting this destructive revolution.
                                                             [W. H. F.]

1878.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                         653
                   GENEKAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, June 3, 1878.
          William Bowman, Esq. F.R.S. Manager, in the Chair.
                     The Lord Viscount Kilcoursie,
                     R. Faircloth, Esq. F.R.C.S.
                     J. Lawrence-Hamilton, M.D.
                      William Ford Stanley, Esq.
wero elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FROM
Accademia dei Lincei, Rome—Atti, Serie III. TranBunti, Vol. III. Fasc. 5. 4to.
     1878.
Agricultural Society, Royal—Journal, Second Series, Vol. XIV. Port 1. 8vo.
     1878.
American Academy of Natural Sciences, Philadelphia— Proceedings for 1877. 8vo.
      1877.
Asiatic Society, Royal—Journal, New Series, Vol. X. No. 2. 8vo. 1878.
British Architects, Royal Institute of— Sessional Papers, 1878. No. 13. 4to.
Chemical Society—Journal for May, 1878. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for May, 1878. 8vo.
   Analyst for May, 1878. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for May, 1878. 4to.
   Brain : a Journal of Neurology. No. 1. 8vo. 1878.
   Chemical News for May, 1878. 4to.
   Electrician for May 25, 1878. 4to.
   Engineer for May, 1878. fol.
   Horological Journal for May, 1878. 8vo.
   Iron for May, 1878. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for May, 1878. fol.
   Nature for May, 1878. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for May, 1878. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for May, 1878. 8vo. .
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 629. 8vo. 1878.
 Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Abhandlungen, Vol. VIII. Heft 2. 4to.
      1877.
   Verhandlungen, 1877, Nos. 11-18. 8vo.
   Jahrbuch : 1877, Band XXVII. Nos. 3, 4. 8vo.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 134. 8vo. 1878.
 Linnean Society—Proceedings, No. 74. 8vo. 1878.
 Manchester Geological Society— Transactions, Vol. XIV. Parts 18, 19. 8vo. 1878.
Montpellier, Academie des Sciences—Me¦moires, Tome IX. Fasc. 1. 4to. 1817.

654                          General Monthly Meeting.                     [Juno 3,
PharmaeetUieal Society of Great Britain—Journal for May, 1878. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. II. No. 7. 8vo. 1878.
Plateau,  M. J. Son.deM.R.I,
     Phe¦nomenes                    SectionsBibliographie
                             (the Author)—
                       la Vision.                         Analytique des Principaux
                                             2, 3. 4to. 1877.
Preu*si*che Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Feb. 1878. 8vo.
Royal Society of London— Philosophical Transactions for 1877, Part 2. 4to. 1878.
Royal Society of Tasmania—Papers and Proceedings for 1876. 8vo. 1877.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XL. Part 1. 8vo. 1878.
St. Petersburg, Acadimie des Sciences—Bulletin, Tome XXIV. No. 4. 4to.
Trinity House Cor/wration—Fog Signals, Part 2. (P 12) fo1. 1878.
Tuson, Professor R. (the Editor)—Cooley's Cyclopaedia of Practical Eeceipts,
     Part 3. 8vo. 1878.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 94. 8vo. 1878.
 University of London—Calendar for 1878. 12mo. 1878.
Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verbandlungen, 1878.
     Hefte 4, 5. 4to.
Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 46. 8vo. 1878.
Vincent, Charles W. F.R.S.E. F.C.S. (the Editor)-ChemUtry Applied to the Arts
     and Manufactures. Part VI. 8vo. 1878.

1878.]              Mr. W. H. Pollock on Bomanticism.               655
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, June 7, 1878.
              William Bowman, Esq. F.B.S. in tho Chair.
                  Waltrr Hkrries Pollock, Esq. M.A.
                                Romanticism.
The discourse began by the quotation of a portion of M. Beybaud's
humorous description of the enthusiastic reception of Victor Hugo's
'Hernani' by his friends and the stormy opposition of his enemies,
when first performed at the Theatre Francais on Feb. 25, 1830. The
new romantic school had been gathering strength for some times,
having at its head one whose genius fitted him to be a leader of men ;
while the opposite party, the classicists, were thoroughly disgusted
with Hugo's ' Cromwell ' and its preface, in which all their rules were
violated. Now that ' Hernani ' is accounted a classic drama, it is
difficult to realize the storm that raged at its first appearance.
    The term ' Romanticism ' was at first applied to the disregard of
the unities of time and place, in which Shakspeare so much differs
from Sophocles and the other Greek dramatists; but about 1828 it
was also applied to poetry and romances. Hugo asserted as a new
discovery that the grotesque is a necessary element of modern poetry ;
but tho mixture of tho tragic and the comic, the terrible and tho
tender, is found also in the ancients, especially in Aristophanes.
    In a satirical dialogue, quoted by Mr. Pollock, Alfred de Mussot
endeavours to prove that no accurate definition of romanticism can be
obtained, except that it consists in tho employment of a vast number
of needless adjectives and nothing else. In fact, neither party could
define what they were fighting for. The classicists went so far as to
claim Byron as on their side ; while their opponents might, had the
struggle lasted long enough, have referred to the unbridled grotesque
grandeur of Bacine. Moreover, classicism abounds in the best plays
of the modern romantic school. Beverting again to ' Hernani,'
Mr. Pollock said that, in spite of its immense power and beauty, it is
one of the most inartistic plays ever written by a great author ; its
plot consists of a constant reiteration of the same situation, during
which the chief characters literally carry their lives in their hands,
and offer them to each other as people in old comedies offer snuff;
and he contrasted its mothod with that of tho ' Phedre ' of Bacine.
     The origin of tho Romantic school is traced to Madame de Stael ;
but the movemeut was mainly carried on by Chateaubriand, Casimir

  656                Mr. W. H. Pollock on Romanticism.           [June 7,
  Delavigne, and others, greatly influenced by the study of Shakspearc,
  Goetho, Scott, and similar writers.
      The romanticists were very successful in demonstrating that it is
  quite possible to produce a great poem, play, picture, or opera without
  following any set of cut-and-dried rules ; although at first they were
  led into extravagances often ludicrous.
       De Mussett, defending the classic writers, asserts that their rules
  were really the result of long consideration of the best means of
  obtaining the highest results of art, and that young writers should
  return to the stately simplicity of the ancients ; but, as Mr. Pollock
  showed, De Musset is not consistent with himself. His own most
  successful dramas are all cast in what may be termed the " middle
  style." He did not regard the unities as invincible ; yet one of his
  finest pieces, ' Les Caprices de Marianne,' is so arranged that it may
  be played in accordance with them, and was so a few weeks ago.
  The time seems to have come for a new romantic school to arise.
       Mr. Pollock then adverted to the predominance of the classic
  school in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries in our own country,
  when Shahspeare was superseded by Dryden, Howe, Otway, and
  Young, and to the reaction begun by Garrick and ably sustained by
  the Kembles and Kean. In reference to these Talma lamented that
  he never had a real part. He asked for Shakspeare, and they gave
  him Ducis 1 It was the desire to have at least some touch of nature
  that led him to play Marius bare-legged.
       Taking Bonianticism to mean something which varies a monoto
  nous style, Mr. Pollock said that some infusion of it would be good
' for us now. We have in the art of painting a kind of romanticism ;
   but, like that of the French, it consists, just as much as classicism
  does, in returning to models which were thought to be superseded
  long ago.

1878.]          Professor Dewar on Liquefaction of Oases.                  657
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, June 14, 1878.
      George Busk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                 Professor James Dewar, M.A. F.R.S.
                         The Liquefaction of Oases.
Dalton, twenty-two years before the discovery of the liquefaction of
the gases, commences his essay ' On the Force of Steam or Vapour
from Wator and various other Liquids, both in a Vacuum and in Air,'
with the following marvellous anticipation of subsequent research :
"There can scarcely be a doubt entertained respecting the reduci-
bility of all elastic fluids of whatever kind into liquids; and we
ought not to despair of effecting it in low temperatures, and by
strong pressure exerted upon the unmixed gases." • The same ideas
are reiterated in Dalton's 'New System of Chemical Philosophy,'
which appeared in 1808, yet no definite proof of the accuracy of his
ideas regarding the relation of the gaseous and liquid states of matter
were forthcoming until 1823.
    The first information regarding the liquefaction of a gas is found
in a letter sent by Faraday to Dr. Paris, the biographer of Sir
Humphry Davy.
" Dear Sir,
        " The oil you noticed yesterday turns out to bo liquid chlorine.
                                             " Yours faithfully,
                                                   "Michael Faraday."
    The letter is not dated, but wo know from Dr. Paris that it must
have been the 6th of March, 1823.
    Faraday was then engaged in an investigation on the hydrato of
chlorine. Davy suggested the examination of the action of heat in
a closed vessel, as likely to yield interesting results, without stating,
however, what he anticipated would occur. The letter addressed
to Dr. Paris has reference to the result of this experiment. The
solid hydrato of chlorine on being heated in a closed vessel, separated
      * ' Literary and Philosophical Society of Manchester,' vol. v. 1802,

 658                         Professor Dewar                    [Juno 14,
 into water and a dense yellow oil, which Faraday proved to be pure
 liquid chlorine. Davy saw the importance of the discovery, and
 liquefied hydrochloric acid by the pressure of its own vapour, pro
 duced by generating it in a closed vessel.
      Davy also succeeded in liquefying gases by a method which, at
 first view, appears very paradoxical —by the application of heat !
 The method consists in placing them in one leg of a bent sealed tube,
 confined by mercury, and applying heat to ether, or alcohol, or water,
 in the other end. In this manner, by the pressure of the vapour of
 ether, he liquefied prussic acid and sulphurous acid gas ; which gases,
 on being reproduced, occasioned cold. There can be little doubt, he
 thinks, that these general facts of the condensation of the gases will
 have many practical applications. " They afford means of producing
 great diminutions of temperature, by the rapidity with which large
 quantities of liquids may be rendered aeriform ; and as compression
 occasions similar effects to cold, in preventing the formation of elastic
 substances, there is great reason to believe that it may l)e suc
cessfully employed for the preservation of animal and vegetable
substances for the purposes of food."
     Faraday continued the experiments, and succeeded in liquefying
many gases by the pressure caused by their continuous formation
 in a limited space, either through the ordinary reactions used for
producing them, or by applying heat to some easily decomposed
compound. By observing the volume of the liquid gas as compared
with the same in the gaseous state the relative specific gravities could
be determined, and by introducing small air manometers, the amount
of pressure in atmospheres required to condense the various gases,
and the influence of temperature on the pressure, could be observed.
This series of experiments was completed in 1823.
     Thilorier, in 1835, devised an apparatus to produce liquid
carbonic acid on a large scale, and made the great discovery that the
fluid ejected into air produced the solid in the form of snow. This
substance while evaporating gave a tomperature which he estimated
about minus 100° C. The fluid gas was soluble in all proportions
in ether, turpentine and bisulphide of carbon. It was four times
more dilatable than air, and every additional degree of temperature
added one atmosphere of pressure to the tension of the gas. The
density of the vapour increased in a much greater proportion than the
pressure, so that the law of Mariotte was no longer applicable to
such a highly compressed condition of the gas.
     Mitchell, in 1839, found the true temperature of the solid while
evaporating in air was minus 78°, but mixed with ether and vaporized
in vacuo it was reduced to minus 99°. With this powerful means
of reducing temperature he solidified sulphurous acid.
     In order to demonstrate the exceptional temperatures we have to
deal with, a thermo-junction of iron-copper has the advantage over a
fluid thermometer of having a very small mass and great sensibility,
so that the length of a degree on our scale is easily observed. This

1878.]                   on Liquefaction of Gases.                   659
junction placed in ice marks 0°. When placod in solid carbonic
acid it maintains a fixed temperature of minus 80°, a point on the ther
mometer scale as far below the freezing point as the boiling point of
spirits of wine is above it. If ether is added to the solid acid, a
fluid which does not freeze, and which has the remarkable property
of dissolving the carbonic acid, the same low temperature is kept
up. The ether carbonic acid bath acts more rapidly, from the im
mersed body being wetted, and thus brought into close contact with
the fluid. This thermometer is far more delicate than either an
alcohol or bisulphide of carbon one, and yet it records a constant tem
 perature, and why ? The reason is, solid carbonic acid is actually
 boiling ; this solution in ether is giving off continuously bubbles of
 gas like a boiling fluid. This is more readily seen if the snow is
 compressed into the form of ice by strong hydraulic pressure. This
 cylinder of clear carbonic acid ice weighs nearly half an ounce, and
 continues to give off gas when immersed in ether, as if it were a piece
 of marble dissolving in an acid. In this state it is one and a half
 times denser than water ; and although the mass is at a temperature
 at least 20° below that of the Arctic regions, yet, strange to say, it is
 not covered with ice when dropped into a mass of water. It is in
reality coated with a layer of gas constantly renewed, and thus the
 water never gets into actual contact. The solid is in a condition
 similar to that of the spheroidal state of liquids.
     Another liquid gas that boils at a still lower temperature is
 nitrous oxide, or laughing gas. The temperature of boiling nitrous
 oxide freely exposed to the air is, as you observe, about 10° lower
 than that of carbonic acid. A temperature of minus 90° is thus
 the lowest we can reach through vaporization of a conveniently
 liquefiable gas, freely exposed to the atmosphere. As the boiling
 point, however, is dependent wholly upon the pressure of the gaseous
 atmosphere, if the pressure is removed from the surface of the liquid
 with a greater rapidity than it can accumulate through the generation of
 gas, much lower temperatures may be commanded. The lowest tem
 perature recorded by Faraday was minus 110, and the experiment just
 made proves this is about the limit to be reached with his air-pump.
 The experiments of Cagniard de-la-Tour and Thilorier opened up
 new ideas and methods for further investigation, and Faraday attacked
 the subject for the second time in 1844. By the combined action of
 pressure, and the low temperature of the carbonic acid ether bath in
 vacuo, he now succeeded in liquefying all the gases with the excep
 tion of six, viz. oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbonic oxide, nitric
 oxide, and marsh gas, and obtained many of them in the form of
 solids. The most valuable and laborious part of the research was the
 determination of the tensions of the liquid gases. He was the first to
 show the great importance to be attached to those constants in defining
 the purity of gases. Thus he discovered that phosphuretted hydrogen,
 nitrous oxide, and olefiant gas, however carefully prepared, could
 by this method be proved to contain impurities. The experiments

660                         Professor Dewar                    [June 14,
of Cagniard de-la-Tour induced him to conclude that no amount of
pressure would liquefy tho permanent gases unless the temperature
was below some definite point of the thermometric scale. In fact he
had a very clear idea of what is now called the critical point.
    The following extracts from the investigation of 1844 are worthy
of grave attention. They prove the wonderful accuracy of scientific
prophecy and display the working of a mind, full of subtle powers of
divination into nature's secrets :—
  On the Liquefaction and Solidification of Bodies generally existing as
                                   Gases.9
    " The experiments formerly made on the liquefaction of gases,
and the results which from time to time have been added to this
branch of knowledge, especially by M. Thilorier, have left a constant
desire on my mind to renew the investigation. This, with considera
tions arising out of the apparent simplicity and unity of the molecular
constitution of all bodies when in the gaseous or vaporous state,
which may be expected, according to tho indications given by tho
experiments of M. Cagniard de-la-Tour, to pass by some simple law
into their liquid state, and also the hope of seeing nitrogen, oxygen,
and hydrogen, either as liquid or solid bodies, and the latter probably
as a metal, have lately induced me to make many experiments on the
subject ; and though my success has not been equal to my desire, still
I hope some of the results obtained, and the means of obtaining them,
may have an interest for the Royal Society ; more especially as the
applications of tho latter may be carried much further than I as yet
have had an opportunity of applying them.
    " But as my hopes of any success beyond that heretofore obtained
dopended more upon depression of temperature than on the pressure
which I could employ in these tubes, I endeavoured to obtain a still
greater degree of cold. There are, in fact, some results producible by
cold, which no pressure may be able to effect.
    "Thus solidification has not as yet been conferred on the fluid
by any degree of pressure.
    " Again that beautiful condition which Cagniard de-la-Tour has
made known, and which comes on with liquids at a certain heat, may
have its point of temperature for some of the bodies to be experi
mented with, as oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, &c, below that belonging
to the bath of carbonic acid and ether ; and in that case, no pressure
which any apparatus could bear would be able to bring them into tho
liquid or solid state.
    " Thus though as yet I have not condensed oxygen, hydrogen, or
nitrogen, the original objects of my pursuit, I have added six sub
stances, usually gaseous, to the list of those that could previously
be shown in the liquid state, and have reduced seven, including
                           * ' Phil. Trans.,' 1845.

 1878. J                 on Liquefaction of Gases.                     661
 ammonia, nitrous oxido, and sulphuretted hydrogen, into the solid
 form. And though the numbers expressing tension of vapour cannot
 (because of the difficulties respecting the use of thermometers and the
 apparatus generally) be considered as exact, I am in hopes they will
 assist in developing some general law governing the vaporization of
 all bodies, and also in illustrating the physical state of gaseous bodies
 as they are presented to us under ordinary temperature and pressure.
     " Whether the same law may be expected to continue when the
 bodies approach near to the Cagniard de-la-Tour state is doubtful.
 That state comes on sooner in reference to the pressure required,
 according as the liquid is lighter and more expansible by heat and its
 vapour heavier; hence indeed the great reason for its facile assumption
 by ether.
     " But though with ether, alcohol, and water, that substance which is
 most volatile takes up this state with tho lowest pressure, it does not
 follow that it should always be so ; and, in fact, we know that ether
 takes up this state at a pressure between thirty-seven and thirty-eight
 atmospheres, whereas muriatic acid, nitrous oxide, carbonic acid, and
 defiant gas, which arc far more volatile, sustain a higher pressure
 than this without assuming that peculiar state, and whilst their
 vapours and liquids are still considerably different from each other.
 Now whether the curve which expresses the elastic force of the
 vapour of a given fluid for increasing temperatures continues un
disturbed after that fluid has passed the Cagniard de-la-Tour point or
 not is not known, and therefore it cannot well be anticipated whether
 the coming on of that state sooner or later with particular bodies,
will influence them in relation to the more general law referred to
above.
     " Tho law already suggested gives great encouragement to the
 continuance of those efforts which are directed to the condensation of
 oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen, by the attainment and application of
lower temperatures than those yet applied.
     " If to reduce carbonic acid from the pressure of two atmospheres
to that of one, we require to abstract only about half the number of
degrees that is necessary to produce the same effect with sulphurous
acid, it is to be expected that a far less abstraction will suffice to
produce the same effect with nitrogen or hydrogen, so that further
diminution of temperature and improved apparatus for pressure may
very well be expected to give us these bodies in the liquid or solid
state."
     The classical researches of Regnault in 1847, on the compressi
bility of gases, proved that the permanent gases, with the exception of
hydrogen, deviated from Mariotte's law in the same direction as
those that were liquefiable, although to a much smaller amount. If
Mariotte's law represents the perfect gaseous state, then hydrogen is a
gas that shows greater resistance to alteration of volume than would
result from this law. Nattorcr, in 1854, condonsod hydrogen, oxygen,
    Vol. VIII. (No. 69.)                                       2 z

662                             Profetsor Dewar                     [June 14,
and nitrogen to a pressure of 2700 atmospheres without any change
of state being observed. His experiments show that oxygen and
nitrogen under great compression, behave like hydrogen, that is,
become less and less compressible.
     Andrews, in 1861, subjected the six gases that resisted the efforts of
Faraday when cooled to the temperature of the carbonic acid ether bath
to a pressure of at least 500 atmospheres without producing any change
of state. During tho course of this investigation Andrews observed
that liquid carbonic acid raised to a temperature of 31° lost the sharp
concave surface of demarcation between the liquid and gas and at last
disappeared. The space was now occupied by a homogeneous fluid,
which exhibited, when the pressure was suddenly diminished, or
temperature slightly lowered, a peculiar appearance of moving or
flickering strias throughout its entiro mass, owing to great alterations
of density. At temperatures above 31° apparent liquefaction or
separation into two distinct forms of matter could not be effected even
when the pressure reached 400 atmospheres. This limiting tempera
ture of the liquid state Andrews calls the " critical point." He has
been engaged for the last twelve years in completing his researches
on the gaseous state, which for accuracy and elegance can only be
equalled by the work of Regnault.
      Recent experiments resulting in the liquefaction of the permanent
 gases have been made simultaneously by M. L. Cailletet, of Paris, and
 M. R. Pictet, of Geneva. Each had large experimental resources
and facility for conducting such investigations.
      Both experimenters used the same ingenious method of reaching
 temperatures far below that of the carbonic acid bath in vacuo, by
 allowing the gases cooled to the above temperature and highly
 compressed, to expand suddenly. This expansion involves a rapid
 absorption of heat, and this is chiefly taken from the molecules of the
 gas forcing a portion to pass into the fluid or solid state.
      Cailletet's apparatus is a modified form of that employed by
 Andrews in his great research on the continuity of the gaseous and
 liquid states of matter, and will be readily understood on seeing it in
 operation."
      Pictet's experiments were conducted on a manufacturing scale.
 A sulphurous acid ice machine cooled carbonic acid or nitrous oxide
 to a temperature of minus 65°, so that a pressure of from four to six
 atmospheres is all that is required to cause liquefaction. A system of
 compressing and exhausting pumps, worked at the rate of one hundred
 revolutions per minute by a steam engine, thus produce about 16 lbs.
 of liquid carbonic acid per hour. Vaporized in the very perfect vacua
 he can command, a temperature of minus 130° may be kept up for any
 length of time. The operations are so arranged in cycle that the
     * Handsomely presented to the Royal Institution, by Dr. Warren De La Rue,
 for the purpose of illustrating this lecture.

 1878.]                   on Liquefaction of Gates.                    663
 same carbonic acid or nitrous oxide may be used again and again.
 [This photograph shows the genoral arrangements in the labo
 ratory.] No pump is used by Pictet to compress the oxygen or
 hydrogen. The gases are produced by chemical reaction as in
 Faraday's tubes, only he replaces the glass by a strong tube of copper
 connected with a large iron bomb, in which by the application of
 heat the decomposition takes place. The narrow copper tube is
 cooled to minus 130° or 140° by the method explained, and here the
 liquefaction takes place. A screw stop-cock at the extremity of the
 tube allows the liquid gas to be ejected. The pressure of liquid
 oxygen at minus 138 is at least 273 atmospheres, and its density is a
 little less than that of water. Hydrogen in the liquid state at a tem
 perature of minus 140° has a pressure of about 320 atmospheres and
 appears to solidify in the tube when the fluid jet is allowed to escape.
  The jet of liquid has a steel blue colour.
     If oxygen, nitrogen, or air is compressed in Cailletet's apparatus
 to 250 atmospheres, something like three tons on the square inch, and
 the pressure suddenly released, there is an instantaneous cloud formed
 within the tube due to partial liquefaction.
      This tube contains the first gas Cailletet succeeded in liquefying,
 the hydro-carbon called acetylene, which was discovered by an old
 Assistant of the Royal Institution, and is one of the most important
 bodies in the whole range of organic chemistry. After it is com
 pressed to about 50 atmospheres a clear colourless fluid will result.
     The work of Faraday has been completed ; every gas may be
 forced to appear as a liquid.
                                                                 [J.D.]
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, July 1, 1878.
   Geokae Bcsk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President, in the
                                    Chair.
     The following Alterations in the Bye-Laws of the Royal Institu
tion, having been duly proposed at the previous Meeting, were passed
unanimously :—
     In Chapter VI. (Of the Duties of the Committee of Managers.)
In Art. 4, line 3, for " one o'clock P.M." substitute "four o'clock P.M."
        In Chapter X. (Of the General Meetings of the Members.)
In Art. 4, line 5, for "two o'clock P.M." substitute "five o'clock P.M."
                                                            2 z 2

664                          General Monthly Meeting.                    [July 1,
     The Special Thanks of the Members were given to Warren Db
la Kue, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. for his Valuable Presents of a " ffigh-
Resistance Galvanometer " and " Cailletet's Apparatus for the Lique
faction of Gases."
     The Presents received sinco the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of tho Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FROM
The Indian Government—Memoirs of the Geological Survey : Palaxmtologia
     Indica, Ser. II. 3 ; Ser. X. 3 ; Ser. XI. 2. fol. 1877-8.
Aeeademia dei Lincei, Rome—Atti, Serie I. Anno VII. 4to. 1856-62 ; Serie III.
     Transunti, Vol. II. Faso: 6. 4to. 1878.
   Memorie : Scienze Fisiche, Matematiche e Naturali, Vol. I. ; Soienze Morali,
      Storiche e Filologiche, Vol. I. 4to. 1877.
American Philosophical Sooiety—Transactions : New Series, Vols. III.-XI. and
     Vol. XIV. Part 2. 4to. 1830-70. Proceedings, No. 100. 8vo. 1877.
Asiatic Society, Royal, Bombay Branch—Journal, No. 35. 8vo. 1878.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVIII. No. 7. 8vo. 1878.
Author, The —Burlingtoiiia : Historical Notes ubout Burlington House and its
      Neighbourhood. (O 17) 16to. 1878.
Chemical Society—Journal for June, 1878. 8vo.
Editors—American Journal of Science for June, 1878. 8vo.
   Analyst for June, 1878. 8vo.
   Athenaeum for June, 1878. 4to.
   Chemical News for June, 1878. 4to.
   Engineer for June, 1878. fol.
   Horological Journal for June, 1878. 8vo.
   Iron for June, 1878. 4to.
   Journal for Applied Science for June, 1878. fol.
   Nature for June, 1878. 4to.
   Nautical Magazine for June, 1878. 8vo.
   Telegraphic Journal for June, 1878. 8vo.
 Erichsen, J. E. Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I, {the Author)—On Surgical Evidence in Courts
      of Law. (K 102) 8vo. 1878.
 Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 630. 8vo. 1878.
 Geographical Society, Royal—Journal, Vol. XLVII. 8vo. 1878.
King, Clarence, Esq. ( Untied States Geoloqisf)—United States Geological Explora
      tion of the Fortieth Parallel, Vol. IV. 4to. 1877.
           Society—Proceedings,
 LinneanRobert
 Mann,                             Nos. 96, 97.
                 James, M.D. M.R.I.—J.           8vo. 1878.
                                             L. Lagrange  : Me¦canique Analytique.
      Nouvelle Edition. 2 vols. 4to. Paris, 1811-15.
 Mechanical Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, April, 1878. 8vo.
 Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 26. 8vo. 1878.
 Odling, Mrs. (the Author) —Memoir of the late Alfred Smee, F.R.S. by his
      Daughter. With a Selection from his Miscellaneous Writings. 8vo. 1878.
 Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for June, 1878. 8vo.
 Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. II. No. 8. 8vo. 1878.
 Plateau, M. J. Hon. M.R.I, (the Author)—Bibliographie Analytique des Principaux
       Phenomenes de la Vision. Sections 4, 5, 6. 4to. 1877.
 Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsberichte : Marz, April, 1878. 8vo.
Rayleigh, The Lord, M.A. F.R.S. M.R.I. (the Author)—'She Theory of Sound,
       Vol.11. 8vo. 1878.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 187. 1878.
 Tason, Professor R. V. (the Editor)—-Cooley¦s Cyclopaedia of Practical Receipts,
       Part 4. 8vo. 1878.
 United Sercice Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 95. 8vo. 1878.
 Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. X. Part 6. 4to. 1S78.
    Proceedings, 1878, Part 1. 8vo. 187S.

1878.]                      General Monthly Meeting.                       665
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, Nov. 4, 1878.
       C. William Siemens, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                           C. T. Denton, Esq.
                           Miss E. Forster,
                           Avary William Holmes, Esq.
                           Hon. Rollo Russell,
                           Frederick S. Shenstone, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
     The Managers reported, That at their Meeting this day, they
appointed Mr. Edward Albert Schajter, Fullerian Professor of
Physiology for three years.
     The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
     FBOM
The India Office—C. R. Markham : Memoir of the Indian Surveys. 2nd edition,
     fol. 1878.
   C. Chambers : Meteorology of the Bombay Presidency. 2 vols. 4to and fol.
      1878.
British Museum Trustees—Catalogue of Greek Coins : The Seleucid Kings of
      Syria. 8vo. 1878.
   Illustrations of Lepidoptera Heterocerca, Part 2. 4to. 1878.
   Catalogue of Cheiroptera. 8vo. 1878.
   Guide to Exhibition Rooms. 8vo. 1878.
   Guide to Second Vase Room. 12mo. 1878.
   Guide to Autograph Letters, &e. 16to. 1878.
Museum of Practical Geology—Catalogue of Library. 8vo. 1878.
The Warden of the Standards—Tables for the Verification of tho Standards of
     Weights and Measures, by Dr. O. J. Broch. 8vo. 1878.
  Twelfth Annual Ecport. 8vo. 1878.
The Prussian Government—Dr. J. F. Julius Schmidt: Chart der Gebirgo dcs
     Mondes ; mit Erlauterungsband. fol. and 4to. 1878.
United States Naval Observatory, Washington—Instructions for Observing the
     Total Solar Eclipse, 29th July, 1878. (M 8) 4to. 1878.
Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, Nos. Ill, 112. 8vo. 1878.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences—Proceedings, Old Series, Vol. VIII.
     8vo. 1873. New Series, Vol. V. (Old Series, Vol. XV.) 8vo. 1878.
American Philosophical Society— Catalogue of Library, Purt 3. 8vo. 1878.
  Proceedings, No. 101. 8vo. 1878.
Antiquaries, Society of— Proceedings, Second Series, Vol. VII. No. 4. 8vo.
      1878.
Asiatic Society of Bennal— Journal, Vol. XLV1. Part I. Nos. 2, 3, 4 ; Part II.
     Nos. 3, 4 ; Vol. XLVII. Part I. No. 1 ; Part II. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo. 1877-8.
  Proceedings, 1877, Nos. 7-10. 1878, Nos. 1-6. 8vo.

666                         General Monthly Meeting.                     [Nov. 4,
Asiatic Society Royal—Journal, New Series, Vol. X. No. 3. 8vo. 1878.
Astronomical Society, Royal—Monthly Notices, Vol. XXXVIII. Nos. 8, 9. 8vo.
     1878.
Barclay, J. G. Esq.—Astronomical Observations at the Observatory of J. G.
     Barclay, Esq. Leyton, Essex. Part 3 and Vol. IV. 4to. 1873-8.
Basel Naturforschende Gesellschaft—Theil VI. Heft 4. 8vo. 1878.
Bavarian Academy of Sciences, Royal—Sitzungsberichte, 1878, Heft 1, 2. 8vo.
  Abhandlungen. Band XIII. Abth. 1. 4to. 1878.
  Dr. C. W. von Giimbel : Rede auf der Geognostische Durchforschung Bayerns.
     4to. 1877.
  Almanach fiir 1878. 16to.
Boston Society of Natural History—Memoirs, Vol. II Part I. Nos. 2, 3 ; Part II.
     No. 1 ; Part IV. No. 6. 4to. 1872.
  Proceedings, Vol. XIX. Parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1877.
British Architects, Royal Institute of—Sessional Papers, 1878. Nos. 14-17. 4to.
Canada Meteorological Office—Reports for 1877. 8vo. 1878.
Chamberlin, T. C. Esq.—Geology of Wisconsin. Vol. II. with Atlas. 1877.
Chemical Society—Journal for July-Oct. 1878. 8vo.
Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. LII. LIII. 8vo. 1878.
Connecticut Academy of Arts and Sciences—Transactions : Vol. III. Part 2 ;
     Vol. IV. Part 1. 8vo. 1877-8.
Coutts, J. (the Author)—The Kingdom of Force. 16to. 1878.
Vax: Societe de Borda—Bulletins, 2a Serie, Troisicme Annee; Trimestre 1-3.
     8vo. Dax, 1878.
Editors—American Journal of Science for July-Oct. 1878. 8vo.
  Analyst for July-Oct. 1878. 8vo.
  Athenaeum for July-Oct. 1878. 4to.
  Brain : a Journal of Neurology, No. 2. 8vo. 1878.
  Chemical News for July-Oct. 1878. 4to.
  Engineer for July-Oct. 1878. fol.
  Horologioal Journal for July-Oct. 1878. 8vo.
  Iron for July-Oct. 1878. 4to.
  Journal for Applied Science for July-Oct. 1878. fol.
  Nature for July-Oct. 1878. 4to.
  Telegraphic Journal for July-Oct. 1878. 8vo.
Franklin Institute—Journal, Nos. 631, 632, 633, 634. 8vo. 1878.
French J. C. (the Author)—The Nature of Cholera Investigated. 2nd edition.
     8vo. 1854.
Geographical Society, Royal— Proceedings, 1878, Nos. 4, 5, 6. 8vo.
Geological Institute, Imperial, Vienna—Verhandlungen, 1878. Nos. 1-10. Svo.
  Jahrbuch : 1878. Band XXVIII. Nos. 1, 2. 8vo.
Geological Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 135. 8vo. 1878.
Geological Survey of India—Records, Vol. XI. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1878.
Gladstone, Dr. J. H. F.R.S. M.R.I, (the Author)—Address to the Chemical
     Society, 30th March, 1878. (Journal of Chemical Society, 1878.) 8vo.
Glasgow Philosophical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XI. No. 1. 8vo. 1878.
Harlem, Societe" Hollandaise des Sciences — Archives Neerlandaises. Tome XIII.
     Liv. 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1878.
Henry, Dr. James (Trustees of)—^Eneidea or Critical, Exegetical, and .3Ssthetical
     Remarks on the ^Eneis, by James Henry. 2 vols. 8vo. 1877-8.
Hinrichs, Dr. G. (the Author)—Iowa Weather Report for 1877. 8vo, and Charts.
Hull Literary and Philosophical Society—Animal Report, 1877-8. 8vo. 1878.
Irish Academy, Royal—Transactions : Vol. XXV. Science, No. 20 ; Vol. XXVI.
     Science, Nos. 6-16 ; Vol. XXVII. Polite Literature, No. 1. 4to. 1875-7.
  Proceedings, Series II. : Vol. I. No. 12 ; Vol. II. No. 7 ; Vol. HI. No. 1. 8vo.
     1877.
Iron and Steel Institute—Journal, 1878, No. 1. 8vo. 1878.

 1878.]                     General Monthly Meeting.                           667-
 Linnean Society—Proceedings, No. 75, 98. 8vo. 1878.
    Transactions : Second Series, Botany, Vol. I. Part 5 ; Zoology, Vol. I. Part 7.
      4to. 1878.
 Lisbon : Academic Royale des Sciences—Memorias : Sciencias Moraes, &c. Tomo
       IV. Parte 2. 4to. 1877.
    Sciencias Mathematicas, &c. Tomo V. Parte 1. 4to. 1875.
    JornaL Tomo V. and Nos. 21, 22, 23. 8vo. 1874-6,7,8.
    Portugalliae Monumenta Historica. Vol. I. Fasc. 4 Legum and Index, fol.
      1873.
    Dr. P. I". Da Costa Alvarenga: Lecons sur les Maladies du Cceur. Traduit
      par Dr. E. Bertherand. 8vo. Lisbonne. 1878.
 Lunacy Commissioners—Thirty-second Report. 8vo. 1878.
 Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIV. Parts 20, 21, 22. 8vo.
      1878.
Mechanical Engineers, Institution of—Proceedings, June, 1878. 8vo.
Medical and Chirurgical Society, lioyal—Proceedings, Part 47. 8vo. 1878.
Meteorological Society—Quarterly Journal, No 27. 8vo. 1878.
Meteorological Office—Meteorology of the North Atlantic during August, 1873.
      4to, with Charts, fol. 1878.
    Quarterly Weather Report, 1875, Part 3. 4to. 1878.
 Musical Association—Proceedings, Fourth Session, 1877-8. 8vo. 1878.
New York Citizen, V.S.A.—J. Miller : Metaphysics, or the Science of Perception ,
      8vo. 1875.
 Norfolk and Norwich Naturalists' Society—Transactions, Vol. II. Part 4. 8vo.
      1877-8.
Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for July-Oct. 1878. 8vo.
Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. III. No. 1. 8vo. 1878.
Physical Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. II. Part 4. 8vo. 1878.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschaften—Monatsbcrichto : Mai, Juni, 1878.
      8vo.
Royal College of Physicians—Roll of the Royal College of Physicians of London.
      By William Munk, M.D. 2nd edition. 3 vols. 8vo. 1878.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, No. 188, 189. 1878.
Sabine, Robert, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author)—Electrical Experiments with Crystalline
      Selenium. (Phil. Mag. June, 1878.) 8vo.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XLI. Parts 2, 3. 8vo. 1878.
Startin, James (the Author)-—Two Lectures on Ringworm and other Diseases of
      the Skin due to Vegetoid Parasites. (K 102) 8vo. 1878.
St. Bartholomew's Hospital—Statistical Tables, 1877. 8vo. 1878.
St. Petersburg, Academic des Sciences—Bulletins, Tome XXV. Nos. 1, 2. 4to.
      1878.
Symons, G. J.—Monthly Meteorological Magazine, July-Oct. 1878. 8vo.
Tuson, Professor E. V. (the Editor)—Cooley's Cyclopaedia of Practical Receipts,
      Parts 5, 6, 7. 8vo. 1878.
 Twining, Thomas, Esq. M.R.I.—Catalogue of Free Public Library, Sydney,
      N.S.W. 8vo. 1878.
   Works on New South Wales. 8vo. 1878.
   Science Made Easy. Parts, 5, 6. 4to. 1878.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal, No. 96. 8vo. 1878.
 University of London—Calendar, 1878-9. 8vo.
Vereins tur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Vorhandelungen, 1878.
      Hefte 6, 7, 8. 4to.
Victoria Institute—Journal, No. 47. 8vo. 1878.
Wisconsin Academy of Sciences—Transactions, Vol. III. 1875-6. 8vo. 1878.
Yorkshire Philosophical Society—Annual Report, 1877. 8vo.
Zoological Society of London—Transactions, Vol. X. Parts 7, 8, 9. 4to. 1878.
   Proceedings, 1878, Parte 2, 3. 8vo. 1878.

668                        General Monthly Meeting.                   [Dec. 2,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                          Monday, December 2, 1878.
        Gborob Bosk, Esq. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                  The Viscount Bangor,
                  Patrick Black, M.D.
                  Capt. Robert Goff,
                  John Thornton Rogors, Esq.
were elected Members of the Royal Institution.
      The Chairman announced, That Mr. Spottiswoode, having been
elected President of the Royal Society on November 30th, felt com
pelled to resign the office of Secretary of the Royal Institution.
      He further reported, That the Managers had agreed to the follow
ing Resolution, which, on the recommendation of the Managers, was
unanimously adopted by the Meeting :—
      " The Managers cannot accept the Resignation of their most
highly esteemed Secretary without a formal expression of their high
appreciation of his zealous services during a period of thirteen years
successively as Treasurer and Secretary, and of their deep sense of
the great advantages he has conferred on the Institution by his high
scientific and practical knowledge, and by his uniformly courteous and
efficient fulfilment of the arduous duties of these offices ; and they ask
the President to bo so good as to embody these opinions in a letter
signed by himself on behalf of the Members of the Institution."
      The following Arrangements for the Lectures before Easter wore
announced :—
                               Christmas Lectures.
     Professor Dewar, M.A. F.R.S.—Six Lectures on A Soap Bubble; on
Deo. 28 (Saturday), 31, 1878 ; Jan. 2, 4, 7, 9, 1879.
     Professor Edward A. Schafer, F.R.S. Fullerian Professor of Physiology, R.I.
—Twelve Lectures on Animal Development ; on Tuesdays, Jan. 14 to April 1.
     J. E. H. Gordon, Esq.—Four Lectures on Electric Induction ; on Thurs-
  ays, Jan. 16 to Feb. 6.
     Professor Tyndall, D.C.L. F.R.S. &c—Eight Lectures on Sound, including
 its Recent Applications and Methods of Reproduction ; on Thursdays, Feb. 13 to
 April 3.
     Professor H. G. Seeley, F.L.S. F.G.S.—Throe Lectures on Reptilian Life ;
 on Saturdays, Jan. 18, 25, Feb. 1.

1878.]                       General Monthly Meeting.                           669
     Reginald W. Macan, Esq. (Ch. Ch. Oxford).— Four Lectures on Lessing;
on Saturdays, Feb. 8 to March 1.
     Walteb H. Polixjck, Esq. M.A.—Two Lectures on Richelied and Colbebt ;
on Saturdays, March 8, 15.
     F. Seymour Haden, Esq.—Three Lectures on Etching; on Saturdays,
March 22 to April 5.
      The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
table, and the thanks of the Members returned for the same, viz. :—
      FROM
Lords of the Admiralty—Nautical Almanac for 1882. 8vo. 1878.
 Academie des Sciences de VInstilut, Paris—Me¦moires, Tome XXXIX. 4to.
       1877
    Me¦moires   pre¦sentes par Divers Savants. Tomes XXI. XXII. XXIII. 4to.
          1875-7. Deuxieme Se¦rie, Tomes XXIV. XXV. 4to. 1877.
    Recueil do Me¦inoires, etc., relatifs a l'Observation du Passage do Venus sur le
       Soleil. Tome I. et Supplement ; Tome II. Partie 1. 4to. 1877-8.
 Actuaries, Institute of—Journal, No. 113. 8vo. 1878.
 Author The—Free Notes on Herbert Spencer's ' First Principles,' with Suggestions
       regarding Space, Time, and Force. (K 102) 8vo. 1878.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of—1878-9: Proceedings, Nos. 1, 2.
       Transactions, No. 1. 4to.
 Civil Engineers' Institution—Minutes of Proceedings, Vol. LIV. 8vo. 1878.
 Clinical Society—Transactions, Vol. XI. 8vo. 1878.
 Devonshire Association for the Advancement of Literature, Science, and Art—Report
       and Transactions, Vol. X. 8vo. 1878.
 Editors—American Journal of Science for Nov. 1878. 8vo.
    Analyst for Nov. 1878. 8vo.
     Atheuseum for Nov. 1878. 4to.
     Chemical News for Nov. 1878. 4to.
     Engineer for Nov. 1878. fol.
     Horological Journal for Nov. 1878. 8vo.
     Iron for Nov. 1878. 4to.
     Journal for Applied Science for Nov. 1878. fol.
     Nature for Nov. 1878. 4to.
     Telegraphic Journal for Nov. 1878. 8vo.
  Elliot, John Lettsom, Esq. Jf.fi.J.—History of India as told by its own Historians,
        Vol. VIII. 8vo. 1877.
  Franklin Institute—Journal, No. 635. 8vo. 1878.
  Geneve, Sociite de Physique—Memoires, Tome XXV. Partie 1 ; Tome XXVI.
        Partie 1. 4to. 1877-8.
  Geological Society— Quarterly Journal, No. 136. 8vo. 1878.
  Knox, George James, Esq. M.R.I.— Comm. B. W. Tracey : The Pillar of Witness ;
        a Scriptural View of the Great Pyramid. (K 102) 8vo. 1876.
  Linnean Society—Proceedings, Nos. 76, 99. 8vo. 1878.
  Lawenberg, Dr. B. (the Author)—Les Tumeurs Adenoides du Pharynx Nasal.
        (K 102) 8vo. 1878.
   London Institution—Journal, No. 39. 8vo. 1877-8.
  Manchester Geological Society—Transactions, Vol. XIH. Parts 1, 2; Vol. XIV.
        Part 17. 8vo. 1873-8.
  Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal—Transactions, Vol. LXI. 8vo. 1878.
  North of England Institute of Mining Engineers—Transactions, Vol. XXVII.
         8vo. 1877-8.
   Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain—Journal for Nov. 1878. 8vo.
   Photographic Society—Journal, New Series, Vol. III. No. 2. 8vo. 1878.

670                         General Monthly Meeting.           [Dec. 2, 1878.
Preussische Akademie der Wissenschuften—Monataberichte : Juli, Aug. 1878. 8vo.
Robertson, Rev. W- A. Scott, M.A. (the Author)—British Contributions to Foreign
     Missions. (O 17) 12mo. 1878.
Royal Society of Literature—Transactions, Vol. XI. Part 3. 8vo. 1878.
Ruyal Society of London—Philosophical Transactions for 1878, Part 1. 4to.
     1878.
Royal Society of New South Wales—Journal of Proceedings, Vol. XI. 8vo. 1878.
  Rev. W. B. Clarke: Kemarks on the Sedimentary Formations of New South
     Wales. 4th ed. 8vo. 1878.
  J. Rae : Railways of New South Wales, fol. 1877.
  Report on Mines of New South Wales, 1877. 8vo. 1878.
Shoolbred, J. N. Esq. (the Author)—On the Present State of Electric Lighting
     (K 103) 8vo. 1878.
Symons, Q. J.—Monthly Meteorological Magazine, Nov. 1878. 8vo.
Tuson, Professor R. V. (the Editor)--Cooley's Cyclopedia of Practical Receipts.
     Part 8. 8vo. 1878.
United Service Institution, Royal—Journal : Index, Vol. XI.-XX.
    Journal, No. 97. 8vo. 1878.
Vereins tur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandelungen, 1878.
     Heft 8. 4to.

                 INDEX TO VOLUME VIII.
Acoustical Phenomena, Explanation             Cesai.I'I.nts on the Heart, 493.
  of, 536; of Gunpowder and Gun-              Cailletet, Liquefaction of Gases, 662.
  cotton, 546, 547.                           Calder, Mr., on Tasmanians, 622.
Adams, Professor W. G., on Action of          Califoraian Forests, 579.
  Light on Selenium, 70.                      Cannani on the Heart, 493.
Aerial Echoes, 556.                           Chemical Constitution and Refraction
Africa, North, Geology of, 594.                  of Light, 351.
Agassiz, L., on Glaciers, 239.                Chemical Decomposition illustrated by
Alcohol, Effect on Medusae, 177.                 Water, 179.
Alcol iols in general, 92 ; of Paraffins, 86. Chenot's Steel, 320.
Anchippodus described (with Cut), 123.        Chinese "Elements," 179.
Andamanese, 638.                              Cohn on Putrefaction and Bacteria, 7.
Andrews, Dr., on Gases, 662.                  Colloids and Crystalloids, 310.
Animal and Vegetable Kingdoms,                Columbus, Realdus, on the Heart, 493.
  Border Territory of, 28.                    Comenius, J. A., an Educator, 455.
Annual Meetings (1876), 177 ; (1877),         Conservation of Force, 217.
  390; (1878), 581.                           Cook, Captain, on Australians, 604 ;
Ants, Habits of, 253.                            Tasmanians, 621 ; New Zealanders,
Arctic and Sub-Arctio Life, 378.                 644; Marquesians, 649.
Armenia and Ararat, 349.                      Cope, Professor E. D., Palaxmtological
Arnold,      Matthew,       Equality (no         Discoveries, 103-124.
  abstract), 510.                             Copper-Zinc Couple, 182.
Atmosphere : its Optical Condition in         Crookes, W., Mechanical Action of
   Relation to Putrefaction and Infec            Light, 44.
  tion, 6.
Australians, 603 ; Skulls, 612, 616.          Dallinqeb and Drysdale's Experi
                                                 ments on Monads, 31.
Bacteria, Life, Origin, Ac., 7, 399, 475.     Dallinger, Rev. W. H., Origin and
Barlow, Rev. J., Pedestal for Bust of, 4.        Development of Minute and Lowly
Barlow's Logograph, 502.                         Forms of Life, 391.
Basedow, an Educator, 460.                    Dampier on Australians, 603.
Bastian, Dr., Experiments on Spon             Darwin, O, on Glen Roy, 238.
   taneous Generation, &c, 10, et seq.        Davis, Dr. B., on Australian Skulls,
Becquerel, E., Electro-chemical Re               &c, 626, 636.
   searches, 565.                             Deacon, H., on Vortex Rings, 275.
Bell, A. G.,on Telephone, 503; Speech         De La Rue, Warren, Presents of Scien
   (»io abstract), 594.                         tific Apparatus, 186, 527, 664.
Bessemer's Steel, 323.                        Delisle on Transits of Planets, 80.
Big Tree, the, 578.                           Dewar, Professor, Physiological Action
Biogenesis, 20.                                 of Light, Part II. 137.
Birds, History of, 347.                             Electro-Photometry, 565.
Bonwick, J., on Tasmanians, 621.                    Liquefaction of Gases, 657.
Bowman, W., presents Ivory Bust of            Dewar, J., appointed Fullerian Pro
   Faraday by Noble, 508.                       fessor of Chemistry, 403.
Bramwell, F. J., Future of Steel, 314.        Dick-Lauder, Sir T., on Glen Roy,
Britons, Early, 607.                            234.
Bronze Gun : its Sound, 545.                  Distribution of Plants, 568.
Browning, Oscar, History of Education,
  449.
Bryce, Dr. J., Armonia and Ararat, 349.       Echoes in Free Air, 556.
Bye-laws altered, 663.                        Edison's Telephone, 503.

 G72                                    INDEX.
Education, History of, 449.                 Gray, E., Telephone, 503.
Egeroff, Electro-Chemical Actinometcr,      Greenland Flora, 575.
   565.                                     Grove, Sir W. R., Donation, 4 ; Electric
Elireuberg on Lifo in the Atmosphere,          Researches, 565.
   23.                                      Gun-cotton and Gunpowders, Acoustic
Electricity : Applications to the Pro          Powers of, 546, 547.
   tection of Life on Railways, 35.         Guthrie, Professor F., Solid Water, 302.
Electro-Photometry, 505.
Elements, early notions of, 179.            Harvey, William, and his Discoveries,
English Political Character affected by        485-4D4.
  Geographical Circumstances, 530.          Hawksley, C, Donation, 588.
Erasistratus on the Heart, 486.             Heart, Discoveries respecting, 485.
Eskimos. Character and Life, 385.           Helmholtz on Conductivity of Heat by
Ether and Matter, 335.                         Metals, 75.
Extinct Animals of North America, 103.      Heredity, Typical Laws of, 282.
Eye, Action of Light upon it, 137.          Heteromita, Monads, 31.
                                            Hodmadods (Hottentots), 604.
Fabrictcs on the Heart, 493.                Hooke, R., on Conduction of Sound, 501 .
Faraday ,M., Liquefaction of Gases, 657.    Hooker, Sir J. D., on Distribution of
Feudal Property in England and                 North American Flora, 568.
  France, 126.                              Hunter's Theory respecting Rainfall
Flame-sounds, 539.                             and Sunspots, 424.
Flinders Bar, 592.                          Huntsman's Cast Steel, 319.
Flower, Professor W. H., Extinct            Huxley, Professor, The Border Territory
  Animals of North America, 103.               between the Animul and the Vege
       Native Races of the Pacific Ocean,      table Kingdoms, 28.
  602.                                            History of Birds, 347.
Fluid Motion, 272.                          Hydrocarbons in general, 86.
Fog-Signals, 543.
Forster, on Polynesians, 629.               Indian Famines: Physical Causes, 407.
Froude, W., Fundamental Principles          Indian Vegetable Food, 421.
  of Resistance of Ships, 188.              Induction Coil Experiments, 359.
Fullerian Professors appointed: Che         Iron : Cast, or Pig, 315 ; Wrought, 316.
  mistry, J. Dewar, 403 ; Physiology,
  E. A. Schafer, 665.                       Jamieson, T. F„ on Glen Roy, 244.
                                            Jesuit Education, 456.
Galen on the Heart, 487.                    Jetoline, Marking Ink, 229
Galton, F., Typical Laws of Heredity,
  282.                                      Kerguelen Expedition, 81.
Gamgee, A., on Physiological Effects        Kilburn, E., presents Thermopile, &c,
  of Vanadium, 224.                            251.
Gases, Liquefaction of, 657.                Knightly Education, 464.
Geographical Circumstances and Poli         Krupp's Steel, 320.
  tical Character, 529.
Geological Measures of Time, 129.           Lanney W., last Tasmanian Male, 624.
Germ Theory of Disease, 6, 15.              Lecture Arrangements :—( 1876), 4,
Gibraltar, Geology of, 594.                    150; (1877), 252,357; (1878), 484,
Gladstone, J. H., Methods of Chemical         668.
  Decomposition as illustrated by           Liebreich, R., on Deterioration of Oil
  Water, 179.                                  Paintings, 514.
       Influence of Chemical Constitu       Life-history of a Monad, 396.
  tion upon Eefraction of Light, 351.       Light, Mechanical Action, 44.
Glen Eoy, Parallel Roads, 233 ; Litera            Action on Selenium, 68.
  ture, 245.                                      Physiological Action, 137.
Goethe, on Light, 69.                             and Chemical Constitution, 351.
Goodenough, Commodore, murdered,                  and Chemical Action, 565.
  630 ; on Melanesians, 631.                Lightfoot's Experiments with Aniline,
Gray, Dr. A., on North American                228.
  Flora, 573, &c.                           Linton, R., Death of, 1S6.

                                        INDEX.                                    G73
 Liquefaction of Gases, C57.                 New Zealanders, 646.
 Lister, Professor, on Respired Air, 7.      Newton, C. T., Recent Discoveries at
Locke on Education, 457.                        Olympia, 214.
Logograph, 502.                              North American Extinct Animals, 103 ;
 Lubbock, Sir J., on Habits of Ants, 253.       Flora, 568.
 Magnetization of Iron, Effects of           Oaths, 156.
    Stress upon, 591.                        Oceania, 602.
 Maine, Sir H. S., on State of Feudal        Odling, Professor, Paraffins and their
    Property in England and France on           Alcohols, 86; on Gallium (no ab
   the Eve of the First French Revo             stract), 513.
   lution, 126.                              Oil Paintings : Deterioration, 514.
 Maluyo-Polynesians, 643.                    Olympia, Discoveries at, 214.
 Malays, 640.                                Ordeals, 153.
 Maoris, 647.
Marsh, Professor 0. C., Palseontological    Pacific Ocean, Native Races, 612 -
   Discoveries, 103-125.                        Table, 651.
Matter and Ether, 335.                      Papuans, 642.
Mediterranean Sea, Geological History,      Paraffins and their Alcohols, 86.
   597.                                     Parallel Roads of Glen Roy, 233.
Medusae, Nervous System of, 166, 438.       Perry, Rev. S. J., Transit of Venus, 79.
Melanesians, 629 ; Murders by, 630 ;        Phonograph, 507.
    Skull, 635.                             Physiological Action of Light, Part II.
Mellor, S., Experiments with Vana               137 ; of Vanadium, 224.
   dium, 229.                               Physiology of the Nervous System of
Microscopic Research, 393.                      Medusae, 166.
Milne-Home, D., on Glen Roy, 237.           Pictet, R., Liquefaction of Gases, 662.
Milton on Education, 457.                   Plants, Distribution, 568.
Minute and Lowly Forms of Life,             Poisons, Effect on Medusae, 175.
   Origin and Development, 391.             Polarised Light, 561, 582.
Mitchell solidified Sulphuric Acid,         Political Character and Geographical
   658.                                        Circumstances, 529.
Monads, 31,396.                             Pollock, F., Spinoza, 363.
Monthly Meetings :—                         Pollock, W. H., on Romanticism, 655.
   (1875) November, 1 ; December, 4.        Polynesians, 628, 644 ; Skull, 635.
   (1876) February, 42; March, 101;         Preece, W. H., Applications of Elec
      April, 150 ; May, 186; June, 231 ;        tricity to the Protection of Life on
      July, 246; November, 248 ; Decem         Railways 35.
      ber, 251.                                    the Telephone, 501.
   (1877) February, 280; March, 312;        Priestley, J., Experiments on Vana
      April, 357 ; May, 403 ; June, 465 ;      dium, 224.
      July, 478 ; November, 480 ; Decem     Puddled Steel, 321.
      ber, 483.                             Putrefaction and Infection : their rela
   (1878) February, 508; March, 527;           tion to Optics, 6 ; to Physics, 467.
      April, 559 ; May, 589 ; June, 653 ;
      July, 663; November, 665; Decem       Quadbivum, 453, 464.
      ber, 668.                             Quartz (Polarisation of Light), 561.
Motion, Fluid and Vortex, 272.
Moulton, J. F., Verification of Modern      Race, Professor Flower on, 619.
   Scientific Theories, 216.                Radiometer, 56.
       Matter and Ether, 335.               Rae, Dr. J., Arctic and Sub-Arctic Life.
Muir, Mr., on Sequoias, 579.                   378.
                                            Railway : Protection of Life by Elec
Native Races of Pacific Ocean, 602.            tricity, 35.
Negritus, 638.                              Ramsay, Professor A. O, on the Geo
Nerves and Nervo-Systems: Evolution,           logy of Gibraltar, &c, 594.
   427.                                     Rayleigh, Lord, Explanation of certain
New Caledonians, 629.                          Acoustical Phenomena, 536.
New Hebrides, 630.                          Rodwood tree, 578.

G74                                     INDUS.
Eefraction of Light and Chemical            Sound, Conduction of, 501 ; certain
  Constitution, 351.                           Phenomena, 536.
Resistance of Ships, 188.                   Spencer, Herbert, Theory on Genesis of
Reynolds, Professor Osborne, Vortex            Nerves, 429.
  Motion, 272.                              Spigelius on the Heart, 494.
Riepe'a Steel, 321.                         Spinoza : Life, 364 ; Philosophy, 365 ;
Rijke's Experiments on the Production          Psychology, 370; Ethics, 372; In
  of Sound by Heat, 541.                       fluence, 373.
Ritchie, W., Torsion Balance, 62.           Spontaneous Generation, 8, 399.
Robertav Dr., Experiments on Bio            Spottiswoode, W., Lectures on Polarised
  genesis, 20.                                 Light, 178.
Robinson, G. A., tried to save Tas-                Experiments with a Great Induc
  manians, 623.                                tion Coil, 359.
Romanes, G. J., Physiology of the                  Quartz, 561.
      Evolution
  Nervous   System
                 of of
                     Nerves
                       MeduBae,   Nervo-
                             and 166.              Nocturne in Black and Yellow, 582.
                                                   resigns Secretaryship, 668.
  Systems, 427.                             Steel, Manufacture, 319; Steel, Future
Romanticism, 655.                              of, 331.
Roscoe, Professor, Recent Discoveries       Strachey, Lieut.-Gen., Physical Causes
  about Vanadium, 221.                         of Indian Famines, 407.
Rousseau's Emile, 459.                      Stream-line Theory, 191.
Eussell, Lord Arthur, presents Ersch        Stress, Effect on Magnetization, 591.
  and Gruber's ' Encyclopadie der           Striae in Vacuum Tubes, 360.
  Wissenschaften,' 559.                     Sturm, John, on Education, 455.
Russian Secret Societies, 405.              Sunlight : its Energy, 66.
Samoan"s, 646.                              Tait, Professor, on Smoke Eings, 274.
Sanderson, Dr. Burdon, on Dr. Bas-          Tasmania, 620 ; Natives, 621.
  tian's Experiments, 17.                   Telephone, 501.
Sanitary Institute, Theatre lent to, 589.   Thomson, Sir W., on Vortex Motion, 278.
Schafer, E. A., appointed Fullerian                on Effects of Stress on Iron, &c,
  Professor of Physiology, 665.                591.
Schwann and Schleiden: Eesearches,          Time, Geological Measures of, 129.
  29.                                       Topinard on Australians, 607 ; and
Scientific Theories : Verification, 216.       Tasmanians, 626.
Sclater, P. L., Zoological Distribution     Transit of Venus, 79.
  and some of its Difficulties, 511.        Tribe, Mr., Experiments with Dr.
Scott, S., Donation, 42.                       Gladstone, 183.
Secret Societies in Russia, 405.            Trivium, 453, 464.
Selenium, 69 ; Action of Light on, 70.      Tylor, Edward B., Ordeals and Oaths,
Sequoia sempervirens and gigantea,             152.
  577-580.                                  Tyndall, Professor, Optical Condition
Servetus, M., on the Heart, 492.               of the Atmosphere in its Bearing on
Ships' Resistance, 188.                        Putrefaction and Infection, 6.
Siemens, Dr. O. Wm., the Action of                 A Combat with an Infective
   Light on Selenium, 68.                      Atmosphere, 467.
— presents a Dynamo - Magneto -                    Parallel Roads of Glen Roy, 233.
   Electric Machine, &c, 559.                      Putrefactive and Infective Or
Siemens' Steel, 325.                           ganisms from a Physical Point of
Siemens, Werner, on Action of Light            View, 467.
   on Selenium, 70.                                Recent Experiments on Fog-
Smith, Professor Goldwin, on Influence         Signals, 543.
   of Geographical Circumstances on                Present to, on his marriage, 178.
   Political Character, 529.
Smith, Willoughby, on Action of Light
   on Selenium, 70.                         Uintatherium described (vrith cut), 116.
                274.
Smoke Rings,Acoustic
Sondhauss¦s             Experiments on      Vanadium : Recent Discoveries on, 221 ;
   Production of Sound by Heat, 538.           Physiological Effects, 224.

                                     INDEX.                                     675
Van Dieman's Laud, 620.                    Wallace, D. M., Secret Societies in
Varley, 0., Telephone, 503.                   Hussia, 405.
Vegetable and Animal Kingdoms,             Water, Chemical Decomposition, 179 ;
   Border Territory, 28.                      Solid, 302.
Venus, Transit of, 79 ; Physical Pheno     Wellingtonia, 578.
   mena, 85.                               Wheatstone, Sir C, Death, 1 ; his
Villari, on Effects of Stress on Magne        Magic Lyre, 501.
   tization, 592.                          Whitney, Professor, on Sequoia, 579.
Vortex Motion, 272.                        Wilkes, Commodore, on Samoans, 646.
Wallace, A. R., on Malays, 641.            Zoological Distribution, 511.
                                END OF VOL. Vm.
    LONDON: MINTED BT WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, STAHFORD STREET AND CHARINQ CROSS.

K

t
   /
 J


THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
     GRADUATE LIBRARY
          DATE DUE

3 9015 03545 3250
DO NOT REMOVE
           OR
 MUTILATE CARD


